three months and was like a thesis. I bound it with all the partners’ names on it, then personally handed it to each of them. I said it was a reference guide and included thoughts
I had on what we should be doing in the future. Ovitz asked me why I wrote it, and I said, “Because I’m too smart to be in the mailroom; I should be an agent.” A few days later,
Ray Kurtzman pulled me aside and told me Michael thought I had balls for doing what I did. It reminded him of what he did at William Morris: never accept no for an answer. Michael
promoted me out of the mailroom to agent a month later. TONY KRANTZ: In the training program, I had written a paper that was a hundred-page document about CAA and the music
business, because CAA was not in the music business at the time. My vision was not to get into the booking of bands because I really didn’t love that business, having been the
concert promoter at Berkeley; it was really about a different vision, about taking brilliant musical talent and moving them into film and television—say, Quincy Jones producing a
movie, a Broadway musical starring Prince, having Ricki Lee Jones score a movie, having Elvis Costello write and produce a movie, taking advantage of CAA’s core strengths and
bringing music people into the fold into this new kind of music/film/television programming that I really loved. Fred Specktor was my mentor and sort of supervised the writing of
this document. It was, in many ways, the artistic dream of a twenty-two-year-old guy who led with his heart but didn’t necessarily lead with the practicality of agency commission.
I delivered it to Fred; he gave it to Mike Ovitz. About a week later I was made an agent, not because of that document only, but also because Robb Rothman left the TV/literary
department for a smaller agency. It was unheard of that any agent at CAA would ever leave because it was so clearly the place to be, but Robb did, and I had my shot finally to
begin my career at CAA. LOCATION: 2418 My dad had represented both the Ice Follies and the Ice Capades, but the Ice Capades had signed Peggy Fleming, and she was about my age. So
besides the music, I got to represent Peggy Fleming, which was two different hats, and that wound up playing a big role in my thinking about the future of booking bands. The old
adage in the booking business was “You can never get the popcorn and the peanuts.” But the Ice Capades and Ice Follies got a piece of the concessions when they played, because they
played weeks at a time. The Ice Capades and the Ice Follies and the circus were the only major accounts that came every year to every major building in the country. They made an
overall deal with Peggy because she was a star for fifty weeks a year. So every time she went into a building, she got a piece of the gross above and beyond what they did the year
before. And she was the hottest thing in America. I realized there was an open door into what rock bands could take out of a building based on profitability. Remember, the agent’s
sole responsibility in music was to be the fiduciary of the act against the promoter and the building. My deal was to get them the best, most money out of any situation. NOTE:
Think about ways to make a bigger strategic deal LOCATION: 2714 MICHAEL WIMER: I saw that Jack Rapke had the best literary desk, so I started reading scripts and writing coverage
for him, and I figured that if I outworked his reading pace, I’d get his desk when it opened up. And when Tom Strickler was promoted in early 1987, I got it. Jack was an awesome
teacher—he had good taste, faultless follow-up, and most important, he never lied. That was my single biggest concern about being an agent—I simply wouldn’t stick around in a
career where I had to lie. Nicita told me that “agenting is the artful presentation of the truth,” and Jack showed me that it was possible. What I figured out was that it would be
a great career track as well. That’s why I chose to represent directors. I wasn’t at all compelled by actors, since most required so much fluffing, and the glitz didn’t matter a
bit to me. On the other hand, I figured that directors were like field generals who, with so much smoke being blown at them, could smell bullshit a mile away—which meant that they
would attach a premium to someone who was smart, strategic, and truthful. It played to my strength. So, although it was not where the highest profile was, once again, it was an
easy decision to stay away from the actor business and go with the lit side. The fit was perfect. NOTE: Interesting to know that Strickler was on McKee’s desk. Cool to see what the
lineage looks like. LOCATION: 3444 ADAM VENIT: I was working for just a couple weeks when someone said to me, “Listen, there’s a stain on the rug in the lobby.” I said, “Yeah,
well, that’s not really what I’m supposed to be doing here.” And they said, “Oh, yes, you are.” I said, “No, I’m not. I just left one of the top law schools in the country. I’m not
doing that,” just as Ray Kurtzman walked in. He says, “What do you mean, you’re not doing it? Get over there and clean the stain. That’s exactly what you’re doing here, and if you
don’t want to do it, then you don’t want to be here.” So I said, “Okay.” He literally handed me a spray bottle and a sponge, and I went out to the lobby and Sylvester Stallone was
sitting in the lobby, wearing a big double-breasted suit with wingtip shoes, and one of his big wingtip shoes was pointing to the stain. I had to bow down to him and wipe the stain
away to the point where he says, “Want to get my shoe while you’re down there?” The beauty of Hollywood is I now represent Sylvester, and we laugh about this story. LOCATION: 3541
On a typical day, the first task was to go through all the newspapers and trade publications. Michael wanted them spread out, neatly, across a big reading space in his office, with
the New York Times, the Los Angeles Times, and the Wall Street Journal in one stack, and then Variety, The Hollywood Reporter, Billboard, et cetera, in another. The rest of that
task required taking a yellow highlighter to stories of note, and sometimes even adding Post-its. Of course no matter how thoroughly you tried to complete that task, you’d
inevitably omit the one article that Michael would catch, and then he would criticize you for missing it. It was Murphy’s Law, I guess renamed as Ovitz’s Law! The next task was to
be ready for Michael on the phone. He would call in while driving to the office, and while he was “running calls” with one of the women who worked with Michael for years at a
stretch and the males in the “trainee” assistant role, he’d want to run through work in the downtime, between calls. Of course there was a whole system of how all of the folks who
worked for him would juggle these tasks and this call process, and another system of how to “clear the line” after each call—as Michael lived in a constant state of paranoia, in
terms of people wanting to know what he was doing and in terms of his worries about not letting someone hear something who shouldn’t be privy to it. “Is the line cleared?” was a
constant refrain, and it led to a whole set of other processes to ensure “security.” Once Michael was in the office, the day took on a different vibe. Although the agency relied on
an open-door policy that encouraged agents to walk freely into and out of colleagues’ offices, Michael’s door generally was kept closed. That was true back at 1888 Century Park
East—in one of the trainee-made films that premiered at the annual retreat, there was a recurring shot down the long hallway to Michael’s office, where the ominous Jaws music
played each time the shot was used!—and of course in the Pei building. Michael would start the day by walking back to the bay of offices where all of his assistants worked, trying
to get a quick handle on what was happening and where things stood. He would start by marking up his phone sheet: he had an elaborate system for how to prioritize the day’s calls
that took into account incoming and outgoing calls, and the daily flow of calls then would be managed by the woman whose job that was—with the trainee assistant stepping in to
relieve her at lunch, or earlier in the morning, or late at night, after she had left. The one piece of correspondence that Michael seemed to enjoy the most was birthday cards. As
birthdays approached, we’d review a list of gift suggestions, and he’d choose what the gift should be. I made the mistake one too many times of waiting until the last minute for
this task, and I would get yelled at when I did. Once the list was settled, I would bring in a pile of cards, with a list of upcoming birthdays, and… LOCATION: 3648 DAVID
GREENBLATT: I thought Ovitz was brilliant. I said, “I’m never going to be as smart as that guy.” So I did an analysis. I was almost four years married at that point. I had just had
a kid. Bought a small starter house. And they were just starting to “we want to pay you a lot more money, we’re going to defer a lot of the salary so it’s paid out over several
years.” And I said to myself, This is what golden handcuffs are. I don’t begrudge them that, but I said if I’m ever going to be wealthy, I’ve got to take a risk because Ovitz, I’m
not in his category smarts-wise, but I’m as smart as Bill and Ronnie. I’m not saying I’m as good as they are, but I’m as smart as they are. And, I said, what was the difference
between who they are and who I am? They took a risk. They did the setup with the card tables and they left their job or they got fired or whatever the story is, and they started
CAA. I said, “The only way I’m going to be wealthy is if I take a risk. And if I take a risk now, I’m falling five foot, eight and a half inches. If I take a risk two years from
now, I’ll have a bigger mortgage, I’ll have a lot more cash that I’m leaving on the table, and I don’t know if I have the stomach to do that.” And that was it. I knew if I could
model myself after their techniques, I could be just as attractive with my new partners, with my potential clients. LOCATION: 3857 DAVID GREENBLATT: Judy walks into my office at
CAA, shuts the door, and says, “They know,” and I guess I was one of those guys who was trying to avoid the inevitable. I started shuffling papers and putting stuff in files as if
nothing had ever happened. And she’s looking at me and after a couple minutes she goes, “David. We have to go now.” JUDY HOFFLUND: David took like twenty minutes to put on his
jacket. I said, “Come on, David, we better go! We gotta go to Mike’s office.” Mike knew nothing because he was on the phone and Ron hadn’t spoken to him. Ron, me, and David were
all standing on the other side of his desk and he stood up when he got off the phone. I think David said something like, “Mike, we came in here to tell you that we’re leaving to
start our own agency.” And Mike looked like the air had gotten sucked out of him and he fell back into his chair. LOCATION: 3893 DAN ADLER: At the Wednesday staff meetings, if you
mentioned you were about to sign Client X, and Ronnie knew that they were still handled by, let’s say the Gersh Agency, he would throw the brakes on it at that point. And quite
often, his first call after the meeting would be to the Gersh office, and he would say, “Look, I’m just letting you know that our guys are about to sign Client X, so go save him.
If you don’t, I’m telling you you’re going to lose him.” It was his way of being a gentleman, and not beating up on the smaller agencies. NOTE: Connect to move Joel Gotler story
about Conolly or Ellroy LOCATION: 3962 DAVID GREENBLATT: When I was relatively new as an agent there, I didn’t pay much attention to the mailroom guys or anything like that. I was
too worried about my own self. So Ari becomes the head of the mailroom and he’s got a real chip on his shoulder. There was one bathroom at CAA. I’m in the restroom washing up. Ari
walks in and says, “You know, that package that you wanted to go out, we can’t get it done.” With a real attitude. So I look at him, and I said, “You think you’ve got it made,
don’t you? Head of the mailroom. Mr. Big Shot. Let me tell you what’s going to happen with your life. You’re going to get promoted, and you’re going to be somebody’s secretary.
You’re going to get their coffee, and then you’re going to say, ‘Who may I get on the phone for you now?’ You’re going to schedule their meetings. You’re going to have to pick up
their laundry, and you’re going to have to stay here until ten o’clock at night, be here at six in the morning and work weekends reading their scripts. And maybe, just maybe,
somebody will promote you to agent. And you know what kind of agent you’re going to be at first? You’re going to be covering TV movies for Chuck Fries Productions.” And I could
just see him wither. To this day we still laugh at this because it was so dead-on. I think that’s what lit a fire under him big-time, because that was his vision of hell. One of
the things that we did at InterTalent that nobody else was able to do, Morris or ICM or anybody else—we were stealing clients from CAA. Why? Because Judy and I had worked there.
Tom had worked there. We knew their secrets and everybody was intrigued by Bill. It’s not like we were denting them; we weren’t getting Jane Fonda or Tom Hanks out of there. But we
were getting enough clients that we were really their only threat. You can make a lot of money packaging TV movies, by the way, but it was just not anybody’s idea of chic. So Tom
says, “I think Ari might be ripe for the taking.” I knew they were close, so I said, “Set up a meeting.” So I sit with Ari—and again, I had only known him peripherally except for
that one incident in the restroom. ARI EMANUEL: I loved Bill Haber. Just loved him. Bruce Vinokour was Bill Haber’s guy, so I got to see Haber a lot. Then Lee Gabler kind of took
over the television department—I think there were some politics going on between Haber and Ovitz. In a way, there was just so much money coming in it didn’t matter, but because I
was a Haber guy, Lee just killed me when I was an agent. He was just fucking killing me. LOCATION: 3975 Monday off, and I had told one of my good friends, Jeff Jacobs, who is an
agent there, that I was going to be telling them I was leaving Tuesday morning. And on Monday night he squeals on me. It was like an episode of Entourage. He fucking squealed on
me. He calls me at 5:30 Tuesday morning and says, “I had to tell them.” I said, “What do you mean, you had to tell them? Tell them what?” And he says, “I had to tell them you were
leaving.” I couldn’t believe it. So when I walked into the office, everyone—Mike, Bill, and Ronnie—knew I was leaving. I wanted to tell Ovitz to his face, so I went to his office
and said, “I’m trying to see Mike Ovitz.” I was told, “He’s not going to see you.” But I walked into his office anyway. Now, at the time, Mike Ovitz was God, and I was just a
fucking street urchin. And he says, “I’m not seeing you.” I said, “I’ll be back in ten minutes and you’re going to deal with me then.” When I walk back in, there’s Lee Gabler and
Ray Kurtzman standing there with him. Ray liked me a lot, so I was calm and said, “Listen, it’s been great, but I’ve got to leave.” And then Mike gives me, “We’re going to kill you
guys and your careers are going to be over.” I turned to him, got out of my Chinese chair, Japanese chair, whatever, and said, “Are you threatening me?” And I grabbed the chair
with my hands and picked it up and said, “Because if you are, I’ll fucking throw this chair right out of here right now. Don’t threaten me.” I was an idiot. I was a complete moron.
You don’t do that stuff, but I’ve been a fighter all my life. MICHAEL WIMER: LOCATION: 4013 TALENT TOM POLLOCK: Twins was a groundbreaking deal at the time. It was not Mike Ovitz
who made the deal. Ivan Reitman made it with me personally because I was his lawyer before I left for Universal and there was a writers’ strike going on. We’re five months into the
writers’ strike and there’s no product. Ivan had signed his company up to the interim deal with the Writers Guild that allowed him to hire Bill Goldman and various writers. I
agreed to the deal knowing exactly what the numbers were. What had not been done before is that Arnold Schwarzenegger, Danny DeVito, and Ivan Reitman took no money, so the movie
was made for $15 million up front. But they got 35 percent of the gross for a certain period of time and then they took less while we recouped advertising. After that happened,
they got more and they eventually went up even higher. They made a shitload of money. It was incredibly lucrative. Ivan, Danny, and Arnold told me that they never made as much
money on any other movie as they did on this one. MICHAEL OVITZ: Sandy would do all of the modeling to compare to the studio. We had the capability to model as good as the studios,
so we knew when they’d say, “Oh, well, we’re over budget,” and Sandy would say, “No, you’re not. Here’s our number.” We’d fight over his numbers versus theirs. SANDY CLIMAN: I
brought modeling into CAA for the first time; before that, no one at the agency was thinking about projections, or in other words, a movie’s box office potential and all the
revenue that followed from the home. So when we packaged Twins, for instance, which was sheer genius and nothing I can take credit for, we were able to have a sense of what it was
going to do, and when the studio wanted two of our important clients to give up their fees in exchange for a bigger back end, we could tell them it not only made sense, but it
would be terrific for them. Which it was; the back end worked like a charm. LOCATION: 4060 support me.” I truly didn’t know how to navigate my way out of this, and then my phone
rang. The voice on the other end says, “Hi, this is Mike Ovitz.” And I said, “Hi.” And he said, “I hear you have a problem.” I said, “Yes, I do.” He said, “Would you like me to
solve it?” I said “Yes, please.” He said, “Stay by your phone.” Two hours later he called me and said, “Okay, I’ve solved your problem.” I said, “What did you do?” He said, “I
traded some things. There are some things Universal wanted that Warners had, some things Warner wanted that Universal had. It’s all taken care of. Is there anything else you need?”
And I said, “God, I’d love two more weeks of editing time on Clean and Sober.” And Michael says, “Stay by your phone.” And less than two hours later he calls back and says, “You
have two more weeks of editing on Clean and Sober.” And he says, “Listen, I’d really love to sit with you and take you out for a meal and talk about representing you.” I said, “Oh,
I could never do that.” And he said, “You could never do what?” I said, “I could never sit with you and have a meal because it would be very unfair to Elliot Webb. I’ve been with
him for ten years and he would just be destroyed if he ever heard.” He laughed and he said, “Well, I hope you’ll change your mind because I’d love to talk to you.” A week later a
messenger comes over with a book of coupons from McDonald’s. He says, “If you ever change your mind and want to have a meal, Mike.” LOCATION: 4107 MICHAEL OVITZ: Jerry Weintraub
once said to me, “You’re going to get to be so powerful that at some point, people will start saying you did things you didn’t do and that you were in places you weren’t.” I
laughed at him at the time, but that’s exactly what happened. LOCATION: 4276 MICHAEL OVITZ: I had been getting closer to Arne Glimcher and his wife and was blown away by their
broad knowledge of aesthetics. I asked Arne to call I. M. and said, “Please tell him I only want fifteen minutes.” That was always my approach with someone I hadn’t met. I’d walk
in, take my watch off as I sat down, and say, “Okay, I have fourteen minutes left.” With I. M. Pei, I told him I had looked at every building he had ever designed, and that I had
this property that I wanted to be a cultural destination. I told him I wanted to put a major piece of art in an atrium, I wanted it to be an icon for the city, and most important,
I wanted it to scream I. M. Pei. LOCATION: 4422 JACK RAPKE: The studio decided they wanted to do two sequels. Bob Zemeckis had a directing deal on the original Back to the Future,
which was a traditional director deal in the sense that if there was to be a sequel, he would receive no less than the floor of his deal, so they couldn’t do a sequel, hire him,
and pay him less than what he got for the original. So I said, “There’s no way that Bob Zemeckis is going to direct the sequel or sequels for the floor of the deal. It’s not
happening.” Tom Pollock was the president of Universal at the time and there was a long period of silence. We’re sort of marching toward the start date of Back to the Future II,
and there is still no deal on the back end and no deal on the director fee. I keep on telling Tom and business affairs, “Guys, the clock is ticking and we still don’t have a deal.”
Then it floats back, “Well, we believe we do have a deal.” I said, “What do you mean, we have a deal? We’ve been negotiating. We haven’t agreed to a deal.” “Well, we believe that
when push comes to shove, we have a deal.” I said, “Well, that’s not the way I look at it.” In the meantime, the clock keeps ticking, the fuse is burning down. Now Bob’s getting a
little frustrated, “Why won’t they make my deal? I made a giant hit for them, they want me to do the sequel pictures, why are they doing this to me?” I said, “I don’t know. I can
assure you that it’s not personal, but I can’t get a handle on why they’re not negotiating this deal in a timely fashion.” So we hire Frank Rothman, a litigator who used to be the
head of MGM, and he looks through the original Back to the Future contracts and he tells me that they could enforce a deal on Two, but they have no deal on Three. But if push comes
to shove and they want to litigate you, they can force you to do Two under the original deal. It’s about seven business days from photography. We still don’t have a deal and the
studio’s not talking. So I have a conversation with Bob where I said, “Bob, if we don’t have a deal, I don’t want you to report to the set the first day of photography.” And this
is after millions have been spent on preproduction, okay? He said, “What? I’m not going to report?” And I said, “Yeah, because that’s the only leverage we have, because they’re
still not negotiating this, and we’re seven days from photography without a deal! I will not let you go to the set.” He understood the play and he backed the play—which was not
easy. So the following week, we’re about three days from photography, and I say, “Tom, I am going to recommend to Bob that if we don’t have a deal, that he’s not reporting to the
set.” This is giant, okay. Next thing I know, Michael Ovitz calls me and says, “What the fuck? Come into my office.” He says, “What the fuck is going on? You told the studio that
Zemeckis is not going to report to the set?” Now I don’t know if he spoke to Lew or he spoke to Sid or Tom, but I said, “Yeah,” and I run him through the whole history. Two days
later,… LOCATION: 4622 Rob Reiner had been a client of CAA’s for over a decade, and when he and his partners at Castle Rock went into television production, CAA wanted to make sure
they got off to the strongest start possible. As a result, it was one of the accounts that Tony Krantz made a priority, and the first year out, the company and Krantz sold nine
pilots to the networks, a truly impressive debut for any company, much less a brand-new one. One of the shows was based on what one executive called a “weird” little presentation
out of the late-night division at NBC, featuring a comedian few had heard of. Howard West (who had been so influential during the formation of CAA) and George Shapiro called Krantz
and asked if CAA would waive its commission on the show because the budget didn’t have enough money to pay the CAA package fee and pay the comedian’s managers (West and Shapiro
were to be executive producers on the show). Krantz was obligated to take the request to Ron Meyer, who represented Reiner personally, for Meyer’s advice and approval. Meyer wanted
to be loyal to his former William Morris colleagues, and besides, it was only one of nine pilots and no one thought it had a chance. So Meyer told Krantz that CAA would give up its
commissions in the show. The “weird presentation” was for a show the managers were calling The Seinfeld Chronicles, and it would become perhaps the greatest television comedy of
all time, and an asset worth as much as a staggering $4 billion. The loss in commissions to CAA was perhaps as much as $400 million, but Meyer would never regret it. As far as he
was concerned, he made it possible for West and Shapiro to be a part of television history—and really, really wealthy. LOCATION: 4940 SONY / COLUMBIA / MATSUSHITA Walter Yetnikoff
was the senior attorney at CBS Records who guided the Sony acquisition of CBS Records, which was a huge success for Sony, both economically and strategically. Yetnikoff developed a
close personal relationship with Sony president Norio Ohga, who installed him as CEO of CBS Records and became his key man in the entertainment industry. In 1988, as Sony
contemplated buying a movie studio, Yetnikoff, an Ovitz friend, suggested it engage Ovitz as a consultant on this exploration. Sony’s other advisers included Blackstone founders
Pete Peterson and Steve Schwarzman. Ovitz first tried to steer Sony toward MCA and then MGM/UA, but terms did not work out. Sony finally decided to buy Columbia Pictures
Entertainment for $3.4 billion in October 1989; at the time it was the largest takeover of an American firm by a Japanese company. It was a double victory for Ovitz: He proved that
he played a key role in multibillion-dollar deals on an international scale, and it placed CAA in a unique position to do better business with the studio. Ovitz would earn $12
million for helping broker Sony’s purchase of Columbia Pictures—the check was sent via U.S. mail by Yetnikoff. In separate negotiations, Sony considered having Ovitz sell his
majority stake in CAA and then take over Sony’s two studios, Columbia/TriStar. Morgan Stanley represented Ovitz and the deal fell through. Sony then hired Peter Guber and Jon
Peters to run Columbia/TriStar. Ovitz was peeved, both because his counteroffer had been rejected and because he believed they were prodigal spendthrifts. Guber kept it simple. He
invited the Young Turks—but not CAA’s senior partners—to his Aspen retreat. LOCATION: 4978 MICHAEL WIMER: Around 1991, a private equity buddy of mine from Stanford bought Premiere
magazine, which was edited by Susan Lyne. In one of her early “Power” lists, the magazine first used the term “Young Turks,” mentioning Jay, Richard, Doc, Bryan and Kevin, and
myself as the group. Ovitz was on fire when he saw it—he went nuts. He called me on the carpet, as he wrongly assumed that I had made the connection. I’m sure that Susan, who knew
the business well, was aware that Jay and Doc and Richard and I were great friends with Peter Guber since he and Jon Peters took over Sony in 1989. It was pretty high-profile
stuff, with legendary times at his Aspen home or trips to sets on the Sony plane. Peter was an awesome mentor and buddy, and he couldn’t have been a more generous friend. At the
same time, Bryan and Kevin were wired into Carrie Fisher’s world, and the group of us were the only agents—of any generation—at her high-wattage, intimate parties. What the hell? I
remember laughing with Glenn Frey when we were jockeying to use the bathroom after Meryl Streep came out—laughing because Carrie had shouted at her about her “horse stream.” Nobody
could make her laugh like Carrie. Hell, nobody could make any of us laugh like Carrie did. It was all such a hoot. All six of us were having a blast. But it wasn’t true that I had
planted us on the Power list. What was true, however, was that the six of us had started to meet in 1989, on the qt, to discuss how we could be more effective at signing new
talent, both in and out of the company, as well as having more of a role in affecting the direction of the company. The problem with CAA was that, in the motion picture department,
there was a significant energy gap between the delineated leaders (Swedlin and Rapke in literary, Nicita in talent) and the defacto leaders, which were the group of us. Kevin and
Bryan were signing machines. Jay Moloney used his position as Michael’s right-hand man to work into the worlds of Bill Murray, Tim Burton, and Martin Scorsese. Richard was
outworking everyone and was about to sign Tom Hanks. Doc was running the literary department and had every big writer. I had a huge directors list. We were killing. LOCATION: 4997
MICHAEL OVITZ: I got paid $12 million for the Sony deal and I turned down running the studio. I gave the Sony executives a list of people, which Peter and Jon were not on, and then
when they picked them, I withdrew as a consultant because I could see the writing on the wall. Peter was brilliant, but Jon wasn’t an executive, and together it was just going to
be a problem. I also didn’t think they could handle the whole Japanese side of things. PETER GUBER, Executive: A month after the title passed at Sony, Mike Ovitz came to the office
and said, “I’d like my fee.” I said, “A fee for what?” He said, “For making the deal.” I said, “It’s the first I’ve heard of you being involved in the transaction. It’s the first
I’ve known of you. So you’re peeing on the wrong tree. Go speak to Morita, and if he wants to give you a fee, it’s fine with me.” He said, “Well, you know how important I am to the
business, and if I feel that I’m not being properly handled, I’ll be very upset.” I said, “Look. I’m not really good at managing anybody’s emotions, including my dog’s.” And that
was the last I heard of him. LOCATION: 5051 MICHAEL OVITZ: Sandy ran the whole business group, a department with something like eight MBAs in it. I asked Sandy to tell me what
other Japanese companies might be interested in the film or media business. What came back to me was, no surprise, companies you’d see if you went to an electronics store: Samsung,
JVC, Toshiba, Sony, and Panasonic. That was the list. Then if you went to Europe, it was Philips. Then I asked Sandy to find out which of them had cash on their balance sheet.
Sandy went to a stockbroker, pulled the annual reports, then eliminated companies that made no sense. He came back to me and said, “I found one company that makes more sense than
anybody else.” I asked him, “What is it?” And he said, “Matsushita Electric. They own Panasonic.” One number stood out at me when I read the annual report: they had $12 billion in
cash. And I said, “Great, give me everything there is to read.” We bought every book on Matsushita Electric, including the seven books of the writings of the chairman, Mr.
Matsushita. I read them all. And when they had appendixes and other references, we got them as well. Then I sent a mailroom guy to go to the UCLA archives and look at the
English-language Japanese newspaper, which I had seen from being over there. We discovered that Matsushita was called by Japanese businessmen a Japanese word that meant “copycat”
because everything that Sony did, they copied. And Sony had already bought Columbia. A lightbulb went off in my head and I said to myself, My God. They’re going to want to buy a
studio. I started looking for ways to get in the door. I discovered that JVC had a young Japanese guy who was educated in America—which was the Japanese way at the time—living in
Los Angeles, and his job was to watch Larry Gordon and report back to the people at JVC, who had made an investment there. And lo and behold, JVC was 50 percent owned and
controlled by Matsushita, so being a good agent, I started to figure out a way to get on that guy’s radar screen. I got Sandy into a relationship with the guy to manipulate him to
ask for a meeting with me. Which he did. And I said no. Which is the game: yes is no, no is yes. So for four weeks this guy asked Sandy, once a week, for a meeting with me. And
true to his direction, he was told to tell the guy no. The fifth week, worried I was going to overplay my hand, I agreed to a meeting for fifteen minutes. LOCATION: 5070 SANDY
CLIMAN: The first contact from Japan on the Matsushita Electric deal did not come from Matsushita directly, but rather from Matsushita affiliate JVC. JVC legal adviser Peter Dekom
helped bring together CAA with the JVC head of audiovisual, Isamu Tomitsuka. For the first meeting, we needed a private and secure place. We couldn’t meet at CAA, and we were too
well known around town for even private rooms at restaurants or major hotels. So I picked the “Bruin” private dining room at the Holiday Inn in Westwood, a hotel so low-end no one
from the industry would ever be seen there. That was the first meeting with JVC. It was Mike, Bob, Ray, and me from CAA, and Mr. Tomitsuka and his Hollywood lieutenant, Henry
Ishii, from JVC. MICHAEL OVITZ: We exchanged business cards—I had great business cards, one side’s Japanese, one side’s English; that’s how it’s done all over the world—and to make
a long story short, I charmed the shit out of this guy because I knew everything that was important to them and how to talk with them. In Japan, they don’t ask you how you feel. If
you have a cold, they don’t ask you if you have a cold. If you have cancer, you’re not allowed to discuss it. You’re not allowed to sit with the soles of your feet toward your
guest. You’re not allowed to cross your legs. You’re not allowed to take your jacket off unless you ask, “Can we all have our jackets off?” I can go through a hundred things like
this. I knew how to use chopsticks better than many Japanese. I knew the history of sake. SANDY CLIMAN: After several strategy discussions, the JVC team reported back to Matsushita
management. Like scouts who are replaced by soldiers, Matsushita took over discussions with us, and JVC was out of the picture, never to be seen again. Matsushita contacted Ovitz
in the fall of 1989 and hired him as a consultant. Ovitz then assembled a team that included New York law firm Simpson Thacher & Bartlett to represent Matsushita in the United
States, as well as Herbert Allen of the Allen & Company investment firm and public relations firm Adams and Rinehart. For its initial meeting with Ovitz, Matsushita sent executive
vice president Masahiko Hirata; the firm’s decision to send a senior executive showed Ovitz that it was serious about acquiring a Hollywood studio. Ovitz persuaded Matsushita to
consider MCA in the spring of 1990. NOTE: How well you have to know your pplHow to expand into other arenas LOCATION: 5087 MICHAEL OVITZ: At the end, one hour before we’re set to
take off, they said, “So if we were interested in looking to buy a motion picture studio, how would we pay you?” That’s what the question was. I looked at Hirata, straight in the
eye and I said, “Hirata-san, if I provide a service that you find worthy and productive but does not result in anything, I expect nothing but my expenses.” And then I said, “But
if, Hirata-san, I provide a service that you find worthy and productive, and if the price is to your satisfaction and you buy a company, I will then expect you to take a Brinks
armored truck, load it with money, and send it to my house.” There was a beat because the translator has to translate. Then he bowed so deep, his head almost hit the table. We
shook hands and we left. BOB GOLDMAN: We didn’t charge them anything up front. We went to them as advisers, much like bankers, and we never talked about fees. SANDY CLIMAN: Our
trips to Japan were highly orchestrated—even scripted. Mike, Bob, and I would board the ANA flight to Osaka. Mike and Bob would take an Ambien and sleep for eleven hours. During
those eleven hours, I would write and rewrite the speeches Mike would give during the next several days of meetings with Matsushita. I would handwrite everything on a legal pad and
hand it to Mike as he got off the plane in Osaka. MICHAEL OVITZ: On my first trip to Osaka, Hirata walked me into a room ten feet square. On the floor were twenty-five or thirty
neat stacks, a couple inches apart, with cover letters on them from every investment bank in the world, thanking them for meeting, talking about their fee schedule, attaching a
contract and information about their company, along with research on all the movie studios. Hirata had me look at it; then he looked at me, smiled, and then we walk out the door.
He turned every one of them down and took me because I was the only one who asked for nothing, which is how they wanted to do business. They wanted a handshake. I never signed
anything with them. ATSURO UEDE, Executive: CAA evaluated MCA and other companies for the purpose of Matsushita and advised us on the expected feeling of Mr. Wasserman, how MCA
should be operated after merger, who were key persons in MCA, and played an important role to arrange first meeting between tops of MCA and Matsushita. He [Ovitz] never said he
wanted the job. He mentioned that he was taking care of CAA. He didn’t want to run the company. SANDY CLIMAN: LOCATION: 5122 MORE TALENT KEVIN COSTNER: I didn’t want to have
standard deals, and I felt like CAA and Mike would be able to get me away from them. I wanted ownership; and I was willing to be entrepreneurial. ARMY BERNSTEIN: One day Kevin
Costner came to my house, and was just really down. I said, “What’s going on?” and he said, “I have this screenplay, I can’t get it made. No one will do it with me.” I said, “What
is it?” and he says, “It’s a Western called Dances with Wolves, and it’s from a novel. I just love it. I can get some money internationally, but I just can’t raise it
domestically.” I said, “Why doesn’t anybody want to do it?” and he said, “Well, it’s three hours long, the Indians are going to speak original Lakota Sioux, I’m going to star in
it, and I’m also going to direct it. I don’t have the money and the winter is coming and if I don’t do it now I’m never going to do it. And it’s the thing I want to do most in all
the world.” I read it, one of the best screenplays I’ve ever read. I said, “Kevin, if you can’t get this movie made, then I don’t even want to be in the film business. Let me see
if I can help you raise the money,” and I literally started to create Beacon Productions that day. I called a friend who I went to college with at the University of Wisconsin, Tom
Rosenberg—he had become super successful in the real estate business—and he became my first partner in Beacon. I wanted to go go go, do whatever it took to finance Dances with
Wolves, but I realized we probably wouldn’t be able to get there on time. So I went to Mike Ovitz, who was my agent, and sat down and asked, “What should we do?” He said, “I can
get this made,” and he set it up at Orion. You see, Michael back then, he could get your movie made. He made things happen. And Kevin became his client. LOCATION: 5277 MAGIC
JOHNSON, Athlete: I was trying to get somebody to take my career off the court and take it to another level. I asked everybody who was the best in the city to do that, and help me
go from being a basketball player to a businessman, and who could also redo my basketball contract. Everybody pointed me in the direction of Michael Ovitz. So I called him and
asked if he would take a meeting with me, and he said yes. We had our meeting, and it was really interesting, because it wasn’t a long meeting at all. He said, “I have all the
biggest actors, producers, directors, and writers in the world. Why should I represent you? Most athletes blow all the money they make and go broke. I don’t have the patience or
