Christians, Muslims and Buddhists at the time of the Spanish Inquisition), which made his rule such an attractive option relative to the extremely unattractive alternative. He was
also open-minded enough to learn from the world around him, not much blinded by bias and prejudge and so able to effectively solve the problems he faced (and he faced a lot of them
from an early age, so got a lot of practice). 30 u/RelevantPerson avatar RelevantPerson • 13y ago A good novel I've read is "Genghis Khan:Emperor of All Men" by Harold Lamb 1
u/ulvok_coven avatar ulvok_coven • 13y ago References throughout: Weatherford's book, the Russian chronicles, the Secret History, a few dozen articles and histories that I didn't
like as much as Weatherford. On tactics: Chingis was a damn good tactician, but I somewhat wonder if in pure brains he ranks. His army vastly out-teched his opponents, and then
used simple strategies that really abused their tech to the fullest. His horse archers could turn while riding and shoot backwards, meaning they could not easily be pursued, and
could retreat and advance at will. They were lightly armored and very, very fast, with several horses a piece, and the Mongolians were sometimes said to use human shields to reduce
their own risk. Another very simple yet devastating move was to attack ferociously with skirmishers, but then have them rout - when enemies moved to pursue the retreating Mongols,
they were flanked and obliterated by heavier cavalry and archers. They would herd enemy troops like animals - something they did all year round, horses and goats and sheep and
yaks. And they used siege bombardment in open fields, which they had recruited/stolen from China. No one could match an army that moved very, very fast and fought mostly at long
range. On the stability of the empire: raoul is right, Mongol retribution was brutal. But it's much more than that. The Mongols established a post service, called the yam, with
riders trading horses frequently to transition messages as rapidly as possible across the Empire. The roads were said to be extremely safe under Mongol rule, and they needed to be,
because East-West trade was their lifeblood, the only way they could hope to not only sustain the army, but to keep the rival political families in check. Which brings us to the
structure of Mongol governance - the uppermost echelons were family and friends of Chingis, that was true. But a lowly steppe conqueror didn't have political friends or political
debts, his commanders were the very best, and held to extremely high standards. The new khan was elected by the aristocracy of the Empire, and was always supposed to be the very
best leader. The khagan and royal family didn't micromanage the Empire, though - they mostly appointed local proxies. And by appointed, I mean (in Russia, at least) the proxy had
to be approved by the local Mongolian power broker, in person, and disapproval was sometimes synonymous with execution. Moscow's prominence today is entirely because Mongol tax
collectors decided they like the tune of the Muscovy princes more than others. The Empire was massive, but it communicated, and local power answered - in blood - to Mongol
oversight. The Empire wanted its treasure to flow, and it accomplished that. However, it collapsed under internal ambition. When politics infected the royal family, and threats of
assassination appeared, the kuruldai election system fell into disarray, leading to a blood conflict with each family for themselves. Kublai Khan gets to call himself khagan for
two reasons - first, most of the local Mongol rulers paid obeisance to him, and second, because he controlled Mongolia. But the Empire, in the European sense, was over before he
consolidated power. Batu's Horde and the Middle Eastern khanates were really independent powers. 4 [deleted] • 13y ago Here is a video of a professor I knew giving a lecture on
some early mongol history. He has a lot of knowledge about the history of peoples of Eurasia. I last talked to him over a decade ago but from what I recall Temujin had a hard life
as a child and vowed to do things differently than the culture he found himself in. He was quite brutal with people who didn't follow his orders and got a fanatic following behind
him as his power and influence grew. One of his revolutions of how things were done on the steppes was incorporating defeated tribes into his own tribe and treating them like
family. His eldest son was likely from another man but he kept him just the same (which leads to tension and may have stoked the eventual civil wars and collapse of some of the
mongol regimes). On the steps you fight when advantageous to you and run otherwise. If you route another group and they flee you get steal their stuff and looting/raping would
occur in the middle of a skirmish. Your enemies would flee and you would let them as you went through their belongings. This lead to grudges going back and forth and alliances
being made and lots of constant infighting among nomadic tribes. Temujin demanded that when fighting another tribe you fight them down to the last man so that they won't be a
problem later. Anyone looting before the fighting was done was severely punished. He favored and prized skill and know how and rewarded meritorious behavior. He was also very
shrewd in the politics and world affairs of neighboring nation states. There's all kinds of things that he did differently and I couldn't begin to remember it all. If you can find
Vajda's contact information I know he loves this stuff and could probably direct you to some good reading material. edit: I think you can find it on this page 2 [deleted] • 13y ago
Comment removed by moderator 39 u/rakony avatar rakony • 13y ago It's also worth noting that while Genghis had many talents, both tactical and organisational, he may have benefited
from his enemies weaknesses. The best example of this is the invasion of the Khwarzhemid Empire. The Shah in an effort to protect his entire territory spread his armies thin across
his borders. As a result the Mongols punched through into the empire like tearing through tissue. By contrast the Shah's son, Jalal ad-Din, had advocated concentrating their
forces. When he did so and applied his rather effective tactics to fighting the Mongols he managed to inflict some tactical set backs, although by this point it was all to late and
the empire was dying. Furthermore Genghis benefited from commanding a group of people conditioned for highly mobile warfare by their lifestyle. The Mongols were excellent horsemen
used to travelling fast and far. They also lacked long cumbersome supply chains of food as they could survive off their herds of horses. This meant they could outmanoeuvre almost
any enemy they faced. Furthermore this excellent horsemanship combined with regular hunting made them perfect cavalry archers, one of the most maddening types of soldier to defeat.
All that said I still feel Genghis and his general were very talented. 14 u/Canageek avatar Canageek • 13y ago Very interesting; As I said, I'm just parroting what I heard in that
podcast series. I'd love to hear someone who has actually studied the issue expound on it. 1 1 more reply New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of
communities. Continue with Email Continue with Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers
Section Related Answers Genghis Khan's major accomplishments Genghis Khan as a military genius Comparison of Genghis Khan and Kublai Khan How Genghis Khan united the Mongol tribes
Influential love stories in history Did Genghis Khan only promote soldiers who disobeyed orders? r/AskHistorians • 4mo ago Did Genghis Khan only promote soldiers who disobeyed
orders? 176 upvotes · 6 comments u/venice_ai avatar venice_ai • Promoted With Venice.ai, you can choose your privacy for every AI conversation. See how it works. Thumbnail image:
With Venice.ai, you can choose your privacy for every AI conversation. See how it works. venice.ai View More Would the people in heaven or the new earth wear clothes?
r/AskAChristian • 6y ago Would the people in heaven or the new earth wear clothes? 14 upvotes · 29 comments When Genghis Khan was building his empire, why wasn't he opposed by his
cousin Genghis Khan't? r/shittyaskhistory • 5mo ago When Genghis Khan was building his empire, why wasn't he opposed by his cousin Genghis Khan't? 55 upvotes · 19 comments What was
happening in Mongolia in the early 13th century that allowed Genghis Khan to unite the tribes? How inevitable was it? r/AskHistorians • 1mo ago What was happening in Mongolia in
the early 13th century that allowed Genghis Khan to unite the tribes? How inevitable was it? 165 upvotes · 14 comments Gengis Khan occupied China for ages. Then why, the Chinese
speak Chinese and not Mongolian. Did Gengis Khan fail teaching Mongolian? r/shittyaskhistory • 2mo ago Gengis Khan occupied China for ages. Then why, the Chinese speak Chinese and
not Mongolian. Did Gengis Khan fail teaching Mongolian? 6 upvotes · 43 comments Dress code for Shanghai China? r/femalefashionadvice • 11y ago Dress code for Shanghai China? 22
upvotes · 39 comments Genghis Khan united several competing tribes during a famine and brought prosperity to the Steppe that lasted generations. Why is he not considered one of the
great peace workers like Jesus, Ghandi, and MLK? r/shittyaskhistory • 6mo ago Genghis Khan united several competing tribes during a famine and brought prosperity to the Steppe that
lasted generations. Why is he not considered one of the great peace workers like Jesus, Ghandi, and MLK? 34 upvotes · 40 comments Before conquering half the world, Genghis Khan was
abandoned by his tribe as a child, lived in absolute poverty eating rodents to survive, was enslaved and held in a wooden collar, and had to watch his wife get abducted. His early
life was pure destitution. r/mightyinteresting • 5mo ago Before conquering half the world, Genghis Khan was abandoned by his tribe as a child, lived in absolute poverty eating
rodents to survive, was enslaved and held in a wooden collar, and had to watch his wife get abducted. His early life was pure destitution. r/mightyinteresting - Before conquering
half the world, Genghis Khan was abandoned by his tribe as a child, lived in absolute poverty eating rodents to survive, was enslaved and held in a wooden collar, and had to watch
his wife get abducted. His early life was pure destitution. 165 upvotes · 51 comments If Genghis Khan's army had the logistics and desire to invade deep into Europe, is there an
army/region that would have likely stopped him, or would he have been able to pretty much do what he wanted there too? r/whowouldwin • 5mo ago If Genghis Khan's army had the
logistics and desire to invade deep into Europe, is there an army/region that would have likely stopped him, or would he have been able to pretty much do what he wanted there too?
77 upvotes · 109 comments TIL Viking girls got hitched as young as 12 and had to mind the household while their husbands sailed off on adventures. Still, they had more freedom than
other women of their era. Viking women could inherit property, request a divorce and reclaim their dowries if their marriages ended. r/todayilearned • 7y ago TIL Viking girls got
hitched as young as 12 and had to mind the household while their husbands sailed off on adventures. Still, they had more freedom than other women of their era. Viking women could
inherit property, request a divorce and reclaim their dowries if their marriages ended. r/todayilearned - TIL Viking girls got hitched as young as 12 and had to mind the household
while their husbands sailed off on adventures. Still, they had more freedom than other women of their era. Viking women could inherit property, request a divorce and reclaim their
dowries if their marriages ended. historyextra 13K upvotes · 634 comments Is the cubone-marowak line semelparous. Meaning reproduce once and die r/pokemon • 4mo ago Is the
cubone-marowak line semelparous. Meaning reproduce once and die r/pokemon - Is the cubone-marowak line semelparous. Meaning reproduce once and die 3 816 upvotes · 58 comments TIL
Genghis Khan and the Mongol Empire Killed 11% of the World's Population in the 13th Century r/todayilearned • 5y ago TIL Genghis Khan and the Mongol Empire Killed 11% of the
World's Population in the 13th Century r/todayilearned - TIL Genghis Khan and the Mongol Empire Killed 11% of the World's Population in the 13th Century wikipedia 34K upvotes ·
2.1K comments 17,000,000 people can trace their ancestry back to Genghis Kahn. He had eleven legitimate children, but hordes (pun) of illegitimate children. What was life like for
these children and their mothers through his empire? r/AskHistorians • 8y ago 17,000,000 people can trace their ancestry back to Genghis Kahn. He had eleven legitimate children,
but hordes (pun) of illegitimate children. What was life like for these children and their mothers through his empire? 5.8K upvotes · 66 comments Genghis Khan is given immortality.
How long would the Mongol Empire survive? How large would it become? r/whowouldwin • 2mo ago Genghis Khan is given immortality. How long would the Mongol Empire survive? How large
would it become? 275 upvotes · 49 comments Despite it happening almost 799 years ago (and thus having very much time to do so), Genghis Khan has never acknowledged his death.
r/Scale4BarbaraWalters • 3mo ago Despite it happening almost 799 years ago (and thus having very much time to do so), Genghis Khan has never acknowledged his death.
r/Scale4BarbaraWalters - Despite it happening almost 799 years ago (and thus having very much time to do so), Genghis Khan has never acknowledged his death. 74 upvotes · 12
comments About Genghis Khan r/mongolia • 6mo ago About Genghis Khan 18 upvotes · 56 comments Who is the true reincarnation of Genghis Khan? r/RedFloodMod • 4mo ago Who is the true
reincarnation of Genghis Khan? r/RedFloodMod - Who is the true reincarnation of Genghis Khan? 237 upvotes · 8 comments This means no Genghis Khan in 1200 right? r/crusaderkings2 •
5mo ago This means no Genghis Khan in 1200 right? r/crusaderkings2 - This means no Genghis Khan in 1200 right? 41 upvotes · 10 comments Ghengis Khan NES Game I never knew existed
until now. r/nes • 8mo ago Ghengis Khan NES Game I never knew existed until now. r/nes - Ghengis Khan NES Game I never knew existed until now. youtube 52 upvotes · 30 comments
Genghis Khan would like to have a word with you... r/HistoryMemes • 8mo ago Genghis Khan would like to have a word with you... r/HistoryMemes - Genghis Khan would like to have a
word with you... 2.3K upvotes · 60 comments What if Genghis Khan armed his soldiers with M249 machine guns? r/AlternateHistoryHub • 3mo ago What if Genghis Khan armed his soldiers
with M249 machine guns? r/AlternateHistoryHub - What if Genghis Khan armed his soldiers with M249 machine guns? 171 upvotes · 26 comments Genghis Khan - A man who created the
largest empire ever to exist. r/medieval • 4y ago Genghis Khan - A man who created the largest empire ever to exist. r/medieval - Genghis Khan - A man who created the largest
empire ever to exist. youtu 5 upvotes · 1 comment What was the difference between the Khans of the Golden Horde and Mongol rulers? r/history • 9y ago What was the difference
between the Khans of the Golden Horde and Mongol rulers? 8 upvotes · 8 comments How far West did Genghis Khan or any other Mongol Empire invade? r/AskHistorians • 13y ago How far
West did Genghis Khan or any other Mongol Empire invade? 15 upvotes · 19 comments Would Western Europe have stood a chance against the Mongols if Ghenghis Khan didn't die?
r/HistoryWhatIf • 7mo ago Would Western Europe have stood a chance against the Mongols if Ghenghis Khan didn't die? 64 upvotes · 67 comments VIEW POST IN 日本語 Português (Brasil)
Русский 简体中文 Français See more Community Info Section r/AskHistorians Join AskHistorians The Portal for Public History. Please read the rules before participating, as we remove all
comments which break the rules. Answers must be in-depth and comprehensive, or they will be removed. Show more Public TOP POSTS Reddit reReddit: Top posts of January 16, 2014
Reddit reReddit: Top posts of January 2014 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2014 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All
rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Home Popular News Explore RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Developer Platform Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Best of Reddit Reddit
Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. MENU L'Officiel ibiza BUY THE ISSUE IBIZA CATEGORIES IBIZA
PORTRAITS FASHION PEOPLE OF IBIZA SOUL ART MUSIC DESIGN BEAUTY HOMMES CULTURE TRAVEL FOOD WEDDINGS L'OFFICIEL COFFEE L'Officiel ibiza BUY THE ISSUE ABOUT CONTACTS FOLLOW US
ARGENTINA BALTIC BELGIUM BRAZIL CANADA CHILE FRANCE HONG KONG SAR IBIZA ITALY JAPAN KOREA LATVIA MALAYSIA MALAYSIA HOMMES MEXICO MONACO PHILIPPINES RIVIERA SINGAPORE SINGAPORE
HOMMES ST. BARTH SPAIN SWITZERLAND TURKEY UK USA VIETNAM PORTRAITS A Conversation with Pharrell Williams: from Paris to Hong Kong to the Far West Thanks to spectacular shows, from
Paris to Hong Kong via his native Virginia, and a modern-pop aesthetic he is rewriting Louis Vuitton menswear. «This is a global luxury brand that travellers identify with. My job
is to take the house to different places to tell stories that make our community unique. I want to appreciate the places we visit and that inspire us. It is a story of sharing and
love expressed through clothes." 04.01.2024 by Giampietro Baudo e Alessandro Viapiana Text by GIAMPIETRO BAUDO and ALESSANDRO VIAPIANA A global tour. Departed from Paris. Continued
to Hong Kong. With a final stop in his native Virginia, recreated at the gates of the Ville Lumière in the gardens of the Fondation Louis Vuitton nestled among the trees of the
Bois de Boulogne. The journey of Pharrell Williams, called to the creative direction of Louis Vuitton menswear, is an aesthetic story that is changing menswear, combining his
musical background with the aesthetic one of the flagship maison of the LVMH group, defining a modern-pop universe. « Louis Vuitton is a global luxury brand with which travellers
identify. This is our, my, task: I take the maison to different places to tell stories that make our community unique. Without "stealing" or proposing an undue appropriation of a
culture. My intent and that of the team I work with is to make our customers appreciate the places we visit and that inspire us. These places guided us in creating the collection,
we would like them to be a source of inspiration for them too. It is a story of sharing and love expressed through clothes", the designer told L'OFFICIEL during the pre-show
meetings or backstage at the three events that wrote the first chapters of his creative direction. Pharrell Lanscilo Williams, singer-songwriter, musician, record producer and
designer, is a volcano of ideas. Considered one of the most successful contemporary music producers (he won 13 Grammys and was indicated by Billboard as the greatest producer of
the decade 2000-2010), he is experiencing a golden moment after having collected the creative legacy of Virgil Abloh and began his journey in the brand founded in 1854. «Working
for Louis Vuitton is a dream come true... I feel lucky for everything I have the opportunity to do in this maison. Considering the moment I'm living in, I feel privileged, lucky
every single day of my life." accessories bag handbag purse coat long sleeve person formal wear linen blazer A look from Pharrell Williams' first collection for Louis Vuitton,
presented on the Pont Neuf L'OFFICIEL: Your background is musical but you have always collaborated with fashion. Which of the two worlds is the most difficult? PHARRELL WILLIAMS:
Neither is difficult, I only see the opportunities, the gift and the privilege I have of being able to deal with two universes in which creativity is at the center. Let's say it's
an easy job for me, but above all it's a dream. And being able to turn dreams into reality is the best job in the world. LO: What was the idea behind the first collection presented
in Paris with the big show on the Pont Neuf? PW: Love. And the convenience. For me, another word for comfort is "luxury". It's about the convenience of design and the design of
convenience. LO: The first show was an emotional homage to Paris... PW: Paris has always been the city where artists are celebrated, where they are fully supported. I would say
that given its approach to culture it became a privileged destination for black American artists in the 30s, 40s, 50s... Because they felt considered in another way, protected and
valued in their story. In the first show all the different elements worked together to create a chorus of emotions. I wanted something very immersive, the show is not just made of
clothes but of air, of sounds, of time, of locations, of moments. With the fashion show I wanted to express my gratitude for the opportunity I was given. I wanted to shout out the
respect I have for the position I occupy. I feel full of gratitude. LO: The Millionaire Speedy bag that you launched in the first show and wear regularly has become a global cult.
How did you create it? PW: When I arrived at Louis Vuitton I understood that there was a need to shake up the house, to project it into the future. And this bag is the essence of
this concept. We worked on some cornerstones of the brand: the Speedy bag, the monogram, the colour. But we tried to dismantle certain stereotypes. We kept the shape but
experimented with a softer, more delicate material. Which transformed the bag almost into a pet, a small puppy to always carry with you. And then we added the gold chain and
experimented with unusual colours like this yellow. In reality there was only one concept: to take this icon to a next level. 1 / 4 hat accessories sunglasses sun hat cap baseball
cap person face coat portrait Two looks from the Louis Vuitton pre-fall 2024 collection presented in the setting of the Avenue of Stars at the Victoria dockside in Hong Kong person
captain officer face head police officer A look from the Louis Vuitton pre-fall 2024 collection presented in the setting of the Avenue of Stars at the Victoria dockside in Hong
Kong coat long sleeve sleeve jacket sunglasses vest blazer person overcoat woman Two looks from the Louis Vuitton pre-fall 2024 collection presented in the setting of the Avenue of
Stars at the Victoria dockside in Hong Kong sunglasses long sleeve adult female person woman bag handbag coat purse A look from the Louis Vuitton pre-fall 2024 collection presented
in the setting of the Avenue of Stars at the Victoria dockside in Hong Kong LO: The debut on the Pont Neuf in Paris and then the catwalk in Hong Kong on the Avenue of stars on the
Victoria dockside. What is the feeling of your aesthetic story? PW: Paris was the starting point of a greater journey. I'm continuing to live a dream. A dream that comes true every
time I watch a sketch of a look, every time we work on an advertising campaign, every time I can collaborate with the people I love, like Rihanna or LeBron James. They are dreams
that come true. I think I'm lucky. And then the great platform of Louis Vuitton offers me a global internship to speak to the world. I felt honored to be able to bring my message
to Asia through the city of Hong Kong. LO: Why did you choose Hong Kong for the show-event dedicated to unveiling the pre-fall 2024 collection? PW: Because this metropolis
experienced three and a half years of quarantine due to the pandemic, and now it is ready to be reborn. The cultural strength and affection of the people was incredible. And all
the support we have had from the government has also been unique . People and institutions are working hard to restore Hong Kong to an important role globally. LO: What is your
personal memory of Hong Kong? PW: I have performed here many times as a singer and this city has a unique and incredible energy. The music scene, the art scene, the creative scene
linked to fashion and also the culinary scene with food experiences make it unique. It is a city constantly in transformation where you can breathe life. Unstoppable. handbag skirt
blouse boy male person teen belt coat shoe A look from Pharrell Williams' first collection for Louis Vuitton, presented on the Pont Neuf LO: What was the spirit of this collection?
PW: I started from the idea of ​​a Hong Kong businessman on holiday in Hawaii. During his holidays he has to make a quick trip for a meeting. He changes, chooses a formal wardrobe.
And then he goes back to his moment of relaxation. Throughout the collection I worked on some archetypes, such as that of the sailor. There is also a great focus on dandy
aesthetics but above all there are all the visual codes that accompany me and my little obsessions, like pearls for example. LO: Last stop Paris but looking at Virginia where you
were born, to write a story inspired by cowboy America. What was it like covering the Wild West? PW: It was an honor. Having the opportunity to do something related to the West and
the vibes related to it was beautiful. When you see cowboys, you only see a stereotypical version of them. You never really get a chance to understand what the original cowboys
were, and still are. They looked like us. They looked like me. And also to Native Americans. And it was great to work with the Lakota tribes of North Dakota, the Standing Rock
Sioux Tribe and the Native Voices of Resistance. LO: What came out of this meeting? PW: We shared our idea about the collection and music for the show. Music, which in our vision,
is a means of expressing love. To tell our story and the story of our people. As well as possible. And I'm happy with the result. By doing it sincerely, an overwhelming feeling
emerged. And it was felt. The atmosphere in the location was pure love. It was the intended goal and I thank God that I had the opportunity to complete it. LO: The common thread of
all three of your collections is a look at the world of workwear, culminating in the latest F/W 2024 show. PW: For me it's crucial and workwear has been critically important to the
hip-hop community. Many times life is hard. When you face difficult situations you want something that lasts and resists, so workwear is perfect. The collaboration with Timberland
in the latest show, for example, goes precisely in this direction. Whether you work along the suburban streets or in a factory, Timber-lands are shoes that respond to the need to
last a long time and be resistant, right? And in a time like this, if you have to spend your money, it has to be on something that really lasts. 1 / 4 The backstage of the Louis
Vuitton by Pharrell Williams F/W 2024-25 fashion show presented in Paris last January The backstage of the Louis Vuitton by Pharrell Williams F/W 2024-25 fashion show presented in
Paris last January The backstage of the Louis Vuitton by Pharrell Williams F/W 2024-25 fashion show presented in Paris last January The backstage of the Louis Vuitton by Pharrell
Williams F/W 2024-25 fashion show presented in Paris last January Tags PHARRELL WILLIAMSLOUIS VUITTONMUSIC ICONSINTERVIEWS Related Articles accessories bag handbag purse adult
female person woman clothing glove FASHION The Speedy Louis Vuitton Redesigned by Pharrell Williams 01.11.2024 by Anne Gaffié Pharrell Williams show FASHION Who was at Pharrell
Williams' first show for Louis Vuitton? 06.23.2023 by Laure Ambroise Pharrell Williams new creative director of Louis Vuitton FASHION Who is Pharrell Williams? The new creative
director of the Louis Vuitton men's collection 02.16.2023 by Cecilia Corsetti Recommended posts for you clothing footwear shoe sneaker adult female person woman FASHION JW Anderson
x Diadora: The Limited Capsule You Can’t Miss 05.15.2026 by Simone Vertua fashion person boy male teen jewelry necklace dress sleeve beachwear BEAUTY How To Protect Your Scalp From
The Summer Sun 05.15.2026 by L'Officiel beachwear clothing person boat transportation vehicle bracelet jewelry footwear shoe FASHION Alo Launches Its First Trail Sneaker 05.15.2026
by L'Officiel accessories sunglasses glasses person face head photography portrait FASHION Missoma And Jimmy Fairly Unite For A Summer Capsule 05.14.2026 by Pauline Borgogno animal
invertebrate sea life seashell barefoot person clam food seafood FASHION Apple Martin Stars In Chloé À La Plage’s Sun-Soaked Campaign 05.14.2026 by Pauline Borgogno topix
celebrities arts culture and entertainment bestof fashion horizontal accessbygettyimages essential los angeles clothing dress lighting person formal wear car transportation vehicle
city walking FASHION Dior Cruise 2027: Rewriting the Hollywood Dream at LACMA 05.13.2026 by Simone Vertua clothing glove adult female person woman accessories bag handbag FASHION
Love For Gloves: The Accessory Fashion Can’t Stop Reaching For 05.13.2026 by L'OFFICIEL Italia architecture building dome nature night outdoors scenery mosque astronomy moon SOUL
The Blue Moon Of May 31 Is A Rare Micromoon To Watch 05.11.2026 by Ludovica Crespi-Pallavicini Magazines Cover by Rossy de Palma Cover by Solomun Cover by Orlando Bloom Cover by
Ciara Cover by Burberry L'Officiel Ibiza n.2 Cover by Rosalía L'Officiel Ibiza n.2 Cover by Yves Uro L'Officiel Ibiza n.2 Cover by Matea Brakus L'Officiel Ibiza n.1 Cover by
Maurizio Cattelan L'Officiel Ibiza n.1 Cover Madonna Newsletter I hereby give my consent to the processing of my personal data for the purposes of Privacy Policy L'Officiel logo
ContactsPrivacy PolicyCookie Policy Your consent preferences for tracking technologies × REQUEST A PERSONALIZED ORIENTATION Book here EN MENU BACK GAME CHANGERS PEOPLE Mar 11, 2026
Pharrell Williams on curiosity, creativity and his vision for Louis Vuitton At Paris Fashion Week, Louis Vuitton menswear creative director Pharrell Williams reflects on curiosity,
creativity and imagining worlds beyond fashion During Paris Fashion Week, as the Fall/Winter 2026 collections unfolded across the city, moments of reflection were rare. Yet, at the
pop-up Vogue Café on Rue de Castiglione—once home to the Off-White store—one such exchange took place with Pharrell Williams, creative director of Louis Vuitton menswear. In
conversation with Claire Thomson-Jonville, Head of Editorial Content at Vogue France, Williams returned to themes that have long defined his work: curiosity, imagination and the
design philosophy that guides his vision for fashion at the French house. The setting was intimate (even Anna Wintour seemed approachable), but the ideas discussed were expansive:
discipline, gratitude and the importance of remaining open to new perspectives—and the power found in pursuing the impossible. maze35 pharrell williams curiosity creativity louis
vuitton 1 Pharrell Williams and Claire Thomson-Jonville during a Vogue Café talk in Paris, exploring curiosity, storytelling and the creative mindset shaping his vision for Louis
Vuitton menswear. Courtesy of the author Why Curiosity Still Drives Creativity in Fashion Today Williams began with a principle that has guided his career: curiosity. “At the heart
of creativity is being curious” – Pharrell Williams, creative director of Louis Vuitton menswear For him, that openness is what allows ideas to move across disciplines and evolve
in unexpected ways: music, design and culture are not separate territories, but parts of the same ecosystem that also shapes contemporary fashion. Curiosity, in this sense, becomes
the starting point for everything. Pharrell Williams on the Creative Power of the Impossible That mindset also defines how he approaches ambition. While many creative processes
begin by asking what is possible, he suggested aiming beyond that entirely. “I’m not interested in the possible. I’m interested in the impossible” – Pharrell Williams The goal is
not always to achieve the impossible, but to move close enough that the outcome surprises both creator and audience. maze35 pharrell williams curiosity creativity louis vuitton 2
Anna Wintour meets Pharrell Williams backstage at the Vogue Café during Paris Fashion Week, where discussions around creativity, cultural influence and Louis Vuitton’s future
vision unfolded. Courtesy of the author. Inside Pharrell Williams’ Design Process at Louis Vuitton Menswear Considering his role as creative director of Louis Vuitton menswear,
Williams described how this thinking informs his approach to design. Appointed in 2023, he has held an unusual position within the industry. Long recognised for shaping
contemporary sound and popular culture, his leadership at the French house points to a broader shift in luxury, where cultural influence increasingly determines who leads its most
prominent maisons. In practice, his process rarely begins with garments. Instead, Williams starts by imagining a world and the people who inhabit it. “I ask myself what that world
looks like,” he explained. “What does it smell like? Who’s the main character? What are they wearing? Where are they going?” This method reveals what might be described as
Williams’ broader design philosophy: fashion is about narrative. Clothes, materials and accessories emerge later, as expressions of a character and the universe that surrounds
them. maze35 pharrell williams curiosity creativity louis vuitton 3 At Paris Fashion Week, Pharrell Williams joins Claire Thomson-Jonville, Head of Editorial Content at Vogue
France, for a conversation on imagination, culture and the evolving role of creativity in fashion. Courtesy of the author. Innovation in Fashion Doesn’t Always Mean Radical
Silhouettes This ethos does not necessarily translate into radical silhouettes. Pharrell Williams cited figures such as Comme des Garçons’ Rei Kawakubo as masters of avant-garde
experimentation in fashion, while positioning his own sensibility differently. Innovation, for him, often lies in the details: unexpected textiles, new stitching techniques or
construction methods that elevate garments without overpowering them. Why Pharrell Williams Believes in Going Narrow Another principle he emphasised was focus. In an era when many
brands aim to speak to everyone, the designer emphasised the importance of depth over breadth. “I don’t want to be everything to everyone. I want to go narrow and go deep” –
Pharrell Williams The goal, he suggested, is to create work that resonates strongly with a specific audience rather than diluting ideas for broader market. Pharrell Williams speaks
during an intimate conversation at the Vogue Café in Paris, reflecting on curiosity, creativity and his design philosophy as Creative Director of Louis Vuitton menswear. Courtesy
of the author. What Drives Pharrell Williams Beyond Success Yet perhaps the most striking theme of the conversation was gratitude. Pharrell Williams described waking up each day
eager to work, seeing creativity not as labour but as a privilege. His advice to students was clear: pursue what genuinely excites you, not just what seems financially safe. “Try
to make more happiness instead of trying to make more money,” Williams told the audience. “If you love what you do, you’ll never work a day in your life.” At Paris Fashion
Week—where fashion is often driven by spectacle and speed—the message felt unexpectedly grounding. Sometimes the most valuable insight isn’t about trends or strategy, but about
remembering where creativity begins: with curiosity, obsession and, occasionally, the courage to imagine worlds that do not yet exist—a mindset that continues to shape Pharrell
Williams’ vision for fashion at Louis Vuitton. Massimo Casagrande Director of Education, Paris Want to know more about the world of Istituto Marangoni? Fill out the form You might
be interested in... arrow left grey arrow right grey School PARIS Course Programme Fashion Communication & Image undergraduate-BA (Hons) Degrees · 3-Year courses · Bachelor of Arts
istituto marangoni logo FASHION COURSES Fashion Design Fashion Styling Fashion Business DESIGN COURSES Interior Design Product Design Visual Communication Design Design Innovation
ART COURSES FRAGRANCES & COSMETICS COURSES SCHOOLS Milano Fashion Milano Design Firenze Paris London Dubai Riyadh Mumbai Shanghai Shenzhen SHORT COURSES Fashion Design Art
ADMISSION Entry Requirements Online Admission F.A.Q. How to apply online Loans & Right to Education Scholarships Apply for entry at level 5 and 6 UK OfS Transparency Return
NEWSROOM News & Events Open Day Talent projects Photo gallery I'M ALUMNI Alumni stories Community groups I'M Mentors CAREERS & INDUSTRY RELATIONS Students Enterprises ABOUT US
Representative Offices & Information Centre International promoters Contacts Work with us Privacy Cookies Cookie settings 2026 Istituto Marangoni. All Rights Reserved · C.F.
09447270159 E P.I. 10542860969Facebook X (Twitter) Instagram CHRISTOPHER MING BLOG YOUR CAREER MOVE TO LOS ANGELES BREAK INTO HOLLYWOOD RESTAURANTS ABOUT ALL ARTICLES NOTES FROM
POWERHOUSE: THE UNTOLD STORY OF HOLLYWOOD’S CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY BY JAMES ANDREW MILLER My Rating: 9 of 10 Get this book SUMMARY Fascinating, thorough history on CAA, one of the
big four talent agencies in Hollywood and in the 90s, the only agency that mattered. Related articles: Who Is Michael Ovitz? What I’m Reading: Michael Ovitz How Hollywood Can Save
Itself As If: The Oral History of Clueless NOTES INTRODUCTION TO CAA In recent years, rivals have taken it hard to CAA. There is particular irony in WME’s ascendance, both because
it was William Morris from which the founders of CAA fled, spending the next two decades grinding their former employer to near dust; and also because Endeavor, which merged with
William Morris to create the new titan, was founded by agents who fled CAA during or shortly after its golden years. No one can say the retreats are tossed together at the last
minute; planning for each retreat begins fifteen minutes after the current one ends and includes weighty retrospective analysis on what worked and what didn’t. For the anniversary
retreat, retrospection went back even further—all the way to the agency’s founding. Forty years of CAA history can be conveniently divided into halves that represent two eras of
leadership. The first two decades from 1975 to 1995 are known around CAA as “1.0,” and the second two, from 1995 to 2015, as “2.0.” In recent times, some insiders have taken to
calling the years 2010 and beyond “3.0,” because 2010 was the year that private equity giant TPG invested heavily in CAA and soon became its majority owner, with 53 percent of the
company in its portfolio. For the first twenty years, the company was run by now-fabled original founders Bill Haber, Ron Meyer, Michael Ovitz, Rowland Perkins, and Michael
Rosenfeld. Each was a pioneer in his own way, jettisoning the rules of the ossifying agency trade as the firm grew from tiny start-up to industry dominator. Ovitz was undoubtedly
the most indomitable of the Founding Five—and, during the late ’80s and early ’90s, the most fearsome—but Meyer was equally indispensable. Let’s get this out of the way right now:
If, instead of a Mike and a Ron, there had been two Mike Ovitzes, CAA would likely not have become the phenomenon that it did; and if instead of Ron and Mike, there had been two
Rons, likewise. The agency needed Ovitz’s drive, gumption, and unbridled aggressiveness, but it would likely have been a calculatingly impersonal place without the legion of
