loyalty that surrounded Meyer, not to mention the invaluable mentoring he did with other agents in which he extolled the art of service businesses. Ovitz was brains and science;
Meyer was heart and culture. Theirs was a much-envied balancing act for the first twenty years of the company’s existence. Then, exactly midway through its life—1995, the most
precarious point—CAA went through a kind of thrombosis, a disturbance in the force if you will, that saw the departures of Meyer, Ovitz, and Haber (Rosenfeld had left in the early
’80s, Perkins in the early ’90s). When the music stopped, the agency once again had five at the helm: Kevin Huvane, Bryan Lourd, Lovett, Jay Moloney, and David O’Connor.
Eventually, a shocking suicide and several secret rounds of corporate infighting would leave only a trio. LOCATION: 352 HOLLYWOOD HISTORY In 1925, there were fewer than twelve
agencies listed in Hollywood directories, so one could almost empathize with Clara Bow, nationally famous “It” girl, and her professional suffering. Like other actors in pretalkie
times, Bow seemed to be on a trajectory toward auspicious stardom, or at least marketable adorability, but also like most actors, she was a resounding flop at managing her own
business—that is, the business of herself. No sooner had Bow ascended to “It-ness” in 1926 than she naively signed a contract with Paramount that became a textbook case in stars
failing to benefit from their own popularity. The contract paid her less than a third of what comparable performers were earning, and after it expired, it was too late for her to
find financial success anywhere. She never attained the heights predicted, and her moment of financial leverage had been wasted. LOCATION: 418 In the 1950s, Lew Wasserman
transformed the talent agency MCA into a “packager” that would approach studios with already assembled teams of directors, actors, and writers. With this, Hollywood saw the birth
of a new species—film stars who were also independent contractors, with the textbook case being Jimmy Stewart. The star of Harvey and many other iconic hits saw his wealth multiply
with a single role in Universal’s Winchester ’73. By forgoing a standard salary and taking profit participation instead, Stewart paved the way for actors, directors, producers, and
writers to leverage their celebrity at the negotiating table. Similarly, Wasserman cofounded independent production companies for such luminaries as Jack Benny, Alfred Hitchcock,
Errol Flynn, and dozens of other MCA clients, allowing them to minimize taxes while exploiting their star salaries and expanding their influence in movie production. As anyone
could have predicted, it was the stars, in particular the television “personalities,” who held sway over the American public’s imagination and affection. (Not for nothing was
Shower of Stars the title of a typical drama anthology; the title Shower of Directors was likely never considered.) The power of TV was such that a “nobody” could become, virtually
overnight, more famous than some venerable holdover from the studio system. Indeed, stardom in movies became less and less bankable as TV created its own sensations. At the same
time, major movie stars like Bing Crosby, Frank Sinatra, the independent Mr. Stewart, and many others piloted shows built around them that often then ignominiously flopped. Orson
Welles shot a pilot that never even made it to series. Not all stumbled, but television could tame even the biggest egos, with the little screen outgunning the “silver screen” time
after time. In 1962, MCA’s dominating presence in Hollywood ran smack into the Department of Justice. Its investigation into the company’s “monopolistic practices” resulted in a
face-off between Wasserman (whose beloved allies included Ronald Reagan, then in the midst of leaving the Democratic Party and becoming a Republican) and Attorney General Robert F.
Kennedy Jr. To avoid criminal and civil penalties for alleged antitrust violations, MCA agreed to divest itself of its talent agency at the same time that the company bought
struggling Universal Pictures and Decca Records. Just like that, MCA quit the talent business and created the largest entertainment assembly line in Hollywood. Building on its
library of detective shows, westerns, sitcoms, and specials, MCA and Wasserman transformed moribund Universal Pictures into grandiose Universal Studios, owners of the largest and
busiest lot in Hollywood. When MCA departed the representation business, the move solidified William Morris as the agency. It had the biggest star clients and the greatest
influence on the studios and networks. But perhaps more relevant to this story was the common belief that if you were young and wanted to get the strongest start possible for a
career in the entertainment industry, it was the place to be. LOCATION: 462 THE BEGINNING OF CAA MICHAEL OVITZ: I was student body president for a high school of four thousand
students. I was also president of my fraternity at UCLA and dedicated myself to being very well organized. I had a huge appetite for getting deeply involved in everything that
interested me. In college, I went to work as a tour guide at Universal. There were ten of us—five guys and five women. I soon got hired away by a guy who went to work at Fox
helping design their tours, so while I was going to school at UCLA, I was also working full-time at Fox. I didn’t go to most classes in the beginning of the semester, but I’d
always go to the final exams. I did that for three years, and in my senior year, I decided I wanted to start looking for a job after school. I interviewed at William Morris and
CMA, an advertising agency. William Morris responded the quickest. During the interview, the personnel director at William Morris asked me, “Why do you think you should get this
job? There are twenty people in the mailroom, and lots more who want to get in there.” And I said, “I can learn everything there is to know about being an agent in ninety days, or
I’ll give you back all the money you pay me.” I knew it was an outrageous and stupid statement, but he couldn’t stop laughing. Then he said, “I’m going to hire you.” LOCATION: 495
MICHAEL OVITZ: I made an assessment of what holes there were that I could fill as a young guy. What was open that no one had touched? When I went through all the William Morris
network sales, most were prime time. There were few dayparts and little syndication. Then I was at a meeting at ABC and found out the network’s margins in other dayparts were four
and a half times those in prime time, because programming was cheaper. I was in a state of shock. So I started developing clients in that area. I signed a guy named Bill Carruthers
who was a daytime director and Jim Young, who did General Hospital. I put this whole coterie together. I became very interested in packaging—putting things together rather than
just individually handling clients, which turned out to be the base of CAA. LOCATION: 608 RON MEYER: Shortly after the Chianti dinner, three other agents—Rowland Perkins, Mike
Rosenfeld, and Bill Haber—approached me. Bill was my boss, and Rowland was his boss. Mike and Rowland were senior agents: Rowland in television, Mike in motion pictures. They told
me they were also thinking of leaving because of Phil’s departure and asked if I would be interested in joining them. I said, I might be, but only if Mike Ovitz was part of it.
They didn’t know Mike very well, so I said, “Why don’t the five of us sit and meet?” I wanted to see what they were going to do, and to make sure they didn’t leave before us or
screw up our plan. Howard West was a very close friend from William Morris, and Mike and I had a lot of respect for him. We had stayed in touch with him after he left the agency to
become a manager, and then we asked him whether the two of us should go it alone or join the other three. HOWARD WEST: I digested the question, then said, “Guys, the industry is
ripe for competition. It will embrace you because everyone is tired of the William Morris dominance.” NOTE: Interesting that it sounds like Mike obits was the youngest amongst all
of them and most junior yet he is the one who rose to the top. LOCATION: 761 ROWLAND PERKINS: It was January 7, 1975. I got back from lunch and the phone rang. It was Sam Weisbord,
who says to me, “Are you free for a walk?” He used to walk as part of his regimen around the neighborhood of William Morris and I said, “Sure.” RON MEYER: I happened to be home
that day with the flu. ROWLAND PERKINS: Sam and I started walking, and when we got about two blocks away, he very casually said, “It’s come to my attention that you and Haber and
Meyer and Ovitz are planning on leaving, is that true?” And the only lie I ever told him was “I can’t speak for the others, but for me it’s true.” He stopped dead in his tracks. He
was a short guy and I’m six feet. He looked up at me and got as close as possible without making contact, and said, “You have committed treason,” then turned and took off for the
office. I followed him, and soon as I got in my office I called Ron Meyer at home and told him what had happened. He said, “Okay,” and hung up. Then I called Bill Haber and Mike
Rosenfeld and told them the same thing. Mike Rosenfeld was a good man and came into Sam’s office to personally tell him he was leaving, but Sam just threw him out. Then Bill Haber
went over to Sam, hit him on the shoulder, and said, “Hey, Sam, isn’t this a riot?” and proceeded to tell Sam why the five of us were going to try it on our own. Bill just stood
there and laughed while Sam sat frozen with his mouth open. BILL HABER: Sam was not pleased. The conversation didn’t take long at all. MICHAEL OVITZ: I had taken a rare break and
had gone skiing. When I got back to my house, Mike Rosenfeld had put a note on my door that said, “You’re no longer working at William Morris. Call me.” FRED WESTHEIMER: I walked
into Sam’s office and there were maybe five or six executives there and they said, “Why are you leaving?” I said, “I’m not.” They had just assumed I was part of the group. MICHAEL
OVITZ: Sam Weisbord loved Judy and he loved me, but he looked at me and said, “You’ve really screwed yourself this time.” That’s what he said to me. I learned an amazing lesson
from that moment. If he’d started that meeting differently, attempted to check his ego at the door, told me he didn’t want to lose me, and then offered me an insane amount of
money, there was at least one chance in a thousand I would have stayed. Instead, he did me a favor, because instead of being compassionate or even making me feel guilty, he pissed
me off. He attacked me and tried to belittle me. There was no way I was going to stay. After that meeting, Ron and I packed up our things. Rowland, Bill, and Mike had company cars
they had to turn in—Ron and I didn’t—so we drove the five of us to Rowland’s house. RON MEYER: Here’s the truth: If we had actually stayed for another year at William Morris like
we had planned, and during that time, Sam Weisbord had come to me and said, “All is forgiven,” I may have actually stayed. There was no way for us to understand whether our leaving
was actually going to be real… LOCATION: 837 RON MEYER: The one client I had who I was positive was going to come with me was Jack Weston, a well-known character actor. He was my
most important client at William Morris, and he had literally said to me, “I’m with you forever.” In those days, he was probably making a couple hundred thousand a year, so we
thought we could at least count on twenty thousand a year in commissions, which was a huge amount of money for us. Just as we were starting out, he was in a play in New York called
Steambath, and we all had to pitch in for me to fly back to be with him on opening night. I saw him, we had a great time after the play, then I flew back. Waiting for me was a
letter that had been mailed several days before from him telling me he had decided to stay at William Morris. When I asked him why he didn’t tell me anything when he saw me, he
said he just didn’t feel comfortable talking about it in person. I was humiliated, embarrassed, and very pissed off. This was a huge setback for us, to the point where if we had
known earlier he wouldn’t be coming with us, who knows, we might not have been so eager to leave. Years later, a friend of his approached me on his behalf and asked me if I would
represent him. I said, “Tell him he can go fuck himself. Not if he was the last client on earth.” LOCATION: 965 MICHAEL OVITZ: Our overhead may have been low, but our expenses were
incredibly high. All of us were having every meal at restaurants with executives, clients, and potential clients. We were trying to keep things as inexpensive as possible,
including staying away from high-priced meals. But then there was the dinner that Rowland put together with Joseph Bologna and Renée Taylor at a very expensive restaurant in
Century City. They were hot writers and we wanted them as clients. We all brought our wives, so it was a table for twelve, which was going to be a fortune. RON MEYER: Before Joe
and Renée arrived, Bill and I said to Rowland, “They picked this place, so maybe they are taking us. Whatever you do, don’t reach for the check.” JUDY OVITZ: We were hoping that
because he was a regular there, the waiter would give the check to Joe Bologna. MICHAEL OVITZ: It turned out, Renée and Joe hadn’t come for a cordial dinner. We had never seen
anything like it. She drew a line across the table and said, “This is Joe and me against you.” She was really combative. At one point, Bill just said, “What do you mean? We just
want to work with you.” RON MEYER: The check was put in front of Joe Bologna and he just kept looking at it but never addressed it. MICHAEL OVITZ: His arm never moved. He just kept
smoking a cigar, which he had also charged to the bill. JUDY OVITZ: So then Rowland’s wife, Diane, takes the check and gives it to Rowland. I was like, Oh my God. Rowland was
horrified. I think that destroyed their marriage then and there. It was the beginning of the end for them. MICHAEL OVITZ: Rowland gives it to Mike Rosenfeld under the table, but
Mike hadn’t brought his credit card. No one had a credit card except for me, so I took care of it. This was 1975, and the bill was $2,000 and we had no money. It took us two months
to get our first commission check—it was something like $950. We framed it and put it on the wall. LOCATION: 1001 BILL HABER: Six months into the company, I sat with my wife at a
place called the Swiss Echo, which is no longer on Pico Boulevard and Overland, and I laid out in front of her $5,000 in hundred-dollar bills, and I said, “This is our first money
from CAA.” MICHAEL OVITZ: Every dime we made went back to the business. I sold a daytime television show called The Girl in My Life, and that paid us like $1,000 a week, which
covered our rent and phones. Then someone sold a $100,000 TV movie and we got $10,000. We were barely making it. At the time, we didn’t even have expense accounts; we were paying
our own expenses and deducting them on our tax returns. JUDY OVITZ: Thank goodness we didn’t have any kids at that time. We were lucky, we only had dogs. NOTE: Sometimes you have
to go hungry in order to be aggressively hunting LOCATION: 1020 The agency’s main source of revenue was the modestly successful Rich Little game show Rhyme and Reason, which ran
for about a year. By the end of 1975, the company’s $2.5 million revenues left each partner a tidy sum of $25,000, but they took no salary and used revenues to pay for overhead and
expansion. Revenue was limited to game-show package commissions and some TV bookings. There were no profits. LOCATION: 1037 BILL HABER: My job was to put television series on the
air that we packaged and to collect a package commission, but in those early days, we were all doing everything we could to get our names out there and find out what was important
for our business. SHERRY LANSING, Executive and Producer: In 1975, I was the executive story editor at MGM, which meant I bought material to make into movies. So this guy named
Bill Haber calls and says, “I’d like to go through the release schedule so I know what’s going on.” I said, “Great, Susan Merzbach does that for everybody, so I’ll set up a time
for her to meet with you.” And he said, “I don’t want to be treated like everybody.” I told him, “No, no, I didn’t mean to offend you. I just meant she has all the information, and
it’s more efficient, but I will give it to you now if you want.” He said, “I’m not offended, and now I don’t even want the release schedule, I’m just going to shower you with
gifts.” Then he started to laugh and said, “Bye.” The next day, fifty shower caps were delivered to my office. I called him to say that was really funny, but he wouldn’t take my
call. The next day, fifty boxes of Morton Salts with the little girl and her umbrella were delivered. The next day, I got a bunch of umbrellas. I was laughing every day because it
was all so original, and for ten days I received all these funny presents. Susan and I said, this has got to stop; I couldn’t even get into my office because of all the stuff that
had been sent. So we hired an actor and said, “Put lots of soap in your hair and a towel around you, and go to his office and say, ‘The girls throw in the towel,’ and throw the
towel on Haber’s desk.” The actor goes to CAA with a towel wrapped around him, and of course the receptionist won’t let him through, but the actor was so determined to do his job
that he stormed past the door and goes into a conference room where Bill and Mike Ovitz were sitting with a client they were trying to sign. The actor runs in, throws off the
towel, and exclaims, “The girls throw in the towel!” And he was stark naked underneath! We thought he would have a bathing suit on. The client looked at him and said, “Wow, this is
the coolest place in the world,” and signed with the agency. Bill Haber called me and said, “You two are amazing! We must celebrate!” So he picks a night Susan and I are free and
tells us to wait at the MGM gate. This huge stretch limo pulls up and the driver rolls out a red carpet and a man with a violin starts playing as he motions for us to get in. I was
making $30,000 a year and had never been in a limo in my life. There was a chilled bottle of champagne inside waiting for us. We knew we were having dinner, but we didn’t know
where and the driver wouldn’t tell us. Then the limo pulls up to the airport, and Susan and I are asking ourselves, What is going on? The door opens and the man helping me out of
the car says, “Hello, I’m Bill Haber.” I had never met him. I said, “Bill, this is crazy… LOCATION: 1076 Since all five of the agency’s founders had worked in William Morris’s
television department, most of the agency’s clients in the beginning were television actors rather than the highly sought after movie stars who would become CAA’s future bread and
butter. During their time at William Morris, the CAA founders had objected to WM’s television packaging fee of 10 percent of the budget, believing it was “too rich” and “people
couldn’t afford it.” CAA slashed it to 6 percent, and, according to Ovitz, “it increased the volume of our business so we wound up making far more than if we had charged the higher
rate.” MICHAEL OVITZ: Bill and Mike came up with the idea of cutting commissions from 10 percent to 6 percent. LOCATION: 1139 RUSTY LEMORANDE: Ovitz would never say who he was on
the phone—not even “Hi, it’s Mike.” He would just say, “Is he in?” You had to recognize his voice, and we jumped like it was God calling, because we knew that Mike had that
authority over you. Marty jumped, too—more for Mike Ovitz than any of his important clients. I always thought that was interesting. Marty had so much more experience than Mike;
Marty had been brought in on a pedestal; Mike really turned to Marty for advice on how to handle film deals and, more important, big powerful superstars; and Mike was a kid
compared to Marty. Yet Marty was in awe of Ovitz. LOCATION: 1258 RON MEYER: We had a lot of clients who were booking episodic television with guest shots. In those days they
probably paid $1,500 or $2,500 for a guest shot on a Quinn-Martin show, or The Fugitive, and we depended on a lot of that. When you book something for $2,500, your commission is
$250, and even though every penny was always important to us, and the appearances were important to the clients, I realized we should get out of the episodic television business so
we could concentrate on the series business and the Movie-of-the-Week business. There was a real robust Movie-of-the-Week business back then, paying actors $25,000 or $30,000 for a
two-hour movie. There was money to be made for a certain caliber of talent. This was a big turning point for us, but it meant we weren’t going to be able to represent a lot of
clients who depended on us just for episodic appearances. NOTE: Not all opps are equal. Chase the big ones LOCATION: 1276 MICHAEL OVITZ: On the board downstairs at 1888, I saw the
name of the law firm Armstrong & Hendler. We were on the fourteenth floor—which by the way was really thirteen, which was my lucky number—and they were on eighteen and I went up
and introduced myself to Gary Hendler and discovered that he had taken with him almost every major movie star in the business from his former firm Irell & Manella, which
specialized in taxes. I spent a year cultivating a relationship with Gary, taking him to lunches, to dinners, sending him gifts. I remember I found out he loved chocolate—I sent a
barrel of Hershey’s Kisses, anything I could do to ingratiate us to him. He was very smart, a Harvard graduate, in his thirties when I met him, but he had every movie star you
could think of—Redford, Streisand, Richard Dreyfuss, Sydney Pollack, and Sean Connery. Gary Hendler’s client list would prove to be one of the most important vehicles for upgrading
CAA’s talent list over the coming decade. LOCATION: 1400 MICHAEL OVITZ: In the course of getting friendly with Gary Hendler, it became very clear to me that Barry Hirsch was very
unhappy at his firm. He kept complaining that there were problems in the partnership and that he couldn’t get anything done. It was a Friday afternoon and he had gone on and on and
on about it, and I happened to leave him and go to dinner with Gary Hendler and his wife. And Gary complained how unhappy he was because he didn’t have enough manpower. He didn’t
have a real equal partner because his partner was not an expert in the entertainment industry, he was just a guy who handled corporate work. So I pitched Barry Hirsch to him, and
he responded well immediately. I then called Barry Hirsch and I pitched him Gary Hendler. I arranged for them to have a breakfast Saturday morning at a deli and I went and
introduced them, then I left. They talked for three hours, shook hands, and agreed to merge. In two weeks, they put together a firm called Armstrong, Hendler, & Hirsch and
overnight basically controlled the legal side of the entertainment business. CAA ended up having two hundred clients with them. LOCATION: 1438 There were less than a dozen agents
when my dad went over there, and he had to wear many hats. They didn’t have enough clients for him just to be a business affairs guy, so he became the guy who was taking care of
things in the office while those guys were out signing people. As a lawyer, he was trying to see what problems might occur and implement ways to avoid them. Even though Mike and
Ron wanted the final say on most things, my dad really spent the bulk of his time building the infrastructure of the agency. He understood what Mike’s agenda was, but he also knew
he was going to be the one to create what was necessary for that to happen. NOTE: Need to do the sexy stuff like signing and also set up infrastructure LOCATION: 1462 stayed close
with our agents and always knew what was going on with them. This meant, for instance, if important writer clients wrote an unattached script, rather than sell it directly to a
studio, we would put it together with a director and in some cases an actor or an actress, then sell it at a premium. Although we didn’t invent it, we did it very effectively and
became known as a very strong packaging agency. NOTE: Very similar to David Schwartz’s idea of the real estate agent who would give them the ideas of how to use plots of land. Add
value charge a premium. LOCATION: 1545 want to deal with CAA after years of dealing with the other guys? Because you couldn’t ask William Morris or ICM to peddle rights without
actually contacting William Morris or ICM, which meant those agents would be exposing their authors to their competitors. CAA in effect branded itself as a safe harbor. They just
wanted to help those author-clients get their books made into TV shows and movies, not to snatch literary clients for themselves. Thus did CAA get into the book business—without
getting into the book business. LOCATION: 1589 THE MORT JANKLOW STORY It actually started back sometime in 1975. My secretary said, “There’s a man on the phone named Michael Ovitz,
from California, do you know him?” and I said no, so she said she’d get rid of him. But she came back a few minutes later and said, “He’s an agent in Los Angeles and he’d very much
like to talk to you.” I’m not that hard to reach, so I picked up the phone. He said, “I will make this short. Five of us have left William Morris to set up our own shop. We’re
called Creative Artists Agency. Now I don’t want to fool you, we’re operating on bridge tables in empty space we’ve rented, with our wives manning the phones.” And then he said,
“I’m going to build the biggest agency the world has ever seen in ten years.” That was his opening. So I said to myself, Oh my God, another Hollywood type. He said, “I’d like to
come and see you, but only for a half hour.” Then he said, “And I’m only coming to see you.” I said, “Well, I’m flattered, come on in,” and we made a date for the following week.
So he came in, walked into my office, pulled out a watch and put it on the desk in front of him, and pitched me for a half hour on what they could do for us. Basically, his idea
was that even though we controlled a number of big writers at the time, and a lot of these books were being turned into films, we didn’t know that ground as well as we knew the
literary biz. I asked him, “What could you do for us? We’ve sold a number of big projects ourselves.” He said, “If it’s a huge project, it sells itself, but if it’s just a good
book, we can put you together with the right people and make more complete deals.” I said, “Well, it was nice meeting with you, Michael. I’ve learned a little and we’ll be in
touch.” He said, “This is what I thought would happen; I didn’t expect much until you knew us better. How about this? Can I call you every Thursday at ten o’clock your time?” I
said, “Sure,” and thought I’d never hear from him again. The following Thursday, the phone rang at exactly ten o’clock and it was Mike Ovitz asking, “Got anything for me to talk
about?” I said, “No, Michael,” and he just said, “Okay, Mort, good-bye.” The call was fifteen seconds. No wasted time. MICHAEL OVITZ: I went to see Mort in New York and said,
“Look, we’re going to change the way business is done and we want your books. We won’t take your books and we won’t charge you anything. We’ll give you all of the commission; we
just want to be able to put packages together with our clients.” But he wouldn’t do it. So I asked if I could call him once a week on Thursdays at 10:00 A.M. He probably figured,
What a bullshit artist, but said fine. For fifty weeks every Thursday, at 10:00 A.M. Eastern, no matter where I was—you could set your clock by it—I called him. NOTE: Tenacity.
Finding a way into a business LOCATION: 1596 you, but it’s a wounded bird. Everybody has seen it before it came on the scene. I’d made a deal with the Mobil group to make it into a
television series, and they bought it but they don’t know what to do with it; they can’t make it, so they’ve just turned around and given it back to me.” He said, “Put it in the
dispatch bag and get it to me right away.” MICHAEL OVITZ: Finally, Mort said, “Okay, I’ll give you a book.” I gave it to several people in the office and then Bill said to me,
“This book has been around and passed on.” I said, “I think it has, too, but who cares.” Bill said, “I agree. I’m going to try and put it together.” And to his credit, Bill made
Chiefs happen. When I called Mort to tell him the book was getting made as a miniseries and asked him how he wanted us to handle the deal, he shit a brick. LOCATION: 1623 STORIES
RON MEYER: A few years after we started the company, Mike and I had what we used to jokingly call “our walk in Central Park.” We were in New York and went for a long walk and he
told me, “I feel like I’m carrying most of the weight here; I’ve got the most important clients; and I’m the face of this company.” And I have to say, at the time, that was all
true. MICHAEL OVITZ: I remember that walk like it was yesterday. That conversation was me telling Ron that I was really concerned that I was going to get stuck not being able to
make the kind of leveraged economics that I wanted to, but he just kept going after Bill. He said he didn’t like the way Bill behaved, he was upset Bill used to take off Thursdays
to go to Paris every other week, and that he and I were the only ones working seven days a week. For me, that conversation wasn’t about me leaving or threatening to leave. It was
how we calculated the money. It was the split. RON MEYER: Then Mike said, “I need to be the president of this company and have the ultimate say in its future.” He also said he
wanted to divide the shares of the company up differently, with him getting more shares than us. He made it clear that if that didn’t happen, he would probably leave and do
something on his own. I supported his position for two reasons: first, I felt that he was probably right in wanting to be in charge—we couldn’t keep having everybody voting on
everything—and second, we were all better together than we would be apart. For our future and the future of the company, I knew I had to make this happen. So I went back to Bill,
Mike, and Rowland. LOCATION: 1687 ROBERT KAMEN, Writer: I sold my first script to Warner Bros., and because it became attached to an Academy Award–winning actor in the form of
Richard Dreyfuss, it got a little bit of buzz. As the new hot young writer in town, I got passed around to various people at studios, including Jeffrey Katzenberg, who was a junior
VP at Paramount. We hit it off, and he said to me, “What do you want out of this business?” I told him, “I’d like to be a major writer.” He said, “You can’t be a major writer
unless you have an agent,” and he sets up five appointments for me. The first one is with Michael Ovitz and Steve Roth at CAA. I tell them this idea I have, and Michael Ovitz gets
up and leaves the room. I said to myself, That is pretty fucking rude. Then he comes back after a few minutes and says, “Okay, you in a room with Jane Fonda and Bruce Gilbert.” Now
Jane Fonda had just finished China Syndrome and was a big deal, and Bruce was her producer. I said, “Look. I don’t care if you lie for me; I just don’t want you to lie to me.” At
that, Michael Ovitz gets up and as he’s walking to the door, delivers one of the classic lines of all time. He says, “I never lie,” and he walks out. I went back to my hotel, and
told my best friend Erwin Stoff, who is now one of the principals of 3 Arts Entertainment, “If this fucking guy is lying to me, if I show up tomorrow at 10:00 A.M. and Jane Fonda’s
not in that room, I’m going to knock his fucking teeth out.” I showed up the next morning at 10:00 A.M. and there’s Steve Roth, there’s Mike Ovitz, and there’s fucking Jane Fonda
and Bruce Gilbert. She looks at me and says, “I commit.” Then I look at Ovitz and say, “You walk on water, right?” Michael and Steve took me to five studios, and the last meeting
was with Frank Price at his magnificent home that Dinah Shore used to live in. It was Rosh Hashanah eve, but Frank is the quintessential goy; he’s descended from Aaron Burr, for
crissakes. I tell him the story and he says to Michael, “You’re not leaving here until you tell me I have the package.” Michael says, “Yes. You have the package. Jane will do the
movie with you.” Little did I know that Mike and Frank were in collusion. So Mike drives me right from Frank’s house to the airport and says, “Talk to nobody. I will call you.”
Then he zooms off in his Jaguar with the CAA license plate. I go home to Colorado with my head spinning. Four days later, I get a call at 8:30 in the morning from my book agent,
Ginger Barber, in New York. I had just sold a novel to Simon & Schuster the same day I had sold that first screenplay. Ginger says, “What’s My Brother’s Keeper?” I really had told
nobody about this. So I asked, “Why?” She says, “You’re on the front page of the New York Times.” I said, “What?!” Then she reads me an article about the Hollywood dream but really
it’s an article about Mike Ovitz and Frank Price and the headine is UNKNOWN SCREENWRITER HITS IT BIG. The article said Mike Ovitz sold the screenplay for $350,000 and… LOCATION:
1868 Urban Cowboy was iconic, and unique in so many ways. I read Aaron Latham’s piece in Esquire and used it to sell a package to Diller and Eisner at Paramount. We got a go movie
and there wasn’t even a script! We had Irving Azoff, James Bridges, and Bob Evans attached. I was also able to separate the music part of it because Paramount didn’t have its own
record label. That record album became its own huge profit center, and as a result, changed the business of packaging. CAA had a piece of the movie and the album, and both did
really, really well. NOTE: Always find new ways to create deals LOCATION: 1902 BARRY HIRSCH: To Michael’s credit, he was the first agent, at least that I was aware of, that
embraced lawyers insofar as being part of the original dealmaking process. I think historically lawyers, especially with agents at the William Morris office and a couple of the
other agencies at the time, were looked upon as people who caught paper and went over the paper. Most agents trained in those days were really trained to go over contracts. Michael
realized that by getting the lawyer involved in the beginning, he could accomplish several things: One, he would nourish the relationship with the lawyer. Two, he realized that a
lawyer might make the deal even better, which would then increase his commission. Three, having the lawyer involved protected him against the lawyer telling the client, “Why did
Michael do this when I could have done better than that?” And finally, if the lawyer was involved early on, he wouldn’t have to waste his time being involved in secondary
negotiable points as well as boilerplate points, which meant he could jump off and move on to do another deal. To my knowledge, he was the first contemporary agent that embraced
the lawyer like that. NOTE: Make the deal, be able to move on LOCATION: 1915 JUDY HOFFLUND: Ron was very hard to work for—very demanding, very specific—but he taught me things that
I carry with me to this day, like you have to return every phone call every day. Even now, I lie in bed feeling guilty if I don’t return someone’s call, and I’m not even working
anymore. LOCATION: 2185 SYLVESTER STALLONE: I was about to enter into a film called First Blood, and even though I hadn’t gone with him yet, Ron and I talked about it quite a bit.
This is an interesting story, and will give you a little insight into Ron Meyer. My managers at the time were not thrilled by the idea of my bringing Ron on. They said, “You don’t
need him, you don’t need him, he’s just there for the money. CAA needs money; nobody’s going with them.” I told them what was happening at the agency wasn’t my concern, and that I
liked his personality and thought he was very sincere. I remember him telling me, “All I can say is I’m the best of the worst kind of breed in the world.” I kept being asked by my
representatives to stay away from Ron Meyer. They told me, if you offer him money on it, even though he doesn’t deserve it, he’ll take it. Now, put this in perspective. I was doing
First Blood and was going to be paid around five million. So it would be a pretty great commission for someone who had nothing to do with the deal itself and had only talked to me
about the movie’s ending. But I really liked the guy, and he had been really supportive through all those discussions on the ending. So I decided to test him. I called him and had
one of my representatives listen in, but Ron didn’t know anyone else was listening. I said, “Ron, I know you all could use a little financial boost, so I’d like to give you ten
percent commission on First Blood right now.” He said to me, “Wow, that’s incredibly generous, and I’m not going to lie, I could use it, just let me think . . .” And there was a
couple seconds of silence. Then he said, “Thank you very much, Sly, but I’m going to pass on that. I hope there will be other movies where I will have earned my fee, and I get a
chance to work with you in the near future. Hopefully, I’ll see you down the road.” I hung up, looked at the other person who had been listening in, and they almost burst into
flames from embarrassment. That was literally the ultimate world-class litmus test, because I don’t think anyone else would have passed on half a million dollars when they were
desperate for cash. But he did, and that was the official beginning of me and Ron Meyer. LOCATION: 2258 Michael Rosenfeld left CAA in 1982, becoming the first of the original
founders to depart the agency. Under the original buy-sell agreement made by those founders in the first weeks of the company’s existence—and based on a zero valuation of the
company—Rosenfeld was paid $750,000. Rosenfeld had worked hard at William Morris and was a key ingredient of CAA in its formative years. What he brought to the operation was not
just skill but soul, often serving as peacemaker when necessary among the original five. He was also, as all the partners knew well, a man obsessed with death, having lost his
father when the “old man” was only in his 50s. Rosenfeld was a big fan of television and movies and a voracious reader with impeccable taste when it came to judging talent, but
from the time the agency was formed, it was clear that no one would be able to keep up the pace that Ovitz and Meyer had set. They gave their entire lives to the agency; Haber put
in seemingly thousands of hours, but kept perspective, while Rosenfeld, along with Perkins, simply wasn’t going to let his work define his entire life. He may have known so well
that he couldn’t keep up with Ovitz and Meyer that he wisely didn’t even try. There were many nights when Ovitz and Meyer would be leaving the office at seven to go to clients’
dinners and premieres and saw Rosenfeld also leaving the office but going home to his wife and two children. Even during daylight hours, he loved to escape whenever possible to
pilot his airplanes, an exercise not without its element of symbolism. Rosenfeld saw the business becoming more and more demanding, especially when one was a partner in the agency.
He was the sole architect of his own departure, and missed by many. LOCATION: 2371 THE AGENTS ERIC CARLSON: I never went onto a desk. I came out of the mailroom and went straight
to being an agent. I think I’m the only guy who’s ever done that. What happened was while I was in the mailroom, I wrote a study on all the emerging television markets. It took me
