Chris Meledandri called me up. He had created 20th Century Fox Animation and his deal was coming up and he wanted help and some perspective on what he should be asking for. So we
sat down at lunch and I said, “Wait a minute, Chris, you don’t know how valuable you are.” I think Fox was paying him about a million bucks a year, and he had created the Ice Age
franchise for them, which was billions of dollars of value. I said, “Here’s how we’re going to negotiate with Fox. On a separate track, we’re going to create a company that you’re
going to run. We’re going to get off-balance sheet financing and we’re going to align you with another global distributor.” At the time we had at least three studios that would be
great strategic fits. But he didn’t want to be an employee, he wanted real ownership. So we created parallel paths. On one track was the Fox negotiation, which I told him would
take a year, and they would give him a 15 percent increase. They would grind it out and play hardball. I told him, “At the end of the day, they’re not going to pay you anywhere
near what you’re worth. But on this other track, we’ll create this opportunity to change your life, for you to have something of your own.” I remember having a meeting with Mark
Shmuger and David Lindy, who were literally in the first day of their new jobs as co-chairmen of Universal Studios, and Bryan, Richard, Kevin, and I met with them in their first
official meeting and I pitched them the idea of being in business with Chris, and they said, “Yes. We want you to do it.” It took probably well over a year, but ultimately we
created Illumination. Universal came in and financed the company 100 percent. They wanted to clean up their balance sheet because they were about to sell to Comcast, so we got paid
an investment banking fee for $4 or $5 million, and then on top of that we’ve commissioned every movie that Chris has done. Chris got a very, very, rich deal, probably the best
producing deal there is. The truth is, on Minions he’ll probably make $80–$90 million. To date he’s probably made hundreds of millions. And he’s got Despicable Me 3, and The Grinch
Who Stole Christmas. NOTE: Chris melendandri and illumination LOCATION: 9663 It’s been a thrilling ride. It is a nonstop job. Almost every evening there is a client function—either
a preview, an opening, screening, premiere, or client meeting. I’m a big believer in 90 percent of new business happens after office hours, so there’s an edict in our department
that you should be out every night. That’s where you find new business and you meet new people. We are all trying to be in the right place at the right time, to create new
opportunities for our clients. To be able to do what you love—I’m the luckiest man in New York City. NOTE: 90% of new biz comes after hours LOCATION: 9691 SPORTS Following the
Yankees deal, CAA property sales was retained by Madison Square Garden to sell top-level sponsorships for the arena. In October, Delta signed on a signature-level sponsorship
partner at the renovated arena, a deal valued at $6 million per year. JPMorgan Chase would sign a marquee deal valued at $30 million a year. And there were more. And more. At the
time, few in Hollywood—even at CAA—realized the potential that sports held for the agency and its future, although such was not the case up in San Francisco. Meanwhile, back in
Beverly Hills, Endeavor—founded in 1995 by Ari Emanuel, David Greenblatt, Rick Rosen, and Tom Strickler—while never as large as CAA, was blessed with personalities who made it far
more than just another blip on the CAA radar. The agency had a swagger that was much larger than its footprint, and this made rumors of a merger all the hotter. Endeavor had
brought the word “entrepreneurial” front and center to clients and potential clients by promising them not just jobs but that virtual companies would be built around them. The
relatively feisty firm had made inroads into CAA’s television business and, particularly with the arrival of Patrick Whitesell, had managed to establish an impressive beachhead in
the motion picture business as well. Finally, after weeks of anxiety and speculation, a merger was announced, on April 27, 2009, between brash young Endeavor and crusty rusty Old
Ironsides—aka William Morris. The actual day of the first combined WME meeting was, some would later recall, “surreal.” The matter of which building would house which offices was
settled fairly quickly when Endeavor’s quarters dominated as the meeting place of choice. Matters of detail—like who would design the combined companies’ new logo—tended to come
down on the Endeavor side. In some circles, the action was seen not so much a merger of two companies as a much-needed management upheaval at William Morris. “Upheaval,” indeed,
and it would be a long while before a creative calm settled in. Nearly two hundred and fifty agents were let go the first day, and months of instability would follow. Initially,
the new ruling board was nine members large, with Jim Wiatt of William Morris in the top slot, followed by co-CEOs Ari Emanuel and Patrick Whitesell of Endeavor and David
Wirtschafter of William Morris. The clash in sensibilities could be most readily seen in the behavior of those at the top in both agencies. It was obvious that not all of these
personalities, colorful or bland, would survive. Employees including executives spent much of their time surveying their coworkers and wondering, or coldly calculating, who would
live (stay) and who would die (be trampled in the merger). Tension was palpable everywhere. Many believed Wiatt was essentially flogged by his own troops, and before anyone could
scream, “Entourage,” Emanuel and Whitesell were installed atop the newly formed agency. The event further suggested less the melding of two… LOCATION: 9708 MICAH GREEN, Agent: Our
goal simply put is to enable the production and successful release of as many great films each year as is humanly possible. We do this without regard to whether the major studios
want these movies to exist or not. One way we do this is by acting as strategic adviser to film investors and funded production companies. We work confidentially on behalf of very
well-capitalized investors to find the strongest projects available, and to assemble them with the very best talent we can find, with rational budgets and well-considered
distribution plans. Here, before clients lock into a project, before they have decided exactly what their movie is going to be, we have conversations about their vision for the
project, and where it can fit as a commercial proposition within the marketplace. We try to answer several fundamental questions before we begin pitching it to investors. How can
it best be realized in the film business as it exists today? Is it likely to be fast-tracked through a studio’s internal development process, or can we increase the film’s odds of
getting made by keeping it independent through development and packaging and presenting it to studios as a complete package or even as a finished film? LOCATION: 10062 RON HOWARD:
The studio system is shrinking, but there are so many other ways to get projects going at an agency like CAA. They have relationships with financiers, companies, and distributors.
It’s about trying to find that intersection point between what their client base, their talent, has to offer and what the marketplace will bear. I think they do it well, and I
think they continue to do that thing that I care about the most, which is to allow a person like me to be able to connect with talented artists I want to work with. LOCATION: 10075
entire market. What was customary for independent financiers a few years ago, and is still the norm at studios, is that the studio options the underlying material for the film, and
then controls the project for the duration of a term, which can be several years or more. What is most challenging about this is that this shift in control occurs prior to a
commitment to actually fund the project’s production. A project can therefore be held up or killed entirely if the filmmaker finds herself or himself at odds with the studio over
creative or financial choices that arise during development or packaging. Our agency has worked to change that norm, particularly within the independent realm, encouraging
financier-producers to work alongside talent as collaborators rather than gatekeepers. The companies we advise have been great partners in this respect, and have really helped
transform the nature of the relationship between filmmaker and financier. Their approach is often to attach to a project at an early stage and fuel its development and packaging.
They work collaboratively to arrive at a package and budget that the filmmaker is happy with and which they feel comfortable greenlighting. At the same time, most of these
companies are determined to play the role of facilitator for artists and not to risk being perceived as obstructionist, so where they find themselves out of sync with a filmmaker,
they will generally let them take the project and move on to other financiers rather than hold up its production. LOCATION: 10085 DAVID OYELOWO, Actor: I’ve always felt that my
agents are my employees. I pay them a wage whenever I work, and on that basis, they work for me and their job is to help me realize my goals. I think a lot of actors think they
work for their agents; they are so happy to have an agent and give too much weight to the direction in which their agent wants their career to go. My goal every day is to outwork
my agents so that they are inspired to work harder for me. I don’t think there’s any agent who wants to feel like they have to put dead weight on their back and try and sell it to
the world. LOCATION: 10117 Clearly for Ari Emanuel and Patrick Whitesell, merging their Endeavor agency with William Morris was simple foreplay, hardly enough to satisfy them. And
so it was on December 18, 2013, WME and Silver Lake announced the acquisition of IMG for $2.4 billion, with Emanuel and Whitesell to serve as co-CEOs of the mega-agency. It was a
startlingly bold purchase given the price—an amount so lofty that CAA, ICM, and a group lead by former Fox topper Peter Chernin didn’t come close to with their bids. The response
to the sale focused more on the price than whether the deal made sense or not, but WME was convinced it was the ace in the deck—and that the competitive landscape would be
fundamentally altered as a result. ARI EMANUEL: When we took over IMG, it was a motherfucker. It’s now nineteen-hour days, seven days a week, 365 days a year. You’ve got to want
that fucking piece of bread more than the other guy. Simple as that. When Richard Lovett heard that Patrick and I were talking to Teddy [Forstmann] and he thought we were going
into sports, he got into sports, without any conception of what sports was or what to do in it. Then he picked the shittiest business in sports, the team sports business, where
commissions are locked in by the guild. I mean, he’s a moron. He has not done one innovative thing in the company. We’re four times the size of CAA Sports. I mean, it’s a joke now.
It’s truly a joke. MIKE RUBEL: LOCATION: 10459 MARK SHAPIRO, Chief Content Officer, WME/IMG: CAA spends a lot of time talking about the price WME paid for IMG, but that’s so
foolish. It’s all in the eyes of the storyteller. We had to pay what was necessary to get the fuel for this enterprise to jump to the next level. Yes, our bid was materially
higher, but we didn’t want a second round of bidding. We wanted to avoid a bake-off. We were confident in what the two combined assets could become. IMG actually didn’t want to
sell to CAA or WME. They didn’t want to sell to an agency, but we prevailed anyway because the headline price was a deal they couldn’t refuse. HOWIE NUCHOW: If they pull this off,
I’ll tip my hat and say, “God bless.” I think it would be great for everyone. PATRICK WHITESELL: They went into sports the way they did because we were looking at Arn Tellem. But
the more we looked at it, we saw it was a shitty business at scale with low margins. If I have a hundred football players, what does that really do for my television business or my
movie business? There’s no vertical integration. What we liked about IMG was that it was only 10 percent high-end representation and 90 percent assets you can actually control and
own. We aren’t in the sports representation business like what they’re doing. We are after huge growth and a way bigger business. I couldn’t sign enough actors to do what we’re
going to be doing this year alone with our sports business. DAVID O’CONNOR: I didn’t want IMG at all. We thought IMG was a mess, and I was not a believer in their college business.
We were unanimous in that. Richard probably overall was the greatest proponent of it but at the end of the day when we really started to look at it and really understand what IMG
was, nobody wanted to do it. We were all very clearly against it at the end of the day, and happy to be out of it. JIM COULTER: LOCATION: 10473 For several years, slowly, CAA had
been losing its grip on at least its perceived dominance. WME’s 2013 purchase of IMG meant that agency was now bigger and, some said, bolder than CAA; certainly sports was a more
complicated battlefield as a result. And then another front opened with the March 31, 2015, defection of ten CAA agents to UTA, including an entire comedy bench lead by CAA
veterans Gregory Cavic and Gregory McKnight, and including the highly regarded Jason Heyman, Marty Lesak. and Nick Nuciforo—who were still under contract when they departed. Among
the clients taken by the defectors: Will Ferrell, Chris Pratt, Zach Galifianakis, and Ed Helms—but not, after a furious CAA effort that played to her dramatic aspirations, Melissa
McCarthy. The CAA spin was they wouldn’t miss the agents; they were grateful for the reduction in overhead and the years of commissions they would still hold on to for several more
years, but they needed to send a signal to anyone else—inside or out—contemplating such a move in the future. It was too early to know whether the migration would ultimately be a
financial win or loss for either agency, but one group of professionals was sure to cash in: the attorneys hired to sort out the legal ramifications of the defections. Within
weeks, CAA was at Los Angeles Superior Court with a suit attacking “a lawless midnight raid that UTA and its co-conspirators [the defecting agents] launched against CAA in a
desperate attempt to steal clients and employees.” There were nearly twenty pages of accusations, bitterness, drama, and industrial-strength victimization in the CAA suit: “Months
in the making, this illegal and unethical conspiracy has resulted in a number of agents who were under contract to CAA to brazenly and abruptly breach their contractual obligations
to CAA and to intentionally and deliberately interfere with CAA’s existing and prospective economic relationships with its clients.” LOCATION: 10570 For many of the years following
Jay Moloney’s tragic death, there had been not so much four remaining Young Turks at the agency as there were three-plus-one. More and more agents inside, and keen observers
outside, could tell there was less and less respect and affection flowing between three of the Turks—Lovett, Lourd, Huvane, and the fourth, O’Connor. It was as if the four were in
a special room, with a secret entrance through which only Lovett, Lourd, and Huvane were then allowed to go. This segregation was often subtle, sometimes passive-aggressive—until,
that is, the second tranche with TPG was completed. That’s when the ostracization took a financial turn. For the first TPG transaction, the four were reputedly in the same zip
code, receiving payouts commensurate with their ownership percentage in the agency. O’Connor got about $25 million, with Lourd and Huvane closer to $30 million and Lovett slightly
over this. On the second transaction, the partners cashed out the “Membership Program”—i.e., an exit benefit and net present value of salary reductions previously agreed to. It
amounted to two years of compensation and so, once again, the numbers were relatively close, with each man earning approximately $20 million. But this time there was a judo chop at
the end. The remainder of the proceeds was in the hands of a “Comp Committee”—reportedly just Lovett and Lourd—and this time, Lovett, Lourd, and Huvane each were granted another
$20 million in discretionary proceeds. O’Connor was told he would not be getting any discretionary funds. LOCATION: 10847 MARK SHAPIRO: Last year, we all pitched to BMW for some of
their business, and our presentations were spread out a bit, and CAA was leaving as we were pulling up, and I kid you not, they were getting in their cars and they were Mercedeses!
To a BMW pitch! That’s the kind of thing that would never have happened under Ovitz. JEREMY ZIMMER: They get punched in the nose now, and they freak out. If you punched Mike Ovitz
in the nose, he would spend the rest of his life fucking killing you. It’s a very complex time right now in our industry and there are many different weather patterns happening.
The theatrical movie business is changing; streaming services are evolving; and the entire underlying revenue structure is up for grabs. No one really knows how it’s going to sort
out. LOCATION: 11003 Ever since its creation in 2006, CAA Sports has been the most divisive force on Planet CAA. Competitors think it’s a disaster and loss leader; CAA and, perhaps
more important, TPG, believe it to be a growth story tour de force. Even inside the agency debate has raged about whether the move toward the playing fields has been sheer
strategic genius or hubristic disaster. To the very select few at CAA who have access to the numbers, it is now not worthy of debate. For decades, television and movies were the
primal forces that made CAA the most powerful and profitable agency in the business. No longer. In 2015, Sports, for the first time in the agency’s history, was the agency’s top
revenue producer, bringing in more than $215 million. Motion Pictures, the leader in championship seasons, reportedly crept close, but failed to break the $200 million mark, with
television cashing in at around $160 million. The revenue baton had been passed. HOWIE NUCHOW: We had tremendous growth again this past year. Whoever says we’re not succeeding is
either naive, stupid, or doesn’t mind lying. It’s only one of the three. LOCATION: 11010 Both CAA and WME/IMG are structured in ways that might have seemed outlandish a few decades
ago. CAA is 52 percent owned by TPG, whose roots and primary focus lie, generally speaking, far from Southern California sunshine. WME/IMG is now on the receiving end of
investments from Silver Lake, which has the largest stake in the company at 49 percent, Softbank, the Japanese media and telecommunications giant, that has 8 percent, and Fidelity
Management, which has roughly 2 percent. (WME/IMG holds approximately 41 percent of the company’s equity, and there are several smaller investors as well.) WME/IMG’s estimated
market cap is around $5.6 billion, compared to CAA’s just over $1 billion, with WME boasting more than twice the workforce that CAA employs. Almost immediately after the receipt of
these aggressive caches of capital, speculation intensified about which company—if either—would be going public in the near future. The short answer is, in all likelihood, yes, and
WME/IMG will probably be first. Given their particular approaches, the ways in which each reached this point are distinctly separate. WME’s bet has been audacious—picture “all in”
in a game of “Hollywood Hold ’Em.” Co-chairman Ari Emanuel and Patrick Whitesell play the gumption game better than most in Hollywood, and a lot of what is going to happen prior to
the company filing to go public will depend on how closely results mirror their bold pronouncements. Considering their $2 billion in debt, challenges with their college licensing
business, and the need to find cuts of around $75 million, it’s easy to predict, however glibly, that WME/IMG will be either a grand slam or a grand flameout. Given the stakes and
personalities involved, a scenario somewhere in between appears less likely. CAA’s path to a public offering seems a far more “businesslike” ploy that does not need a
cult-of-personality leader capable of parting the sea. CAA eschewed the big shopping trip and went largely with a build-your-own approach, making their debt a considerably lower
$600 million—an imposing sum, yet not as dramatically different from WME/IMG on a relative basis. That lower debt, and TPG’s patient profile, suggest that CAA has more time to grow
before filing. Going public will not just mean more for the agencies; it will mean potentially tens of millions of dollars for employees who have a piece of the current pie…
LOCATION: 11020 MARK SHAPIRO: We paid a considerable price for “Miss Universe” from Trump. As you might imagine, the negotiations weren’t easy. But we got through it, and we were
all on board for the first WME/IMG Miss Universe pageant. Ari and I were both there that night. We met with Steve Harvey prior to the show, and during the show I was in the truck,
headset on, locked in. About three quarters of the way through, Ari said to me, “This show is night and day from what it was last year. I’ve got to catch a flight. Let me know how
the rest of it goes.” Other than our site going down from an overload of on-line voters, the rest of the way was smooth. Then of course, Steve said, “Miss Colombia,” and it was
bedlam in the truck. To Steve’s credit, he kept cool and did what he had to do, but when Steve came clean on the mistake and gave the crown to Miss Philippines, then there was also
bedlam in the theater. I called Ari from the stage to give him a heads-up. He was literally on the runway about to take off. He couldn’t hear me at first; all I could hear was him
yelling to the pilot, “Don’t take off yet, don’t take off yet!” And then I told him what had happened. Give that report to 99 percent of the executives in our business and they
would have gone directly into crisis mode, deplaned, and headed back to the theater. Not Ari. As he often does, he instantly saw it from another angle, complete with upside. He
knew right away all the attention the property would receive as a result of this. I told him what had happened and he immediately said, “Fuckin’ fantastic!” And hung up. Two months
later, Fox extended our contract. LOCATION: 11079 Meizlik make the difficult look easy, and day in and day out, Madeline Jaffe exhibits acumen way beyond her years. Heather Karpas
and Colin Graham are always a pleasure and always come through. Annie Lee at CAA, and several of her other assistant colleagues there were gracious and truly helpful. The Special
Ks—Kris Fujihara, Kristina Walker, and Kari Zirkle—make life easier. Others at agencies, studios, networks, and production companies showed hospitality that was equally
appreciated. LOCATION: 11231 © 2019 Christopher Ming FACEBOOK X (TWITTER) INSTAGRAMThis video serves as an introduction/preface to the audiobook Powerhouse: The Untold Story of
Hollywood's Creative Artists Agency by James Andrew Miller. The narrative covers the rise of the Creative Artists Agency (CAA) from its humble 1975 beginnings to its current status
as a dominant global force in entertainment, sports, and media. Key Themes & Highlights: Company Evolution: The book tracks CAA through different eras, from its founding by Bill
Haber, Ron Meyer, Michael Ovitz, Roland Perkins, and Michael Rosenfeld (1975–1995, dubbed "1.0") to the current "2.0" and "3.0" eras marked by leadership changes and private equity
involvement (0:06:53 - 0:07:25). The "CAA" Culture: The author discusses the unique, often secretive, and highly competitive culture within the agency. It highlights the balance of
power between the founders, such as Michael Ovitz (the "brains") and Ron Meyer (the "heart"), and the intense internal dynamics that mirror Shakespearean dramas (0:07:47 -
0:09:20). Market Dominance: The text outlines CAA's massive influence, noting its representation of top-tier talent in film, television, music, and sports, as well as its strategic
reach into marketing and investment banking (0:03:00 - 0:06:08). Behind the Scenes: James Andrew Miller details his extensive research process, which included over 500 interviews
with current and former agents, studio executives, and talent, marking the first time CAAallowed such broad access for an investigative look at its history (0:12:00 - 0:13:45).
Coming up later in the video: The introduction transitions into a historical overview of how Hollywood’s earliest movie moguls viewed the birth and rise of talent agents, setting
the stage for the rest of the book (0:14:41 - 0:15:32). The book Powerhouse: The Untold Story of Hollywood's Creative Artists Agency by James Andrew Miller chronicles the rise and
transformation of the Creative Artists Agency (CAA) over its four-decade history. The following sections detail the agency's evolution, its unique culture, and the extensive
research behind the work.History and Evolution of CAA (06:53 - 09:12) CAA’s history is defined by distinct eras of leadership: Era 1.0 (1975–1995): Founded by Bill Haber, Ron
Meyer, Michael Ovitz, Roland Perkins, and Michael Rosenfeld, this era saw the agency grow from a small startup into an industry-dominating force. Era 2.0 (1995–2015): This period
began after a 'thrombosis' in the organization that saw the departure of the original founders, leading to a new management group and a shift in operations. Era 3.0 (2010 and
beyond): Following a significant investment by private equity firm TPG in 2010, which secured a majority ownership, the agency entered its current phase of corporate development.
Service Expansion: While starting as a television representation business, the firm evolved into a massive, imperial entity covering movies, music, investment banking, advertising,
marketing, and, most recently, sports (01:46 - 02:00).Agency Culture (02:17 - 02:39; 07:47 - 08:35) Darwinian Environment: The agency operates under the dictum of "Excel or die,"
prioritizing high performance over entitlement. Balanced Leadership: The firm’s growth was driven by the complementary styles of its leaders, notably the balance between Michael
Ovitz—described as the "brains and science" behind the expansion—and Ron Meyer, who provided the "heart and culture" and emphasized the art of service. Internal Dynamics: The
narrative describes the agency as having Shakespearean-level intrigue and internal politics, ranging from its private, invite-only annual retreats at the La Costa Resort to the
intense, often secretive, management battles (02:40 - 02:52; 09:14 - 09:20).Research Process (11:11 - 13:45) Extensive Interviews: James Andrew Miller conducted more than 500
interviews to compile this oral history. Unprecedented Access: This is the first time the agency opened its doors to an investigative journalist, allowing the author to interview
the entire current leadership team and nearly three dozen current agents. Methodology: While sources included former and current employees, studio executives, and talent, the
author sought to navigate the "Rashomon effect"—where different participants offer conflicting perspectives—to separate fact from fiction.