the time to represent somebody who won’t listen.” I said, “I’m different, I’ve always wanted to be a businessman.” He talked for two or three or five minutes, and then he threw me
out. So I went into his office six foot nine and walked out about five foot nine. He really bruised my ego. He called me back a couple of weeks later and said, “I did my homework
on you, and I talked to a lot of people; they said you are serious about becoming a businessman.” Then he asked me, “Do you read the newspaper every day?” I said, “Yes.” He said,
“What section do you read first?” I told him the sports section, and he said, “Wrong answer. It’s gotta be the business section.” He said, “This is what I’m going to do. I’m going
to test you to see if you really want to be a businessman, I’m going to give you all of these business journals to read, and after you do, we’ll discuss them. Then I’ll know
whether I want to represent you or not.” So he gave me a hard homework assignment, I came back and he asked me questions, and I answered them. After that, he decided to represent
me. We used to meet at Morton’s, and before we went there for the first time, he said, “We’re not just going to lunch; I want you to watch and see what happens.” So they sat us
right in the middle of the whole restaurant, and within the first ten or fifteen minutes, everyone there had made their way over to say hello, and everybody wanted to talk about a
deal with him. I said, “Man, it’s like everybody wanted to come over and kiss the ring.” He said, “I always get the middle table so I can see everybody, and everybody can see me.”
I took that note. When Michael Ovitz introduced basketball superstar Earvin “Magic” Johnson to top executives at Coca-Cola, it was clear they were eager to sign the star athlete to
a lucrative spokesperson deal. But, typically, the ever-demanding Ovitz wasn’t satisfied with what was put forward on the bargaining table, and so his next stop was Pepsi, and by
the time negotiations there were complete, Ovitz had secured for Johnson a huge deal to become partners with Earl Graves Sr., the founder of Black Enterprise magazine, in the
Washington, D.C., area Pepsi bottling plant. The transaction would prove to be the foundation of Magic Johnson’s wealth for years—indeed,… LOCATION: 5385 DAVID LETTERMAN: I was as
low in my life as a person can get without the loss of a loved one. Michael came in with his cuff links and his two-million-dollar suits, and he gave me a career. I will never be
able to thank him enough for that. It was phenomenal. It was just phenomenal. There will never be another deal like this in television. After the deal was done, he became like our
uncle. He would show up and he would take everybody to dinner. One time he was friends with the Nobu people and we had a big catered sushi dinner. There was no reason to question
this man’s friendship. None. I’ve never known anybody like him. I guess you don’t know anybody like him for the most obvious reason—there is nobody like him. Overlooked at the time
was a clause in Letterman’s contract that not only gave Letterman equity in the 12:30 A.M. hour, but also a rich development deal for a half-hour sitcom. Letterman quickly had an
idea for a show, one starring a little known stand-up comic known as Ray Romano. LES MOONVES, Executive: Everybody Loves Raymond was great for David Letterman and great for us. God
bless him, because you want to know the truth? We would not have produced the pilot if it wasn’t for David Letterman. Ray Romano was a stand-up comedian in his midthirties. Phil
Rosenthal had never really created anything that worked, but we paid a lot of attention to it because it was Dave’s project. Thank God we did. JEFF JACOBS, Agent: LOCATION: 5537
Not since Jaws or The Godfather had there been a movie that screamed sequel so fast as Ghostbusters, but for several years after its release, despite it being high on the CAA to-do
list, it seemed like an impossibility, which made it even more frustrating for Ovitz, particularly since it involved Ivan Reitman and Bill Murray, two clients he was particularly
close to. The first big obstacle actually involved Murray and Ovitz himself. Columbia chief David Puttnam had gone so far as to publicly take on Murray and what he saw as a corrupt
star system. Ovitz took great umbrage, and the chances for a Ghostbusters sequel were a casualty. But the other speed bump was the original group had splintered. There were some
hard feelings left in the wake of the original’s success. The goddess of triumph had been kinder to some (Bill Murray) than to others (even Aykroyd and Harold Ramis weren’t at
Murray’s level). Ghostbusters had obviously looked like a huge fat hit going in. For once, the dish proved as delicious as it had looked on paper. But in the afterglow, once the
last celebration was over, the division of profits among the stars, director, and producers turned out to be extremely unequal, as were the shrieks of pain from Harold Ramis, who
as cowriter contributed largely to the film’s success (he was also in the cast) but who likely got the lowest payout afterwards. Ramis, who once said that the seven months he spent
working in an insane asylum helped prepare him for dealing with the movers and shakers of Hollywood, had felt his share of the spoils on the original qualified as lunatic, and was
not shy about letting his opinion be known. Finally, Ovitz was able to orchestrate a sitdown at Jimmy’s in Century City with the film’s stars, joined by Kurtzman and Climan. At the
lunch, Ghostbusters 2 was referred to affectionately as “economic entropy—money in the atmosphere just waiting to be harvested.” The group worked out a new split and was promised
an unprecedented economic deal with Columbia. Ovitz asked Climan to “model” the movie as the studios had long done, though it was something then rare at the agency level. Financial
performance was predicted based upon historic data that linked box office to earnings in home video, pay television, and dear old you-remember-that television. Climan had studied
the studio formulas and developed CAA’s own set of equations, giving the agency another edge over its rivals that had not yet developed quantitative financial tools. As it turned
out, Climan’s model did not differ all that much from Columbia’s, and the agency and the studio basically combined their models to come up with the gross percentage. That backstage
story would prove to be one of Ray Kurtzman’s finest hours in terms of actual deal making, handing over to those jolly CAA clients a luscious 35 percent of the gross. Plenty of
Kissingeresque shuttle diplomacy went into keeping everybody happy; even Bernie Brillstein, manager of the principals, ended up… LOCATION: 5722 RON MEYER: Although it made a big
difference financially, I was probably more against outside corporate deals than in favor of them. I felt our obligation was to focus on our clients, and not on outside businesses.
I was also against getting into the sports business back then because I thought that would take us too far away from our core businesses. In retrospect, I was shortsighted.
Agencies today have proven they can take care of their basic businesses and expand without damaging their clients. LOCATION: 5807 PETER SEALEY: In the beginning, Michael said,
“Peter, I’m going to do all of this at my cost. We’ll decide my profit later.” I should have peeked at that. I should have gone, “No, wait a minute,” but I said okay. So the
campaign goes up and I can’t tell you how successful it was. So now I’ve got to decide how much to pay Michael. I went through a lot of machinations and I decided to pay him $10
million. I went to my financial guy and said, “Don, I want to pay Michael $10 million. It’s a lot of money, but he’s worth it. It’s a spectacular effort.” So I had my accounting
people issue a check for $10 million, payable to Michael Ovitz, and I had them put it in the hands of a little toy polar bear and walked it over to CAA. Three days later, I get an
envelope from Michael with the same check and a little Post-it note on it. The check is voided and the Post-it says, “Pete. Let’s discuss this.” He returned the check! And I said
to myself, Oh, Christ. Here we go. When I brought my accounting guy the check back, he almost fainted. So Michael says, “Peter, I want to talk to Don about this. It doesn’t feel
right to me.” So Michael went up one step to Don Keough, chief operating officer, and a final step to Roberto [Goizueta], the chief executive officer. MICHAEL OVITZ: I don’t
remember the number for Coke. Honest to God I don’t. SHELLY HOCHRON: Michael never asked me what CAA deserved for the Coke campaign. I heard he turned away ten. Twelve? That would
be high. PETER SEALEY: Thirty-one. Thirty-one million. In retrospect, it was worth it. But it was classic Michael Ovitz. You’ve got to admire the guy. PAULA WAGNER: I left CAA in
August ’92. As an agent you aren’t a principal. You’re the representative of the principal, and I had decided I wanted to be a principal. I wanted to make movies and start a
company. I had been an agent since May 1, 1978, and I loved being an agent, and I was one of a team of people that basically helped create the identity for Creative Artists Agency
and made it the premier entertainment company. But on a deeper level, I needed to have something that was mine. I wanted to make my own mark. LOCATION: 5887 JOEL SILVER: We were
making Demolition Man in ’93, and Warner Bros. made a promotional partnership deal with General Motors. There was a guy named Phil Guarascio who was head of GM’s brand recognition,
I think they called his division Consumer Awareness, and he had a budget of around $100 million a year. He used to give a big check to Ken Burns every few years to fund those great
documentaries. One day he said to me, “You know what? We need help with our Oldsmobile brand.” In the movie, Sly’s character was supposed to drive a cherried-out 1970s Pontiac GTO.
He said to me, “We want you to use an Oldsmobile in that scene.” So they actually made us, at the GM factory in fucking Michigan, a brand-new 1970 Oldsmobile 442 for the movie.
They said, “We need Oldsmobile to be the signature vehicle for that film.” One day this guy named John Rock called me up, he was the actual brand manager for Oldsmobile, and said,
“I’m reading about this place CAA. I haven’t told anybody yet, but I feel like I can discuss this with you. After like seventy years with Leo Burnett, we’re thinking about making a
change, and I’ve heard a lot about what CAA has done with Coca-Cola and maybe they would be a good place for us. Can you see if they would be interested in talking to us?” So I
called Ronnie and he says, “I would tell the guy no.” And I couldn’t believe it. I said, “But it’s Oldsmobile! He wants CAA! How can that not be great?” Ronnie said, “I promise
you, you’ll never get what you want out of this.” So I called Ovitz and told him about it anyway, and he says to me, “I will only do it if I get all the GM brands.” I said, “Mike.
Think about this. This is Oldsmobile. Do well for them, then maybe you’ll get Chevrolet or Cadillac,” but he told me, “I’m not going to do it for one car. I want all the cars.” So
I called Ronnie and I said, “How did you know?” And he says, “Because I know him. I live here.” Come on, think of it: He wouldn’t have the fucking meeting with Oldsmobile unless he
got all the GM brands. If they had announced that CAA was going to be the new advertising agency for Oldsmobile, it would have changed the fucking world at that time. He didn’t
even want to take the meeting. In the course of redefining the job of agent, Michael Ovitz became a living directory of the most knowledgeable, celebrated professionals
available—physicians of all kinds chief among them. Ovitz knew the best doctors to consult and the best hospitals to be treated at, all part of his service to his clients. If a
client’s son or daughter had an automobile accident, Ovitz could refer the client to the right doctor, the right hospital, and if need be, the right lawyer. He could also recommend
the “right” educational institution, be it college or private school. If a studio was hiring an executive and needed to get the executive’s kid into a private school, Ovitz knew
the heads of each and what buttons to push for admission. All these talents made Ovitz indispensable as an agent, and… LOCATION: 5918 AMY HECKERLING, Director: I was at another
agency for a very long time, because the person had seen my student film and wanted to handle me. So we were together for a very long time, but at a certain point I kept feeling
like I was banging my head against the wall. I would write something and it would be in development and even though I’d had a film, Fast Times at Ridgemont High, that cost nothing
and made tons of money, it seemed like it didn’t get me anything like all the guys were getting, you know? I was afraid of CAA because of Mike Ovitz. He scared me. He seemed scary.
Showbiz scares me anyway. I’m easily intimidated. My ex-husband had been with them and I always felt like he followed whatever was the cool thing to do. I always felt more of an
outsider in everything and so I felt like “I don’t belong with the cool people.” I mean, that’s not where I sit in the lunchroom. But at a certain point I felt like, gee, maybe I
should explore other possibilities. Michael Wimer, Ken Stovitz, and Richard Lovett came to my house, and I told them, “You’re the in crowd, that’s not where I live.” And they’re
like, “No, no, we’re the nerds. We’re the nerds.” I just didn’t believe it because they were just too cool and cute and well dressed. And you know there were articles in the press
about CAA and the Young Turks running around Wilshire Boulevard, but they sent me a gift basket, and it was to prove that they were nerds. It had pajamas with feet on them and a
Brady Bunch quiz book and crazy stuff to say, “We’re not cool. We’re not the cool kids.” And part of me just went, Please. But the other part was like, Wow. They’re trying. That’s
so sweet. You know? So I was like, Okay. Why do you always have to run away from what everybody else is having? Why not try it? So I said okay. At a certain point I went in to
pitch a TV idea at Fox and they said, “No, we want to do something about cool kids. When other people come in to pitch stuff, it’s always about the outsiders. How come everybody
always pitches the outsiders? We want to do something about the in crowd.” So I wrote a pilot based on a character I had always had floating around in my head which was the
opposite of me. Somebody that was positive and wasn’t afraid the world was always going to take them down and assumed things would always be great. I found that type hilarious.
When I joined CAA, Ken Stovitz asked to see everything I had been writing, and I showed it to him, and then he called me up and he said, “This is too good to be a pilot. This is a
movie.” So he got to the TV people, had everybody talk, then he made that happen, ultimately in the form of Clueless. He got to Scott Rudin, and when Scott Rudin read it, he liked
it. And then we went from everyone in town passing on it to a bidding Note: See Clueless Notes LOCATION: 6307 war. The fact is that Ken Stovitz refused to give up in the face of
everybody telling him we’re not doing movies with stupid teenagers anymore because Airheads did badly, and the genre has passed because nobody wants to do female characters and all
these things that people would say were the rules of the day. Ken just… LOCATION: 6326 Ron Meyer was in his office with one of his many protégés—CAA agent Kevin Huvane. On the
phone was actress Demi Moore. The news was good, and Demi told Meyer how grateful she was for the help. “Kevin did all the heavy lifting on this,” Meyer told her. “He’s the one
that deserves the bulk of the thanks.” Elsewhere, CAA agent Jay Moloney had just gotten off the phone with one of the agency’s superstar clients, director Martin Scorsese. Moloney
was bouncing off the walls, telling Michael Ovitz and several other agents gathered Scorsese had told Moloney how much he loved him and how much he loved working with him. It was,
Moloney said, “The greatest phone call of my life.” Ovitz took all Moloney’s unbridled enthusiasm in, and then said to him, “Yeah, and I can take him back with just one phone
call.” Moloney’s face went flat. LOCATION: 6628 EDGAR BRONFMAN JR., Executive: The first time I ever heard from Mike Ovitz was around 1985. He called and told me his father worked
for one of Seagram’s distributors in Southern California, and according to Mike, management there was forcing him to retire. He said they’d even taken his office away. So I said,
“That doesn’t sound like the way our distributors normally behave, but let me find out what’s going on.” So I actually called the guy who ran my U.S. sales operation at the time
and I said, “Look, this guy Dave Ovitz, he’s on the Thrifty Drug account and evidently they’re trying to get him to retire. Make sure he stays there as long as he likes and that he
has an office. When that’s done, call me back.” He called me back an hour later and said, “Dave Ovitz is in his office for as long as you want.” And I said, “Thank you.” I called
Mike and said, “Call your dad. He’s in his office.” He said, “I don’t know how to thank you,” and I said, “You don’t have to thank me, I’m happy to do it.” And he said, “Well, no,
no. I want to thank you. Would you like to meet Martin Scorsese?” And I said, “I’m always happy to meet somebody, but you called me for a favor, I know who you are, I admire what
you’ve done, I’m happy to do you a favor.” The next time he came to New York, he called to see me, and from then on, he made it his business to be my friend. There was no salesman
like Mike. LOCATION: 6876 DAVID GEFFEN: What happened was, Edgar called me up and told me that he was having problems closing the deal with Mike and he wanted to talk to me about
it, so he came to my apartment in New York. He explained the deal and how Mike kept on asking for more and renegotiating to try and make it better. He told me his father had
finally lost patience with it. He felt he had gone too far and wanted to go in the other direction and make it less than what was on the table at that moment. And I said to Edgar,
“You know, you’re going to have nothing but trouble with Mike. This is the way he is.” And because I knew Ronnie wanted out, that Ronnie hated being an agent and was fearful he’d
never get out, I said to Edgar, “I’ve got the perfect guy for you.” He said, “Who’s that?” I said, “Ron Meyer. Ron Meyer is the guy you should get. Ron Meyer is a guy who you can
work with; who you can trust; who isn’t greedy and everybody loves him. And he knows everybody.” So he said, “What would he cost me?” I said, “Send me a contract and Ron will sign
it. He won’t negotiate it at all.” He said, “Are you serious?” I said, “Absolutely. Whatever you send me he will sign.” I called up Ronnie and I said, “Ronnie, it’s here. I can
make a deal for you to become president of Universal.” And Ron said, “You’re kidding.” I said, “No, I’m not kidding, and I think we can close the deal.” I said, “I told him that
whatever he offered you, whatever that was, there’d be no negotiation. You’d sign the contract as it was.” He said, “Count on it.” And that’s how it happened. LOCATION: 7100 THE
SPLIT IVAN REITMAN: I don’t know what Ronnie’s deal was, but it was way less than Michael had negotiated. Ron was the real workhorse; it was clear Mike relied a great deal on Ron.
But Ron saw the writing on the wall, so he made the next smartest deal, and he actually said yes to it. So Ovitz was miserable. And by then all these so-called Young Turks, this
next generation, no longer trusted their boss and wanted their piece of that agency, and they represented all the up-and-coming clients. I think he saw that writing on the wall, he
was always really smart about that. LOCATION: 7159 MICHAEL OVITZ: Without Ron, I had no buffer with that whole next level at the agency, and frankly, I knew—I’m not an idiot—where
that would go. They’d want to be my partner. They’d want to divide up what stock Ron had. They’d want to throw out Bill and then they’d turn on me. I knew that. I had Jay Moloney
starting to show signs of flipping out; I had Ray Kurtzman getting older; I was giving Jack Rapke bonus checks for millions of dollars when he wasn’t signing that kind of business,
just handling my clients, and a bunch of other people who wanted more and more and more. It was a fucking mess. Then one day, Jay came into my office, slammed his fist on my desk,
and said, “We want to see the books.” I was totally startled and had no idea at that time he had a drug problem. I tried to be calm and said that at the right moment, depending on
a series of events that might or might not occur, I’d let him know. That evidently wasn’t good enough for him and he started to come toward me. I went into his face and told him,
“Get the fuck out of my office,” and at that point, he knew better than to continue. Of course he didn’t know what it meant to see the books. He had no idea. None. Zero. He bought
me a gift afterwards, a beautiful watch. It was his way of apologizing. LEE GABLER: It was pretty gutsy to walk into Ovitz’s office and say, “We want a piece of the company.”
Forget Jay being on whatever he was on at the time. Those guys handled it great. It was a great poker play. MICHAEL OVITZ: They did put him up to it, without a doubt. They didn’t
have the balls to do it themselves. He came in all worked up to do it because they couldn’t look me square in the eye. It was an awful moment. That’s the difference between me and
them: Everything I did was calculated and strategic, and all of their decisions were done strictly out of emotion. DAVID O’CONNOR: We felt that we were representing the vast
majority of the important clients and we felt like we were the engine room. We were also the people signing a lot of new business. People on the outside were saying, “Ovitz is
going to leave, and then what are you going to do? You’d better figure out your response.” And people were also in our ears saying, “Why don’t you guys go start your own thing?”
LOCATION: 7255 EDGAR BRONFMAN JR.: When Ron left, Mike went into a chasm. Eisner didn’t know that Mike had no choice. Mike would have gone there for a dollar. RON MEYER: After I
left, given Mike’s deteriorating relationship with the group that had taken over, Mike probably had no choice but to take the Disney job. It was not a surprise to me. LOCATION:
7389 Rapke, Lee Gabler, Ray Kurtzman, Bob Goldman, Sandy Climan, Tom Ross, Kevin Huvane, David O’Connor, Jay Moloney, Bryan Lourd, and Richard Lovett. (Rick Nicita was in Italy on
vacation.) DAVID O’CONNOR: Michael comes in, sits down, and says, “It will be announced today that I’m going to become president of the Walt Disney Company.” KEVIN HUVANE: He came
in and said, “It will be announced that I am now the president of the Walt Disney Company.” We were all just shocked. I don’t think any of us were expecting it. DAVID O’CONNOR:
There was sort of this silence around the table, I’ll never forget this, and Richard in his inimitable way says, “Michael”—I have no idea where he’s going with this by the way, I
look at him like, What are you going to say now?—“Congratulations! That’s fantastic!” RICK NICITA: We had taken a villa in Rome, in Trastevere, just gotten there on Sunday, and on
Monday I call to check in and I get a message that Mike wants to see everybody and I go, “No can do”—here I am, you know? The next thing is I get a call from Martin Shafer, who ran
Castle Rock. I return the call and he goes, “What do you think of that?” And I go, “What do I think of what?” He goes, “Ovitz.” And I go, “What about him?” Martin Shafer ended up
telling me, because I returned my call too fast. I flew back that night. The vacation was two days. I flew back from Italy Monday night. Yeah, nightmare. LOCATION: 7431 JASON
HEYMAN: When UTA started in the early ’90s, it was as hot as an upstart agency can get. Sandy Bullock, Jennifer Lopez, Michael J. Fox, Mike Myers, Drew Barrymore—and CAA stole all
of them, one after the other after the other. UTA agents weren’t trained to poach. We didn’t spend every waking hour trying to figure out how to make other agencies’ clients
unhappy. JEREMY ZIMMER: Michael changed the entire agency paradigm, those guys were only created because Michael created the playbook. I’m not saying they wouldn’t have been
successful agents but he basically gave them the whole playbook and said, “No, no, no, this is how we do this and this is how we walk and this is how we dress and this is how we
talk and this is how we eat and this is what we do. This is how you threaten and this is how you woo.” He did the whole thing. He was incredible. LOCATION: 7747 THE TURKS There’d
been many an inflow into the ranks of agents at CAA, but outflows were far less frequent, especially self-initiated ones. The system that Ovitz and Meyer had created—making it
financially prohibitive for competing agencies to steal away their agents—had been holding up rather well since their own departures in 1995. Yes, there had been an initial, if
somewhat limited, exodus in the first year of CAA 2.0, but the lineup had since stabilized for the most part. In the year 2000, however, the always tricky and emotional issue of
partnerships reared its head, with the Young Turks trying to determine what might happen to partnership architecture in the near and distant future: Would other agents have real
equity? What about voting rights on key matters? Bottom line, was there a real role for anyone outside Lovett, Huvane, Lourd, and O’Connor? Irony of all ironies. The Turks were now
getting asked the very same questions they had asked—and demanded be answered—of Ovitz and Meyer. In the aftermath of the ’95 departures, the Turks had promised to create an
ownership structure, something that was far easier to pledge than actually do. The issues surrounding its formation were delicate, but ones they wanted to control. Bruce Ramer, a
highly regarded attorney with a client list through the years that included Steven Spielberg, George Clooney, and Clint Eastwood was brought in to help construct a plan. What
surfaced was a “Membership” program whose agenda was fourfold: first, to limit dilution of equity; second, to protect the agency from any single or small group of agents who might
threaten or pull off an exodus; third, to serve as a retention vehicle; and fourth, to create more of an “equity culture.” The membership program became a tiered partnership
program with compensation tied to the performance of the company overall. Those who “belonged” also received an exit benefit—as long as you left and didn’t compete—which was one
times the average of your compensation of the previous three years. For the Turks, it was two times. For the first few years, the program worked, due largely to the fact that
revenues were really strong, but when revenue growth began to slow down for a while because overhead grew and margins decreased, membership compensation by formula also went down—a
punch in the gut especially for high performers in their prime. It also disincentivized investment in new areas. Challenging economics had revealed the program’s deep flaws, and a
series of philosophical debates about partnerships once again surfaced, even amongst the Turks. It all either started from or came back to square one—whether or not the inner
circle of CAA was going to be a fluid one and grow as new leaders emerged. But the dirty little secret plan of the Turks was how could they keep the richest amount of cash flow
(aka big money clients) with the least amount of dilution. There was a specific dynamic attached to the challenge. Inertia would keep young agents and… LOCATION: 8642 PATRICK
WHITESELL: That fall, when I went into my year-end bonus meeting, I was expecting to just see Richard as in years past. But it was Richard, Bryan, Kevin, and Doc, and I asked,
“What’s going on?” And they said, “This is a great day!” They gave me a great bonus, told me how happy they were with me, and said, “We want you to be one of us.” I said, “What do
you mean?” They said, “We want you to be our partner in the company. It will be you, Rick, us, and Lee Gabler.” I said, “Holy shit, this is great.” And then Richard said, “But
here’s the thing: We have another year of paying off Mike, so we can’t change anything right now. But we’ll have it paid off in a year. All we ask is that you don’t talk about it
to anyone, and in a year from now we’ll make this official.” ADAM VENIT: Richard was the type of guy—and I have no problem saying this publicly—who said all the right things but
there was never anything behind it. And he would promise things and then nothing would ever really happen. PATRICK WHITESELL: Right around this time, Ari, who had set up Endeavor,
called me. We had remained friends, and he said, “Dude, you should really come here. You can help us start a movie business and build it from there.” I knew how smart he and his
new partners were, and they had a killer TV business already in place that you need when you’re going to start a new agency—it’s the backbone financially. I said, “Well, that would
be cool, but the time is not right for me. The guys here want to make me their partner.” And I remember Ari saying, “Fuck, if they’re going to do that for you, that’s pretty
awesome.” So the entire next year I worked my ass off and go in to get my bonus. Once again, I got paid well, but then I asked, “Hey guys, what’s up with the partnership, you know,
being one of you guys?” And they said, “Well, we did get Mike paid off, but we have some restructuring we need to do, so give us until January and we will get back to you.” I was a
bit confused, but said okay. January comes and I say to Richard, “Richard, what’s going on with the partnership?” And he says, “Yeah, we’re almost there, we think we have something
together and we’ll come back to you in the next sixty days.” So now I don’t hear anything until April or May, right? I’ve been waiting over a year and a half, and he says, “We
think it’s going to be you and Beth Swofford.” And I said, “Beth Swofford? You told me it was just going to be me. This is the first time I’m hearing about another person.” I left
the meeting, and thought, Beth’s a great agent, she’s killing it, she’s doing really well. Why would I begrudge her getting something? But something didn’t seem right. I just said
to myself, Bonuses come in October, and I’m not going to say a fucking word until then. It’s just five months. I will wait and see. LEE GABLER: They overpaid a lot of people
because they were afraid they were going to leave, and made a lot of accommodations—this was on the motion picture side. None of that… LOCATION: 8682 PATRICK WHITESELL: That
October I get called up to Bryan’s house. They said, “We’re going to do this all properly; we don’t want to do it at the building.” Richard and Bryan are there and Richard tells
me, again, “This is a great day. I know it’s taken a lot longer than we originally said, but we’re going to give you this partnership agreement. Take a look at the document. This
is all very exciting. It’s going to be you and twelve others.” I looked straight at him and said, “Okay, great,” and left, thinking to myself, You’ve got to be fucking kidding me.
Then I read the document over the weekend, and it was all bullshit. It was just a shitty profit participation program where you get X amount of points and there was a net pool. In
addition, I would now have a noncompete clause for the first time. It was a joke. I was beyond being offended. I went into the office on Monday and told Richard, “I am not signing
this. First off, I was told it was just going to be me. Then you added Beth and now it’s twelve. I don’t know what the fuck that is. And second, why would I ever sign this? I’m
actually better off right now, I could leave at any time, I don’t have a contract and have leverage with you financially. This is insulting. I am never signing this.” So then Kevin
talked to me and Bryan talked to me, trying to sell me on the agreement. They said, “You’re a leader, and this will be a big step for you. Maybe we can tweak a few things.” At this
point I just said, “Stop. You know what, Richard? Let’s you and I have lunch.” And there I said, “Put the contract aside. What do you see my role being here as this company
evolves?” And he says, “Well, I think what we do is hopefully you take over for me and you run the motion picture business. Bryan and I are working on some things and we need to be
freed up in order to do that.” At this time, Richard was literally running the motion picture business every day. But the big thing that he never said was “You know, when I leave .
. .” Everybody else at some point talks about when they are going to leave. He wasn’t. So now I was really pissed because (a) I’ve been lied to and (b) I was being played by people
who are supposed to be your partners, who you are supposed to trust. When I left CAA, I said, “Richard, here’s the thing: if I stay, I will never be one of you guys. You guys grew
up together. Even if it were just me,… LOCATION: 8709 “What’s going on? We hear you’re going to Endeavor, that you’ve already made a deal.” My heart was beating so fast, but I did
cop to it. I said, “I haven’t gone all the way yet, but it’s doable.” I wound up airing all the problems that were going on with me. We walked around the golf course there for
about an hour. I was under a lot of pressure. They basically said, “We’ll take care of you, and match the deal you’ve been offered by those other guys.” I knew part of it had to do
with the fact that Patrick had just left and they didn’t want it to start looking like there was going to be a bunch of people following him. I ended up recommitting to stay at
CAA, which in retrospect was a mistake. It was hard to recover from that. From then on they looked at me as someone who could leave the company at any time. I just should have gone
then. LOCATION: 8755 pathways for revenues. One Turk in particular, however, was relieved, even excited, and became very interested in where the business was going to be five or
ten years ahead. He started spending fewer days with traditional duties and pursuits and began devoting more of them to exploring the future. In theory, that move made sense, but
it was also a risky one. Looking for new opportunities can be worthwhile, but when that journey cuts into duties associated with bringing money into the company, it becomes a
dangerous one. Now there was a fissure in the family. And then there were the other agents—and clients—who would get caught up in the changes as well. The old rules were gone. The
agency was shifting in subtle and not-so-subtle ways. The bar was higher for survival than in the past. And if you couldn’t pull that off, you might be told, “We entered your name
into the computer—and it came up wanting.” LOCATION: 8791 ANDREA NELSON MEIGS: When I left CAA it wasn’t because of some big blowout, but it was traumatic for me. All of my mentors
had gone away. Ray Kurtzman had passed away; Patrick Whitesell had gone to Endeavor; Joe Rosenberg had left the business; Fred Specktor now worked for his former assistant, Richard
Lovett, and the Young Turks who had taken over. I was in my review meeting and we were going over numbers and I thought their bonus numbers for me were low for what I had brought
in. So I asked for a reconsideration of my bonus, because my guys were doing well. Cedric was making five million a movie, Jon Voight was making five million, Beyoncé was making
five, Chris Brown had a two-million-dollar quote, and I had showrunners who were on the list of the top fifty, with two shows on the air. I had asked several people who were about
the same level what they were getting and it was clear that I was nowhere near what the other guys were making. I wasn’t even at the low end of what the men were making. And my
request to reevaluate was met with “This may be a good time for you to look elsewhere.” I was shocked; then I thought it was a joke. I thought that the next day they would say,
“Let’s talk about this further,” but instead I got a call from one of the partners, who said, “I’d be happy to help you look elsewhere. Is there anyone I can call for you?” And I
thought, Wow, this is real. I didn’t feel like I had a go-to person. So here I was, a dual degree, successful female African-American agent with a client just nominated for a
Golden Globe, now looking for a new home. Once again, this was a reminder we just had to be better to get a shot. When I left, pretty much all of my clients came with me—Beyoncé,
Chris Brown, Mara Brock Akil, Mary J. Blige, and others. LOCATION: 9508 RICK NICITA: It wasn’t about more money. What did I really want? I wanted to have my health; I wanted people
to treat me with respect; I wanted a good glass of wine; and I wanted to be with my beautiful wife. NICOLE KIDMAN: I was devastated when Rick left. I asked him, “Why?” I tried to
convince him to stay. What I enjoy about life is the longevity of relationships, navigating through a long journey together if the person is honorable and decent and willing to do
it. Obviously I’m not a masochist. I think if you’re committed artistically to a path, then you’ll stay the course, and if you’re not, you won’t. That’s what Rick really understood
about me artistically. He knew I have really strange taste. After I won the Academy Award, I really wanted to make Birth, which some people couldn’t understand. They even said to
me, “What are you doing?” But he was always supportive, and even joked, “You’re not crazy, you’re just idiosyncratic.” And he was right. Kevin and Rick were a balance for each
other, so when Rick left and I was with Kevin, it took me awhile to move on, and then he set me up with Chris Edridge and that subsequently has been a really strong relationship,
too. But the main person is Kevin. He’s always been there, for now well over two decades. I had a terrible knee injury on Moulin Rouge, and then subsequently I was doing Panic
Room, and I had to pull out of Panic Room because I just physically couldn’t continue. It was pretty bad. I’d shot for two weeks on Panic Room, and he just told me, “We’ll get
through this,” and we did. I think so much of a relationship between an agent and an actor is finding the true essence of what the actor is trying to do, and then helping formulate
that path for them. That’s probably why I’m very loyal to Kevin, because I know the path I forge is windy and weird, and that’s not for everyone. I’m slightly naive, and kind of
wide-eyed. I was raised in a very Catholic family, and my father was very moral with a strong social conscience—so I have what you probably would call a moral approach to playing
out my professional decisions. I’m not so much talking about what the film is about, because I don’t believe I’m moral artistically all the time, but more in terms of the code I
use when I either accept or pass on roles. NOTE: The path. Like bjj, what Eddie said. Like career trajectory LOCATION: 9590 DAVID O’CONNOR: Probably one of my proudest
accomplishments while an agent at CAA came about when Rick Hess and I were looking at the animation space. We knew that there was a lot of money in family entertainment, but nobody
was really paying much attention to it, and a lot of studios didn’t have a family entertainment strategy. While there was lots of money floating around, outside money was looking
to get in. But there were very few people who could actually run the business, who actually had expertise in it. While all of this was going on, my really close friend from college
