Praise for

Managing the Professional
Service Firm
by
David H. Maister

“David Maister steers clear of popular fads and grandiose theories.
Instead, he offers a wealth of common-sense, practical ideas that can
be implemented quickly and easily. Managers of professional services
firms should find his new book to be extremely rewarding.”
— Lawrence A. Weinbach, Managing Partner and Chief Executive,
Andersen Worldwide
“What Peter Drucker, Tom Peters and Warren Bennis have done with
corporations, David Maister is doing for professional service firms.
His book cuts through all the entrepreneurial idiosyncrasies and pro­
vides a blueprint for managing the enterprise and institutionalizing
success.”
— Tom Neff, President, SpencerStuart
“No manager of a service business should be without this collection of
sensible advice. David Maister’s ideas are among the most useful I
have found.”
—Keith Reinhard, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
DDBNeedham Worldwide
“A thoughtful and practical work from an experienced observer of
law firm management. Readers of every level of experience and so­
phistication will benefit from his practical advice.”
— Mark Kessel, Managing Partner, Shearman & Sterling

“David has the unusual ability to combine the academic and the prac­
tical, with the result being credible, challenging and useful advice.
Maister is a master for a service company that is driven to be the
best.”
—Arthur J. Mirante II, President and Chief Executive Officer,
Cushman & Wakefield, Inc.
“David Maister’s approach has been highly effective in helping us
understand our global engineering and construction business, and in
improving the effectiveness of business development in our group.”
— Darryl Marshall, Vice President Sales, Mining and Metals Group,
Fluor Daniel, Inc.
“David Maister’s insights on managing the professional services firm
are always practical and insightful as well as analytical. His provoc­
ative metaphors and analogies shine new light on old problems and
make them seem manageable.”
—Fred G. Steingraber, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
A. T . Kearney, Inc.
“The more attention my colleagues and I pay to what Maister says,
the better our company performs.”
—John Beardsley, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
Padilla Speer Beardsley
“David Maister is, quite simply, the clearest, wittiest, smartest law
firm strategist ever. And reading or listening to him is about as much
fun as it is productive.”
—Steven Brill, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
American Lawyer Media, L.P.
“David Maister’s approaches to profitability measurement, service
quality, business promotion and staff development have been widely
adopted. A key test of a management advisor is: ‘Will you act differ­
ently after exposure to his ideas and counsel?’ I consistently leave
encounters with Maister with ideas which when implemented pro­
duce real improvement.”
— Edward G. Pringle, Executive Vice President,
William M. Mercer, Incorporated

“David Maister’s name is synonymous with the latest thinking in pro­
fessional service firm management. This book suggests why.”
—James L. Heskett, Professor, Harvard Business School;
co-author of Service Breakthroughs
“David Maister’s work is not only intellectually stimulating and in­
spiring for professional practice leaders, but his articles are always
practical, down-to-earth and readily implementable. I have personally
profited from David Maister’s advice, and I am convinced that his
articles are most valuable to those who manage a professional firm
anywhere in the world.”
—Egon P. S. Zehnder, Chairman, Egon Zehnder & Partner Inc.
“David Maister’s grasp of both the theoretical and practical concepts
that underlie the dynamics of a professional partnership make him
and his work incredibly valuable.”
—Edward A. Kangas, Chairman and Chief Executive,
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu International
“David Maister’s material is not only thought-provoking, it is actionprovoking. Golin/Harris has been a fan and a follower for years. This
collection is a valuable resource for everyone in public relations.”
—Rich Jernstedt, President and Chief Executive Officer,
Golin/Harris
“I have found David Maister to be one of the best thinkers in the law
firm consulting arena. His writings apply common sense and a long
background in business consulting to provide practical advice about
law firm—and other professional service firm—management.”
—Peter P. Mullen, former Managing Partner, Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom
“When David Maister speaks, managers at professional service firms
listen. There is no more knowledgeable expert about professional ser­
vice firms than Dr. Maister.”
—Paul H. Alvarez, Chairman/Chief Executive Officer,
Ketchum Communications Worldwide
“It is often said that one of an executive’s biggest decisions these
days is what to read and what to throw away. I always read David
Maister’s articles. They are insightful and practical, and they demon­

strate a true understanding of the issues facing professional service
firms.”
—John T . Lynch, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
Towers Perrin
“The work of Maister is a masterwork: the art of managing the unmanageables.”
—Rene Kottman, Managing Partner, Berenschot Group
(Netherlands)
“David Maister’s thoughts and writings apply original strategic in­
sight combined with practical management advice to the difficult area
of professional service management. I can think of no higher compli­
ment than that his thinking and advice are being used on a daily basis
in practice management across Europe.”
—Willem Brocker, Coopers & Lybrand
“David Maister understands the keys to success in professional ser­
vice companies like no other. His insights are precise and his recom­
mendations manage to be both original and down to earth. Even the
most successful managers of professional companies can learn from
his writings.”
—Jon Moynihan, Group Chief Executive, PA Consulting Group (UK)
“Maister’s work offers not only the strategic vision but the practical
deliverables for firms to differentiate themselves in an increasingly
competitive marketplace. We’d like to keep this book a secret.”
—Robert E. Hallagan, President and Chief Executive Officer,
Heidrick & Struggles Inc.
“Maister’s work is enjoyable because it follows the three R ’s— it is
readable, relevant and, most important, it deals with reality. He is
always both stimulating and practical.”
—Ian Brindle, Chairman, Price Waterhouse, U.K.
“Maister is a master at identifying the management issues and prob­
lems faced by law firm leaders. The solutions he presents are incisive
and insightful. His written materials are excellent— almost as good as
his personal presentations. This collection is recommended reading.”
—Donald J. Greene, Chairman, LeBoeuf, Lamb, Leiby & MacRae

MANAGING the
PROFESSIONAL
SERVICE FIRM
DAVID H. MAISTER

FREE PRESS PAPERBACKS
Published by Simon & Schuster
NEW YORK

LONDON

TORONTO

SYDNEY

SINGAPORE

TO KATHY
AS THE YEARS GO BY, MY LOVE .

FR EE PRESS PAPERBACKS
A Division of Simon & Schuster Inc.
1230 Avenue of the Americas
FREE PRESS
PAPERBACKS

New York, N Y 1 0 020

Copyright © 1993 by David H. Maister
All rights reserved,
including the right of reproduction
in whole or in part in any form.
First Free Press Paperbacks Edition 1997
F r EE P ress P aperbacks and colophon are trademarks

of Simon

Schuster Inc.

Manufactured in the United States of America
10

9

8

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Maister, David H.
Managing the professional service firm / David H. Maister.
p.

cm.

Includes bibliographical references (pp. 3 6 5 -6 6 ) and index.
1. Professional corporations— Management.
H D 6 2 .6 5 .M 35

I. Title.

1993

6 5 8 — dc20

9 3 -1 4 6 1 6
CIP

ISBN 0 -0 2 -9 1 9 7 8 2 -1
0 -6 8 4 -8 3 4 3 1 -6

CREDITS

Chapter 1: “A Question of Balance.” An earlier version of this chapter was published
under the title, “Balancing the Professional Service Firm,” by David H. Maister, in the
Fall 1982 issue of the Sloan M anagement Review (Volume 24, no. l), reprinted by
permission of the publisher. Copyright 1982 by the Sloan Management Review As­
sociation. All rights reserved.
Chapter 2: “The Professional Firm Lifecycle.” An earlier version of this article was
published under the title, “The Three E’s of Professional Life,” by David H. Maister,
in the Jou rnal o f M anagement Consultings Vol. 3, No.2, pp.39-44( 1986). Copyright
1986 the Jou rnal o f M anagement Consulting.
Chapter 3: “Profitability: Health and Hygiene.” First published in the July 1991 issue
of the International Accounting Bulletin. Copyright 1991 David H. Maister.
Chapter 4: “Solving the Underdelegation Problem.” First published in the January
1991 issue of the International Accounting Bulletin. Copyright 1991 David H.
Maister.
Chapter 5: “The Practice Development Package.” First published in the April 1993
issue of The American Lawyer. Copyright 1993 David H. Maister.
Chapter 6: “ Listening to Clients,” by David H. Maister. Reprinted by permission of
Business Quarterly, published by the Western Business School, The University of
Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada. Spring 1989 issue.
Chapter 7: “Quality Work Doesn’t Mean Quality Service.” David H. Maister is a
contributing author for The American Lawyer. This article is reprinted from the April
1984 issue of the American Lawyer. © 1984 The American Lawyer.
Chapter 8: “A Service Quality Program.” A version of this chapter appeared in the
October 1992 issue of The American Law yer, under the title, “Turning Talk into
Action.” Copyright 1992 David H. Maister.
Chapter 9: “Marketing to Existing Clients.” First published in the Jou rnal o f Man­
agement Consultings Vol. 5, No.2, pp. 25 -3 2 (1989). Copyright 1989 Journal o f
Management Consulting.

V

vi

Credits

Chapter 10: “How Clients Choose.” First published in The American Law yer, Oc­
tober 1991. Copyright 1991 David H. Maister.
Chapter 11: “Attracting New Clients.” First published in November and December
1992 issues of The American Lawyer. Copyright 1992 David H. Maister.
Chapter 12: “Managing the Marketing Effort.” First published in the International
Accounting Bulletin, January 1992. Copyright 1992 David H. Maister.
Chapter 14: “How to Build Human Capital.” David H. Maister is a contributing
author for The American Lawyer. This article is reprinted with permission from the
June 1984 issue of The American Law yer. © 1984 The American Lawyer.
Chapter 15: “The Motivation Crisis.” David H. Maister is a contributing author for
The American Lawyer. This article is reprinted with permission from the December
1985 issue of The American Lawyer. © 1985 The American Lawyer.
Chapter 16: “ On the Importance of Scheduling.” An earlier version of this chapter
was published under the title, “Job Scheduling Sets the Pace in Professional Firms,”
by David H. Maister, in the Jou rnal o f M anagement Consulting, vol. 1, No. 1 (1982).
Copyright 1982 Jou rn al o f M anagement Consulting.
Chapter 17: “On the Meaning of Partnership.” David H. Maister is a contributing
author for The American Lawyer. This article is reprinted with permission from the
October 1983 issue of The American Lawyer. © 1983 The American Lawyer.
Chapter 19: “How Practice Leaders Add Value.” This chapter is an extensively re­
written version of two earlier articles: “The Power of Practice Leadership,” published
in the March 1993 issue of The American Law yer, and “The Management Strain,”
published in T he Counselor, Vol. 22, No.2 (1986). Copyright 1993 David H.
Maister.
Chapter 20: “How to Create a Strategy.” First published in the April 1990 issue of
The American Lawyer. Copyright 1990 David H. Maister.
Chapter 23: “The Art of Partner Compensation.” David H. Maister is a contribut­
ing author for The American Lawyer. This article is reprinted with permission from
the November 1984 issue of The American Lawyer. © 1994 The American Lawyer.
Chapter 24: First published in the January/February 1993 issue of The American
Lawyer. Copyright 1993 David H. Master
Chapter 25: “Pie-Splitting.” David H. Maister is a contributing author for The Amer­
ican Lawyer. This article is reprinted with permission from the March 1984 issue of
The American Lawyer. © 1984 The American Lawyer.
Chapter 26: “Partnership Governance.” A portion of this chapter first appeared un­
der the title, “Partnership Politics,” in the October 1984 issue of The American
Lawyer.
Chapter 27: Reprinted from “The One-Firm Firm,” by David H. Maister, Sloan M an­
agement Review (Fall 1985) by permission of publisher. Copyright 1985 by the Sloan
Management Review Association. All rights reserved.
Chapter 29: “Making the Network Work.” First published in Eurobusiness, March
1989. Copyright 1989 Eurobusiness.
Chapter 30: “Creating the Collaborative Firm.” First published in the International
Accounting Bulletin, April 1991. Copyright 1991 David H. Maister.

Chapter 31: “Coordinating Industry Specialty Groups.” First published as “Industry
Specialization: Essential but Hard to Manage,” in the J ournal o f Management Con­
sulting, Vol. 2, N o.l (Winter 1984/1985), pp.50-55. Copyright 1984 Journal o f
Management Consulting.
Chapter 32: “Asset Management.” First published under the title, “Managing Your
Firm’s Balance Sheet” in Management Consulting 90, Kennedy Publications. Copy­
right 1990 David H. Maister.

CONTENTS

Acknowledgments
Introduction

xiii

xiv

PART ONE: BASIC MATTERS

1. A Question of Balance

3

2. The Professional Firm Life Cycle

21

3. Profitability: Health and Hygiene

31

4. Solving the Underdelegation Problem

41

PART TWO: CLIENT MATTERS

5. The Practice Development Package

53

6. Listening to Clients

61

7. Quality Work Doesn’t Mean Quality Service

69

8. A Service Quality Program

79

9. Marketing to Existing Clients

97

10. How Clients Choose

111
ix

x

Contents

11. Attracting New Clients

121

12. Managing the Marketing Effort

133

PART THREE: PEOPLE MATTERS

13. How’s Your Asset?

143

14. How to Build Human Capital

155

15. The Motivation Crisis

163

16. On the Importance of Scheduling

175

17. On the Meaning of Partnership

185

18. Surviving the People Crisis

189

PART FOUR: MANAGEMENT MATTERS

19. How Practice Leaders Add Value

207

20. How to Create a Strategy

223

21. Fast-Track Strategy

237

PART FIVE: PARTNERSHIP MATTERS

22. Partner Performance Counseling

245

23. The Art of Partner Compensation

255

24. Patterns in Partner Compensation

269

25. Pie-Splitting

279

26. Partnership Governance

289

PART SIX: MULTISITE MATTERS

27. The One-Firm Firm

303

28. Hunters and Farmers

321

Contents

xi

29. Making the Network Work

329

30. Creating the Collaborative Firm

337

31. Coordinating Industry Specialty Groups

345

PART SEVEN: FINAL THOUGHTS

32. Asset Management
References and Sources
Index

367

359
365

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This book attempts to serve managers of professional service firms by
presenting both new ways of looking at the various issues faced by
such firms and by offering practical advice for their resolution. The
chapters of this book are, in the main, made up of articles published
separately over the last ten years. I owe a debt of gratitude to the many
journals that provided an outlet for my work (see Credits at the front
of the book.) However, special mention must be given to Steve Brill
and The American Law yer, where I am currently a contributing
author. Not only did the magazine publish much of my early (and
recent) work, but Steve has always acted both as a source of encour­
agement to stick with the terrifying task of writing and as an archen­
emy of sloppy thinking. I am grateful to all at The American Lawyer
for their support.
Two people have played an essential role not only in this work, but
also in all of the research and consulting that led to it. They are Kathy
Maister, my wife, and Julie MacDonald O’Leary, my business man­
ager. To both, I offer my gratitude and unending loyalty. A wise phi­
losopher once said that “All theory is autobiography,” and many of
my views have been formed from my own experience in running a
small professional enterprise. Kathy, apart from being an outstanding
and supportive coach, has taught me much about relationships and
partnership. She has always been an invaluable sounding board. Julie
is the consummate professional—talented, dedicated, flexible, and al­
ways eager to take on more responsibility. I shudder to think about
what I would have done without her.

xiii

xiv

Acknowledgments

In 1991-92 our team was enhanced by the addition of Cliff Farrah
who helped to make the rest of us more effective at what we do. We
follow his career with interest and high expectations.
Naturally, nothing in this book could have been developed without
the support of the many clients who gave me the opportunity to work
with them in developing, implementing, and revising new approaches
to professional firm management. I am grateful to those of my clients
who had the courage to seek out and experiment with disruptive,
provocative, and challenging ideas.

INTRODUCTION

Two aspects of professional work create the special management chal­
lenges of the professional service firm. First, professional services in­
volve a high degree of customization in their work. Professional firms
must manage customized activities where little, even management in­
formation, can be reliably made routine. Management principles and
approaches from the industrial or mass-consumer sectors, based as
they are on the standardization, supervision, and marketing of repet­
itive tasks and products, are not only inapplicable in the professional
sector but may be dangerously wrong.
Second, most professional services have a strong component of
face-to-face interaction with the client. This implies that definitions of
quality and service take on special meanings and must be managed
carefully, and that very special skills are required of top performers.
Both of these characteristics (customization and client contact) de­
mand that the firm attract (and retain) highly skilled individuals. Be­
cause of this, the professional service firm is the ultimate embodiment
of that familiar phrase “our assets are our people.” What a profes­
sional service firm sells to its clients is frequently less the services of the
firm per se than the services of specific individuals (or teams of indi­
viduals).
A primary consequence of this is that the professional service firm
must compete actively in two markets simultaneously: the “output”
market for its services, and the “input” market for its productive re­
sources, the professional work force. It is the need to balance the often

xv

xvi

Introduction

conflicting demands and constraints imposed by these two markets
that creates the special challenge of managing the professional service
firm.
This book has grown from my consulting experience in the past ten
years working with professional service firms, across a broad array of
professions, in more than twenty countries. In particular, I have
worked closely with accountants, actuaries, architects, consultants,
executive recruiters, lawyers, public relations counselors, advertising
agencies, engineering firms, money managers, investment banks, real
estate firms, and others.
Many professionals may be surprised to find themselves grouped
with other professions with which they feel little identity. However,
while it is clear that the management problems of professional firms
are sufficiently different from industrial or mass-consumer businesses
to require their own ‘‘management theory”; it is also clear that, in
spite of many differences, businesses within the professional service
sector face very similar issues, regardless of the specific profession
they are in. When I began my work, I treated these propositions as
hypotheses. Ten years, many professions, and countless firms later, I
take them as confirmed facts.
Naturally, parts of this book will apply more to some professions
than to others. The discussion of partnership issues will be less rele­
vant to those firms structured as corporations. However, it should not
be completely irrelevant. I have encountered many legal partnerships
run like corporations, and many corporations run on partnership
principles. My hope is that the partnership terminology will not prove
to be a barrier for the reader, and that readers from all professions will
find something here to stimulate their thinking.
David H. Maister
Maister Associates, Inc.
P.O. Box 946
Boston, MA 02117-0946
Tel: 617-262-5968
Fax: 617-262-7907
Website: http://www.davidmaister.com
E-mail: David_Maister@msn.com

July 1993

PART ONE

BASIC MATTERS

CHAPTER 1

A QUESTION OF BALANCE

One of the most interesting discoveries in my consulting work has
been the fact that (apparently) every professional service firm in the
world has the same mission statement, regardless of the firm’s size,
specific profession, or country of operation. With varying refinements
of language, the mission of most professional firms is:
To deliver outstanding client service; to provide fulfilling careers and
professional satisfaction for our people; and to achieve financial suc­
cess so that we can reward ourselves and grow.

The commonality of this mission does not detract from its value. Sim­
ply put, every professional firm must satisfy these three goals of “ser­
vice, satisfaction, and success” if it is to survive (see Figure 1-1).
Management of a professional firm requires a delicate balancing act
between the demands of the client marketplace, the realities of the
people marketplace (the market for staff), and the firm’s economic
ambitions.
Many factors play a role in bringing these goals into harmony, but
one has a preeminent position: the ratio of junior, middle-level, and
senior staff in the firm’s organization, referred to here as the firm’s
leverage. To see the importance of this factor, we shall briefly exam­
ine, in turn, its relation to the three goals of the firm.

3

4

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

FIG U RE 1 -1
The Three Goals
Client Marketplace
(Service)

LEVERAGE AND THE CLIENT MARKETPLACE
The required shape of the organization (the relative mix of juniors,
managers, and seniors) is primarily determined by (or rather, as we
shall see, should be determined by) the skill requirements of its work:
the mix of senior-level, middle-level, and junior-level tasks involved in
the projects that the firm undertakes. Consider three kinds of client
work: Brains, Grey Hair, and Procedure projects.
In the first type (Brains), the client’s problem is at the forefront of
professional or technical knowledge, or at least is of extreme com­
plexity. The key elements of this type of professional service are cre­
ativity, innovation, and the pioneering of new approaches, concepts
or techniques: in effect, new solutions to new problems. The firm that
targets this market will be attempting to sell its services on the basis of
the high professional craft of its staff. In essence, their appeal to their
market is, “Hire us because we’re smart.”
Brains projects usually involve highly skilled and highly paid pro­
fessionals. Few procedures are routinizable: Each project is “one-off.”
Accordingly, the opportunities for leveraging the top professionals
with juniors are relatively limited. Even though such projects may
involve significant data collection and analysis activities (normally
performed by juniors), even these activities cannot be clearly specified
in advance and require the active involvement of at least middle-level
(project management) professionals on a continuous basis. Conse­
quently, the ratio of junior time to middle-level and senior time on
Brains projects tends to be low.
Grey Hair projects, while they may require a highly customized

A

Question

of B a l a n c e

5

“output” in meeting the clients’ needs, involve a lesser degree of in­
novation and creativity in the actual performance of the work than
would a Brains project. The general nature of the problem to be ad­
dressed is not unfamiliar, and the activities necessary to complete the
project may be similar to those performed on other projects. Clients
with Grey Hair problems seek out firms with experience in their par­
ticular type of problem. In turn, the firm sells its knowledge, its expe­
rience, and its judgment. In effect, they are saying, “Hire us because
we have been through this before; we have practice at solving this type
of problem.”
Since for Grey Hair-type projects the problems to be addressed are
somewhat more familiar, at least some of the tasks to be performed
(particularly the early ones) are known in advance and can be speci­
fied and delegated. The opportunity is thus provided to employ more
juniors to accomplish these tasks.
The third type of project, the Procedure project, usually involves a
well-recognized and familiar type of problem. While there is still a
need to customize to some degree, the steps necessary to accomplish
this are somewhat programmatic. The client may have the ability and
resources to perform the work itself, but turns to the professional firm
because the firm can perform the service more efficiently, because the
firm is an outsider, or because the client’s own staff capabilities to
perform the activity are somewhat constrained and are better used
elsewhere. In essence, the professional firm is selling its procedures, its
efficiency, its availability: “Hire us because we know how to do this
and can deliver it effectively.”
Procedure projects usually involve the highest proportion of junior
time relative to senior time (and hence imply a different organiza­
tional shape for firms that specialize in such projects). The problems
to be addressed in such projects, and the steps necessary to complete
the analysis, diagnosis, and conclusions are usually so sufficiently well
established that they can be easily delegated (under supervision) to
junior staff. For Procedure projects the range of possible outcomes for
some steps may be so well known that the appropriate responses may
be “programmed.”
The three categories described here are, of course, only points along
a spectrum of project types. However, it is usually a simple task in any
profession to identify types of problems that fit these categories. The
choice that the firm makes in its mix of project types is one of the most

6

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

important variables it has available to balance the firm. The choice of
project types influences significantly, as we shall see, the economic and
organizational structures of the firm.
Consider what will happen if a firm brings in a mix of client work
such that its “proper” staffing requirements would be for a slightly
higher mix of juniors, and a lesser mix of seniors than it has (i.e., the
work is slightly more procedural than the firm would normally ex­
pect). What will happen?
As Figure 1-2 suggests, the short-run consequence will be that
higher priced people will end up performing lower-value tasks (prob­
ably at lower fees), and there will be an underutilization of senior
personnel. The firm will make less money than it should be making.
The opposite problem is no less real. If a firm brings in work that
has skill requirements of a higher percentage of seniors and a lesser
percentage of juniors (Figure 1-3), the consequences will be at least
equally adverse: a shortfall of qualified staff to perform the tasks, and
a consequent quality risk.
As these simple examples show, matching the skills required by the
work to the skills available in the firm (i.e., managing the leverage
structure) is central to keeping the firm in balance.

LEVERAGE AND THE PEOPLE MARKETPLACE
The connection between a firm’s leverage structure (its ratio of junior
to senior professional staff) and the people marketplace can be cap­
tured in a single sentence: People do not join professional firms for
jobs, but for careers. They have strong expectations of progressing
through the organization at some pace agreed to (explicitly or implic­
itly) in advance.

FIG U RE 1 - 2
The Consequences of Too Much Procedural Work

FIGURE 1 - 3
The Consequences of Too Much Brains Work
Staffing Required
by Work

Staffing We Have

The professional service firm may be viewed as the modern embod­
iment of the medieval craftsman’s shop, with its apprentices, journey­
men, and master craftsmen. The early years of an individual’s
association with a professional service firm are, indeed, usually viewed
as an apprenticeship, and the relation between juniors and seniors the
same: The senior craftsmen repay the hard work and assistance of the
juniors by teaching them their craft.
The archetypal structure of the professional service firm is an or­
ganization containing three professional levels. In a consulting orga­
nization, these levels might be labeled junior consultant, manager,
and vice president. In a CPA firm they might be referred to as staff,
manager, and partner. Law firms tend to have only two levels, asso­
ciate and partner, although there is an increasing tendency in large
law firms to recognize formally what has long been an informal dis­
tinction between junior and senior partners.
Responsibility for the organization’s three primary tasks is allo­
cated to these three levels of the organization: seniors (partners or vice
presidents) are responsible for marketing and client relations, manag­
ers for the day-to-day supervision and coordination of projects, and
juniors for the many technical tasks necessary to complete the study.
The three levels are traditionally referred to as “the finders,” “the
minders,” and “the grinders” of the business. The mix of each that the
firm requires (i.e., its ratio of senior to junior professionals) is primar­
ily determined by the mix of client work, and in turn crucially deter­
mines the career paths that the firm can offer.
While the pace of progress may not be a rigid one (“up or out in five
years” ), both the individual and the organization usually share strong
norms about what constitutes a reasonable period of time for each

8

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

stage of the career path. Individuals who are not promoted within this
period will seek greener pastures elsewhere, either by their own choice
or career ambitions, or at the strong suggestion of the firm.
This promotion system serves an essential screening function for
the firm. Not all young professionals hired subsequently develop the
managerial and client relations skills required at the higher levels.
While good initial recruiting procedures may serve to reduce the de­
gree of screening required through the promotion process, it can rarely
eliminate the need for the promotion process to serve this important
function. The existence of a “risk of not making it” also serves the
firm in that it constitutes a degree of pressure on junior personnel to
work hard and succeed.
The promotion incentive is directly influenced by two key dimen­
sions: the normal amount of time spent at each level before being
considered for promotion, and the “odds of making it” (the propor­
tion promoted). These factors are clearly linked to a firm’s leverage
structure (and its growth). For any given rate of growth, a highly
leveraged firm (one with a high ratio of juniors to seniors) will offer a
lower probability of “making it” to the top, since there are many
juniors seeking to rise and relatively few senior slots opening up. A
less leveraged firm, at the same rate of growth, will need to “bring
along” a higher percentage of its juniors, thus providing a greater
promotion incentive.

LEVERAGE AND PROFITABILITY
A professional service firm’s leverage is also central to its economics.
The “rewards of partnership” (the high levels of compensation at­
tained by senior partners) come only in part from the high hourly (or
daily) rates that the top professionals can charge for their own time.
Profits also come, in large part, from the firm’s ability, through its
project team structure, to leverage the professional skills of the seniors
with the efforts of juniors.
The successful leveraging of top professionals is at the heart of the
success of the professional firm. As demonstrated below, a significant
portion of partnership profits derives from the surplus generated from
hiring staff at a given salary and billing them out at multiples of that
salary. By leveraging its high-cost seniors with low-cost juniors, the
professional firm can lower its effective hourly rate and thus reduce its
cost to clients while simultaneously generating additional profit for
the partners.

A Question

of Balance

9

FIGURE 1 - 4
Linking the Three Goals
Client Marketplace
(Service)

t
t

Types of Client Projects
LEVERAGE STRUCTURE
Cost & Fee Levels
Profitability
(Success)

Career Opportunities
Market for Staff
(Satisfaction)

The market for the firm’s services will determine the fees it can
command for a given project; its costs will be determined by the firm’s
abilities to deliver the service with a cost-effective mix of junior, man­
ager, and senior time. If the firm can find a way to deliver its services
with a higher proportion of juniors to seniors, it will be able to achieve
lower service delivery costs. The project team structure of the firm is
therefore an important component of firm profitability.
The relationship between a firm’s leverage structure and its three
goals is illustrated in Figure 1-4, which shows the principal forces
tying these elements together.

GURU ASSOCIATES: A NUMERICAL EXAMPLE
To explore further how these items interrelate, let us consider a nu­
merical example (Table 1-1). Guru Associates, which engages in a
variety of projects, nevertheless has a typical project which requires
50 percent of a senior’s time, 100 percent of a middle-level person’s
time, and the full-time efforts of three juniors. No one is expected to
bill 100 percent of each’s available time. Nevertheless, if the firm is to
meet its economic goals, it will require that seniors and managers are
engaged in billable work for 75 percent of their time, and juniors 90
percent.
Guru Associates currently has four seniors. If it is to meet its target
of 75 percent billed senior time, its available senior time will be four
times 75 percent, or the equivalent of three seniors working full-time.
This implies six projects, if the typical project requires 50 percent of a
senior’s time.

10

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

TABLE 1 -1

Level

Requirements
fo r Average
Project

Target
Utiliza­
tion

Required
Staffing
fo r 6
Projects
@ Target
Utilization

Required
Staffing
fo r 12
Projects
@ Target
Utilization

Senior

50% of 1 person

75%

4

8

Middle

1 person

75%

8

16

Junior

3 people

90%

20

40

With six projects, the firm needs the equivalent of six full-time
middle-level staff, according to the project team structure. (Each
project requires 100 percent of a middle-level person). At 75 percent
target utilization (billed hours divided by available hours), this means
that the firm must have eight middle-level staff. Similarly, at three
juniors per project, the firm needs eighteen full-time juniors, or at 90
percent billability, twenty juniors.
Simple calculations such as these show that, with eight seniors, the
firm would need sixteen managers and forty juniors. The proportions
remain constant: one senior to every two managers, to every five jun­
iors. Unless there is a change in either the project team structure (i.e.,
the types of projects the firm undertakes), or the target utilization
(matters which will be discussed below), the firm must keep these
ratios constant as it grows.
This seemingly simpleminded calculation, relating the staffing mix
requirements of the work to the staffing levels existing in the firm, is in
fact of extreme importance.
If we know the salaries of the staff members and their billing rates,
we can construct the pro forma income statement of this firm at full
utilization. The role of leverage is amply illustrated by Guru Associ­
ates (Table 1-2). The four seniors (partners) personally bill a total of
$1.2 million, or $300,000 apiece. At per-professional overhead costs
of $40,000 (including the costs of all secretaries, administrative staff,

TABLE 1 -2
The Economics of Guru Associates
Target
Billable
Hours @ 2,000
Hours per
Person per
Year

Billing
Rate

Fees

Salary per
Individual

Total
Salaries

Level

No.

Target
Utilization

Senior

4

75%

6,000

$200

$1,200,000

Middle

8

75%

12,000

$100

$1,200,000

$75,000

$600,000

Junior

20

90%

36,000

$50

$1,800,000

$32,000

$640,000

$4,200,000

TOTALS
Fees

$4,200,000

Salaries

(1,240,000)

Contributions

$2,960,000

Overhead*

$1,280,000

Partner Profits

$1,680,000

Per Partner

$ 420,000

Assume overhead costs of $ 4 0 ,0 0 0 per professional

$1,240,000

12

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

space, supplies, etc.), this would result in a per-partner profit of
$260,000 if these seniors were totally unleveraged.
With a healthy seven staff members per senior, partner profits now
total $420,000 apiece. About 60 percent of each partner’s profit
comes not from what he or she bills, but from the profit generated by
the nonpartner group. Thus the benefits of leverage!
(It should be immediately stressed that high leverage is not always
good. As we have already observed, having high leverage is completely
inappropriate if the firm has a high level of Brains work. What we can
say is that leverage should be as high as the requirements of the work
allow).
We now turn to Guru Associates’ position in the market for staff.
Guru Associates has the following promotion policies. It considers
that it requires four years for a junior to acquire the expertise and
experience to perform the middle-level function, and it expects to pro­
mote 80 percent of its candidates to this position. A lower percentage
would be insufficient to attract new juniors, and a higher percentage
would imply that insufficient “screening” was taking place (i.e., that
there was no room for “hiring mistakes” ). From middle-level to se­
nior is also expected to take four years; but because fewer candidates
develop the critical client relations skills that Guru Associates re­
quires, on average only 50 percent of candidates make it.
We shall now trace the evolution of Guru Associates over time.
Among the eight middle-level staff, we may assume that, since it
takes four years to make senior, one quarter of them (i.e., two) are
in their final year as middle-level staff. If Guru Associates is to abide
by its promotion policies, then it can expect to promote 50 percent,
(i.e., one candidate). Whether by firm policy or by the personal de­
cision of the individual, the nonpromoted candidate will leave the
firm. (Note that this result tends to happen in most professional ser­
vice firms regardless of whether the firm has an up-or-out policy.
Middle-level staff may, if allowed, hang on for another year or two,
but most eventually leave if not promoted. As we shall see, there is
a strong incentive for the firm to encourage them to leave, since they
are occupying slots eagerly sought by the juniors coming up behind
them.)
Counting both those promoted and those leaving we have reduced
the number of middle-level staff by two; and increased the number of

A Question

of Balance

13

seniors by one. Since we now have five seniors, we require ten middlelevel staff (unless the mix of project types changes) and have six re­
maining. We must seek out four new middle-level staff from among
our juniors. Of the twenty in the firm, we assume one quarter (five)
will be in their final year as juniors. Since our expectation (or policy)
is to promote 80 percent at this level, we will, indeed, promote four
out of the five to fill our four available slots. (The fact that these
figures match is not, of course, fortuitous. The percentage that can be
promoted at a lower level is determined by the shape of the profes­
sional pyramid.) Like the “passed over” middle-level staff person, the
fifth junior may reasonably be assumed to leave the firm.
We now have fifteen juniors left. However, with five seniors, and
ten managers, the firm requires twenty-five juniors: it must hire ten.
These changes are summarized in Table 1-3, which follows the same
logic for years 1 through 9.
In year 5, the first batch of middle-level staff that were promoted
from junior in year 1 will be ready to be considered for promotion to
senior. It will be recalled that there are four of them. If promotion
opportunities are to be maintained, then two will be promoted (i.e.,
50 percent) and two will leave. This creates a total of ten seniors. With
a total of ten seniors in year 5, twenty middle-level staff are required.
Of the sixteen in the firm the previous year, four have been promoted
or have left, meaning that a total of eight juniors must be promoted.
Fortunately (but not fortuitously) ten juniors who were hired in year
1 are to be considered for promotion. The expected 80 percent target
may be maintained!
What must be stressed at this point is that we have arrived at
these staffing levels solely by considering the interaction of the firm’s
leverage structure with the promotion incentives (career opportuni­
ties) that the firm promises. What we have discovered by performing
these calculations is that the interaction of these two forces deter­
mines a target (or required) growth rate for the firm. As Table 1-3
shows, Guru Associates must double in size every four years solely
to preserve its promotion incentives. If it grows at a lower rate than
this, then either it will remove much of the incentive in the firm, or
it will end up with an “unbalanced factory” (too many seniors and
not enough juniors) with a consequent deleterious effect upon the
firm’s economics.
If the firm attempts to grow faster than target rate, it will be placed

14

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

in the position of either having to promote a higher proportion of
juniors, or to promote them in a shorter period of time. Without cor­
responding adjustments, this could have a significant impact on the
quality of services that the firm provides.
We have seen that the leverage structure and the promotion policies
together determine a target (required) growth rate. It should be ac­
knowledged, however, that there is another way of looking at the
relationship between these variables. An equivalent way of stating the
relationship would be to observe that if given a growth rate and a
leverage structure, the promotion incentives that result can be speci­
fied. We may see this by examining Table 1-3 once more. Suppose
that we had constructed this by specifying the growth rate and the
project team structure. We would then have discovered that we could
afford to promote only four out of five juniors and one out of two
managers. We would also have discovered that we would have a
“built-in,” or target, turnover rate averaging over 4 percent (two res­
ignations per year for the first four years while the average number of
nonsenior staff was 45.5).

TABLE 1 -3
The Consequences of Guru Associates’ Promotion Policies
S taff Numbers
0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

Senior

4

5

6

7

8

10

12

14

16

20

Middle

8

10

12

14

16

20

24

28

32

40

Junior

20

25

30

35

40

50

60

70

80

100

TOTAL

32

40

48

56

64

80

96

112

128

160

New Hires

10

10

10

10

20

20

20

20

40

Resignations

2

2

2

2

4

4

4

4

8

Annual %
Growth
in Staff

25

20

17

14

25

20

17

14

25

A Question

of Balance

15

In this example, Guru Associates can achieve what would be con­
sidered an extremely low target turnover rate if it achieves its optimal
growth. However, the norm in many professional firms is a much
higher rate than this, often reaching as high as 20 to 25 percent (for
example in some CPA firms). The key point to note here is that, given
a growth rate and an organizational structure, the target turnover rate
of the firm can be specified. (This does not, of course, tell us what the
actual turnover experience of the firm will be. We are considering here
the turnover that the firm requires to keep itself in balance. While it
may be able, through its promotion system, to ensure that the actual
rate does not get too low, it may have to use other devices to ensure
that the actual turnover rate does not get too high through too many
people quitting.)
In most professions, one or more firms can be identified that have
clearly chosen a high target rate of turnover. Partners (or sharehold­
ers) can routinely earn a surplus value from the juniors without hav­
ing to “repay” them in the form of promotion. This high turnover rate
also allows a significant degree of screening so that only the “best”
stay in the organization. Not surprisingly, firms following this strat­
egy tend to be among the most prestigious in their industry.
This last comment gives us the clue as to why such firms are able to
maintain this strategy over time. Individuals continue to join these
organizations, knowing that the odds of “making it” are very low. In
the eyes of many potential recruits, the experience, training, and as­
sociation with the prestigious firms in the industry make the poor
promotion opportunities at such firms worthwhile.
Young professionals view a short period of time at such firms as a
form of “post-postgraduate” degree, and often leave for prime posi­
tions they could not have achieved as quickly by another route. In­
deed, most of the prestige firms following this strategy not only
encourage this but provide active “outplacement” assistance. Apart
from the beneficial effects that such activities provide in recruiting the
next generation of juniors, such alumni are often the source of future
business for the firm when they recommend to their corporate em­
ployers hiring their old firm (which they know and understand) over
other competitors.
The ability to place ex-staff in prestigious positions is thus one of
the prerequisites of a successful churning strategy. (An exception
might be provided by those professions where legal requirements such

16

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irM

as professional certification necessitate that juniors spend time in a
firm. However, even here the prestige firms provide active outplace­
ment assistance.)

GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY
Before we leave the topic of growth, we should take a quick peek back
at Guru Associates. How did its growth contribute to its profitability?
Let us perform our analysis on the basis of constant (year 0) dollars,
to remove the effect of inflation. By implication, this means that the
salaries and billing rates at each staff level remain the same. What
does the firms’ profit and loss statement now look like? Table 1-4
repeats the analysis of Table 1-2, using year 5 staffing levels instead of
year 0.
The result? Per-partner profits have not increased! In fact, they have
remained precisely the same!
What this simple example shows is that there is no necessary rela­
tionship between growth and profits. As we have seen, growth in a
professional firm is driven primarily by the need to attract and retain
staff, and is critical for that reason, but is not a guarantee of higher
per-partner profits.
Why is this so? We shall explore the reasoning in greater detail in
subsequent chapters, but the basic fact is this. If a firm grows subject
to two conditions, as Guru Associates has, whereby: (a) the mix of
client projects (and hence fee levels) remains the same; and (b) the
project staffing (or leverage) is such that the same proportion of senior
or partner time is required to handle each project; then the number of
seniors or partners that the firm requires will correspond exactly to
the growth rate. In consequence of this, the profit pool may increase
because of the higher volume, but it must be shared among a corre­
spondingly increased number of partners.
If per-partner profits are to increase, then one of the two conditions
must be broken. Either the firm must bring in a different mix of busi­
ness commanding higher billing rates (i.e., find higher-value work for
its people to do), or it must find ways to serve the same kinds of work
with an ever increasing proportion of junior time, and a declining
proportion of senior time.
It is interesting to note that few prominent professional firms act as

TABLE 1 -4
The Economics of Guru Associates
(Year 5 in constant dollars)

Level

No.

Target
Utilization

Target
Billable
Hours @ 2,000
Hours per
Person per
Year

Senior

10

75%

15,000

$200

$3,000,000

Middle

20

75%

30,000

$100

Junior

50

90%

90,000

$50

Billing
Rate

Fees

Salary per
Individual

Total
Salaries

$3,000,000

$75,000

$1,500,000

$4,500,000

$32,000

$1,600,000

$10,500,000

TOTALS
Fees

$10,500,000

Salaries

(3,100,000)

Contributions

$7,400,000

Overhead *

$3,200,000

Partner Profits

$4,200,000

Per Partner
* Assume overhead costs of $ 4 0 ,0 0 0 per professional

$420,000

$3,100,000

18

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

if growth were profit neutral. Indeed, rapid growth is often listed as a
primary goal of the firm, and advances in top-line growth are used as
a primary internal and external measure of success. If justified in the
name of providing career opportunities for staff, this indeed makes
sense. However, if desired on profitability grounds, it would appear
that many professional firms are fooling themselves!

SUMMARY: THE KEY ROLE OF LEVERAGE
Perhaps the most significant management variable to be disclosed by
the previous analysis is the choice of the mix of projects undertaken,
and the implications this has for the (average) project team (i.e., le­
verage) structure. As we have seen, this latter variable is a significant
force in influencing the economics of the firm, its organizational struc­
ture, and its positioning in the client and people markets. The leverage
structure, in the sense used in this book— as the average or typical
proportion of time required from professionals at different levels—
has not been a variable that is routinely monitored by firm manage­
ment. However, as we have shown, its role in balancing the firm is
critical.
It is possible, and not uncommon, for the firm’s project team struc­
ture to change over time. If it is possible to deliver the firm’s services
with a greater proportion of juniors, this will in general reduce the
costs of the project. Competition in the market for the firm’s services
will, over time, require the firm to seek out lower costs for projects of
a particular type, and there will often be opportunities for an increas­
ing proportion of juniors to be used on projects that, in the past,
required a high proportion of senior time. What in past years had the
characteristics of a Brains or Grey Hair project may, in future years,
be accomplishable as a Procedure project.
When considering new projects to undertake, it is usually more
profitable for the firm to engage in one similar to that recently per­
formed for a previous client. The knowledge, expertise, and basic ap­
proaches to the problem that have already been developed (often
through a significant personal and financial investment) can be capi­
talized upon by bringing them to bear on a similar or related problem.
Frequently the second project can be billed out to the client at a similar
(or only slightly lower) cost, since the client perceives (and receives)
something equally custom-tailored: the solution to his problem. How­
ever, the savings in costs incurred by the firm in delivering this cus-

A Question

of

Balance

19

tomization are not all shared with the client (if, indeed, any are). The
firm thus makes its most money by “leading the market” : being able
to sell as a fully customized service (at a fully customized price) what
increasingly becomes a service with reproducible, standardized ele­
ments.
While it is in the best interests of the firm that similar or repetitive
engagements be undertaken, this is often not in accord with the desires
of the individuals involved. Most individuals that join professional
firms do so out of the desire for professional challenge and variety and
the avoidance of routine and repetition. While they may be content to
undertake a similar project for the second or third time, they will not
be for the fourth or sixth or eighth.
The solution, of course, is to convert the past experience and ex­
pertise of the individual into the expertise of the firm by accepting the
similar project, but utilizing a greater proportion of juniors on secondor third-time projects. Apart from requiring a lesser commitment of
time from the experienced seniors, this device serves the admirable
purpose of training the juniors.
For all these reasons, we might suspect that, over time, the propor­
tion of juniors to seniors required by the firm in a particular practice
area will tend to increase. If this is allowed to proceed without corre­
sponding adjustments in the range of practice areas, the basic project
team structure of the firm will alter, with significant impacts on the
economics and organization of the firm. The dangers of failing to
monitor the project team structure are thus clearly revealed.
Examples of failure in this regard abound in many professions. One
consulting firm which learned how to utilize junior professionals in­
creasingly in serving its clients aggressively began to hire new junior
staff. After what all concerned considered the reasonable period of
time for the promotion decision, the firm realized that, at the rate it
had been growing, it could not promote its normal proportion of can­
didates: It did not need as many partners and managers in relation to
the number of juniors it now had. Morale in the junior ranks suffered,
as did productivity. (This latter impact was not surprising: there is a
close connection between morale, commitment, and productivity in
professional service firms.)
An investment banking firm discovered that, over a period of years,
it had so increased the range of analyses and services it provided in

20

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

advising its clients that it, too, needed more juniors on each project.
Successfully integrating this new project team structure required ma­
jor changes in all of the firm’s administrative procedures, particularly
its human resource and professional development activities. For these
firms, as for all professional service firms, successful management be­
came a question of balance.

CHAPTER 2

THE PROFESSIONAL FIRM
LIFECYCLE

In any professional service there are three key benefits that clients
seek: expertise, experience, and efficiency. However, even within the
same practice area, the relative priority that a given client places on
these elements can vary dramatically. A client with a large, complex,
high-risk, and unusual problem will appropriately seek out the most
creative, talented, or innovative individual or firm he can find— at
almost any cost. Prior experience in the clients’ industry, or past ex­
posure to problems of a similar type, may be useful but are secondary
to the client’s need for frontier expertise.
While many professionals would like to believe that all client needs
fall into this Brain Surgeon category, such clients represent only a
small proportion of the aggregate fees spent in any given practice area.
A much larger client base exists for what I term Grey Hair approaches
to practice. These types of client recognize that their problems have
probably been faced and dealt with by other companies, require less
complete customization, and are probably not crisis issues. Accord­
ingly, they will be shopping less for the sheer brain power of critical
individuals and more for an organization that can bring past experi­
ence to bear in solving these problems. A high level of expertise is still
required, and efficiency is not irrelevant, but extensive experience with
similar problems is worth more to the client than an extra degree of
intellect or a few dollars of savings.

21

22

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

There will also exist within the same practice area a third group of
clients, who have problems that they know can be handled compe­
tently by a broad range of firms. Rather than looking for the highest
possible expertise, or the most prior experience, these clients will be
seeking out a professional firm that can meet their needs for a prompt
start, quick disposition, and low cost: They will seek the efficient firm.
Since clients of each of these types exist within every practice area,
it would be tempting for a practice group to try and respond to all of
these various needs, particularly in these competitive days when pro­
fessional firms are hungry for increased revenues. However, accom­
modating the varying needs of these different types of clients within a
single practice group is an almost impossible task. A group that wishes
to attract the “high expertise” engagements must organize its affairs
and methods of doing business in such a way that will make it an
unlikely candidate to be chosen by a client who places most emphasis
on efficiency and, of course, vice versa.
Rather than discrete categories, the expertise, experience, and effi­
ciency labels are obviously meant to describe only points along a spec­
trum of practice (see Figure 2 -1 ). However, as we shall see below,
every aspect of a practice group’s affairs, from practice development
to hiring, from economic structure to governance, will be affected by
its relative positioning on this spectrum. Increasingly, firms will have

FIG U RE 2 - 1
Spectrum of Practice
BRAINS

GREY
HAIR

PROCEDURE

High Diagnosis
Intensive

High Execution
Intensive

Highly
Customized

Programmatic

High Client
Risk

Low Client
Risk

Few Qualified
Vendors

Many Qualified
Vendors

High Fees

High Fee
Sensitivity

The

Professional

Firm

L i f e cycle

23

to decide which type of client need they are attempting to serve, and
organize their affairs appropriately.

THE EXPERTISE PRACTICE
To justify this conclusion, we shall examine, in turn, the optimal forms
of management for each of the three types of practice. First, imagine a
professional practice group (or firm) that focuses its attentions on
serving the needs of clients with frontier problems. How would you
run such a practice?
True to the professions’ traditional self-image of being elite practi­
tioners, the staffing requirements of this “expertise-based” practice
would be such that the firm would need to seek out and attract only
the top percentile graduates from the best schools, in order to generate
top-notch apprentices who could meet the quality needs of the fron­
tier practice. Training would best be accomplished through an infor­
mal apprenticeship system and, since standards would be high, a
rigorous up-or-out promotion system would ensure that the firm re­
tained only the best and the brightest.
While some large-scale engagements might require large numbers
of junior professionals to draft documents, perform analyses, or con­
duct client interviews, most expertise engagements would tend to re­
quire a high percentage of senior professional time, due to the high
diagnostic component in the work. Accordingly, we would expect the
expertise practice area to be relatively unleveraged, with low fixed
costs and high margins. The firm would make its profits through high
billing rates or some form of value billing, justifiable and sustainable
because of the criticality, complexity, and risk in the client engage­
ment.
Optimal marketing of an expertise practice matches closely the
forms of practice development traditional in the professions. Since for
this type of critical engagement the client would be seeking the best
available talent, prominence and reputation would be the keys to
winning clients. The best practice development techniques would be
writing articles or books, giving speeches or being quoted in the
appropriate media, thus establishing credentials as an “expert.” Prac­
tice development would tend to revolve more around building the
reputation of individuals rather than the firm, as in the common client
comment “I hire lawyers, not law firms.” Reputation within the pro­
fession would play an important role in practice development.

24

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

Since few clients would have regular ongoing needs for top-flight
critical expertise, the client mix of professionals practicing in this area
would tend to be diverse, and constantly shifting. With relatively low
leverage and an up-or-out system, the internal pressure for growth
would be less than in other practice area types and (appropriately)
growth would not be a major goal for the firm.
As in all aspects of firm management, the best form of governance
in an expertise-based practice area would fit the traditional profes­
sional mold: a collegial partnership of peers headed (if at all) by a
leader who symbolizes the firm’s commitment to high standards. De­
cision making would be by consensus, and management (to the extent
that it existed) would largely be accomplished by inspiration. The
autonomy of the individual partner would be among the most su­
preme virtues in the firm, with little use made of formal internal struc­
turings. No individual or group of individuals could be said to “own”
the firm. Rights to participation in the firm’s future profits would be
“given away” by senior professionals in order to retain top talent.

THE EXPERIENCE-BASED PRACTICE
Now consider a firm whose practice-mix was made up predominantly
of clients who, rather than needing the profession’s most creative tal­
ent, wanted to find a firm that had accumulated experience in han­
dling certain types of problems, and would not take an expensive
“start with a blank sheet of paper” approach to the problem. The
marketing task of such a firm would be different. Rather than relying
on individual talents, the firm would need to create more of an insti­
tutional reputation, based not only on the “raw” talent of key indi­
viduals but on the ability of the firm to bring to bear its collective
knowledge derived from past engagements.
For such firms, practice development would involve identifying,
documenting, and promoting their specialized knowledge, through
brochures describing previous engagements, client newsletters, or spe­
cial seminars on topics related to the firm’s particular area of experi­
ence. Experience based practice areas would tend to have a more
clearly focused and stable mix of clients, with steady relationships
becoming increasingly important.
In contrast to the “frontier practitioners,” the work content of the
typical engagement would require less time spent on diagnosis and

The

Professional

Firm

Lifecycle

25

more on executing increasingly predictable (if still technically de­
manding) tasks. Accordingly, the ratio of junior to senior professional
time would increase, with profits from increased leverage offsetting
the generally lower billing rates. It is in this middle experience stage of
practice area maturity that time-and-expenses billing practices would
be (and are) most relevant and common in all professions.
The firm’s hiring needs would expand to include a major role for
less skilled professionals and more paraprofessionals, since the in­
creased structuring of familiar engagement types would allow the firm
to employ an increasing degree of systems and procedures and hence
require less mature talent. Training approaches would become in­
creasingly formal with greater use of out-of-hours classroom sessions
and practice manuals.
Since individuals who had worked in the firm for any period of time
and absorbed the knowledge and skills of the firm would remain pro­
ductive and marketable team members even if they did not have the
abilities to progress to the top rank, there would be less need for the
firm to enforce an up-or-out system, and it could make use of a system
of “permanent associates.” While the need for senior talent would
remain high, the group could accommodate a broader array of talents
since it would have the ability to empower an individual by supple­
menting his or her talents with the experience base of the firm. Hiring
could not only be more broad based (the group would not have to
restrict its attentions purely to the upper reaches of the grade-point
average), but could accommodate increasing numbers of lateral ex­
perienced hires. Training would need to become a little more formal
and structured in order to capture and disseminate internally the
firm’s experience base.
Because of a greater requirement for team approaches in delivering
services, the need to disseminate internally and organize the firm’s
collective experience and knowledge, professionals in the firm would
become more interdependent and there would be a greater need for
formally recognized departments and areas of specialization. The
managerial task of focusing the collective efforts of the firm’s princi­
pals around carefully chosen areas of experience would become in­
creasingly important, and firm management, a more clearly delineated
position, more formally recognized.
While growth might still be controlled, there would be increasing
pressure to provide career opportunities to the proportionately larger

26

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

number of junior professionals who had accumulated valuable expe­
rience that the firm could ill afford to lose. Since the value added that
the firm brings to its clients would be less embedded in individual
people and more in the firm’s collective experience, a greater sense of
equity ownership would prevail, and new partners or shareholders
might be required to buy their future participation in firm profits by
contributing to partnership capital or, in some instances, purchasing
shares.

THE EFFICIENCY-BASED PRACTICE
Finally, let us consider a practice area that had a high preponderance
of clients who were mostly interested in the efficiency with which the
firm dealt with low-risk, familiar types of problems. The firm would
be squarely in the business of demonstrating that it had established
systems and procedures to handle specific types of problems. Cost,
reliability, speed, and other such characteristics would come to the
fore, and practice development tactics would involve highly targeted
and specialized brochures, competitive presentations and, as in some
professions today (including accounting, medicine, architecture, and
investment banking), selected use of advertisements promoting spe­
cific services. The client mix in such practices would tend to be fo­
cused around a core of high volume clients.
Client fee sensitivity would require that engagements be staffed at
the most junior level possible, including maximum possible use of
paraprofessionals and increasing use of technology to substitute for
professional labor. Fee pressures would be offset by increasing use of
staff and technology leverage; and pricing would increasingly become
a matter of fixed-price contracts or bids. As yet infrequent in some
professions (such as law), fixed-price contracts or bids are increas­
ingly common in investment banking, medicine, consulting, and ar­
chitecture.
Efficiency practices, with their relatively high fixed cost structure
and many juniors, would need to take a more studied, planned ap­
proach to growth in order to capture the volume necessary to offset
lower margins. The needs for both management and administration
would increase, in order to devise optimum ways of dealing with fa­
miliar engagement types and to monitor and supervise the project
teams to ensure that the best procedure is indeed being followed.
Rather than the heavy use of judgment employed in expertise-based

The

Professional

Firm

Lifecycle

27

practices, efficiency practices have high needs for short-interval mea­
surement systems both for quality assurance and productivity. Rather
than inspirational leadership styles, efficiency based practices would
need managers who are disciplined, organized, and detail oriented.
Since the value-added of the firm would be more solidly based in its
operating systems, procedures, and marketing programs, rather than
on the individual talents of the professionals, ownership would tend
to be closely guarded. Indeed, in a wide variety of professions, there
are an increasing number of efficiency-based practices formally orga­
nized as corporations, with equity ownership held by a small group.
Transfers of ownership are accomplished by selling stock, internally
or externally, at fair market value.

OTHER DIFFERENCES
In the analysis above, we have found significant and incompatible
differences between the three “ideal” practice types in marketing, pric­
ing, leverage structure, hiring needs, promotion structure, ownership
structure, and leadership styles. Yet these are not the only differences
to which one can point. For example, as one examines a variety of
professions, it is also possible to identify different location strategies
across the spectrum of practice types. Expertise-based practices, as a
generalization, tend to be based in a single location relying on the
development of a national or regional reputation to attract clients. As
the practice matures through experience to efficiency-based practices,
it is more common to find multiple-location firms, frequently orga­
nized into profit centers. This evolution is to be expected, since the
essence of a multiple-location strategy is to enhance the ability of the
individual office to serve clients by drawing upon the experience base
and systems of the network.
Compensation approaches also vary significantly over the practice
life cycle. At the expertise end, it is appropriate (and not uncommon)
to find profit-sharing and bonus pool systems for junior professionals,
while in experience-based practices greater use is made of straight
salary, with increases deriving from seniority and the accumulation of
increasing amounts of experience. At the efficiency stage, salary struc­
tures can frequently be found (for example, in accounting and engi­
neering firms) which are, in essence, better described as wage systems,
with provisions for overtime payments for the most junior personnel.
Not only do the tactics of marketing change over the professional

28

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

life cycle, but so does the organizational responsibility for practice
development. In expertise practice areas, business development tends
to be a personal responsibility of each partner (or partner equivalent).
As the practice area matures, the firm needs to develop more struc­
tured, organizationally based approaches to market. In some profes­
sions (including actuarial services, engineering, and medicine), certain
service areas have evolved to the point that they require the equivalent
of an in-house marketing department, headed by a marketing special­
ist from outside the profession.

IMPLICATIONS
The degree to which professional marketplaces have already recog­
nized and embodied the overwhelming differences between expertise,
experience, and efficiency practices varies significantly. In some, such
as architecture, consulting, or public relations, where competition has
been intense, differences between firms practicing at different parts of
the spectrum are readily identifiable. In other professions, the differ­
ences are only now beginning to emerge.
Two trends in the professions make understanding (and imple­
menting) the distinctions between expertise, experience, and effi­
ciency practices critical to the success of the professional service firm.
First, greater sophistication of clients means that they are increasingly
able to analyze their true needs in different types of engagements and
distinguish between firms whose style of practice matches the specific
benefit they seek. Second, the evolution of practice areas through the
stages of the spectrum is becoming very rapid. In every profession, one
can point to practice areas that, in only a few short years, moved
rapidly from being frontier activities handled only by a handful of
innovative firms to high-volume practices offered by increasingly large
numbers of competent firms.
As this evolution takes place, firms are continually confronted with
a basic dilemma. On the one hand, they can choose to follow a prac­
tice area down its life cycle, adapting organization structures, staffing
strategies, pricing, leadership styles, and all else we have discussed
above to the new requirements of the marketplace. Of course, in so
doing they will be transforming the fundamental nature of their firm.
The life cycle of the practice becomes a life cycle for the firm. On the
other hand, they can choose to gradually abandon maturing practice
areas in order to maintain stability in firm culture and management,

The

Professional

Firm

Lifecycle

29

requiring them to move into new practice areas that more closely
match the basic approach of the firm.
The third available (and most frequently selected) option—main­
taining a firm with diverse practices at various stages of the life-cycle
spectrum— is a challenging managerial task. The conflicting eco­
nomic, behavioral, and managerial requirements of different practice
areas are sufficiently great to create severe internal tensions and stress
as firms struggle to establish firmwide management philosophies to
accommodate these diverse needs.
The most common, and successful, approach to resolving these ten­
sions is through the use of departments and divisions: in effect estab­
lishing “Chinese walls” between operating groups, allowing each to
evolve its own management approaches, appropriate to the market­
place it serves. As potentially divisive as this may sound, it is fre­
quently a more sensible solution than the attempt to impose
increasingly inappropriate management practices on a firmwide basis.
A classic illustration of this approach is given by some large account­
ing firms who allow variations in various management practices be­
tween their accounting, tax, and consulting divisions. One can even
observe elements of this approach inside law firms where litigation,
corporate, tax, mergers & acquisitions groups, and others appear to
be run (appropriately) on very different bases.
In firms that take this approach, it is important to ensure that the
aggregate mix of practice area “ maturities” remains reasonably sta­
ble, and evolves gradually, if at all. Even if a firm has a diverse mix­
ture, there nevertheless remain certain aspects of firm management
that must be addressed at the firm level. How these are decided is
heavily influenced by the relative proportions of expertise, experience,
and efficiency practices that make up the firm. A firm cannot be run
smoothly if one year its practice is dominated by fees from expertise
services and the next year efficiency services are in greatest demand.
For many firms the greater course of wisdom may be to reach for
some internal consistency between and among its practice areas, so
that a single approach to management practice can be devised. Such
consistency would provide not only internal benefits, but also a com­
mon identity in the marketplace. Experience has shown that it is dif­
ficult, if not impossible, for one part of the firm to create a strong
“frontier expertise” reputation when the firm is already well known
as a low-cost provider. Similarly, a firm with a national reputation as

30

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

being on the cutting edge is unlikely to be able to create and sustain a
group going after the mature marketplace segments. In most profes­
sions, a consistent image in the marketplace is a valuable asset, which
can be rapidly compromised if the firm attempts to serve too diverse a
set of client needs. Few firms, in my experience, have a clear picture of
their true positioning along the expertise, experience, efficiency spec­
trum. Indeed, given the diversity of practices contained inside many
professional firms, no single answer could be derived. It is this reason
above all that has led to the failure of so many strategic planning and
firmwide marketing efforts inside professional firms.
A second problem for firms attempting to understand their true
market positioning is the natural temptation of all professionals to
underestimate the progress of a practice area down the life cycle. In
numerous (anonymous) surveys I have conducted inside professional
firms, I have been consistently surprised at how high a proportion of
their personal work professionals at all levels report could be done by
more junior staff. (Firmwide averages sometimes exceed 30 or 40 per­
cent. ) Even allowing for some client preferences to deal with high level
professionals, these results show that many practice groups continue
to maintain expertise-based approaches to running their affairs when
their marketplace is probably closer to the efficiency stage.
Given the broad array and diversity of client needs, there is plenty
of room in the professions for firms and practices of all types. There
will always be a need for expertise-based firms, experience-based
firms, and efficiency-based firms, any one of which, if managed ap­
propriately, can be as successful as any other. However, we will in­
creasingly see these firms being run in very different ways. The
message is simple: Match management practices to the practice.

CHAPTER 3

PROFITABILITY: HEALTH
AND HYGIENE

In a partnership, the ultimate measure of profitability is (or should be)
profit per partner, which is driven by three main factors, margin, p ro­
ductivity, and leverage.
As Figure 3-1 shows, “profit per partner” should be viewed as the
professional firm equivalent of “return on equity.” The time and ef­
forts of the partners (who have a claim on the profits of the firm)
can be seen as the firm’s equity investment (often called “sweat
equity” ). The total assets employed in the business are the sum of
the (partner) equity investment, and the nonpartner staff, whose sal­
aries are comparable to assets financed by debt, at a fixed interest
rate.
In managing a professional firm, as with any business with mul­
tiple products or service lines, or multiple locations, it is a mistake to
place too much stress on one of these three subfactors (margin, pro­
ductivity, or leverage). Different operating units can and do achieve
high profit per partner in different ways. Some offices, practice units,
or even individual partners, will achieve it by being in high margin
businesses, perhaps with modest leverage. Alternately, another of­
fice, practice unit, or partner may achieve an equally high profit per
partner with thin margins and modest productivity but high lever­
age.
31

32

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

FIG U RE 3 - 1
Profitability Formulas
The Dupont formula for industrial companies:
Profits
Profits
Sales
Assets

---------------

=

Equity

---------------

X

Sales

---------------

X

Assets

---------------

Equity

= Margin x Productivity x Leverage
The formula for professional firms:
Profits

----------------

Partner

=

Profits

-------------

Fees

X

Fees

-----------

Staff

X

Staff

-------------------

Partners

Unfortunately, in many firms, the reporting systems do not provide
equitably for these varying paths to profitability. For example, chargeability and realization reports are circulated more frequently and more
broadly than reports showing how well partners leverage themselves.
Consequently, an individual partner who fails to leverage himself but
has high personal chargeability and high realization (i.e., good pro­
ductivity) will show up “better” in the firm’s reporting systems than
one who is less personally chargeable and commands a lower hourly
fee, but keeps five juniors busy. However, the leveraged partner’s ac­
tivities may “throw off” more cash into partnership profits than the
unleveraged partner.
Rather than establish firmwide goals for margins, productivity, or
leverage, firms should hold each practice (or partner) accountable for
a profit per partner target and let the practice (or partner) figure out
the best mixture of margin, productivity, and leverage necessary to
achieve this goal.
This simple prescription is not commonly followed in professional
firms today. Few use net profit per partner as their main method for
regular reporting of practice economics. Yet it is only by understand­
ing the profit per partner of different practices, services (and even
engagements) that the firm can manage its “equity investments” (part­
ner time) wisely.

Profitability:

Health

and

Hygiene

33

HEALTH AND HYGIENE
The reason so many firms have control systems that emphasize only
parts of the profitability formula is that their control systems are de­
signed to focus on short-term profitability (what I term “hygiene” ),
and ignore the issue of “health” (i.e., increasing the fundamental
profit potential of the organization).
To test this for your firm, I offer a quiz, one you may wish to cir­
culate among your partners. Shown in Figure 3 -2 is a list of possible
profitability improvement tactics for a professional service firm.
If your firm is like many others, you’ll discover something like this:
The list of quick-impact profitability improvement tactics is very dif­
ferent from your list of permanent- impact tactics. And you probably
score your firm best on the short-run tactics, and least well on the
permanent improvement tactics.
What this reveals is that improving profitability has two distinct
management components. Some elements (predominantly short-run
“hygiene” issues) get overmanaged, and many (long-run “health” is­
sues) are undermanaged. To see which is which, let’s discuss each of
the items in our original profit formula.

MANAGING MARGINS
Many professional firms, in comparing the profitability of different
practices, place particular emphasis on the margins achieved. This is
always misleading and often dangerous. In my experience, many lowmargin practices are more profitable, on a profit-per-partner basis,
than higher margin practices with low leverage because of the effec­
tive use of leverage. This does not mean that high leverage is always
good, or always appropriate. But it does mean that, in the month-tomonth control of the firm, submeasures like margin are insufficient
indicators of profitability.
There is a second reason to avoid placing too much stress on mar­
gins in managing a practice: The margin that a practice achieves is
mostly a consequence of what is accomplished with productivity and
leverage. Consider, for example, a practice that has high productivity
(i.e., high revenue per person). By definition, this means it will have a
low number of people per dollar of revenue. Since the overwhelming

34

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

FIGURE 3 - 2
A Profitability Quiz
You are asked to rate the items on this list in three ways. First rank the items from 1 to 19 according to
which action will have the quickest impact on profitability. Then rank the items according to which will
have the most permanent, long-lasting impact on profitability. Finally, for each item, rank your firm's
performance on a scale of 1 to 5 (1=we've really got this one under control, 2=we do well on this, 3=we
need to improve, 4=we're weak at this, 5=we're not working on this).
Rank for
Quick
Impact

Rank for
Permanent
Impact

Rank for
Performance

a Justify higher fees (specialize, innovate, add more value)
b

Increase utilization (billable hours per person)

c

Find ways to use juniors more in the delivery of services

d

Drop unprofitable services

e

Drop unprofitable clients

f

Improve speed of billing

9
h

Improve speed of collections
Use marketing to get "better" work, not just more work

i

Invest in new (higher value) services

j

Develop methodologies to eliminate duplication of effort on
engagements

k

Help engagement leaders improve project management
skills and performance

I Speed up skill-building process in staff
m Make greater use of paraprofessionals
n

Reduce space and equipment costs

0

Reduce support staff costs

P Deal with underperformers (partners)

q Deal with underperformers (non-partners)
r

Other (specify)

s

Other (specify)

proportion of costs in a professional practice is related to the number
of people on staff, costs will be low and margins good. Margins will
have been automatically improved through productivity improve­
ment.
Some factors affecting margins are distinct from productivity and
leverage— for example, space costs, equipment, and the like. These
costs are hygiene factors. It is critical to avoid waste: we must not have

P r o f i t a b i l i t y : Health

and

Hygiene

35

too much excess space, too many computers, too many support staff.
But once the “hygienic level” is achieved, it would be unwise to pursue
profit improvement by pushing for even less space, even fewer com­
puters, even less support staff. Beyond the hygiene level, such cost
cutting would improve short-term profits, but would not represent a
smart long-term profitability improvement strategy (i.e., would not
improve the health of the organization). Margin management is shortrun management.

MANAGING PRODUCTIVITY
As Figure 3 -3 shows, a firm’s productivity is the simple multiplication
of its utilization times the average (realized) fee per hour. Again, we
need to make the distinction between hygiene and health. A firm’s
average chargeability (or utilization), which most firms appropriately
monitor very carefully, is predominantly a short-run issue. Each year,
this is one of the first things the firm must take care of, like good
hygiene. If the firm is below a “reasonable” chargeability, there is no
point talking about long-run strategy.
However, once a “target” chargeability is attained, we are unlikely
to raise the firm’s long-run profit per partner by looking for year-onyear increases in utilization. While firms could make more money by
having people work Sundays, it is not the most creative of profitimprovement strategies. The real challenge is to figure out how to
make more money without having to work so hard!
If they are to achieve high productivity, firms must raise their net
realized fee per hour (or value). A firm that can do this is being more
than hygienic, it is building the fundamental health of the business. Of
course, this means more than just raising the firm’s prices: It means
that the firm must do those things (skill-building, specialization, in­
novation, value-added services) that will make clients willing to pay
more for the firm’s services.
FIGURE 3—3
Productivity
Productivity

=

Fees
-------Staff

=

Fees
--------Hours

= Value X Utilization

X

Hours

---------------

Staff

36

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

MANAGING LEVERAGE
Returning to our formula, one factor remains for discussion: leverage.
This, like fee levels, is a fundamental “health” issue. Once overheads
and utilization are in the hygiene range, only an improvement in fee
levels or leverage will change the basic economics of the business. But
what should the right amount of leverage be?
The appropriate leverage for any practice is determined by one
thing, and one thing alone: the nature of the services the practice is
engaged in. A practice that specializes in cutting-edge, high-client risk
(“brain surgery” ) work will inevitably need to be staffed with a high
partner-to-junior ratio: lower level people will not be able to deliver
the quality of services required. On the other hand, practices that deal
with more procedural “nonemergency” needs will be inefficient if they
do not have high leverage, since high-priced people should not be
doing low-value tasks.
“Managing” leverage means one thing: ensuring that the mix of
skill levels on a project matches the true skill requirements of the
engagement. Unfortunately, this is not often done well. (See Chapter
4, Solving the Underdelegation Problem.)

PROFITABILITY AND GROWTH
It is interesting to note that, in the formula for profitability, growth
and size do not appear. Of course, it is essential that professional firms
grow in order to motivate and retain the firm’s best staff. Without
growth, much of the dynamism of the practice will be lost, and morale
will suffer. Having said this, the question of the relationship between
growth and profitability is unclear.
Imagine, for example, that a firm successfully grew the practice by
25 percent in a given year, but grew it in such a way that (a) the mix
of business (and hence the realized fee rates) remained the same; and
(b) the firm’s method of serving that additional volume of business
used the same staff-to-partner ratio currently existing. In this scenario,
the firm would need 25 percent more partners to handle that volume,
and if the realization rates were the same as the firm’s existing busi­
ness, the net profit per partner would remain the same (see Chapter 1 ).
Growing by 25 percent and adding 25 percent more partners is not
a bad result but it does not further the goal of improving profit per

Pr of i t ab i l i t y: Health

and

Hygiene

37

partner. To do that , we must break one of the two conditions im­
posed; either bring in work that has higher fee levels than the firm’s
current average, or find ways to service the firm’s work with higher
leverage. This is the same conclusion as that reached before: Only
increased fee levels or leverage move the firm forward. All else is hy­
giene. It is the nature of the work brought in, not just its volume, that
contributes to profit health.
Yet this is not how most firms control their practice development
efforts. Many firms are revenue driven, or “top-line” oriented, taking
the view that “any new business is good business.” This is patently
false. A new $100,000 engagement can be very profitable, or be one
that loses the firm a lot of money. Yet many firms reward partners for
the volume of fees (top-line) that they bring in, not whether or not
they bring in profitable work.
In large part, they do this for the very reason we have been discuss­
ing: the lack of a good profitability reporting system that allows them
to know which work is truly profitable and which is not. If you never
measure profitability at the engagement level (or do so with mislead­
ing indicators such as margin or realization alone), it is hard to guide
and reward partners’ practice development activities properly. If prof­
its are to improve, this will only be done by improving how profitably
engagements are run: proper staffing, proper delegation, efficient use
of people’s time. Project leaders should be held accountable for en­
gagement success, considering revenues and the costs of resources con­
sumed (including the costs of partner time).
The effects of this have been shown in firm after firm that have
begun to examine (either as a special study or as a new method of
reporting) the profit per partner-hour of different engagements. It is
quite common for firms to discover that 125 percent of their profits
are made from 80 percent of their engagements, and that 20 percent of
their engagements lose 25 percent of their profits. This would not be
bad if these were conscious, strategic investment decisions. But, in
firm after firm, it is revealed that engagements that “looked profit­
able” when judged by margin or realization show up as poor invest­
ments when the profit is related to the amount of partner time invested
to generate that profit.
As a consequence, many firms cannot “fix underperformers” as a
profit improvement tactic because their financial reporting systems do

38

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

not reveal where the real underperformers (assignments, service lines,
clients, or partners) really are.
Fixing underperformers can be both a hygiene and health issue. By
eliminating loss-making activities, profits can be improved in the

T A B L E 3 -1
Profitability Tactics
(In descending order of impact on profit health
ONE: RAISE PRICES (i.e., FEE LEVELS)
• Earn higher fees through specialization, innovation, adding
more value
• Use marketing to get “better” work
• Speed up skill-building process in staff
• Invest in new (higher-value) services
TWO: LOWER VARIABLE COSTS (DELIVERY COST
FOR EACH ENGAGEMENT
• Improve engagement management performance
• Increase leverage in the delivery of services
• Make greater use of paraprofessionals
• Develop methodologies to avoid duplication of effort
THREE: FIX UNDERPERFORMERS
• Deal with underperformers
• Drop unprofitable services
• Drop unprofitable clients
FOUR: INCREASE VOLUME
• Increase utilization (billable hours per person)
FIVE: LOWER OVERHEAD COSTS
• Improve speed of billing
• Improve speed of collections
• Reduce space and equipment costs
• Reduce support staff costs

Pr of i t ab i l i t y : Health

and

Hygiene

39

short-run. In addition, by freeing up resources (particularly partner
time) locked up in low-profit areas, the potential is created to deploy
these resources in more productive areas. No one, as a short-run issue,
wants to drop unprofitable clients or services, but if low profitability
cannot be fixed through more efficient staffing (i.e., leverage) then
working to replace low-profitability work with high-profitability
work is critical to long-run success.

PUTTING IT ALL TOGETHER
The list of tactics given in Figure 3 -2 (the profitability quiz) can be
grouped into five categories, which represent the basic approaches in
improving the profitability of any business (see Table 3 - 1 ). These are
(in order of impact on profit health):
1. Raise prices (fee levels)
2. Lower variable (delivery) costs
3. Fix underperformers
4. Increase volume
5. Lower overhead costs
As we have seen, the first two categories are the keys to health, and the
middle category (underperformers) has the potential to be so. The last
two categories are hygiene areas which are critical for the short term,
but limited in their ability to bring about a fundamental transforma­
tion in profit potential. Profitability will not come from managing
hygiene factors alone: Future profitability depends on health as well—
and firms’ methods of measuring, reporting, and managing need to
reflect both.

CHAPTER 4

SOLVING THE
UNDERDELEGATION
PROBLEM

Like all human beings, professional service firms could be a great deal
healthier if they eliminated their bad habits. This chapter focuses on a
single bad habit that reduces profitability, adversely affects motiva­
tion and morale, reduces a firm’s competitive capabilities, and in ad ­
dition prevents senior professionals from spending more time with
clients and investing in the future of the firm.
This bad habit is called systemic underdelegation.
Imagine that a questionnaire was sent to each and every profes­
sional in your firm, top-to-bottom, asking the following single ques­
tion:
What percentage of your professional work time is spent doing things
that a more junior person could do, if we got organized and trained the
junior to handle it w ith q u a lit y ?
(Obviously, do not include in this calculation that work which the
clien t insists you perform yourself, since the client must get what he
asks for.)

Imagine that each person answered honestly, and the responses were
tabulated to calculate the firmwide average.
My research shows that, for the typical professional service firm,
the firmwide average is frequently as high as 40 or 50 percent, and
41

42

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

sometimes more. This is equivalent to saying that, of the firm’s entire
productive capacity, 40 or 50 percent is consumed with a higherpriced person performing a lower-value task. Obviously, this is not a
wonderful situation.
If one examined a manufacturing company and discovered that, of
all the resources used to produce the company’s output, some 40 or 50
percent were more expensive than necessary to achieve the same level
of quality, one would be tempted to use words like “inefficient,” “un­
productive,” “wasteful.” The same words, I believe, can be applied to
most firms’ methods of operation.

WHY IT’S A PROBLEM
Before addressing why this situation exists, and what can be done
about it, we should examine the four primary ways in which this
systemic underdelegation hurts the firm:
P R O F IT A B IL IT Y
By definition, systemic underdelegation means that the firm has a highcost delivery system: It costs the firm more to do a project than if it
used trained juniors to handle that part of the project they could do
with quality. In the short run, this may not hurt the firm: If the clients
are willing to pay us higher fees to be inefficient, why change?
There is a reason to change. It is called “competition.” As the pro­
fessions get more competitive, and fee resistance more common, high
delivery costs will lead to marketing problems and a competitive dis­
advantage. There is also a reason to change before fee pressures force
it: profitability. If the clients are happy with the fees, but we staff the
project in a high-cost way, we are reducing the amount of profit that
can be brought to the bottom line.
SK ILL BUILDING
By having higher-priced people busy with lower-value tasks, the firm
loses the skill building (development) of the people not delegating and
also gets less rapid skill building of juniors. Professional firms do not
sell time (although they often bill that way). Rather, their stock-intrade is skill. Anything that compromises the rate of skill building
(which systemic underdelegation does) hurts the firm.

Solving

the

Under delegation

Problem

43

M ORALE, M O TIV A TIO N , SA TISFA C T IO N ,
AND EXC ITEM EN T
If underdelegation exists, that is, if juniors are being given additional
responsibilities less rapidly than they are capable of handling with
good training and supervision, the result will be poor morale and
motivation. My research shows that, if left untreated, the lack of chal­
lenging (“growing” ) work will be the single biggest contributor to
turnover/retention problems. My research also reveals that if senior
people are spending 50 percent of their time doing what a junior could
do, their morale and motivation is also reduced.
UN D ERIN V ESTM EN T IN THE FU TU R E
Last, but definitely not least, underdelegation causes senior people to
neglect high-value tasks that are of critical importance to the future
success of the firm. In firm after firm, I encounter senior professionals
who know the importance of client service, business development,
supervision and coaching, methodology-building, and personal devel­
opment. In all of these cases, however, they report that they are not
doing as much as they would like because they are “too busy”—and
they are.
But too busy doing what? If, with 50 percent of their time, they are
too busy doing things that, with appropriate training, someone at a
half or two-thirds their salary could do, it would seem that some bad
trade-offs are being made in the allocation of these valuable people’s
time.

THE CAUSES OF THE PROBLEM
Reduced profitability. Compromised skill building. Lessened morale.
Neglect of investment activities. This is a serious list of negatives.
Why, then, is this situation so common?
While there clearly are a variety of personal factors at work (“I
prefer to do it myself” or “I have more confidence it will be done
correctly if I do it” ), I have learned that a bigger explanation is pro­
vided by the measurement and reward systems of most firms (hence
the name systemic underdelegation).
First, an excessive pressure on personal billability (or chargeability)
at senior levels can lead to inefficiencies in staffing. If a partner feels

44

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

that he or she is primarily held accountable for personal billable hours
(rather than, say, the profitability of the engagements that partner is
responsible for), then he or she is likely to hoard work rather than be
active in looking for operating efficiencies.
This will be particularly true, and is particularly dysfunctional, if
the firm is having a weak year. In a weak year the firm would be
better served if the partners pushed more work down and spent the
time in the marketplace generating new work, instead of attempting
to protect their position by staying busy on work that the underu­
tilized juniors could do and avoiding marketing efforts. (Yet in var­
ious countries experiencing a recession, this is the exact behavior I
have observed.)
A second cause derived from the firm’s management systems is that
in few firms are engagement leaders held responsible for seeking out
ways to reduce the costs of delivering the engagement. Amazingly,
some firms do not track the profitability of their work engagement by
engagement. Even among those who do, the primary measure of
engagement-level profitability that most firms use is the realization
rate—that is, the percentages of the standard rates of the personnel
used on the engagement that are collected from the client. As critical
as this factor is, my research shows that it does not provide an ade­
quate incentive to look for opportunities to increase leverage (i.e.,
delegation) on the engagement. When there is no particular incentive
for a partner to find ways to increase the leverage on his or her client
project, underdelegation is sure to result. Partners must be held re­
sponsible not only for the revenues they collect on an engagement, but
also the precise costs to the firm that they incur by the way they get the
engagement done.
A third reason for underdelegation to develop is that there is a
reluctance to invest in the coaching and supervision time necessary to
achieve successful delegation. On any single engagement, it will al­
ways be m ore costly, not less, to spend the time to get a junior in­
volved: It will take a junior longer to do it than doing it yourself, and
you’ll have to spend time supervising. Consequently, even though
more supervised delegation and coaching will reduce costs over time,
they increase costs in the short run. This is the old Catch-22. Using the
junior person “on this one” is more costly because we haven’t previ­
ously trained him or her, so we end up not training the person on this
one either. Thus firms tend to underinvest in good coaching, even

Solving

the

Underdelegation

Problem

45

though they preach it fervently. The problem is that few firms cur­
rently have any mechanism to track, on a real-time basis, whether or
not good coaching (and hence potential delegation) is being done.
Without such a system, short-term thinking and underdelegation re­
sult.
A fourth cause is the individual partner’s (understandable?) con­
cern about what the partner will have to do if he or she does push the
work down: pay more attention to marketing, client service, coach­
ing, seeking out and working on truly partner-level client work. A
systematic effort to push down work that rightfully can and should be
pushed down will, if successful, result in a need to find replacement
activities for the firm’s partners that truly match their skill and expe­
rience level. Fear that it does not exist, or is less comfortable to pursue
than staying chargeable on any available work, is, I have learned, a
prime contributor to the problem.
A push on operating efficiencies (better matching of work tasks to
appropriate skill levels) will require renewed attention to a marketing
program that focuses on high-value-added new business. It could be
argued (and has been by many partners) that in some markets such
work does not exist, or cannot be obtained in sufficient volume to
replace the basic work pushed down.
This very well may be the case, but this is not an argument to con­
tinue with inefficient staffing. Rather it suggests that in certain areas of
practice the firm may be overpartnered. The appropriate response
would be to help such partners find ways to increase their value on the
marketplace, redeploy them, or as a final resort help them find alter­
nate careers. Having high-priced partners doing too much low-value
work is a recipe for disaster.

SOLVING THE PROBLEM
The diet and exercise program to solve the bad habit of underdelega­
tion is not necessarily a pleasant one. In fact, it is tough. It is designed
to make bad habits very visible when they occur, and to make each
partner accountable for eliminating them in his or her practice.
There are three essential elements to the program, and some addi­
tional options.

46

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

ST E P ONE: EN G A G EM EN T-LEVEL
P R O F IT A B IL IT Y M E A SU R E S
The first essential step is to modify the partner performance appraisal
system to place less emphasis on the partners’ personal efforts (i.e.,
chargeable hours) and to make partners primarily accountable for the
net income per partner (or net income per partner hour) of each en­
gagement.
In most firms, computer records are kept on the revenue attribut­
able to any engagement and the number of hours worked on that
engagement by specified individuals. It is, therefore, a relatively sim­
ple task to calculate, using latest salary and compensation data, the
cost to the firm of the resources consumed in performing the engage­
ment.
By considering both revenue and costs, firms will get a better fix on
which engagements are truly most profitable, and which represent
opportunities for efficiency improvements through better staffing, in­
creased delegation, and leverage.
Once this information system is in place, firms will be in a position
to hold partners accountable for engagement profitability, encourag­
ing them to identify opportunities to improve operating efficiencies on
the engagement.
ST E P TW O : TRACKIN G AND REW ARDIN G
COACHING A C T IV IT IES
To overcome the problem of “deferred maintenance” in the coaching
area (and the resulting lack of delegation), firms should introduce a
system whereby all staff on an engagement complete an evaluation
form (see Figure 4 - 1 ), rating their engagement experience, at the end
of every engagement.
These forms are sent to the managing partner, and the scores accu­
mulated through the year. At year-end, the aggregate score for each
partner (i.e., the evaluations of all staff members on all work super­
vised by that partner) are compared to the aggregate scores for the
office (and firm) as a whole.
In this way, an encouragement and accountability for delegation,
good engagement management, and skill transfer will be accom­
plished. By establishing a measurable monitoring system, behavior in

Solving

the

Underdelegation

47

Problem

FIGURE 4 - 1
Rate Your Engagement Experience
Please rate your engagement experience on a scale of 1 (strongly dis­
agree) to 5 (strongly agree) on the following:
My work made good use of my knowledge
and ability.
This engagement helped me learn and grow.
My work was interesting and challenging.
When tasks and projects were assigned to me, I
understood thoroughly what was expected of me.
When they were assigned, I understood how my tasks fit into
the overall objectives for the engagement.
Help was available when I needed to have questions an­
swered.
I received PROMPT feedback on my work, good or bad.
When I was corrected for something I did or failed to do, it
was done in a constructive way.
I received good coaching to help me improve my perfor­
mance.
I was kept informed about the things I needed to know to do
my job properly.
I was actively encouraged to volunteer new ideas and make
suggestions for improvement.
I had the freedom to make the necessary decisions to do my
work properly.
Team meetings were conducted in a way that built trust and
mutual respect.
I am proud of the quality of work I did on this engagement.
In this engagement we set very high standards for perfor­
mance.
I felt that I was a member of a well-functioning team.

1
1
1

2
2
2

3
3
3

4
4
4

5
5
5

1

2

3

4

5

1

2

3

4

5

1
1

2
2

3
3

4
4

5
5

1

2

3

4

5

1

2

3

4

5

1

2

3

4

5

1

2

3

4

5

1

2

3

4

5

1
1

2
2

3
3

4
4

5
5

1
1

2
2

3
3

4
4

5
5

Instructions: To prom ote your honest com m ents, you are not asked to identify
you rself on this fo rm . H ow ever, we ask that you send it, in a sealed en velope, to the
practice head's secretary w ho will aggregate your comments with others w ho
w orked on this engagement and with other engagements so that we can track our
overall perform ance. In order to encourage response, we ask that you write on the
outside o f the sealed envelope your name and project number, so that the practice
head's secretary can m onitor what responses have been received.
QUESTIONS FOR CODING PURPOSES:
(a)
What is the project number of this engagement?
(b)
What is your level/title?
(c)
How many hours did you work on this engagement?__________________
(d)
Who was your immediate supervisor on this project?

48

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

this area can be influenced in a way that no amount of speeches, mis­
sion statements, and training programs can accomplish.
ST E P TH REE: THE SCHEDULING P R O C ESS
In tackling the issue of staffing efficiency on engagements, no activity
in the office surpasses in importance good management of the sched­
uling process.
Once it has been decided how an engagement is to be staffed (who
is assigned, and what portion of the engagement each is scheduled to
do), the engagement’s leverage structure is in place. Staffing decisions
also clearly play a significant role in determining the amount (and
character) of skill building. Most of the skill building that takes place
in the firm’s practice comes from the types of engagements its people
are sent on, and what part of the engagement they are given to per­
form.
As we have noted, many studies have shown that motivation, mo­
rale, and ultimately retention are affected by nothing as much as the
pattern of work that the staff is given to perform. Accordingly, the
scheduling process is where most of the real managerial decisions in
running the practice are taken. It is the place where the real strategic
trade-offs between short-term profitability, client service, skill build­
ing, and retention are made.
High-level attention to this area by practice managers offers a sig­
nificant opportunity to correct the underdelegation problem. Unfor­
tunately, in many firms scheduling is viewed as an administrative or
tactical function, which it is not. It should be the time when powerful
practice managers challenge equally powerful partners to defend why
they have staffed their engagement in the way they have; to explain
why they really need the people they have requested. Only in the toand-fro of such discussions will the (often hidden) underdelegation
problems be revealed. (For more on this topic, see Chapter 16, On the
Importance of Scheduling.)

ADDITIONAL TACTICS TO SOLVE THE PROBLEM
In addition to the approaches listed above ( but rarely as a substitute
for them), some firms have had success in tackling the underdelega­
tion problem by being more aggressive in raising the fee rates of the

Solving

the

Underdelegation

Problem

49

firm’s more senior or experienced people, setting these billing rates
individual by individual, and not by group criteria such as seniority.
In effect, they are constantly testing the value of each of the firm’s
senior people in the marketplace.
This has a number of positive effects. First, it induces the firm’s
senior people to “stretch” for more higher-value tasks, and not meet
their obligations to the firm too easily by remaining billable at rates
below their true worth. Second, by being aggressive on senior rates,
the firm addresses the underdelegation issue by causing such people to
reflect more carefully on what portion of the work they should per­
form, and what they should pass down.
Other firms have used their annual partner performance evaluation
system to “challenge” the partners’ use of their time, and to help the
partners set personal growth goals for themselves. The theory behind
this is that if the partner has a clear vision of how he or she can “move
on” to higher value activities, the partner will be more willing (even
eager) to “pass on” existing activities that can successfully be done by
others. If the partner has no “personal strategic plan,” then there will
be a reluctance to delegate the current activities. In some cases, it has
been necessary for firm management to “protect” those who delegate
until they find replacement activities, making it less risky for individ­
uals to take on new tasks.
In other firms, in order to assist individual partners in achieving
operating efficiencies through better delegation, practice committees
have been formed to study the firm’s methodologies and perform an
“industrial engineering” study. By closely examining what skill levels
are truly required to perform designated tasks, such studies can pro­
vide ready-made methodologies (and training manuals) for individual
partners to use in their delivery of the firm’s services.

CONCLUSION
Solving the underdelegation problem is not easy. The problem is, in
my experience, endemic to the professions. And the diet requires tak­
ing a fresh look at some important management systems of the firm.
The reader should ask the following questions:
• Does underdelegation exist in my firm?
• What benefits would accrue if we could eliminate it, even par­
tially?

50

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

• Can we use some of the approaches described in this chapter?
• If not, what else will solve the problem?
• What happens if we do nothing?
My experience suggests that most firms will discover not only that
they have opportunities in this area, but that the pain of the diet will
be more than outweighed by the benefits flowing from the renewed
health and vigor of the organization.

PART TWO

CLIENT MATTERS

CHAPTER 5

THE PRACTICE
DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE

Say the word “marketing” to a room full of professionals, and differ­
ent individuals will think of very different things. Some will think,
“All you have to do is satisfy your current clients and business will
come.” Others will reply, “A stream of new clients is essential to the
health of any firm.” Some will offer the view that “The key is to
manage your client relationships,” while others will reflect that “We
need to get out into the community and meet new people.”
The truth is that every one of these comments is valid, but none of
them represents the answer by itself. Professional firms must execute
a full package of practice development steps covering five main cate­
gories of activity:
Broadcasting
Courting
Superpleasing
Nurturing
Listening.
None of these categories may be neglected— only the complete pack­
age will work.
Broadcasting includes all those activities that generate leads, enqui­
ries, and opportunities with new clients. By definition, broadcasting
activities, which include such things as seminars, articles, newsletters,

53

54

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

and speeches, have more than one person in the audience. The firm
broadcasts a message to its target market in the hope of generating
contacts, enquiries, and, in some cases, requests for proposals. (A
discussion of these tactics is presented in Chapter 11, Attracting New
Clients.)
Once a specific opportunity with a specific new prospect emerges, a
new activity is called for— courting. The firm is no longer addressing
a group of potential buyers, but a single, specific prospect. This activ­
ity is traditionally called selling and proposing, but such words fail to
capture what is truly required. When a client hires a professional, or a
professional firm, he or she must make the decision to enter into a
relationship, and the process is best understood as a courtship. (Some
ideas on how to do well in this phase are contained in Chapter 10,
How Clients Choose.)
Both of the preceding categories describe explicit efforts to win new
clients. However, there is great truth in the old adage that there is no
more effective practice development than outstanding “word of
mouth.” Accordingly, a major component of practice development is
superpleasing existing clients on existing matters. This means much
more than doing outstanding technical work and more than servicing
the client in such a way that he or she is just “satisfied.” Effective word
of mouth only results when the client is delighted and eager to work
with the individual again. Since good word of mouth has to be earned,
firms and individuals must invest in this area. (See Chapter 7, Quality
Work Doesn’t Mean Quality Service, and Chapter 8, A Service Qual­
ity Program.)
Paying attention to the client on the current matter is a necessary
condition for winning a client’s future business, but not a sufficient
one. Relationships, to remain strong, must be nurtured, and future
business must be earned. Clients do not like to be taken for granted,
and they expect their “suppliers” to invest visibly in the relationship
to earn future business. They expect firms to invest their own (non­
reimbursed) time in getting to know the clients’ business, earning fu­
ture business by bringing new ideas, being willing to spend time with
the client “off the clock” discussing future issues, and so on. This
process requires a planned program of “marketing to existing clients”
(Chapter 9).
The fifth and final category needed to round out the practice devel­

The

Practice

Development

Package

55

opment package is listening to the market, otherwise known as “gath­
ering market intelligence.” The better the firm’s understanding of how
clients think (and what they’re thinking about lately), the more effec­
tive it will be able to market itself. Any firm that fails to make this
investment will be severely handicapped, having to market itself based
upon what it “guesses” or “assumes” clients want. A firm that is will­
ing to make the investment will easily obtain an in-depth understand­
ing of how clients think, what they want, and how they choose. All it
has to do is to be organized and systematic about going to the horse’s
mouth and asking the client, through such devices as client panels,
senior partner visits, and attending client industry meetings to listen
(not to talk or sell) (Chapter 6).

HOW MUCH TIME FOR EACH?
You may want to estimate what percentage of your firm’s total prac­
tice development effort is spent on each of the five categories. (See
Figure 5 -1 ) What would you consider a balanced package? Do you
currently overemphasize one or two areas at the expense of the oth­
ers? You might also reflect on how effectively your firm performs each
of the five phases of the practice development effort. What grade
would you give yourself for each of the five?
My observation of professional firms in general is that they tend to
overinvest their nonbillable practice development time in categories
mentioned first on my list (broadcasting and courting) and, as a rule,
underinvest in those activities lower on my list (superpleasing, nur­
turing, and listening). In large part, I have learned, this is because
firms tend to assume that the last three categories all occur “natu­
rally” during the conduct of matters (i.e., on billable time) and hence
do not warrant any extra investment of nonbillable effort. This, in my
experience, is an incorrect assumption.
Take, for example, listening activities. I may pay close attention to
my clients while working with them, and think that I understand them.
However, while working on current matters with clients there is a
strong need to stick to the matter at hand and to focus on getting the
job done rather than getting the client to talk about other things. But
if I invite the client to dinner or to my offices to talk, not about the
current matter, but about what’s going on in his or her business, I can
(and will) learn a great deal that will be useful to my future practice

56

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

FIGURE 5 - 1
Where Does the Time Go?

Percent o f non­
billable practice
developm ent
time spent

Evaluation o f how
well this is done now
(1 = We're terrific at
this part o f practice
developm ent; 5 = We
don't do this very
well at all)

Broadcasting (generating
leads and enquiries)
Courting (selling and
proposing
Superpleasing (ensuring
client delight with
current matter)
Nurturing (marketing to
existing clients)
Listening (gathering
market intelligence)

100%
development efforts. If I attempt to sell that client something without
having previously listened, my practice development efforts will be
less effective.
This is not an aesthetic or moral point (“You ought to pay more
attention to existing clients and listen more” ), but a simple matter of
effective business practice: Which investments will give a good return
for each non-billable practice development hour? Consider, for exam­
ple, Table 5-1 which gives another way of looking at the alternatives
of where an individual professional or firm can put its practice devel­
opment investment. There are two sets of alternatives. The first choice
available is whether to invest in marketing to existing clients or mar­
keting to prospects, and the second is whether to market to those

The

Practice

Development

Package

57

Existing Client

Prospective Client

Superpleasing
(Highest ROI)

Courting

Nurturing

Broadcasting
(Lowest ROI)

T A BLE 5 -1

Aware of a new need
Not aware of a new need

clients or prospects who are already aware of a new need versus those
who are not currently aware of a need.
Where on this grid will a firm get its highest return on investment
(ROI) for its first nonbillable practice development hour? For most
firms, the answer will be in the top left-hand corner— making sure that
your existing clients who are aware of a new need (which they may or
may not have previously told you about) give the work to you. Are
your existing clients already giving you all (or a high percentage) of
their business as new needs emerge? If the answer is yes, then you can
assume that this part of the practice development package is covered,
and deserves no extra effort. If, however, you have only a portion of
your clients’ total work, then this area deserves your top priority, and
an investment of nonbillable practice development time. Unless some­
thing is seriously wrong with your relationships, it should be easier to
get more of an existing client’s business than the first matter from a
new client. Since the ROI in this practice development activity is so
high, it would be sensible for any firm’s practice development plans to
begin with the following simple questions:
Which of our existing clients have additional work to give us?
What level of nonbillable investment makes sense to ensure that we
get that work?
What activities will increase the probability that this client will
want to give us future work?
Where on the grid is the lowest ROI practice development activities?
Again, there can be no doubt about the answer— it is the bottom right
hand corner— a nonclient, not aware of a new need. Yet if you were
to walk into the typical law firm and ask about their practice devel­
opment activities, you would hear a great deal about attempts to go

58

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

out into the community and try to contact people with whom there
is no current relationship, who are not currently aware of a need,
and trying to sell them something! Firms must do som e of this— a
stream of new clients is essential to the continued success of any pro­
fessional firm. However, the issue is one of balance. This is the most
time-intensive form of building the practice, and should be used as
“fill-up” rather than the leading component of the practice develop­
ment plan.
Which of the two remaining boxes has the higher ROI? Here we
can be less definitive, but we can certainly describe two very differ­
ent practice development tasks. The top right-hand corner describes
a situation where the prospective client is aware of a new need, but
we have no existing relationship with that company. We can be con­
fident that a new matter will be forthcoming— they’re going to hire
somebody— and our task is to make sure that it’s us they choose.
Our main task here is courting, a relatively time-intensive activity.
To be selected, we need to get to know the client’s business from
scratch, begin to develop a relationship with the key decision mak­
ers, invest in preparing presentations and (possibly) proposals, and
engage in a sequence of meetings before a decision is made. And all
of this is probably taking place in a competitive environment, since
the nonclient is aware of a need and is probably talking to more
than one firm.
By way of contrast, the lower left-hand corner represents an exist­
ing client who is not currently aware of a new need, but with whom
we do have a relationship. Investing time here is a bet— a gamble that
if we spend time with client executives exploring their business issues,
we may uncover something that they’re not aware of but should be.
(How likely is it that if you take the time to learn more about the
client’s affairs you will, indeed, uncover something? In most cases,
this is a good bet). Once something has been uncovered, the practice
development task is to bring it to the attention of the relevant decision
makers (whom you probably already know). This is not a lengthy
time-consuming task, and the ROI should be good.
This analysis suggests that the second highest ROI of nonbillable
practice development time is likely to be spending time with existing
clients who are not currently aware of a need, with competitive efforts
in chasing nonclients aware of a new need coming third. It must be

The

Practice

Development

Package

59

stressed one more time that this discussion is not meant to suggest that
one box is more important than another, or that any may be neglected.
In fact, quite the opposite is true—they must all be accommodated.
Moreover, there is a logical order to these practice development
activities. First comes listening. Do this well, and all that follows will
be easier. Next comes superpleasing. The better we can do there, the
easier it will be both to win existing clients’ future business and to win
new clients through word of mouth. Third, it makes sense to ensure
that you capture the new business of existing clients before tackling
the more difficult area of winning new clients. Finally, it makes sense
to ensure that you are good at turning enquiries into signed deals
before you improve your success at generating enquiries.
What balance, then, would I give to the competing activities?
Roughly this. I would begin by designing an effective listening pro­
gram so that the firm regularly, consistently gets input from its mar­
ketplace, and I would invest as much as it takes to do this well. Let’s
say 10 to 15 percent of all practice development time for this.
Then, I would turn to superpleasing, and consider how much non­
billable time I would need to spend with current clients on current
matters to leave them truly delighted and not just satisfied. I could
probably “satisfy” them on billable time, but if a little extra non­
reimbursed effort would delight them, I would consider it a wise place
to put my nonbillable practice development effort. Let’s say that a
planned program of superpleasing would require 10 to 15 percent of
my total practice development time.
Next, I would turn to the nurturing category and ask whether any
of my existing clients had additional matters that I might earn by
investing in the relationship. Probably, I would find a number of high
ROI opportunities here, deserving of 30 to 35 percent of my efforts.
Only then would I turn to the new client side, with a total of 35 to
50 percent of available time. Between broadcasting and courting, it is
clear that courting (which involves, among other things, winning a
prospect’s trust and confidence) is the more time intensive. Accord­
ingly, I would try to limit my “lead generation” (broadcasting) activ­
ities to about 10 percent, leaving 25 to 40 percent for courting specific
prospects.
Are these percentages cast in stone? Clearly not. Newly emerging

60

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

practices will require a different balance than mature ones, and firms
in different stages of practice development maturity will need to re­
stress some of the categories more than others. But balance there must
be, and practice development time should be allocated with a recog­
nition of the full range of available options and of where the return on
practice development investment truly lies.

CHAPTER 6

LISTENING TO CLIENTS

For professional service firms, no less than for other kinds of business,
a primary means of achieving a competitive advantage is to have a
better understanding of the wants and needs of clients than does the
competition. This deeper understanding, if it is to be obtained, comes
from a very straightforward activity: listening to clients.
Listening well to clients means more than informal, opportunistic
information gathering during the process of pursuing new client pros­
pects, or “keeping one’s eyes open” during current client engage­
ments. Neither can it be restricted to special market research efforts
performed as part of a “once-every-three-years” strategic planning
activity. Rather, it requires an ongoing systematic attempt to track
client preferences, desires, and requirements. The questions “What do
our clients want, and how are their needs changing?” must be contin­
uously addressed through a structured program of information gath­
ering, analysis, and action built into the daily operations of the firm.
Few professional firms have such a program. “What clients want”
is a source of endless debate and speculation in many firms, but few
make use of the most obvious means of answering this question: going
to the horse’s mouth and asking the client. Stated simply, professional
service firms don’t listen to their clients enough.
This chapter describes some of the various means (and purposes) of

61

62

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

listening to clients, and evaluates each of these mechanisms. It should
be stated immediately that none of the listening devices described be­
low is meant to be a substitute for any other. On the simple reasoning
that knowledge is power, and on the proposition that “you can’t know
too much about your marketplace,” the wise firm will employ as many
of these tactics as possible.

WHY LISTEN TO CLIENTS?
Listening—soliciting clients’ evaluation of current services and getting
them to describe their unfilled needs— has two interrelated purposes:
(a) improving the competitiveness of current services and (b) identi­
fying opportunities to develop new services.
By inviting evaluations of current services, firms create the oppor­
tunity to improve. As the Japanese manufacturers say, a “defect is a
treasure.” In other words, by eagerly seeking out your “ defects” and
studying them carefully to identify why and how that performance
failure occurred, you get the opportunity to improve. If you avoid
feedback from those you serve, you never get the chance to learn how
to be a more effective competitor. To study “defects” a manufacturer
can examine the product on the shop floor. A professional service firm
does not have this option: if there is a flaw in performance, only one
person’s opinion counts: the client’s.
If it is the client’s perspective that counts in judging performance on
existing services, it is even more important in identifying the need for
new services. The professional may form an opinion of the market’s
need for an additional service, or speculate on how the market’s needs
are changing. But these conclusions are useless until the client has
been heard from. Accordingly, no professional firm can engage in
strategic thinking, or decide which of two forms of investment is wor­
thier, until it has received client input. Obviously, the firm that has a
program of continuously soliciting, analyzing, and acting upon such
input will be better positioned to capitalize on strategic opportunities
than the firm that gets such input on an opportunistic, irregular basis.

THE VARIOUS MEANS OF LISTENING
TO CLIENTS
There are, of course, numerous means of listening to clients, including
many not listed here. However, we shall examine those listening ac­

Listening

to

Clients

63

tivities that I have observed (or helped to install) in my client base of
professional service firms. These include:
1. User groups
2. Reverse seminars
3. Attending client industry meetings
4. Market research
5. Senior partner visits
6. Engagement team debriefings
7. Systematic client feedback
U SER GRO U PS
The concept of user groups, familiar in industries such as computer
software, is, I have learned, equally applicable and valuable in the
professional service arena.
A workable structure for a professional firm user group is as fol­
lows. A small (five to seven participants) group of respected clients is
asked whether it would be prepared to attend periodic meetings (two
or three times a year) to discuss the firm’s service offerings in a par­
ticular area.
Such meetings are often held after a good dinner in a private room
at a fine restaurant. After dinner, the firm presents its plans for devel­
oping its practice in the specified area, including the development of
new services, enhancement of existing services, and other strategic
changes it is considering. The clients are then invited to critique the
plans, to say whether the proposed investments make sense from their
point of view, and whether or not there are other things that the firm
should be considering to enhance its practice.
The theory of the user group is straightforward: There can be no
better judge of how the firm can improve the competitiveness of its
practice than the clients who will, after all, be the ultimate arbiters.
My experience with user groups in professional practice is that they
work best when they are formed for a particular service (or welldefined practice area), rather than for the firm as a whole. I have
learned that clients readily consent to participate (after all, the firm is
trying to find out how to be more valuable to them, and it is in their
interest to be of assistance). More often than not, I have seen clients
be both candidly critical and constructive in their comments. They

64

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

readily point out which proposed changes “do nothing for them,” and
which needs they have that are going unmet. In effect, a well­
functioning user group does strategic planning for the firm.

R EV ER SE SE M IN A R S
If a seminar is where the professional firm invites a group of clients
together and talks to them, then a reverse seminar is where the firm
invites the client executive to come and talk to the members of the
firm.
A typical request would go something like this:
Dear Client, We are very interested in you and your business. Unfor­
tunately, only a few of us get the chance to visit with you in the course
of our work for you. Accordingly, would you be prepared to come to
our offices (or a nearby location) after business hours for a drink or
two, and then give us a brief talk about what is going on in your world?
Perhaps you might be prepared to answer a question or two from our
people. We do hope you will accept, as we are keen to learn even more
about you, your company, and your industry.

The benefits of this practice are many. First, most clients would be
flattered to be asked to speak, and would take the invitation as what
it is meant to be: a sincere indication that the firm cares about its
clients and wants to learn more about them. To this extent, the reverse
seminar is a powerful client relationship management mechanism.
Second, reverse seminars add to the knowledge base of the firm. In
most firms, the individual professionals are skilled in their technical
specialty, be it law, accounting, actuarial science, public relations, or
whatever. However, to be a skillful advisor requires that the profes­
sionals understand not only their specialty but also the business envi­
ronment in which their clients operate. Yet in few professions is any
formal provision made for people to acquire general business knowl­
edge as they progress in their careers. The reverse seminar, particu­
larly if done on a regular basis (some of my clients hold one every two
weeks, with different clients) provides the mechanism to expose the
staff of the firm (juniors and seniors alike) to the thinking of business
people.
A third benefit of reverse seminars is, of course, the chance to iden­
tify future business development opportunities, particularly if the au­

Listening

to

Clients

65

dience contains not only professionals from the practice area currently
working with the firm, but those in other disciplines.
These seminars must be treated carefully. If the clients come to
perceive that they are being invited not to be listened to, but to be sold
something, they are unlikely to participate. My experience informs me
that this is not too difficult to police, and is as much a matter of style
and timing as anything else. If the client expresses a need in the pre­
sentation, he or she can be asked if a further meeting to discuss this
issue is desired. Most clients who express a need would be willing to
listen to a proposal about solving that need.
ATTEN DIN G CLIEN T IN D U STR Y M EETIN G S
A valuable opportunity to listen to clients talk about their challenges,
interests and needs is to go where they go to discuss such subjects, that
is, to their industry or trade meetings. My clients report to me that the
value of attending such meetings is greatly enhanced if the profes­
sional attends with a respected client, so that an instantaneous eval­
uation through the client’s eyes of materials and ideas presented from
the speakers’ podium can be obtained. (“ Do you agree with what that
speaker said? Do you think you’ll have to deal with that? What does
this really mean for you?” ). Such conversations can only enhance the
professional’s own evaluation and interpretation of subjects covered
at such meetings.
Naturally, the value of attending the client industry meeting is
greatly enhanced if the professional attending has an obligation to
circulate within the firm a written summary of the intelligence gath­
ered.
M A RK ET RESEA RCH
In most industries, formal (often third-party) market research is a
primary means of listening to the market. In the professional service
world, it continues to play an important role, but often has a slightly
different purpose.
Almost by definition, professional service firms do not serve a mass
market. Each of their projects, engagements, or “matters” is custom­
ized to specific client needs. Accordingly, that form of market research
which provides aggregated results of what large numbers of clients

66

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

“think” about various issues tends not to be as directly helpful as it
may be in other situations. This is not to say that there is no role for
market research, but that the more disaggregated methodologies (such
as focus groups) may be more applicable for professional environ­
ments. Focus groups work well, I have learned, particularly if the
clients participating consent to be videotaped. A tape of clients
expressing their needs, concerns, and challenges has a much greater
impact on professionals than numbers on a page, no matter how sta­
tistically valid.
SEN IO R PA RTN ER V IS IT S TO K EY CLIEN TS
A major, and common, form of listening to clients is a more or less
formal program of visits to key clients by senior partners of the firm
(or, if the firm is not a partnership, then by office or practice managers
or “executive committee” members). Frequently these “visits” are
conducted not in the client’s offices, but over dinner.
The virtues of this practice include not only quality assurance
(“How are our people serving you? Are you getting all you need from
them?” ), but also the opportunity to converse on the longer term is­
sues that it might be difficult for the engagement team to do. Fre­
quently, the professional firm’s senior partners or managers can,
because of their position, arrange meetings “higher up” in the client
organization than can the engagement team leader, thus gaining ex­
posure to a broader and deeper view of the client’s challenges, con­
cerns, and needs.
EN GAG EM EN T T EA M D EBRIEFIN G S
At the best professional service firms, it is routine practice to require
that, at the end of each and every client project, the engagement leader
will sit down with the client to obtain the client’s feedback on what
went well, what less well, and how the engagement might have been
improved. These discussions might cover not only the technical qual­
ity (and success) of the project, but also how the professional firm’s
interface with the client might be improved.
These conversations, if conducted with candor, are often the source
not only of good ideas for improvement that can be deployed on sub­
sequent engagements, but (I have heard repeatedly from my clients)

Listening

to

Clients

67

often highlight additional unresolved issues (perhaps not formally
within the scope of the current engagement) that represent immediate
new business for the professional firm.
The power of these debriefings is such that some of my clients im­
pose a firmwide requirement on their professional staff to file a de­
briefing report so that ideas for improvement obtained from their
clients are formally captured and become part of the intellectual cap­
ital of the firm. Such a requirement ensures that the debriefing meet­
ings are indeed held on a routine basis, and that there is a mechanism
for capturing and disseminating the feedback obtained.

SY ST E M A T IC CLIENT FEED BA C K
As valuable as engagement debriefings can be, another form of client
feedback can be even more powerful: a system whereby the firm
adopts a mandatory policy of sending a questionnaire to clients at the
end of each engagement, inviting the client to evaluate the firm. (For
a specific sample of such a questionnaire, see Chapter 8, A Service
Quality Program.)
Although common in the general consumer service world, such
feedback questionnaires are as yet uncommon among professional
firms. They are frequently resisted on the grounds that they are “un­
professional,” and represent a poor substitute for person-to-person
means of getting feedback such as engagement debriefings.
Recognizing that one device is not a substitute for the other, but
rather a complement, we must ask what a questionnaire will accom­
plish if engagement debriefings are already being performed. The an­
swer is that the questionnaire comes to the client from the firm, not the
individual, and may solicit comments that the client might not be
willing to express face-to-face. Second, the questionnaire is an insti­
tutional mechanism, and helps accomplish the goal of firmwide qual­
ity assurance, as well as providing a means for the firm to
systematically track its quality performance, watching for trends (and
hence opportunities for improvement that might not be highlighted
with a series of engagement debriefings). Finally, the questionnaire
itself, the act of asking for feedback, signals to clients a willingness to
listen and respond.

68

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

CONCLUSION
The mechanisms described here are not new. Individual examples of
each tactic can be found in many separate firms. In all good firms,
individual practitioners are actively listening to their personal clients.
What may be missing in these firms, however, is a mechanism to as­
sem ble each of these data points, these specific pieces of client intelli­
gence, and transform them into useful information that the firm can
use to improve its performance and plan its strategies.
It is this need not only to get client feedback, but to use it, that
constitutes the challenge to professional firms today. A firm that put
together a full program using most, if not all, of the elements de­
scribed above would indeed have a competitive advantage.

CHAPTER 7

QUALITY WORK DOESN’T
MEAN QUALITY SERVICE

Consider the following scenario: You have had your car repaired at a
new local garage. A week or two later, your neighbor, curious about
whether she should also use this new garage, asks, “Did they fix the
car?” “I think so,” you reply. “It seems to be running smoothly, so I
guess they did a good job.” Then your neighbor asks an interesting
second question: “Did you get good service?” What does this second
question mean? Surely, fixing the car is the service, isn’t it? Well, yes
and no. Fixing the car is part of it, and an important part it is, but by
itself it doesn’t constitute good service.
Your neighbor is asking about a whole range of other activities that
influence your satisfaction with the service providers. Were they ac­
cessible? Was it easy to make an appointment? Did they deal with the
matter expeditiously? Did they take the time to explain to you (in
language appropriate to your level of understanding) what they had
found, what, precisely, they did, and why?
When you first approached them, did they ask intelligent questions
about symptoms, trying to come up with an informed guess as to the
scope of the problem? Or did they just say, “Leave it with us and we’ll
get back to you,” sending you away to worry about how big a prob­
lem you had and how much it might end up costing? Did they make
you feel as if your car was just one more job to be done, or did they

69

70

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

convey the impression that they wanted your business? Did they deal
with you with an appropriate mix of respect and friendliness?
If complications arose, did they make strenuous efforts to contact
you, inform you of developments, and involve you in the decision as
to what to do next? Or did they make all the decisions for you, failing
to distinguish between mandatory and precautionary measures and
leaving you with a feeling that you might end up paying for work that
wasn’t truly necessary? Was it easy to settle the bill and understand
the charges? Did they provide advice as to how to prevent recurrence
of the problem, or to avert other potential problems detected in the
course of the repairs?
As these questions show, the practical meaning of good service in
car repair extends far beyond technical excellence in servicing the car.
It is necessary to service not only the car, but also the customer. In­
deed, it may be more important to excel at servicing the customer.
Many customers are unable to distinguish between outstanding tech­
nical work and the simply competent: In choosing garages, they may
pay more attention to the quality of service received than the quality
of work performed—which, of course, is not the same thing. And even
if the customers are sufficiently sophisticated to distinguish between
outstanding and competent work, their technical needs may call for
only the competent: They know that any number of providers can fix
the car, and, rather than seek out the most highly qualified (and prob­
ably most highly priced) technician in town, these intelligent consum­
ers will appraise providers along a number of dimensions, including
responsiveness, attitude, and other nontechnical “service” criteria.
The lessons from this example extend far beyond the car-repair
industry. They apply to all service industries, and most significantly to
the professions. Firms that provide legal counsel, tax advice, invest­
ment banking services, advertising services, and consulting services all
share with our garage mechanic the need to service the client as well as
the car. The questions posed above could all be equally well asked of
a professional service provider, and they provide a useful guide to the
client’s perception of the quality of the professional service. I, the
client, may think my provider did a good technical job at dealing with
the professional matter, but as with the car repair, I am not an expert.
However, with the unfolding of time I will learn more, as the car does
or does not continue to run well, as my legal contracts do or do not

Qual i ty

Wor k

D o e s n ' t Mean Quality Service

71

result in problems, as my tax arrangements do or do not result in
financial benefit, as my merger attempts are successful, and so on.
But even time may not allow me to judge unequivocally whether my
professional service provider rendered truly superior advice: A large
number of contingencies can cloud my ability to assess the work per­
formed. Even with the most brilliant legal mind on my side, I may lose
the case; even the most superior consulting talent available may not
prevent me from making what turned out to be a false strategic move.
How, then, am I to appraise my service provider?
Whether logical or illogical, sensible or not, even the most sophis­
ticated client will, in such an environment, come to focus more heavily
on the quality of service than on the quality of work. Because of the
ambiguity that surrounds technical excellence (and the difficulty the
client has in appraising it), the personal relationship between the cli­
ent and the provider takes on great significance in all of the profes­
sions.
Just as with my garage mechanic, when I find a professional service
provider whom I trust, in whom I can have confidence, and who pro­
vides me with peace of mind and reassurance, I will tend to remain
with that provider. Indeed, on most technical or professional matters
outside my own area of expertise, I am as much shopping for trust,
confidence, peace of mind, and reassurance as I am for “cold” tech­
nical expertise. As all clients do, I consider style, manner, and, above
all, attitude in choosing professional service providers.
It is important to note that while goods are consumed, services are
experienced. The professional service provider is (or should be) as
much in the business of managing the client’s experience with respect
to professional services as in the business of executing technical tasks.
Much of the previous discussion can be summarized by what I have
come to call “The First Law of Service,” expressed as a formula:
SATISFACTION equals PERCEPTION minus EXPECTATION
If the client perceives service at a certain level but expected something
more (or different), then he or she will be dissatisfied.
The significance of this seemingly simple formula is contained in
the observation that neither perception nor expectation necessarily
reflects reality. Both are experiential, psychological states of mind.
Accordingly, the central challenge to service organizations is to man­

72

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

age not only the substance of what they do for clients but also to
manage clients’ expectations and perceptions. Consider the restaurant
chain that consistently overestimates the time it will take for a table to
become free. They lose some customers, but those who remain are
seated before they expected: a pleasant surprise and a good beginning
to the service encounter. Trivial? Perhaps, but a pleased client is easier
to keep pleased than one who is in a state of annoyance and impa­
tience because he was led to believe that service would begin earlier
than it did.
My late colleague Daryl Wyckoff told the story of checking out of
a hotel in San Francisco and commenting to the clerk on the beauty of
the view from his room window. The next time he stayed there, he was
greeted, “Welcome, Professor Wyckoff. We have assigned you the
room with the view that you liked so much.” A powerful service ex­
perience, and one that is relatively simple to arrange, given the orga­
nization’s desire to please.
The most important of perceptions and expectations is not re­
stricted to consumer services such as these. It is possible (indeed, all
too common in the professional service sector) that the professional
does substantively superior work but that this is not perceived by the
client. Or, in another case, the professional may invest significant
amounts of time and effort in dealing with unforeseen contingencies
but, because the client did not expect the contingencies, he or she is
irritated by the extra delay and expense rather than thankful for the
abilities of the professional.
This isn’t solely a matter of unsophisticated clients being unable to
appreciate what is truly being done for them. In case after case, I have
heard stories (and observed examples) of professionals so completely
oriented to their own values (e.g., pride in technical craftsmanship)
that the clients’ true needs are placed second to the professional’s
desire to create a monument to his or her technical ability. “We could
do great work,” I have heard frequently, “if the client did not keep
getting in the way.” Architects run the risk of falling in love with their
artistic designs, lawyers with the elegance of their briefs, consultants
with the sophistication of their analyses, all to the exclusion of con­
sideration of what the client needs and expects or of how the client
perceives the provider’s efforts.
The need to be “client centered” is a constant theme of modern
management writings, and it is the professional service sector that is in

Quality

Wor k D o e s n ' t Me a n

Qual i ty S e r v i c e

73

most urgent need of hearing this message. Because of the proclivity of
professionals to become more fascinated with the intellectual chal­
lenge of their craft than with being responsive to clients, all too often
clients are mocked for their lack of professional knowledge, despised
because of their demands, and resented because they control the purse
strings and hence the autonomy of the professional.
There is an old saw in the medical profession that the three most
important keys to success are availability, affability, and ability— in
that order. The same profound insight can be equally well applied to
other professions. In all professions, clients gripe that “they do great
work, but you can never get hold of them. They don’t return my phone
calls!” Another common complaint is “I wish they would keep me
informed of progress. This may be just another engagement to them,
but to me it’s critical. I want to know what’s going on.”
This last statement is particularly telling. People and organizations
turn to professional service providers for matters of significant uncer­
tainty, importance, and risk. It is this atmosphere of risk and impor­
tance that makes them prepared to pay the traditionally high fees of
the professional service sector. Whether it is health, legal concerns,
finances, office accommodations, internal organization, or advertis­
ing, clients of professional service firms are almost by definition in a
state of anxiety and nervousness: They need to be confident that they
are in good hands. The slogan of one rapidly growing professional
service firm I have studied is “People don’t care how much you know
until they know how much you care”— a cute phrase but an impor­
tant one. Clients of professional service firms want to know that they
are not being lost in the shuffle. They want to know that their matter
is receiving the attention it deserves. The professional service firm that
is adept at projecting a caring image, and that backs the image up with
a substantive reality, will do well in the marketplace.
The importance to clients of how they are treated is not restricted to
unsophisticated buyers. Consider again our car-repair example. To
the mechanically unsophisticated, good service may mean clean facil­
ities, a pleasant receptionist, understandable explanations, fast turn­
around, and convenient access. To the automobile buff who performs
minor repairs himself, good service will mean the opportunity to be
involved with decisions, to discuss with the mechanics the intricacies
of the problem, and to walk around the repair shop. The technical
neophyte might be intimidated by a dirty-fingered engineer speaking

74

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

technical language; the initiate might be offended by the unnecessary
frills of receptionists, free cups of coffee, and nontechnical descrip­
tions. The point is that both types will be concerned with how they are
dealt with—how oriented the organization is to their specific needs
and preferred style of interaction. Both will be concerned not only
with the content of the transaction— getting the car fixed (or the legal
matter handled or the accounts audited)— but also with the process by
which this is accomplished. Each may wish to be treated in a different
manner, but each will want to be treated well.
In many professions, the importance of understanding that differ­
ent clients want to be treated differently is becoming accentuated.
Corporations are becoming more sophisticated purchasers of profes­
sional services, often with in-house capabilities to handle selected mat­
ters. While in the past a lawyer dealt directly with a senior executive,
outside counsel now often have to work through in-house counsel.
The in-house lawyer is in effect the client and will expect to be dealt
with in a different manner than a general manager. Similarly, in in­
vestment banking, consulting, and architecture, chief financial offic­
ers, planning departments, and facility-planning committees are,
respectively, beginning to act as knowledgeable clients. In all cases,
the message is the same: The nature of the client has changed, and
hence the process of interaction must change. Precise definitions of
“good service” must evolve. The professional can no longer assume
that the client will place trust, confidence, and respect in him or her.
Power, in all professions, is moving from the professional to the
client. The professional firm must increasingly demonstrate a willing­
ness to be cooperative, responsive, and adaptable in order to win the
confidence of today’s client.
What, in concrete terms, can be done? For many firms, a wide range
of seemingly trivial but practically powerful actions are possible. One
lawyer in a large firm relates the following anecdote: “One of our
competitors [in real estate transactions] makes it a common practice
to get a copy of the deal into the hands of their client within twentyfour hours of the closing of the deal. We think we write better con­
tracts with more protection for our clients, but there is no denying
that their clients are impressed. We are told that they have a better
reputation for quality of service than we do.” A fine example of the
gap between perceptions and reality: If my friend’s firm wants to keep

Quality

Wo r k D o e s n ' t M e a n Q u a l i t y S e r v i c e

75

its clients, perhaps it could do a better job of managing the expecta­
tions of its clients—clearly explaining how long it will take to produce
a copy of the deal and why it is in the client’s interest to wait the extra
few days. The key is anticipating the client’s perceptions and reactions
and explicitly dealing with them in advance. The prescription is clear:
Discuss at the earliest possible point all potential roadblocks, detours,
and contingencies that may arise, and make it clear how your firm will
handle them.
There is a danger that in a vigorous attempt to win new clients,
excessive promises may be made, creating expectations that cannot be
fulfilled. One professional I know describes the syndrome this way:
“The most depressing day in the office is the day after we have won a
new client. We all look at each other and say, ‘How on earth are we
going to deliver all we promised for the budget we agreed to?’ ”
Client expectations can also be managed by vigorous efforts at
keeping the client informed as to developments, progress, and discre­
tionary decisions. One professional I spoke with describes his tech­
niques as follows: “Whenever I reach a decision point, I call the client,
lay out the alternatives, make a recommendation, then ask for his
opinion and instructions. Ninety-nine percent of the time, he tells me
to do what I was going to do anyway. But it makes him feel good to be
consulted, and he is taking direct responsibility for specific expendi­
tures and time—consuming activities. He is never surprised by what I
got up to on his behalf, and he is constantly informed as to what I’m
doing for him. If I don’t have a decision for him to make, I call him
anyway just to let him know what the status is. And every conversa­
tion ends with two sentences: I ask if there’s anything else he wants me
to do, and I tell him when I’ll next call him.” This may not be an
appropriate strategy in all cases: Some clients may interpret constant
telephone calls as harassment rather than good service. But it is the
preferences of the client, not of the professional, that should deter­
mine the manner in which the professional behaves. The professional
must discover each client’s style preferences and work to communi­
cate the appropriate attitude. The individual quoted above is con­
cerned that he be perceived as responsive: His telephone calls are but
a way to symbolize that.
Steven Brill, publisher of The American Law yer, tells how pleas­
antly surprised he was on receiving a letter acknowledging payment of

76

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

a legal bill and thanking him for his business: an attitude conveyed
through a simple, trivial action. The business world is filled with cre­
ative examples of this. For example, the hotel room that places a pa­
per strip across the toilet bowl to symbolize that the bathroom has
been sanitized— a reassuring touch. Another example: The car-repair
shop that hands back the burned-out part that was replaced. Useless,
but comforting to know that the part was indeed in need of replace­
ment. Or consider the financial services company that sends a client a
clipping from some obscure financial journal about his or her busi­
ness: The clipping may or may not be useful, but the gesture tells the
client that the company cares. Such trivial actions create the experi­
ence of client satisfaction.
Examples in the professional service sector can be found: The firm
that consistently follows up client meetings with brief memoranda
summarizing the discussion and points agreed to, with a request to the
client to call if any misinterpretation has taken place. The firm that
routinely explains in advance the format of its complex bills so that
the client knows what to expect when it arrives. The firm that ensures
that all referrals from clients are followed up with a thank-you note,
whether or not any new business resulted. The firm that makes the
effort to find out the client’s real deadlines, and works hard to meet
them. The firm that dem onstrates its trustworthiness by advising cli­
ents on how to avoid fees by doing some things themselves, or that
demonstrates its integrity, either by admitting areas of weakness and
recommending other professionals or by refusing work when it knows
it is too busy. Such actions are not matters to be dealt with only by
systems and procedures, although these can help. Fundamentally, they
are the result of an appropriate firmwide attitude toward clients— an
attitude that must be created by the senior professionals of the firm
through exemplary personal behavior and role modeling.
Many professional service firms have procedures and mechanisms
to assure the quality of the work they produce: review committees,
senior-partner oversight, documentation of working papers. How­
ever, relatively few have given much attention to improving the qual­
ity of service. Many firms seek to avoid the increasing price-sensitivity
of clients by trumpeting the eternal battle cry of the professional: “We
must compete on the superior quality of our work, not on price.” An
entirely proper sentiment, but one that can easily be misunderstood
and misdirected. Improving the quality of work can be costly and
hard to demonstrate. Improving the quality of service can be as cheap

Quality

W o r k D o e s n ’t M e a n Q u a l i t y S e r v i c e

77

as instilling more responsive attitudes in professional staff, and it tends
to be infinitely more visible to clients.
In a service business, and particularly in the professions, the words
of the old song remain true: “It ain’t what you do, it’s the way that you
do it: That’s what gets results.”

CHAPTER 8

A SERVICE QUALITY
PROGRAM

The importance of client service is well understood by most profes­
sionals and most professional firms. Most, if not all, firms acknowl­
edge the critical distinction between technical quality (how good is the
work?) and service quality (what kind of experience does the client
have with the firm?). Similarly, virtually all firms acknowledge the
importance of service quality in determining client satisfaction. They
have preached it, internally and externally, for years. It is contained in
most firms’ mission statements and strategy documents.
Yet consistent, outstanding performance in this area is scarce. In a
large-scale study I supervised for a major international professional
service firm, corporate purchasers of a broad range of professional
services (including audit, actuarial, consulting, legal, and marketing
communications services) were asked, among other things, to rate
their experience with professional firms on two key dimensions.
First, we asked them to evaluate their satisfaction with the technical
quality of the work done for them. Satisfaction levels were consis­
tently high. Clients, it seems, do not have too much difficulty in find­
ing technically competent people to help them.
We then asked about the clients’ level of satisfaction with the way
they were dealt with by the professionals involved during the course

79

80

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

of the engagement, transaction, matter, or deal. Satisfaction levels
were low, and complaints numerous.
That this should not be surprising can be tested against your own
experience as a purchaser of professional services. Think back to your
own use of outside professionals (you’ve probably used one or more
of the following professionals recently: a lawyer, a doctor, an accoun­
tant, an actuary, a consultant, an interior designer, a public relations
counselor). Did the professionals you dealt with:
• Make it their business to understand what was special and unique
about you and your company?
• Listen carefully to what you had to say and what you wanted,
rather than substitute their own judgment for yours on what
needed to be done and how it should be done?
• Give good explanations of what they were doing and why?
• Let you know in advance what they were going to do?
• Help you understand what was going on and help you reach your
own conclusion, rather than tell you their conclusion?
• Keep you sufficiently informed on progress?
• Document their work activities well?
• Avoid confusing jargon?
• Make sure they were accessible and available when you needed
them?
• Notify you promptly of changes in scope, and seek your ap­
proval?
• Keep their promises on deadlines?
• Involve you at major points in the engagement?
• Make you feel as if you were important to them?
• Show an interest in you beyond the specifics of their tasks?
• Make an attempt to be helpful to you beyond the specifics of their
project?
My own experiences (and those of the clients I have surveyed) suggest
that it is extraordinarily rare to find a professional who is consistently
good at these things, and even rarer to find a whole firm that can be
relied upon to act in this fashion.
Few of us have trouble citing real examples, not caricatures, of
adverse behaviors that we encounter routinely in our dealings with the
other professionals we use. We have no problem reporting what we
hate about having to deal with “those guys.”

A Service

Quality

Program

81

As it turns out, accountants, consultants, and public relations peo­
ple complain about the same things when talking about lawyers or
actuaries that lawyers and actuaries complain about when referring to
accountants, consultants, and public relations people. What “we”
hate about having to deal with “those guys” is a very good predictor
of what our clients hate about having to deal with us.
What this reveals is that what clients seek from their professionals
has nothing to do with “being nice to the client,” “shmoozing,”
“stroking,” or “hand holding” . Rather, what we are talking about is
finding ways to make client assignments substantively m ore valuable
to clients by changing the way professionals interact with their clients
during the project. Client service is not a “frill”: How a professional
deals with us is an essential determinant of our judgment of value
received.
Unfortunately, it has been my experience in discussing this topic
with thousands of professionals that large numbers of them believe
that client service is about “shmoozing,” “stroking,” and “hand hold­
ing.” Many professionals appear to associate client service with ac­
tivities such as having lunch, taking the client to cultural or sports
events, and so on. With such a view, it is not surprising that client
service is held in low esteem by many professionals, and results in a
low level of performance in this area.
The importance of good relationship management (in the sense in­
tended here) is borne out by another question in the study referred to
above, in which we asked corporate executives about referrals. Only
10 percent of all referrals were found to be cases where technical
considerations or “results” were given as the reason for the referral.
Fully 90 percent of all the reasons given for referrals were related to
the relationship issues discussed above.
Most clients say that if they could find a provider who reliably
behaved in the ways described above, they would be
a. More likely to return to that provider
b. More willing to refer that provider
c. Less fee-sensitive about that provider’s services
There is a paradox here. Service quality is widely acknowledged to be
important, yet the typical firm does not perform well in this area.
What is the explanation?

82

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

The answer is that few firms have any systematic program for en­
suring and improving the experience the client has with the firm. In
most firms, client service is a matter for speeches at annual meetings,
and the occasional training program.
It cannot be stressed enough that achieving excellence in client ser­
vice is not an “educational” issue (i.e., enlightening staff and training
them). Almost all client service training programs, taken by them­
selves, fail to be implemented in the press of daily business. Most firm
personnel, if asked, could easily describe most of the activities that
would represent good service. We must ask why they don’t already do
these things.
Look again at the list of behaviors described above. Do any of those
items take great skill to perform? Are any of them intellectually chal­
lenging? I think the answer is no.
But there are so many items! The bad news about achieving excel­
lence in client service is that it is made up of hundreds of little, trivial
actions, not a few grand gestures. It means rethinking every commu­
nication and interaction with clients, no matter how mundane. It takes
an attention to detail, an attitude, that is essential if individuals are to
find the self-discipline to handle all of their client-contact activities
with empathy.

HOW TO MAKE IT HAPPEN
What many firms have yet to learn is that the issue of improving client
service is overwhelmingly a managerial one. They, and their profes­
sionals, know what good service is, but how do they make it happen ?
What does management have to do to provide the context within
which firm personnel will actually execute and implement what they
already know they should do?
Achieving excellence in client service is similar to people’s desire
to give up smoking and lose weight. They know and want the goal,
they believe it is worth the effort, they know what to do— but, like
all human beings, they are very bad at incurring short-term discom­
fort to achieve a long-term goal. People are terrific at postponing di­
ets. Do they feel guilty that they’re not doing what they know they
should? You betcha! Are they likely to change? Not unless they’re
forced to!

A Service

Quality

Program

83

Sticking to a diet requires a well-thought-out program, a system. It
doesn’t work to preach the benefits: I already accept the goal. It
doesn’t work to just give me more tips: I already know what works.
What I need is a program to help me find the discipline that I seem
unable to find in myself.
Guilt, alone, I have learned, doesn’t change people. But the right
degree of embarrassment does. Tell me I have to show up at a weight
clinic every week in front of the same people and have my weight
announced to all and sundry, and I might find a little more selfdiscipline during the week.
If firms are to achieve excellence in client service quality, a system
must be designed— an inescapable, mandatory diet. Not one that the
firm leaves to each individual’s best intentions. That’s like saying
“Make your New Year’s resolution and we’ll get you on the scales on
December 31. See you then!” That’s not going to work.
What is required is a monitoring system that, like a diet, is often
uncomfortable, will require disciplined changes in daily life-style,
and that will force practitioners to live up to goals they have already
agreed to.
A full program to differentiate the firm through client service re­
quires action on five fronts (in this order):
1. Measurements
2. Management
3. Tips and tools
4. Training
5. Rewards
We shall discuss each element of the program in turn.
M EA SU R ES
As a way of measuring client satisfaction, many firms have, particu­
larly in recent years, instituted various means of obtaining feedback
from clients, including such approaches as engagement team debrief­
ings, occasional managing partner visits, and so on. (See Chapter 6,
Listening to Clients.) However, sensible as these are, I have learned
that they are no substitute for a mailed questionnaire to each and
every client at the end of every single client project.

84

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

A mailed questionnaire, such as that shown in Figure 8 -1 , when
used as a supplement (not a substitute) for other means of obtaining
feedback, has the virtue that it is systematic. Its importance is that it
not only obtains the feedback but, more importantly, it introduces an
accountability for client satisfaction into the firm’s management sys­
tems. By measuring client satisfaction on every assignment, and doing
so in a way that can be monitored, it commits the members of the firm
to inescapable implementation of good service.
The test of a feedback system is thus not whether or not it measures
successfully, but whether or not it induces changes in behavior. There
is a contrast between feedback as a market research tool and feedback
as a management tool. For the former, periodic, selective face-to-face
methods are adequate. For the latter, a program of mandatory ques­
tionnaires is necessary.
Face-to-face feedback devices (engagement team debriefings, senior
partner visits, third party market research, etc.) may generate better
information and may be more welcomed by the client, but they do not
provide a “conscience” mechanism that forces all firm members to
feel personally accountable at all times for executing those actions
that lead to client satisfaction.
Many partners, on meeting this system for the first time, say “If we
ask about these things, don’t we run the risk that we’ll make the client
aware of something he’s unhappy with that he wouldn’t have both­
ered about if we hadn’t asked?” (This question comes up frequently.)
It should be reasonably clear that it is in the firm’s interest for the
client to surface concerns if he or she has them. Only if the client tells
the firm where he or she is less than completely satisfied can we re­
spond. Suppose the client is unhappy about something minor, and
further suppose it’s due to a misunderstanding. Are we ahead of the
game or behind the game if we get him or her to tell the firm about it?
Obviously, we’re ahead!
The system must be designed to make it easy for the client to surface
concerns— hence the virtues of a detailed specific questionnaire and
also the virtue of the mailed questionnaire. (Evidence shows over­
whelmingly that more candid comments are made in mailed question­
naires than in face-to-face debriefings.)
The act of asking can never hurt the firm—except if we fail to re­
spond and deal with the client’s concern. Thus the whole program

FIGURE 8 -1
CLIENT FEEDBACK QUESTIONNAIRE
For each of the following statements about our firm, please indicate
whether you: Strongly disagree (1); somewhat disagree (2); neither
agree nor disagree (3); somewhat agree (4); strongly agree (5)
You are thorough in your approach to
your work

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You show creativity in your proposed
solutions

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You are helpful in redefining our view of
our situation

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You are helpful in diagnosing the causes
of our problem areas

NA

1

2

3

4

5

Your people are accessible

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You keep your promises on deadlines

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You document your work activities well

NA

1

2

3

4

5

Your communications are free of jargon

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You offer fast turnaround when requested

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You listen well to what we have to say

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You relate well to our people

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You keep me sufficiently informed on
progress

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You let us know in advance what you’re
going to do

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You notify us promptly of changes in
scope, and seek our approval

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You give good explanations of what
you’ve done and why

NA

1

2

3

4

5

(continued on next page)

86

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

FIGURE 8 - 1 (cont.)
You don’t wait for me to initiate
everything: you anticipate

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You don’t jump to conclusions too quickly

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You involve us at major points in the
engagement

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You have a good understanding of our
business

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You make it your business to understand
our company

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You are up to date on what’s going on in
our world

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You make us feel as if we’re important to
you

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You are an easy firm to do business with

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You deal with problems in our
relationship openly and quickly

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You keep us informed on technical issues
affecting our business

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You show an interest in us beyond the
specifics of your tasks

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You have been helpful to me beyond the
specifics of your projects

NA

1

2

3

4

5

You have made our people more effective
at what they do

NA

1

2

3

4

5

My own understanding of your area has
improved from working with you

NA

1

2

3

4

5

Overall, I would rate your service very
highly

NA

1

2

3

4

5

Thank you for your assistance. Please feel free to add any additional comments.

A Service

Quality

Program

87

turns on this issue: Are we or are we not prepared to meet and be ac­
countable for these standards? If we are, we should ask. If we are not,
then clearly we should not even consider such a feedback system. It
should also be noted that the act of asking can be a good service action
in its own right (“Hey, these guys care” ), but the act of asking by itself
does not necessarily produce higher client satisfaction— it merely cre­
ates a productive “let’s wait and see” attitude in the client’s mind. What
happens after the feedback is provided is the test of the system.
M A N A G EM EN T’S ROLE
Asking for client feedback and not having the procedures to deal sys­
tematically with the responses is obviously a disaster. Consequently,
there should be no such thing as a stand-alone client feedback pro­
gram. Either it is an integral part of a total quality program, or it
shouldn’t be done at all.
Since the point of the system is to create a conscience mechanism,
how the responses are dealt with when they are returned is as critical
as asking for the feedback. This should be obvious, but I’ve seen more
than one example of a poorly designed follow-through system.
Obviously, each partner and member of the engagement team re­
ceives a copy of their client’s response. The managing partner should
examine each response and discuss the individual replies with the en­
gagement partner (or engagement team). This is time consuming, but
is there a higher-value use of a managing partner’s time? The partners
should agree on which of the following responses the client should
receive:
a. A letter saying thank you for your flattering comments
b. A visit from the engagement partner to clarify areas where the
client is less than fully satisfied
c. A visit from the managing partner
More follow-up is needed to make the system work. The responses
should be tabulated and, every six or twelve months, the managing
partner should discuss the aggregate results with all the partners (and
other staff), explicitly comparing group averages between different
parts of the practice.
This is necessary because of the need to implement an accountabil­
ity system that will have a high probability of creating changes in

88

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

behavior. To create the “right” degree of embarrassment, it is neces­
sary to discuss publicly how different practices are doing, how differ­
ent offices are doing, how responses vary between different types of
engagements.
The results for an individual partner should not be discussed in
public— that’s too much embarrassment— but group averages work
fine. Individual partners must get “embarrassed” in private. Once the
group averages are public, the head of the practice area visits the in­
dividual partner in his or her office and closes the door, saying “Only
you and I know these figures, but here’s how your personal aggregate
scores (i.e., all clients you’re responsible for) compare to our group’s
average. How can we help?”

Administering the Questionnaire
Who should send out the questionnaire? My experience with these
systems (over forty firms worldwide with a variety of professions)
suggests the following procedure. After the engagement partner has
forewarned the client (in person) that it is coming, and explained why
the firm is doing it, the questionnaire should be sent out over the firm
name (with the firm or office managing partner’s name attached), not
the name of the individual engagement partner. This signals to the
client the firm's commitment to quality, in addition to the individual
partner’s.
For similar reasons, the return address should be to the firm—either
the office or firm managing partner. Experience shows that this pro­
motes candor, reinforces the firm’s image and, perhaps most impor­
tantly, introduces a conscience mechanism into the loop, so that each
client service team realizes that their performance in this area will be
monitored.
Experience shows that response rates to questionnaires of this kind
are very high (75 percent plus, plus). If a client does not respond, a
letter asking again for the feedback, reminding the client of the firm’s
commitment, is appropriate. If there is still no response, well, that’s
the client’s privilege.
Experience also shows overwhelmingly that clients appreciate the
opportunity to give feedback and respond positively to the system.
Adverse reactions (“This is tacky, like a hotel chain” ) do occur but at
a rate of less than 1 percent.

A Service

Quality

Program

89

Who in the client organization should get the questionnaire? There
is no reason not to send out multiple questionnaires. Indeed, most
firms find that there is rarely one client on an engagement. Accord­
ingly, the rule should be that at least one must go out, but after that,
the engagement partner and managing partner (or practice leader)
will decide how many questionnaires are appropriate for each engage­
ment.
There is little, if any, downside to asking multiple people, but it
cannot be solely the engagement partner’s decision— bitter experience
has shown that if allowed to, some people will game the system and
only send it to friendly client personnel and avoid unfriendly client
executives, which defeats the point of the system. It sounds paternal,
but this is an accountability system—given a chance, we’ll all find
ways to cheat on our diets unless we’ll be embarrassed if caught cheat­
ing.

Questionnaire Design
Some partners look at Figure 8-1 and say “That’s too much to ask,
there are too many questions.” This is a cop-out. Experience world­
wide has shown that from the client’s point of view, a scaled ( 1 to 5)
questionnaire with twenty-five questions does not take too long to fill
out, and the specificity of the questions both communicates a sincere
desire to probe and allows the client to express mild reservations in
some areas while expressing high satisfaction in others.

Some Cautions
Some of my clients have designed the questionnaire so that the client
feedback system becomes an opportunity to sell more work. There is
grave danger here. It is absolutely true that client feedback systems, if
properly applied, do create additional opportunities to sell. However,
the feedback form must not be used simultaneously for selling.
For the feedback system to work, either in the clients’ eyes as a
sincere desire to meet quality standards, or in partners’ eyes as a seri­
ous attempt to create excellence in service behavior, the quality feed­
back and the selling tasks must be separated.
A quality questionnaire that asks “What else would you like to buy
from the firm?” will be treated skeptically by clients and will divert

90

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

partners’ emphasis away from the key task, which is to earn the next
engagement by raising the value of this one. Selling is, of course, valu­
able, but it works most effectively when it convincingly follow s a dem­
onstration of a commitment to service and feedback; it must not be a
substitute for it.
Many firms have learned that if the enthusiasm of the professionals
for this program is to be achieved, then management must be seen to
be doing its part. For example, there is often a need for expenditure by
the firm to ensure that support systems are in place to sustain a client
service effort. A common prime example is the need to spend money
on telephones and receptionists to ensure that the phone system is
client friendly. These expenditures are m andatory to prove to firm
staff that management is committing itself, not only them, to this
strategy.
T IP S AND T O O L S
Having discussed measures and management, we now turn to the third
element of a service quality program: the development and dissemi­
nation of specific, concrete ideas, to be shared among the profession­
als, for enhancing value to clients during their assignments.
This can be done formally or informally. I will describe a more
formal method, but the goal is the same in either case: to document
and share the best ideas available, so that each professional has a
source of help in finding ways to enhance his or her value in conduct­
ing the client project.
A good idea that has had much success is to form a small team
within each discipline (or service area). Their task is to develop a
proprietary client-service methodology: that is, to come up with value­
enhancing action ideas that are appropriate to the specific discipline.
This methodology should include activities that will ensure that the
way the firm deals with clients during a client assignment is demon­
strably more valuable to the client than the competition’s approach.
In essence, the firm should be creating a differentiation in the market­
place: “We’re different because of the way we deal with you.”
This can be initiated through a detailed exploration of every stage
of a client assignment, identifying every opportunity the firm has to

A Service

Quality

Program

91

enhance value in the client’s experience. It should include, inter alia,
methods for making written communications (including reports)
more useful to the client, ways to involve the client more in the pro­
cess, ways to make meetings more valuable to the client, and devices
for keeping client informed.
In some firms where there is, more or less, a common pattern for
many client assignments, the teams construct a flowchart of the un­
folding of a client assignment, identifying each detailed step where the
firm has the opportunity to influence the client’s experience with the
firm. They examine the flow-chart of client’s experience in order to
identify all “moments of truth.” For each moment of truth, they try to
figure out what should happen: what the methodology for handling
this stage of an engagement should be.
Having identified each step, team members interview experienced
firm personnel to get their best ideas on how to manage the client’s
experience (hot tips). They accumulate and disseminate the best prac­
tices of these top service providers, and integrate these client manage­
ment practices into written operating methodologies.
The team also generates ideas by reviewing the client feedback
forms for common client concerns, and may interview clients as well
as leading discussions in their own departments.
The end product of the team’s labors is often a workbook, contain­
ing both good ideas and a methodology for client service teams to plan
their individual client assignments. Examples of the typical hot tips
are shown in Table 8-1.
TRAINING
In many firms, there may be a need for training programs in clientcontact skills. These should include training in classic client situations
such as “How do you tell a client he is wrong?” and “What do you do
if the client doesn’t like your ideas?” Accumulated wisdom in the firm
on these and other client contact situations should be built into train­
ing programs so the firm disseminates its best expertise quickly.
Training programs divide into knowledge transfer (“here are the
elements of good service” ) and skill building (“we’re going to give you
practice at dealing with this client situation” ). The former can be de­
livered as soon as the methodology described above is developed.

92

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

T A BL E 8 - 1
Tactics to Enhance Client Value
Dictate and transcribe summary of all meetings and significant
phone conversations and send copy to client same or next day.
Involve client in process through: brainstorming sessions; give client
tasks to perform.
Give client options and let client choose.
Explain clearly and document what is going to happen; make sure
process is understood in advance. If appropriate, develop printed
booklet laying this out.
Make meetings more valuable:
Establish specific agenda and goals prior to meeting
Send info, reports in advance—save meeting time for discussion,
not presentation
Find out attendees in advance, research them
Always establish next steps for both sides
Call afterwards to confirm that goals were met
Make reports more valuable:
Get client to instruct the firm on format, presentation
Provide summary so client can use it internally, without
modification
Have all reports read by nonproject person prior to delivery to
ensure readability, comprehension
Provide all charts, tables, summaries on overheads for internal
client use
Write progress summaries in a fashion that client can use
internally without modification
Help client use what is delivered:
Assist client in dealing with others in client organization
Empower client with reasoning steps
Advise on tactics/politics of how results should be shared inside
client organization

T A BLE 8 - 1 (cont.)
Be accessible and available:
Home phone numbers
Anticipatory calling when we’re going to be unavailable
Ensure that secretaries know where we are and when we’ll be
back
Ensure that secretaries know names of all clients; and names of
all team members on the account
Work at getting clients comfortable with “junior” personnel, so
they can be available when we’re not

Skill-building programs will require the identification of classic cli­
ent situations, the development of role-play scripts, and the design of
materials. In some firms, these include a critique of current programs
on “how to handle a meeting,” “presentation skills,” and the like
(assuming the firm has these).
It should be stressed that training in face-to-face client skills is a key
area: These tend to be taken for granted, but can be taught—it’s not
just a matter of “well, this is my personality and style and I can’t
change it.” Skill-building topics included in some firms’ programs in­
clude:
• Learning to persuade, not assert
• Helping clients understand what you’re doing and saying and
why
• Empowering clients with reasons, not just conclusions
• Running meetings in ways that add more value to clients
• Reporting to clients in ways they find more valuable
• Coaching clients to use what we deliver
• Facilitating client’s ability to act on what we deliver
REW A RD S
The final step in a full-service quality program is ensuring that those
who excel in this area (as revealed by client satisfaction scores) are
rewarded, and those who do not are penalized in some way. Without
this step people quickly develop the attitude that: “This service quality
stuff is all very well, but it’s not what the firm really values.”

94

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

It would clearly be a mistake to use the client satisfaction scores in
the partner compensation scheme in the first year of keeping score—
first everyone has to be given a chance to shape up, everyone has to get
comfortable that the data is real and valid. However, this must hap­
pen sooner or later. It is inevitable that once scorekeeping has begun,
the results will influence compensation— and so they should. Is there
anything more "professional” to reward partners for than client sat­
isfaction?

GETTING STARTED ON A FEEDBACK PROGRAM
For any firm without a client feedback program, the first step must be
a controlled pilot program. This is necessary to test some of the claims
made in this chapter, such as:
• Clients are very willing to participate in such a program, and, if
asked, will complete a questionnaire.
• You find out things that trouble your clients that you didn’t know
about, and hence it’s worth asking.
• Clients do care about most of the items on the questionnaire in
Figure 8-1.
• They’ll tell you which questions you should include, i.e., which
aspects of client service they care about.
All these propositions (indeed most of this chapter) can be tested for
your firm by doing a pilot study (perhaps of one subdiscipline).
Once you have decided to launch a service quality program, the
next step is to invite comments and suggestions from partners on what
the questions should be, how they should be phrased, and so on.
You should choose a date six months hence (or so) for the first
questionnaires to go out, thereby giving everyone a fair chance to get
ready and know in advance what they’re going to be held accountable
for. And right at the beginning, you should determine when the first
partners’ meeting will be held to review the first round of results and
the first step of group aggregates.

OTHER USES FOR FEEDBACK QUESTIONNAIRES
Once the firm has established the principle of using client feedback
questionnaires, it will soon be discovered that there is no need to
wait for the end of the engagement to share the feedback form with

A Service

Quality

Program

95

the clients. Indeed there is great power in using it at the following
times:
Mid-engagement, to track “how well we’re doing”
At the beginning of the engagement, to find out which factors this
client really cares about and wants the firm to focus on
In proposals, to prove, through the existence of the system, that we
are different from our competitors

CONCLUSION
For those who consider all of this to be a dramatic change and stren­
uous effort, I invite you to examine Figure 8-1 one more time, asking
yourself the following questions:
a. When you are the client, do you care about these issues?
b. What is your experience in finding providers who excel at this
behavior?
c. Do any of these questions represent an “unreasonable” client
expectation—when you’re the client?
d. How confident do you feel that your firm would outperform the
competition on these questions?
e. How valuable would it be if your firm were to earn top scores on
this stuff consistently?
f. Can you think of another way to ensure consistent execution of
these things?
Yes, the diet is tough. But the health it produces will ensure a long and
prosperous professional life.

CHAPTER 9

MARKETING TO EXISTING
CLIENTS

Most professional firms say that their existing clients represent the
most probable (and often the most profitable) source of new business.
However, when one examines their behavior, one finds that while
they have well-established and organized programs for “new client”
business development, there is little, if any, organized effort to obtain
new business from existing clients. Similarly, most firms’ expenditures
for business-getting (either out-of-pocket expenses or in allocation of
people’s time), are overwhelmingly spent trying to get new clients,
with only a small fraction of the total devoted to winning new busi­
ness from existing clients.
Simply put, firms say they believe one thing, but appear to be doing
another. What’s going on here?

WHY EXISTING CLIENTS ARE GOOD PROSPECTS
The best place to begin our exploration of this apparent paradox is to
examine the reasons why existing clients are said to represent the
“best” source of new business. The possible explanations are many.
First and foremost, it is most firms’ experience that time spent mar­
keting to existing clients is more likely to result in new business: Ex­
isting clients represent higher-probability prospects.
This is so because the ability to win the client’s trust and confidence
97

98

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

is a dominant influence in the sales process of professional services.
Often, this single criterion is the deciding factor in competitive situa­
tions. Accordingly, where the firm is already working for the client, it
has a head start on the single most important purchasing influence,
resulting in a higher probability of success. Other aspects of the sales
process, such as discovering the real (often unstated) client concerns
and needs are far easier to do in an existing client setting. A third
factor which increases the probability of winning new business in ex­
isting client situations is the basic fact that such new-business oppor­
tunities are usually noncompetitive: If the firm uncovers a new need in
the course of its current work, it can often win permission to proceed
with the new work without going through a competitive proposal
process.
A second attraction in targeting existing clients is that, in most
situations, marketing costs to win a given volume of new business are
lower. The firm does not have to spend as much (unbilled) time re­
searching the client and its industry, since this will already have been
done to win the existing account. There will be less need to conduct a
wide variety of activities that are a major part of the new prospect
sales process: awareness building, qualifying activities, comfort build­
ing or investigatory interviews, competitive proposals and presenta­
tions, and so on.
A third advantage in targeting existing clients is that “follow-on”
engagements from existing clients often are more profitable than first­
time engagements from new clients. There is less risk of “write-offs”
of time spent getting up to speed on the client or the client’s industry.
There is less risk of false starts or misspecification of the project di­
mensions, which also lead to written-off time. Being noncompetitive,
the existing client situation usually implies less pressure on fees, and a
greater ability to charge full rates: The client has already been exposed
to the firm and its ability to deliver value for money. In new-client
situations, where the firm and its capabilities are unknown, prospects
will always be more skeptical and fee-sensitive.
A final factor contributing to greater potential profitability with
existing clients is that there is a higher probability that the firm can
work with them, over time, to integrate more juniors into the delivery
of services to the client, by building up the client’s acceptance of, and
comfort with, the juniors. In contrast, a new client may not be fully
comfortable with this new provider, and will often insist on extensive

Marketing

to

Existing

Clients

99

senior-professional involvement. Thus new client opportunities may
be less leveraged than is possible with existing clients, and the higher
profitability that comes with greater leverage is more difficult to
achieve.
A fourth reason to give priority to existing clients is that if firms are
to grow their capabilities, and strengthen their position in the mar­
ketplace, then they must conscientiously pay attention to the types of
work they bring in. They must seek new types of work that give the
firm the opportunity to stretch and build its skills. By very definition,
the firm does not have an established track record of performing this
work, and it is work that is hard to market to a new prospect. How­
ever, once existing clients have developed an appropriate level of trust
and confidence in their providers, they are more likely to “give them
the chance” to work on more challenging matters. It is in the existing
client base that firms are most likely to find the opportunity to con­
duct the type of work that not only contributes to this year’s bottom
line, but adds to its capability to earn more (and higher) fees in the
future: to make a contribution to the firm’s intellectual capital, and
not just exploit its existing capabilities.

THE IMPORTANCE OF WINNING NEW CLIENTS
If existing clients offer such attractions, why is that so many profes­
sional firms devote the vast bulk of their nonbillable marketing time
(and budget) to the pursuit of new clients?
Part of the answer, of course, is that a steady flow of new clients is
important to any professional firm. New clients are needed to “reseed
the gene pool,” by providing new environments for the professionals
to work in, and thus build skills. New clients provide a “freshness,” a
“reinvigoration” that can be motivating to professionals who might
have become overly familiar with existing client situations. There ex­
ists somewhat of a link between the volume and variety of new clients,
and the motivation, morale, dynamism, and enthusiasm of the pro­
fessional staff.
If firms are active in nurturing existing client relations, existing cli­
ents can and do become “saturated,” creating the need for new clients.
Even before this state is achieved some firms are more comfortable
pursuing new clients for fear that if they target existing clients too
vigorously, they may be perceived by existing clients as too “leech­

100

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

like,” putting the firm’s need for additional revenues ahead of the
client’s interests.
Many firms give great priority to getting new clients on the grounds
that new clients are worth more to the firm than the value of the initial
engagement, because they offer the potential for additional future rev­
enues. This simple insight leads to an important conclusion about the
relationship between new client marketing efforts and marketing to
existing clients. The weaker (or more neglectful) a firm is at develop­
ing new business from existing client relationships, the lower the value
(and hence the “return on marketing investment” ) of getting new cli­
ents. The better the firm is at marketing to existing clients, the higher
will be the value of its new client marketing activities.
The issue then is not whether firms should pursue one or the other,
but rather, what the appropriate balance should be in expending the
marketing effort and budget. As noted above, my research suggests
that the balance today is excessively tilted toward new clients and
away from organized attention to generating new business from ex­
isting clients. We must now try to understand why this is so.

WHY IS THERE A RELATIVE NEGLECT
OF EXISTING CLIENTS?
I have learned from numerous conversations on this topic with con­
sultants, lawyers, accountants, actuaries, and other professionals that
primary among all the reasons for the relative overemphasis on new
clients is the simple fact that pursuing and getting a new client is more
fun. New clients provide the “thrill of the chase” in a way that nur­
turing existing relationships does not. Pursuing a new client proposal
opportunity usually has the characteristics of a well-defined, finite
project with relatively clear tasks and specific deadlines. Nurturing an
existing relationship often has few inherent deadlines, little obvious
structure, and more ambiguous tasks. Consequently, it is reported to
me, it is a less “satisfying” activity: It doesn’t provide the same “rush
of adrenaline.”
If this is indeed a basic human proclivity (“We always give more
love and attention to those we’re trying to seduce than those we’re
married to” ), then it is unfortunate that firm management practices
reinforce rather than try to counteract this natural bias. In most firms,
I have learned, there is a tendency to overreward the bringing in of
new clients, and underreward bringing in new business from existing

Marketing

to

Existing

Clients

101

clients. As one consultant expressed it to me, “When a new client is
brought in, rockets go off, bells sound, your name gets in the firm
newsletter and you can bank on a good bonus. If you bring in an
equivalent amount of business from existing clients, the management
yawns and says ‘at last he’s doing his job’ .”
In similar spirit, obtaining new business from existing clients is of­
ten taken for granted: “If we do good work, they’ll give us the new
business, so we don’t need to spend nonbillable time on it.” A related
attitude is: “If it’s an existing client, everything we do is, or should be,
billable. Our marketing takes place on billable time.” As might be
expected, this posture frequently leads to the result that good market­
ing activities don’t get done.
Accounting practices at some firms compound this problem. If all
time spent on existing clients must be accounted for, then things done
in the name of pursuing more business from existing clients often
show up in the accounts as extra costs (and hence lower profitability)
on the existing engagement. As a consequence, the desirable market­
ing activities are not done.
There is something strange in such environments. In the pursuit of
a new prospect, often in competition with other firms, firms appear
willing to spend hundreds of nonbillable hours pursuing opportuni­
ties that have lower probability, happily “giving away” time to bring
in new revenue. But they don’t or won’t invest an equivalent (or
smaller) amount of nonbillable time to bring in an equivalent volume
of new business from existing clients. Existing clients are charged for
what is readily given away to prospects.
Further explaining why firms tend to overallocate time to new pros­
pects, and underinvest in existing client marketing, is the fact that the
types of marketing activities necessary to get the two types of new
business are fundamentally different. As we shall see below, the pur­
suit of new business from existing clients requires an “intimate” in­
volvement with the client and his or her business: It requires getting
“close” to the client, and developing a high level of interpersonal trust.
By contrast, the activities that make up a campaign to pursue new
prospects are less “high-touch,” less intimate, more detached: Doing
research on the prospect (rather than dealing with him or her), writing
proposals, giving seminars, making structured presentations. For bet­
ter or for worse, I have learned that many professionals are more
comfortable pursuing new clients.

102

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

Another key explanation, I have found, is that at many firms, mar­
keting is reactive—that is, responding to an external impetus such as
an RFP (request for proposal). Accordingly, available marketing time
is quickly filled with activities initiated by these external stimuli. Since
existing client opportunities must be actively sought out, and brought
to the surface often before the client is aware of the need, a reactive
posture inevitably results in underexploitation of existing client op­
portunities.

HOW TO MAKE IT HAPPEN
It is clear that there are strong forces biasing individuals and firms
away from the targeting of existing clients. Many, if not most, pro­
fessional firms could benefit substantially from a studious look at how
they are allocating their nonbillable marketing time between new and
existing clients, and deciding whether they could benefit from an ex­
plicit program of targeting existing clients more than they do at
present. It is equally clear that if such a program is to be implemented,
firm management must take some concrete steps to make it happen.
Fortunately, once a firm has resolved to go in this direction, the man­
agement process necessary to make it happen is relatively easy to de­
scribe and to implement.
The process begins with the identification of the key client pros­
pects in the existing client base. As with all aspects of marketing, the
fundamental rule is to focus and target one’s efforts on the best op­
portunities. Accordingly, it is not wise to launch a program of mar­
keting to all existing clients, but only to those carefully selected
prospects where the firm concludes that (a) there are additional client
needs that the firm can serve, and (b) the relationship is good enough
to raise the probability that a marketing effort will pay off.
This review should be conducted by the head of the firm (or office)
with the senior professional responsible for each client relationship.
From this review process should come a ranking and/or prioritization
of the best opportunities.
Next, it is necessary to establish a budget for each target account,
including both out-of-pocket expenses and, more importantly, the al­
located amount of time that should be spent on this opportunity, given
the likelihood of generating this business and, of course, its attractive­
ness.

M a r k e t i nt g t o

Existing

Clients

103

This budgeting should be done on an equivalency principle: First,
figure out how much non-billable marketing time the firm spends to
obtain a given volume of revenue. For example, the firm may discover
that, on average, 100 person hours are spent to obtain a $200,000
engagement. If there are prospects of obtaining a $200,000 engage­
ment from an existing client, then the firm should be prepared to
establish a marketing budget for the existing client that approximates
this amount, usually being a little less because marketing to existing
clients should be more cost effective. As an illustration, the firm might
conclude that the situation warrants fifty to seventy hours in nonbill­
able marketing time for the designated existing client.
Because of the accounting problem described above (confusion be­
tween chargeable activities for the current engagement and nonchargeable time to get the next engagement), it is wise to establish this
“Marketing to Client X ” budget as a separate, formal “charge num­
ber” in the firm’s accounts. Now there is a budget and the firm should
assign responsibility for that budget to the senior professional on the
engagement. That individual is now responsible for two budgets—
running the current engagement for quality and profitability and us­
ing the marketing allocation to maximum effectiveness.
An advantage of this approach is that it provides a vehicle for each
member of the client service team to get involved with the business
development effort. Junior members of the team can (subject to the
approval of the team leader) charge time to the marketing budget
when they engage in activities directly targeted at “developing the
account.” Without such accounts, it is often difficult to get junior staff
members, subject to personal billability targets, to engage in these
“nonbillable” tasks. Since there is only a finite, predesignated amount
in the marketing budget, there is little chance that excessive, unpro­
ductive nonbillable activities will result.
The potential role of junior members of the engagement team in the
marketing effort needs to be stressed. They often have more frequent
and direct client contact (especially in the research and interview
stages of the project) than more senior professionals and are in a bet­
ter position to pick up the signals and clues that the client organiza­
tion has additional needs. One major consulting firm makes it a
regular practice to hold meetings of the client service team every two
weeks, not to discuss the current engagement, but to ask each team
member, from the most junior to the most senior, “What have you

104

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

learned about what is going on in the client organization since last we
met two weeks ago?” Naturally, this practice forces each team mem­
ber to keep his or her eyes and ears open and to operate continuously
with two agendas: performing the current engagement and finding the
next.
Once the budget has been agreed upon, firm management should
require of those senior professionals who are responsible for the “tar­
get accounts” that they formally develop a written marketing plan for
obtaining the target client’s additional business. As with all market­
ing, a written, specific plan (with target dates) provides the structure
and discipline to ensure that the desired activities are actually carried
out. Once the plan has been developed by the account team it should
be reviewed and approved by the head of the firm (or office), and
become a concrete commitment against which subsequent activity can
be reviewed and appraised. While this may sound excessively bureau­
cratic, I have learned that only in this way can the firm ensure that
execution follows. As we have noted above, there is an inherent bias
against this sort of activity, and the (hopefully) continued arrival of
RFPs will continually work to distract senior professionals from exe­
cution of the existing client marketing plans.

DESIGNING THE CLIENT-SPECIFIC
MARKETING CAMPAIGN
If a client service team has (as a rough approximation) fifty to seventyfive hours to spend trying to get more business from an organization
via an executive with whom they already work and have access to,
what should they do with this time to maximize the chances that ad­
ditional revenues will be obtained?
Successful marketing to existing clients, I have learned, has three
basic stages, none of which may be omitted. They are: (a) making the
client predisposed to use the firm again; (b) increasing the firm’s ca­
pabilities to serve the client; and (c) finding and pursuing the next
engagement.
M AKING THE CLIEN T PRED ISPO SED TO U SE
THE FIRM AGAIN
The first element, making the client disposed to use the firm again, is
probably the most critical stage of the process. If the firm is to win new

Marketing

to

Existing

Clients

105

business from an existing client, then that client must not only be
“satisfied” with the firm’s services, but “superpleased.” The pursuit of
new business thus requires that time and energy be expended on the
current engagement, in order to lay the groundwork for the subse­
quent “selling” effort.
The activities involved here are those that most professionals would
acknowledge as good client relations on any engagement, but which
most professionals would also acknowledge are often neglected or not
fully performed. They include going the extra mile on the current
engagement, increasing the amount of client contact, building both
the business and the personal relationship. Some specific tactics for
this stage are shown in Table 9 -1 . None of these tactics are new: What
may be new is providing the budget, the incentive, and the specific
plan to ensure that these activities actually take place. There is a pro­
found difference between acknowledging the wisdom of the tactics
listed in Table 9-1 , and having an organized plan of action to ensure
their execution.
One or two of the activities listed in Table 9-1 deserve some elab­
oration. “Volunteering to attend client’s internal meetings” is a par­
ticularly powerful tactic. As an illustration, suppose that a client
service team learns that its client is holding a national meeting of, say,
all of its branch managers, on a topic that is not covered by the team’s
current engagement. The team leader could approach the client and
say “Would you like me (or one of my partners) to attend the meeting,
free of charge, to be a resource to you?” Many, if not most, clients
would accept such an offer, and the firm is then in the position to
accomplish two important marketing tasks: first, attend a client meet­
ing where the client’s problems, issues and needs are being discussed,
and second, have the opportunity to demonstrate expertise and be
helpful on a new issue. In terms of getting new business, there is per­
haps no other tactic that has as great a return on time invested.
The list of tactics in Table 9-1 include building both the business
relationship and the personal relationship. There is no better way to
build a relationship than to find some way to be helpful or useful to
the other person. To get a favor (the next engagement) one must first
give a favor (do something for the client, free of charge, that demon­
strates both caring and a commitment). It should be stressed that, in
terms of impact, building the business relationship takes precedence
over the personal relationship. Making a friend of the client is helpful,

106

M axaging the P rofessional Service F irm

T A BL E 9 - 1
Making the Client Disposed to Use the Firm Again
1. Going the extra mile on the current engagement
Use new business budget to fund extra analysis
Use budget to im prove turnaround time, service
Im prove quality o f presentation
M ore documentation, explanations, accessibility
2. Increasing the amount of client contact
Telephone regularly
Visit at every opportunity
Schedule business mettings near mealtime
Invite to firm offices
Introduce one's partners
Get firm leaders involved
3. Building the business relationship
Help client with contacts
Put on special seminars for client's sta ff
Volunteer to attend client's internal meetings
O ffer free day o f counseling on nonproject matters
Send client useful articles
I f possible, refer business to client
4. Building the personal relationship
Social activities
Rem em ber personal, family anniversaries
Obtain scarce tickets
Provide hom e telephone number
O ffer use o f firm's facilities

but only as a supplement to, not a substitute for, a strong business
relationship.
IN CREASIN G THE F IR M ’S C A PA B IL IT IES
The second stage of marketing to existing clients is the investment of
time in increasing the firm’s capabilities to serve the client. The goal

Marketing

to

Existing

Clients

107

here is to do those things that persuade the client that the firm’s knowl­
edge and talent not only can be but are customized to the specific
client situation. As in all marketing, new business from existing clients
must be earned, by being seen to work for it. As Table 9-2 suggests,
some of the nonbillable marketing budget should be dedicated to en­
couraging and performing the familiar tasks of increasing the firm’s
knowledge of the client’s industry, business, organization, and the
client himself or herself.
These activities are not just symbolic ways of pleasing the client and
demonstrating interest. If done thoroughly and well, in a planned,
systematic fashion (i.e., as part of a structured marketing plan), they
T A BL E 9 - 2
Increasing the Firm ’s Capabilities to Serve this Client
1. Increasing knowledge of client’s industry
Study industry magazine/newsletters thoroughly
Attend industry meetings with client
Conduct proprietary studies
2. Increasing knowledge of client’s business
Read all client's brochures, annual reports, other public
documents
Ask to see strategic plan
Volunteer to critique internal studies
Conduct reverse seminar
3. Increasing knowledge of client’s organization
Ask fo r organization chart
Ask w ho client deals with most
Ask about the client's boss
Ask about pow er structure
Arrange to meet other executives
Spend time with client's juniors
4. Increasing knowledge of client
Find out precisely how client is evaluated inside his or
her company
Find out what he or she is unhappy with

108

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

will serve to uncover new client needs, reveal areas where the client is
dissatisfied with the current state of affairs (a critical condition for
him or her to commit to a new project), and also provide the docu­
mentation and evidence to persuade the client to proceed in new areas.
In essence, the firm is “preparing the proposal” as it simultaneously
improves its capability to be of value to the client.

FINDING AND PURSUING THE NEXT ENGAGEMENT
The third and final category for which the nonbillable marketing bud­
get can be used is the explicit process of selling the client on the new
project. As should be clear, this task has not been neglected in the first
two stages, which have included the traditional sales tasks of building
trust and confidence, discovering client needs, and demonstrating spe­
cialized capabilities. If done well, the third stage often requires little
time.
If they have not already been done, activities in this stage involve
creating opportunities to demonstrate initiative and competence
(rather than waiting for them to arise). It requires a planned program
of digging out intelligence on new needs, assembling this evidence,
and crafting opportunities to make the client aware of the new need.
Table 9-3 lists some of the tactics that may be employed.

CONCLUSION
It should be clear that few existing client opportunities would warrant
the application of all of the tactics described in Tables 9-1 through
9-3. Rather, the tables should be seen as “menus” from which the best
selected set of tactics can be chosen which (a ) fit what has been deemed
to be the appropriate level of effort in each specific case (i.e., what the
budget is); and (b) are most likely to be effective in the specific client
situation. In all cases, however, some time must be spent on each of
the stages. As a matter of effectiveness, one cannot skip stages one and
two entirely and hope to be productive with marketing efforts solely
from category three.
What should also be clear is that the time spent designing and ex­
ecuting a targeted marketing campaign for a specific client along the
lines described above would indeed be more likely to result in new
work than the same amount of time spent trying to generate new leads
and convert those leads into new clients. As we have seen, both need

Marketing

to

Existing

Clients

109

T A BL E 9 -3
Finding and Pursuing the Next Engagement
1. Creating opportunities to demonstrate initiative and competence
Volunteer services o f on e’s partners
Arrange meetings with on e’s partners
2. Digging out new intelligence on new needs
Use entire projects team to gather info.
Get invited to their meetings
Arrange to meet other executives
Spend time with client sta ff at all levels
3. Assembling evidence of new need
Conduct additional analysis
I f possible, conduct additional interviews
Conduct special studies
4. Creating awareness of new need
Bring problem areas to client’s attention early
(Find ways to worry client)
Document evidence o f problem s
Com pare client com pany’s statistics to others
Share results o f w ork done fo r other clients
5. Finding sponsor/friend/coach in client organization
Figure out w ho wants change
6. Asking for the new engagement at the right time
“Point ou t” opportunities early and often, with no “hard
sell”
Concrete proposal only when confident it will be
accepted

to be done, but firms should not forego the ripe opportunities avail­
able in the existing client base.
A final, mandatory step in capturing these opportunities is to mod­
ify the reward systems of the firm so that each line professional per­
ceives that time spent on this activity is valued by the firm at least as
much as pursuing new clients. Rewards mean not just financial com­
pensation, but celebration, status, strokes, and hoopla. If firms wish

110

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

to capitalize on the new business opportunities available to them in
their existing client base, they must ensure that their management
practices and behavior actively encourage and reward this activity. As
we have noted, there is no, or little, argument in professional circles
about the desirability of the activities described above. There is, how­
ever, significant room for firms to move in creating the environment in
which these activities will actually take place. If professional firms’
management want the substantial benefits that flow from developing
existing client relationships, they can have them. But they won’t occur
automatically: They must be explicitly managed.

CHAPTER 10

HOW CLIENTS CHOOSE

The single most important talent in selling professional services is the
ability to understand the purchasing process (not the sales process)
from the clients’ perspective. The better a professional can learn to
think like a client, the easier it will be to do and say the correct things
to get hired.
Fortunately, this is not difficult. Most professionals have them­
selves been through the process of retaining other professionals:
lawyers retain accountants, actuaries hire consultants, and public re­
lations counselors, like the rest of us, need tax advice. All profession­
als can deepen their understanding of what’s really going on in the
purchase process by drawing upon their own experiences as a client.
Professionals traditionally view their practice development task as
divided into two stages, marketing (generating the lead) and selling
(converting a lead into a sale). From the buyer’s perspective, these two
stages are experienced as qualification and selection.
First, I, the client, try to reduce the large number of possible firms
and professionals that might be considered down to the set of those I
judge to be qualified. In this qualification stage, I consider such facts
as “Who have you worked for?” “What are your capabilities?” “What
depth of personnel do you have?” “How good are your references?”
Except in the most unusual of situations, where the problem is so
111

112

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

complex and high risk that there is only one viable candidate, even the
most thorough due diligence (examination of available facts, refer­
ences, interviewing of candidates, etc.) usually ends with more than
one firm or individual that is technically qualified to handle my prob­
lem. Most typically, after exhausting my abilities as a client to make
technical distinctions, I am still left with a choice of reputable firms
with good references, all eminently capable of solving my problem.
This leads to an important conclusion: Unless their skills are truly
unique, unmatched by any competitor, professionals are never hired
because of their technical capabilities. Excellent capabilities are essen­
tial to get you into the final set to be considered, but it is other things
that get you hired.
Once I have decided which firms I will consider in the final set, my
focus of enquiry shifts significantly. I am no longer asking “Can you
do it?” but rather “Do I want to work with you?” I am no longer
interested in the institutional characteristics of your firm, but am now
trying to form a judgment about you. By the fact that you are sitting
here talking to me, you can assume that you have successfully mar­
keted your firm: now the time has come to sell yourself.

WHAT IT FEELS LIKE TO BE A BUYER
Buying professional services is rarely a comfortable experience. Table
10-1 lists some of the unpleasant emotions that are frequently felt.
For one thing, I feel that I'm taking a personal risk. By hiring any­
one, I am putting my affairs, or my company’s affairs, in the hands of
someone else and have to give up some degree of control. This is my
area of responsibility, and even though intellectually I may know I
need outside expertise, emotionally it is not comfortable to put my
affairs in the hands of others. Even if the matter is relatively routine,
I will need convincing (beyond protestations of good intentions) that
my problems will receive prompt and serious attention.
Pm feeling insecure. Since I find it hard to detect which of you is the
genius, and who is just good, Pm going to have to commit myself
without feeling totally confident about my decision. What is more, I
don’t yet know if I’ve got a simple problem or a complex one; that’s
why I need you, the specialist, to help me. But, I'm not sure I can trust
you to be honest about that: It’s in your interest to convince me it’s

T A BLE 1 0 -1
What It Feels Like to Be a Buyer
1. I’m feeling insecure. I’m not sure I know how to detect which
of the finalists is the genius, and which is just good. I’ve exhausted
my abilities to make technical distinction.
2. I’m feeling threatened. This is my area of responsibility, and
even though intellectually I know I need outside expertise, emotion­
ally it’s not comfortable to put my affairs in the hands of others.
3. I’m taking a personal risk. By putting my affairs in the hands of
someone else, I risk losing control.
4. I’m impatient. I didn’t call in someone at the first sign of symp­
toms (or opportunity). I’ve been thinking about this for a while.
5. I’m worried. By the very fact of suggesting improvements or
changes, these people are going to be implying that I haven’t been
doing it right up till now. Are these people going to be on my side?
6. I’m exposed . Whoever I hire, I’m going to have to reveal some
proprietary secrets, not all of which are flattering. I will have to un­
dress.
7. I’m feeling ignorant, and don’t like the feeling. I don’t know if
I’ve got a simple problem or a complex one. I’m not sure I can trust
them to be honest about that: it’s in their interest to convince me
it’s complex.
8. I’m skeptical. I’ve been burned before by these kinds of people.
You get a lot of promises: How do I know whose promise I should
buy?
9. I’m concerned that they either can’t or won’t take the time to
understand what makes my situation special. They’ll try to sell me
what they’ve got rather than what I need.
10. I’m suspicious. Will they be those typical professionals who are
hard to get hold of, who are patronizing, who leave you out of the
loop, who befuddle you with jargon, who don’t explain what
they’re doing or why, who . . . , who . . . , who . . . ? In short, will
these people deal with me in the way I want to be dealt with?

114

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

complex. You professionals are always making mountains out of
molehills. Nothing is ever easy.
I’m skeptical. I’ve been burned before by these kinds of people. I get
a lot of promises: How do I know whose promise I should buy? I’m
concerned that you either can’t or won’t take the time to understand
what makes my situation special. Will you be one of those typical
professionals who are hard to get hold of, who are patronizing, who
leave you out of the loop, who befuddle you with jargon, who don’t
explain what they’re doing or why, who . . . In short, will you deal
with me in the way I want to be dealt with?
To a degree, I am also exposed. Whoever I hire, I’m going to have
to reveal some proprietary secrets, not all of which are flattering. I’m
also a little threatened. You will be working on things for which I am
responsible (marketing consultants are hired by the VP of marketing,
lawyers by the general counsel, actuaries by the benefits manager). By
the very fact of suggesting improvements or changes, there is the risk
that you will uncover things that I haven’t been doing right up till
now. Are you going to be my ally or my enemy?
What all this reveals is that, among the set of qualified candidates,
I am looking for the one I can trust. The act of hiring a professional is,
by very definition, an act o f faith. I must, inevitably, believe a promise.
In selecting a professional, I am not just buying a service, I am entering
into a relationship. Your selling task is to earn my trust and confi­
dence—with an emphasis on the word “earn.”

WHAT A BUYER LOOKS FOR
How am I to determine with which candidate I want to have a rela­
tionship? Certainly the answer is not contained in the promises you
make. Talk is cheap. Someone who told me “Trust me, we’ll show a
special interest in you,” is not likely to win my confidence simply by
that assertion.
Inevitably, even if I view myself as a sophisticated buyer, I am forced
to rely on clues obtained through the interview process in order to
guess at what kind of person you are. My impressions and perceptions
are created by small actions that are meaningful for their symbolism,
for what they reveal. How you behave during the interview (or pro­
posal process) will be taken as a proxy for how you will deal with me
after I retain you. Unlike the process of qualification, which is pre­

How

Clients

Choose

115

dominantly rational, logical, and based on facts, the selection stage is
mostly intuitive, personal, and based on impressions.
The first thing that will catch my attention is your preparation.
There is little so off-putting as someone who begins the meeting by
asking me some basic facts about my company or situation that she
could have found out in advance. It not only reveals laziness, but
makes me feel like one more “cold call.” You don’t have a special
interest in me, you’re on a fishing expedition, trying to drum up some
revenues. On the other hand, someone who can say “I noticed from
your annual report that you recently opened a new plant. What has
that meant for your department?” has caught my attention. It may
not have been intellectually challenging to read my annual report,
but it shows that you do your homework. It tells me something
about you.
The point can be taken further, for preparation is your opportunity
to demonstrate initiative. Why not contact my industry association
and get some comparison of my company’s public data compared to
that of my competitors? It will help you ask me more substantive
questions, and will demonstrate your willingness to earn my business.
If you want to bring along some printed material, I will be a lot less
impressed by your preprinted brochure than something that has
clearly been put together for me. At least that shows a little thought
and consideration.
Professionals who are overeager to impress, and thereby spend the
whole meeting talking about their accomplishments, what their firm
has done, and why they are qualified to help me come across as in­
sensitive to me, my company, and my situation. It sounds like what it
is: a standard spiel, reflecting no special interest in me. I do not want
to hear about you and your firm, I want to talk about me and my
situation. The only way to influence me is to find out what I want, and
show me how to get it. I hate to be sold, but I may be willing to buy,
if you can show me that I and my company have some problems to
solve or some opportunities to capture.
Getting me to acknowledge that there is an opportunity or a problem
won’t necessarily be easy, because I’m suspicious of your motives. First
you must make me feel comfortable. Perhaps ask me what’s going well.
Give me some new information. Tell me what my competitors are up
to. Tell me what you’ve been doing for other companies like mine. Find
a way to be helpful to me. You’ve got to give a favor to get a favor—

116

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

there’s no better way to win my trust than to be helpful to me right from
the beginning. Someone who brings me new ideas and suggestions,
without pressuring me, comes across as someone who is really trying to
help, and isn’t here just to ratchet up their own billable hours. If I’m
your prospect, treat me as if I were already a client.
Give me an education. Tell me about alternate ways the common
problems of my industry might be dealt with. Help me understand the
advantages and disadvantages of some of the things I have been read­
ing about. Ask me how I am doing things now, and use that as an
opportunity to help me understand some options I may have for doing
things differently. Tell me something I didn’t know. If I walk away
from the meeting saying “That was interesting, I hadn’t thought of
that,” you’ve won. I may or may not hire you today, but I’ll certainly
want to talk to you again. Don’t be afraid to float high-risk ideas early
(“just an idea” ). Demonstrate your creativity.
I discount all your assertions about your expertise until you give me
some evidence to back them up. For example, don’t tell me about your
experience in my industry (or on a particular topic). Rather, illustrate
it by asking questions that reveal your knowledge of key industry
terminology, facts and figures, or latest events. That way, I’ll draw my
own conclusions (which I’m going to do anyway) about how well you
understand my business and my issues.
While I want you to know my industry, don’t patronize me by
trying to tell me what’s going on in my business. Instead of saying
“Here’s the three most important things happening in your industry,”
say “Our experience suggests that these are the three most important
things. Do you agree?” If I agree with you, fine. If I disagree, we can
have a conversation. To avoid coming across as arrogant, patroniz­
ing, and pompous (common experiences with you professionals), turn
your assertions into questions. By doing so, you convert possible signs
of assertiveness into evidence that you’ll respect my opinions, involve
me in the thinking process, and be sensitive to the need for a congenial
relationship. Your manner of speech, how you choose to phrase your
sentences, tells me something about how you deal with clients. Make
our meeting a conversation. Don’t talk all the time, and similarly don’t
grill me.
Show a sympathetic understanding of my role in my company. Un­
derstand who I report to, how I’m measured, what my budgets are. By
asking me about these things, I’ll believe you are treating me as a

How

Clients

Choose

117

person, not just a purchasing agent. This doesn’t mean I want you to
wine and dine me or try to win my business by becoming my friend. It
does mean that I want you to be sensitive to the fact that your pro­
spective client (me) is a person, not a corporate entity.
Don’t start telling me how you can solve my problems until I have
acknowledged that there’s a problem or an opportunity here. Simply
asserting to me that I have problems or opportunities isn’t enough. If
you say it, I can and will doubt you. If I say it, it’s true. The key talent
in good selling is being good at getting me, the client, to reveal my
problems, needs, wants, and concerns. If I’m talking, telling you about
my company and my needs, you’re ahead: if you’re talking you’re
losing. Professionals talk too much. Ask good questions and listen.
As you try to get me talking about my problems, demonstrate your
sensitivity. I do not respond well to someone who asks me right up
front “What are your problems?” That’s too assertive and you
haven’t yet earned the right to an answer. Similarly, don’t ask “What’s
not going well?” I’m not going to answer that. But I might answer
“What don’t you have time for?” I can answer that without feeling
uncomfortable.
While I am unlikely to tell you my problems, I may be willing to
acknowledge problems you already know about. For example, ask me
why we do things the way we do, why we haven’t tried certain op­
tions. Instead of asking “What problems do you have with that way of
doing things?” say “Some of our other clients who do things the way
you do have had to contend with the following issues as a result. What
have you done to deal with those consequences?” That question gives
you an opportunity to show you are familiar with my type of situa­
tion, and it doesn’t confront or challenge me.
If I do begin to show interest in a given issue, your next task is to
convince me (or get me to convince myself) that the issue is big enough
to bother with. Remember, I don’t like working with professionals,
and only do so when I have to. So I’ll only proceed if I’m convinced the
benefit is big enough and certain enough (two separate issues) to jus­
tify the expense, discomfort and disruption of using you. Before I
want to hear how you’ll solve my problem, you need to get me to agree
that it’s worth solving.
Your most productive tactic here is to ask me “How valuable would
it be if . . . ?” and complete that sentence by describing some future

118

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

state of affairs that you can get me to. Help me picture in my mind the
benefits I will receive by reaching that state of affairs. If you get me
excited about the possible benefits (not by asserting them, but by get­
ting me to admit that they would be desirable), I will then want to
know more about how you can get me there. If I don’t acknowledge
the benefit, nothing else you say will be of any interest to me.
If I’m still with you, interested in (maybe) proceeding, I may ask
you how you would go about handling my affairs. Don’t rush to give
me a singular, concrete answer as to “your firm’s approach.” It may
be one I’m not interested in. For example, maybe I want the “perma­
nent fix”—that version of the assignment that deals with the issue
once and for all. Or perhaps I might want the “quick fix”—that ver­
sion that shows results as soon as possible. Perhaps I will be more
interested in proceeding so as to incur the minimum disruption to my
ongoing operations, or concerned about the extent of involvement
and effort required by me and my people.
The key here is to give me options, help me understand their ad­
vantages and disadvantages, and let me choose. If you tell me “your
firm’s approach,” it strikes me as standardized. By educating me as to
alternate ways to proceed, I get value from the education. By letting
me choose, I am also left with the sense that you’re the type of pro­
fessional who will respect my judgment and involve me.
Recognize that it’s unlikely that I’m going to say “yes” or “no” in
front of you. I’m going to consult before I make a decision. So don’t
pressure me. Don’t try any “closing techniques” on me. Give me rea­
sons and reasoning I can use when I consult with my superiors and
colleagues. Instead of reaching for a sale every meeting, make your
objective one of making progress in our relationship. Maybe I’ll agree
to meet one of your specialist partners, or consent to provide addi­
tional information to you, or provide access to one of my other exec­
utives. Perhaps I’ll participate in one of your seminars or agree to an
additional, more focused meeting. Any one of these should be taken as
a success. If you try to rush me, I’ll take it as a sign that you are more
interested in making a sale than in helping me.
I may ask you to submit a proposal, but never forget that since my
ultimate decision is based on who I trust, the sale will be made in the
face-to face time we spend together. The vast majority of professional
projects are awarded at the preproposal stage: the formal proposal
and/or presentation merely confirm (or destroy) a decision already

How

Clients

Choose

119

made. If you can’t afford to spend time, in contact, up-front, don’t
bother writing the proposal.
Here’s what I want if I ask you to make a presentation. Sit down,
distribute your materials in advance, and let’s go through them to­
gether. Don’t lower the lights, put up your slides, stand up, and walk
me through your canned speech. It makes me feel I am being lectured
to. If I want to ask about something, don’t say “we’ll get to that.” It
makes me feel that you’re inflexible.
If I interrupt you, deal with my question. I want to see how you
handle yourself when I ask a question, not judge how practiced you
are at your standard spiel. Most of you rehearse your presentations,
but rehearse the wrong things. I’m not looking for how smoothly you
can get through your practiced presentation. That’s not what influ­
ences my decision. Rather, I give great weight to how flustered you get
when I ask hard questions. Flunk that test, and I’m not sure you’re the
one I want to trust. What you should be rehearsing are your responses
to my questions.
I want you to prove that you can listen, by picking up on my com­
ments, adapting, in real time, what you say to what I’ve just said.
Involve me. Ask what I think. I know someone’s listening to me when
they show the ability to depart from their prepared scripts and base
their subsequent comments on what I’ve just said. If you don’t have
the talent to depart from your script when I throw a curve ball (and
I’m going to), then why should I believe in your abilities?
When I challenge you with an objection, hear it out, don’t inter­
rupt. Don’t tell me I shouldn’t be concerned about that: I’ve just told
you I am concerned. Acknowledge what I said as a valid concern. I’ll
let you rephrase and soften it, but make sure you check for my accep­
tance of your rephrasing. Then give me an answer, and ask me whether
I accept your answer. Don’t try to “survive the moment” by waffling
and moving on. You may get out of an uncomfortable moment, but
I’m going to be left with the feeling that you didn’t answer my ques­
tion—and that means I don’t trust you. I’ll be impressed if you’ve
clearly anticipated me and thought of that objection or concern be­
fore—it shows me that you’ve taken the time to see things from my
perspective. So predict my objections and practice your responses as
part of your preparation—on such things are sales won or lost.

120

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

CONCLUSION
There is an old saying about doctors that they “get fascinated with the
disease, but are not interested in the patient.” Unfortunately, this at­
titude (and behavior) is all too prevalent in a wide array of profes­
sions. Too many professionals get overly focused on technical matters,
and lose sight of the essential relationship nature of professional trans­
actions. This doesn’t mean that technical skill is irrelevant—of course,
it is critical. But having technical skills is only a necessary condition
for success, not a sufficient one. Above all else, what I, the client, am
looking for, is that rare professional who has both technical skill and
a sincere desire to be helpful, to work with both me and my problem.
The key is empathy— the ability to enter my world and see it through
my eyes.

CHAPTER 11

ATTRACTING NEW
CLIENTS

The list of possible marketing tactics that a firm can use to attract new
clients is an old, familiar one. (See Table 11-1.) It is also a long list,
but one to which solid priorities can be assigned. Some simple prin­
ciples can guide the choice of marketing tactics. The first, and most
important, is the “Raspberry Jam Rule”— the wider you spread it, the
thinner it gets. The broader the audience you attempt to reach, the
weaker is the impact. (The rule was originated by Gerald Weinberg in
his book, The Secrets o f Consulting.1) Rather than paying a little at­
tention to a lot of prospects, it is always better to give more attention
to a smaller, well-selected audience.
Second, marketing works when it demonstrates, not when it as­
serts. Marketing tactics that illustrate one’s competence (such as
speeches, seminars, and articles) are infinitely more powerful than
those which assert it (such as brochures, direct mail, and “cold calls”
to “let me tell you more about our firm.” )
Third, “in person” marketing tactics should be given preference
over attempts to communicate with the written word (with one im­
portant exception, discussed below).
The main goal of all marketing tactics should be to get away as
soon as possible from “broadcasting a general message to a wide au­
dience” and move to a highly individualized face-to-face dialogue be-

121

122

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

T A BL E 1 1 -1
Marketing Tactics in Descending Order of Effectiveness
The first team
Seminars (small-scale)
Speeches at client industry meetings
Articles in client-oriented (trade) press
Proprietary research
The Second String
Community/civic activities
Networking with potential referral sources
Newsletters
Clutching at straws tactics
Publicity
Brochures
Seminars (ballroom scale)
Direct mail
Cold calls
Sponsorship of cultural/sports events
Advertising
Video brochures

tween prospect and partner. Since the essence of getting hired is getting
a specific individual client to talk about his or her problems, the sooner
you can commence the dialogue, the better the tactic. Professional
services are not a “mass” business—clients are acquired one at a time,
and any marketing program must reflect this.
Finally, marketing must be a seduction, not an assault. It must not
scream “hire me!” but must gently suggest “Here is some concrete
evidence as to why you may want to get to know me better.” Mar­
keting is truly about attracting clients— doing something that causes
them to want to take the next step (such as telling you about their
problems). Since all clients are skeptical, they need to be given a good
reason to expose their problems to you, and need to do so without
feeling that, by responding, they are committing themselves to go all
the way.

THE FIRST TEAM
The marketing tactics that best meet these tests are small-scale semi­
nars, speeches, articles, and proprietary research. What all four have
in common is that they all involve giving something to the prospective
clients—new facts, new knowledge, new ideas. They pass the test of
trying to capture the market’s attention by “demonstrating” the firm’s
usefulness, not just asserting it.

SMALL-SCALE SEMINARS
Seminars top the list of effective tactics, but only if done correctly.
Some key guidelines must be followed. Since the goal of marketing is
to try to launch individualized dialogues, a seminar must never be
more than twenty-five prospective clients. (If you want to reach two
hundred people, do it eight times!) To maintain the personalized in­
timacy, the ratio of prospects to firm members in attendance must
never be more than five to one.
As soon as you know which prospects are going to attend, you
should instruct your research staff (marketing directors, librarians,
junior professionals, etc.) to conduct the most thorough research
job possible on each company attending. Don’t be hesitant in invest­
ing money here. The goal should be to get all there is to know on
each company (and possibly even the person attending) that is
knowable from the public domain. For example, use computer data
bases, call their industry association, get their 10-Ks, call the Wall
Street analysts that cover their industry, call their public affairs de­
partment to get their product brochures. In short, if it’s available,
get it! Since partners will be too busy to read large volumes of paper,
the research staff should be instructed to prepare an eight-page brief­
ing booklet on what they need to know about that prospective
client.
The seating at the seminar will not be random. A specific partner
will sit with five specific prospective clients on whom she has received
a briefing booklet. Now the partner can begin the conversation with
“As soon as we knew you were coming, we tried to do our homework.
We noticed that you have had this level of court activity, you have
launched three new products, your key ratios seem different from
your competitors’. That must be challenging, how are you dealing
with the consequences?”

124

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

With this opening, something important has been accomplished. By
giving direct evidence of having done your homework, you have given
the client evidence on which to form some preliminary impressions
about you. The prospect will begin to suspect that you are:
• Disciplined and organized
• Thorough and do your homework before meetings
• Enterprising
• Willing to invest in the relationship
• Interested in his business
• Interested in him (or her) and not treating him like a cold call
In short, you’re professional in your approach. Already, you have
distinguished yourself from the typical professional. And the seminar
hasn’t yet begun!
When it does begin, the seminar presenter should speak for no more
than twenty to thirty minutes, and should then suggest that everyone
have small table discussions. Note that the speaker does not say “Any
questions?” The goal is to get the conversation away from twenty-five
to one “in the mass” conversation toward the five to one “intimate
discussion” where people are more likely to open up and join the
conversation. Your partner sitting at each table can now say “Was
that your issue?” If the prospect says “No, that didn’t cover my con­
cern,” your person can say “Well, what is your concern?” Now we
have the client talking about his business— which is the key to all
business getting.
The seminar proceeds in this fashion: twenty-minute presentation,
twenty-minute small table discussions, then back to the speaker. From
the attendee’s point of view, such a seminar maximizes the chance that
he or she can raise specific issues, and hence is likely to be welcomed
by them.
The follow-up to the seminar (the next step in the seduction) should
now be comfortable. Your partner can call those who sat at the same
table and say: “You and I spent the morning talking about the issues
in your business. You said that the seminar didn’t cover certain key
issues and I’ve been back to the office and researched them, and I’d
like to come by and show you my findings.” That sort of follow-up
call is comfortable for the professional and usually welcome by the
prospective client because the partner will be customizing his or her
comments and not wasting his (or her) time.

SPEECH ES
The second major opportunity to “give” ideas to prospective clients,
in order to demonstrate special competence, is to give speeches at
client industry meetings, chambers of commerce, and other forums
where prospective clients gather. The goal of an effective speech is not
to “impress” the whole audience (in case they might ever need your
services). That’s nice PR, but it doesn’t produce much revenue. Your
main task in a speech is to make the handful of prospective clients who
have need of your services today want to contact you afterwards to
learn more.
One tactic to make this happen is to offer to hold a small round­
table discussion for those who are interested, either later in the day, at
a coffee break, or over cocktails. Another is to refuse to hand out
copies of your speech at the meeting, but suggest that those who are
interested can get copies of it by leaving their business card. A third is
to hand out a brief questionnaire and tell the audience that anyone
who would like the survey results should attach his or her card and
you’d be happy to send them the results. In all of these devices, you are
screening out those who are poor prospects (they’re not even inter­
ested in taking one small step) so you can focus your marketing efforts
and time on those few who have expressed interest (the Raspberry
Jam Rule).
What all of these tactics have in common is the seduction princi­
ple—creating a situation where those who are interested (maybe) can,
without commitment or threat, express the beginnings of interest. You
make it easy for them to take the next step toward you without the
fear that they will be bombarded with a sales pitch.
Don’t forget that a speech is inevitably an opportunity to convey
not only your content (and your brilliance) but what kind of profes­
sional you are. For example, someone who reads his or her speech
comes across as insecure and uncertain, and not in command of the
subject matter. Never use a script, and never use notes. If at all pos­
sible, try for audience participation in the form of questions and an­
swers as early as possible (the goal is not to get through your material,
but to create a favorable impression). You want to demonstrate with
your speech that you can think on your feet, you can handle unex­
pected questions, you are interested in listening as well as talking. All
these things are characteristics that a client wants in his advisor—use
the speech to demonstrate that you have them.

126

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

ARTICLES
Although they may fail the tests of being face-to-face and customized,
articles in client-oriented trade magazines and newspapers are a pow­
erful means of demonstrating your competence (and having some­
thing special to say that distinguishes you from the competition) and
hence are very effective in giving prospective clients a reason why they
should talk with you. (Articles written for professional and technical
journals may bring professional glory, but it is articles in the clientoriented press that bring in the business.)
The power of articles derives from the multiple uses to which they
may be put. Apart from the distribution they receive from their initial
publication, they may be reprinted and handed out at speeches and
seminars, and they can be a powerful substitute for brochures. How
much more effective it is when a prospective client makes an enquiry
to say “Yes, we’ve written a few articles on that subject, let me send
them to you” than to say “Here’s our brochure!” The life of a wellwritten, reader-friendly article can be many years.
Articles can have a credentializing effect. Since many if not most
professionals do not write for the client press, what begins as “an”
article on a subject can easily become “the” article. Over time, articles
can be accumulated into a bound book which, though less likely to be
read from cover to cover, helps to create the image that the firm “wrote
the book” on a given area of practice.
Getting ideas for articles is rarely a problem. Most effective articles
are 2,000 to 5,000 words of the form “If you have the following issue
to address, here are the pros and cons of your major alternatives, here
are some things to take into account, and here are some lessons we’ve
learned recently about the best way to proceed.” By implication,
though never explicitly, the article suggests “. . . and if you’d like to
hear more, call me!” There must, of course, be enough substantive
content to make the reader want to call.
The power of articles is such that it would be wise to set a target of
one article per year per professional. In a medium-to-large firm, this
would represent a significant amount of market exposure. The limi­
tation on accomplishing this is not things to write about. Most pro­
fessionals learn something in a year of practice that would be of
interest to prospective clients. Rather, the limitation is discipline: the
act of writing. To address this barrier, many professional firms make

Attracting

New

Clients

127

available to their partners free-lance journalist ghostwriters who do
the actual writing subject to the partners’ dictating and editing.

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH
If the goal of marketing is to demonstrate that you have something to
offer that your competitors do not, conducting research on topics of
interest to prospective clients is an obvious, if neglected, tool. Though
discussed here last, research logically precedes the three main tactics
of seminars, articles, and speeches. For each of these to be effective,
you need to have special information. If you do have special informa­
tion facts they cannot get elsewhere, prospects will come to your sem­
inar. If the planned content covers what any competitor could present,
they are unlikely to come. (It’s usually a good idea to charge for a
seminar: It forces you to ensure that you have something special to
say, and that there’s real value in the content. It also helps you ensure
that those who attend are good prospects in that they are willing to
pay to discuss the topic.) If you have special information, your articles
and speeches will be listened to with interest. (Clients today are bom­
barded with articles, speeches, and seminars that contain generalities
and do not distinguish the author or presenter from any of his or her
competent competitors.)
What kind of special information can you collect that your com­
petitors do not have? Obviously, it might be technical or professional,
but it can also be general survey research. Imagine, for example, that
you have conducted an opinion survey of all the executives in a given
industry, and asked them to prioritize the trends they worry about
most, list the tactics they make greatest use of, identify which devices
they have made use of, and so on. You are now in a position to report
that X percent of executives in a given sector have tried Y, Z percent
think that these are the most threatening issues, and so on. The infor­
mation may not be very technical or professional, but you will have
created a set of facts that any prospect would like to obtain, since
every company would like to know how it compares to others. (Ask
yourself how often you have heard clients ask “Who else is doing
this?” “What are other companies doing?” “How do we compare to
other clients of yours?” )
A number of professional firms are very organized in this area, and
have used it to great effect. Some, for example, get client industry
associations to sponsor (and guide) the research, creating two won-

128

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

derful benefits: First, a patina of “official research” is created, posi­
tioning the firm as a primary source of information for clients; and
second, the industry association will sometimes underwrite part or all
of the cost of the research. Apart from its support of articles, seminars,
and speeches, research can also provide the substance for getting
quoted and other public relations, although this is a lesser side benefit.

THE SECOND STRING TACTICS
In stressing the importance of seminars, articles, speeches, and re­
search, I do not mean to imply that other marketing tactics do not
work. They all work, to a degree. Rather, the issue is one of effective­
ness and return on investment—which tactics should come first. This
needs to be stressed as we turn to the tactics of community and civic
involvement, networking with potential referral sources (such as
bankers, etc.). In many professions these tactics have been the tradi­
tional mainstays of business development. Every firm has a major
rainmaker who seems to collect business on the golf course, on the
opera board, at the cocktail party.
Such activities can be powerful, especially in smaller communities.
They have the virtue that they are face-to-face in approach, are not
“broadcasting” in nature, and usually are appropriately conducted as
a slow courtship. However, I relegate them to the second tier for one
simple reason: while the return may be there, the required time invest­
ment is high. No one wins new business quickly through networking
and community activities. The payoff comes after many patient years
of getting to know people. Further, my observation of shifts in client
buying patterns suggests that “purchasing” professional services is
becoming more formal, and fewer deals are done today on the golf
course.
The message is simple: if you’re doing the articles, speeches, and
seminars, by all means get involved in community activities. It’s a
wonderful add-on, but a poor substitute.
Also in the second-tier category are newsletters. In principle, these
should be effective marketing tools, since they represent a form of
demonstrating competence, even if they are not face-to-face or cus­
tomized. However, they lose their effectiveness for a variety of rea­
sons. First, so many firms are using this device, that clients and
potential clients tend to receive remarkably similar newsletters with

Attracting

New

Clients

129

the same information (which probably means that you need to have
one, but it won’t buy you much by itself). In numerous client panels I
have conducted, I have frequently heard clients complain, “Don’t just
send me your latest firmwide or practice-wide update on latest devel­
opments—it’s too generic! What I really want [to get] is an interpre­
tation of what it means for my company. ”
A similar problem derives from the fact that newsletters are often
published on a regular schedule, and this, almost inevitably, leads to a
deterioration in quality. A newsletter is put out not because the part­
ners have something new to say, but because it’s time to put an issue
out. Done well, a newsletter can be powerful. But like a good article,
it must have real substance, a point of view, and offer an interpreta­
tion of recent events, not just an unprocessed reporting of them.

“CLUTCHING AT STRAWS” TACTICS
When getting organized for marketing, many firms think first about
publicity: getting quoted and getting stories on the firm into the busi­
ness press. For many years, I took it on faith that this must be a pow­
erful tactic, since so many firms spend so much money here. However,
over time, I have come to learn that while being quoted and profiled is
nice (my mother and my clients’ mothers like it), it has rarely proven
to be a significant source of new business. It’s good for the ego, but it
doesn’t do that much for the pocketbook. (One of my clients was
profiled on the front page of the Wall Street Journal and received one
phone call as a result.) As always, the message here is not to avoid the
press, nor is it to spend nothing on publicity. Simply stated, this is
what you do if and only if you have money and time left after doing all
of the above.
In a similar vein, I have always been surprised at the emphasis that
professional firms have given to brochures. In many firms, it appears
that these are viewed as a primary marketing tool. Of course, they are
not. They are the glossy equivalent of a business card. You almost
certainly need to have one, but it won’t do much for you.
Nearly all brochures contain grandiose assertions, and little dem­
onstration of competence. They also frequently break the first rule of
selling: “Stress benefits not features,” that is, talk about what you can
deliver for the client, not the characteristics of your firm. They also
break the Raspberry Jam Rule: They list long lists of specialties, trying
to impress the reader that they can (and do) do almost anything. Of

130

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

course, the effect on the reader is quite the opposite: the longer the list
of competencies asserted, the more the reader is left with the impres­
sion that the firm does not have a special interest in the area of the
client’s specific problem.
If you are going to use brochures, it might be helpful to keep two
guidelines in mind. First, having many practice area brochures is bet­
ter than having one firmwide brochure. Practice area brochures can be
targeted more to the special needs of the reader. Second, the inclusion
of specific, real case histories (disguised if necessary) allow you to
illustrate what you have done (rather than stress generalities) and
stress the benefits obtained for the client.
Also in the “clutching at straws” category are ballroom-scale sem­
inars, where success is measured by the number of people who come
to listen to you. These can be worth doing, but only as general public
relations. You may raise your “name recognition,” and that’s not bad,
but you won’t get much revenue. If you’ve done all of the above, do
this. If not, skip it.
Direct mail is also generally an ineffective tactic, although it can
become effective under one condition. First, it depends what you send
out. If you send out a firm brochure, or other literature of a solicita­
tion nature, it is unlikely to yield any result. However, if what you
send out has a chance of being of value to the recipient (a research
study, an article, etc.), then there is a slight chance that it will be read
and that you will receive a response. Although it truly is clutching at
straws, if you’ve got the “helpful material” then it is relatively inex­
pensive (i.e., requiring no partner time) to mail it out.
Do cold calls work? Yes, everything works sometimes. Is it a good
investment of partner time to telephone, unsolicited, potential clients?
Almost certainly not. Some large firms have added this to their mar­
keting mix, and report that if a meeting can be arranged, and if re­
search on the prospect is done prior to the meeting, then a customized,
face-to-face conversation can take place. However, I see little evidence
that this tactic should precede any of those higher on the list.
Should you sponsor cultural/social events or PBS programs? Should
you advertise? Sure, if you’ve got money to spend. Are these things
better than articles, seminars, and speeches? Heck, no.
Finally, what about the latest idea, video brochures? I’ve seen a
couple of effective ones. What made them effective was that they pre­

Attracting

New

Clients

131

sented case histories, including client interviews (with an implicit tes­
timonial), telling the story of a difficult case and how the firm tackled
the issue, dealt with the client, and brought about a wonderful result.
They were dramatic, fun to watch, full of detail, and showed how the
partners and client worked together. They left the viewer feeling “If
they can do that for that client, maybe they can do that for me!”
Unfortunately, I’ve also seen deathly boring video brochures telling
the viewer about our fine firm, showing the dots on the map where we
have offices (including all the foreign countries where we have corre­
spondent relationships) and listing the two hundred services we pro­
vide. How many times does it need to be said? Boasting doesn’t sell.

CONCLUSION
What is eternally fascinating to me is that when I poll partners in
individual firms as to which of the tactics they think really work, their
order of priorities is rarely much different from that presented here.
However, when I ask where the marketing resources are actually go­
ing, I find an abundance of “clutching at straws” tactics and a signif­
icant underinvestment in “first” team tactics. The issue, as I see it, is
for firms to begin implementing what they say they believe.
Another challenge is presented by the fact that many firms are em­
ploying the right tactics, but in a disorganized way—a seminar for this
audience, a speech to that target group, an article aimed at a third part
of the market. This is clearly inefficient and ineffective. No one tactic,
no matter how well executed, will work alone.
The seduction or courtship that marketing should be requires a
planned, organized, sequence of events, gently drawing the client into
an ever deeper interest in you and your firm. Done right, a planned
mix of marketing activities aimed at a consistent audience can make
you irresistibly attractive, and lead the clients to the right conclu­
sion—that it is with you that they want to have a relationship.

CHAPTER 12

MANAGING THE
MARKETING EFFORT

Some time ago, I was conducting a weekend-long workshop with a
major professional service firm on the topics of marketing and selling
their services. Many subjects were covered, including strategic posi­
tioning, targeting of key prospects, selling skills, client service, and the
relative merits of seminars, brochures, and newsletters.
Toward the end of this two-day workshop, one of the participants
stood up and said, ‘This has all been very interesting, but you have
just confirmed what we all already knew about this subject. Why don’t
you ask us why we haven’t been doing it?”
This challenge sparked a spirited discussion that led to a litany of
managerial, operational, and personal reasons that had impeded these
professionals from executing past marketing initiatives. Indeed, they
did already know what they should and could be doing, but had not
implemented what they knew.
This same pattern has been repeated time and again within profes­
sional firms. Past attempts at organizing marketing efforts simply have
not delivered results, in spite of a good understanding of “what
works.” From these experiences, I have learned that, for many pro­
fessional firms, the “marketing problem” is frequently not really
about marketing. Rather, it is a managerial problem: how to ensure
that “things happen.”
133

134

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

THE PROBLEM
The central issue, I have learned, is that, in most firms, billable time is
carefully monitored, but marketing time is considered “extra.” Mar­
keting activities represent an investment, requiring nonbillable time to
be spent with uncertain, long-term results, and few firms are well or­
ganized to manage their investment activities. Billable time has a high
profile and receives close attention; nonbillable time is a disorganized
jumble of sometimes productive, often times nonproductive activities
that no one understands (or cares to tackle).
Some firms attempt to “manage” their marketing by rewarding
marketing successes (“We reward results; effort is rewarded in
heaven” ). This, I have learned, is insufficient. Many professionals,
especially those unsure of their abilities in marketing, view invest­
ments in marketing, even where there is a reward for success, as a
more risky way to spend their time than the more certain path of
staying highly billable. Rewarding results only is no way to encourage
marketing novices to participate.
There is also the problem of recognizing teamwork. If marketing
success is rewarded, who then gets the credit for organizing a seminar,
writing an article, giving a speech? Each of these may have played an
important role in landing new assignments, but it can be very difficult
to attribute any particular new piece of business to any one of these
activities. As a consequence, there may be many volunteers to partic­
ipate in a concrete, specific proposal, where the efforts and result are
highly visible, but a reluctance to accept responsibility for the back­
ground efforts (such as conducting proprietary research) that gener­
ate the opportunities to propose.
An additional problem in many firms’ approach to rewarding re­
sults is that success in winning new clients is often rewarded more (or
at least achieves higher visibility and is celebrated more) than winning
new business from existing clients. Professionals often “know” that
their existing clients represent the best source of new business, but are
lured by the reward systems of the firm to devote their energies to
trying to win “origination credits” by landing new clients.
The result of all of this is that many marketing activities go ne­
glected, unmanaged, or uncoordinated. Each professional decides
whether or not to participate, and which activities to engage in. The

Managing

the

Marketing

Effort

135

result is a somewhat random allocation of the firm’s marketing invest­
ment. Certain high-visibility activities often receive excess investment,
while others, frequently crucial to the firm’s success, are neglected.

MANAGING THE EFFORT
The solution to the problem is for firms to learn how to manage their
marketing efforts, not just results. In doing so, all senior professionals
need to be involved. There is a common misconception that marketing
and selling are specialized skills possessed by a limited number of
professionals (“natural rainmakers” ). This view ignores the fact that,
to develop its practice, a firm needs to invest in a wide range of activ­
ities, each of which requires a different set of skills and behaviors. For
example, most firms should invest some of their nonbillable market­
ing time in:
• Writing articles
• Spending time with executives of existing clients, to understand
their business better and to win follow-on assignments
• Conducting publishable proprietary research
• Organizing and delivering seminars
• Giving speeches
• Gathering market intelligence on new needs by, for example, at­
tending client industry conferences
• Community involvement and networking
None of these activities requires “rainmaking skill” (whatever that
is). Each requires a very different skill. Participating in a winning pro­
posal is often where the glory is in many firms, but it should be seen
for what it is: the culmination of a marketing process, not the end-all
and be-all of marketing. A professional who cannot “sell” may nev­
ertheless be perfect to write an article that, when published in a client
magazine, gains the firm significant attention. Someone else may be
perfectly suited to developing and organizing a seminar that another
person would better at delivering.
The central point is that practice development is inherently a team
activity. No one person is likely to have all the skills (let alone the
time) to perform all of the steps necessary to develop the practice.
Rather, firms need individuals to cover all the bases: existing clients as
well as new, generating leads as well as pursuing them, back-room
preparation as well as public presentation.

136

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

A first step is to adopt a policy that each and every partner is ex­
pected to contribute in some way to the marketing effort. Specifically,
I recommend setting a minimum time allocation for each and every
partner to invest in practice development. Knowing that all of one’s
peers will be investing roughly the same amount of time can be very
motivating in ensuring diligent execution of marketing tasks. Partners
are not told which activities to do. To a large extent, they are free to
play to individual strengths. But everyone must do something.
In most firms, this could and should involve senior nonpartner staff,
who are a vastly underused resource in business development. There is
a clear merit in starting to build practice development skills early in a
professional’s career. While they may not be ready to participate in,
say, giving speeches, they can be well used in other activities such as
article writing, preparation of seminars, researching client needs, and
the like.
For example, a perfect place to get junior professionals (and other
marketing novices) involved is with existing clients. Frequently, firms
attempting to obtain greater involvement in practice development find
that there is less resistance to (and more enthusiasm for) learning the
best ways to maintain good client relations than there is to learning
“how to sell.” Yet the skills are the same. Professionals who are good
at client counseling are the same ones who excel at selling. Both areas
require the same set of skills: understanding the client’s business, lis­
tening, asking the right questions, persuading, and following through.
If firms wish to get more people involved in practice development,
they should reward marketing experimentation and not just success­
ful experiments. Anyone learning a new skill will suffer early failures
and temporary setbacks. To encourage perseverance, firms should
concentrate as much on praise and recognition for the quality of effort
as they do for immediate results. In doing so, they help breed the
activity that builds skills and hence leads to future success. Managing
efforts rather than results means that marketing cannot be “managed
by the numbers.” A structured, highly personal and interpersonal pro­
gram must be devised.

THE POWER OF THE SMALL TEAM
To manage a marketing program successfully, firms should organize
teams of professionals who, together, design and execute their own

Managing

the

Marketing

Effort

137

marketing action plan. The benefits of small-group teamwork are
many.
The existence of many small teams (rather than a few large ones)
both permits and encourages a high degree of focus in marketing ac­
tivities. Individuals are allowed (if not required) to pick the team that
interests them most: one focused on a target industry, perhaps, or a
particular specialty. By becoming a member of a specific team, with
specific colleagues, focused on a specific target client group (new or
existing), they avoid the isolation of being left alone to do something
in marketing (often without guidance), and also escape from being
one among a large horde all jointly responsible for a huge (and illdefined) marketing task. The structuring of teams with a specialized
marketing focus (not just generalist groupings) will improve the
chance that marketing time will be used productively.
By pooling their available nonbillable practice development time, a
team can create an investment budget that is of sufficient scale to be
allocated sensibly across the range of marketing activities required in
their specific segment. (Obviously, the marketing plans of different
teams will include different activities, depending on the need of their
market). A well-orchestrated campaign is now possible. This ap­
proach avoids the (common) syndrome where, as an example, a pro­
fessional may not find it in his or her best individual interest to try to
put on a seminar, but will willingly accept this role as a contribution
to a team effort.
Teams that have developed a joint plan and allocated responsibil­
ities among themselves tend to keep each other honest: the planned
activities have a higher probability of being executed if there is an
obligation to one’s peers (and not just to firm management). In addi­
tion, small teams provide an excellent vehicle for coaching, mentor­
ing, and the transfer of skills. They provide a route for marketing
novices to work together with experienced rainmakers, without being
a burden on the latter. They provide the supportive framework for
individuals with little or no marketing experience to begin to partic­
ipate.
Small teams also allow a degree of team spirit and competitiveness
between teams that, if managed well, can be energizing without de­
stroying collaboration and firm feeling. For example, simply publish­
ing and discussing the level of activity of each team (not just team
results) on a regular basis (say, quarterly) can cause an extra degree of

138

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

added motivation to follow through on commitments. If each team is
asked to report on its activities at regular partner meetings, teams will
act as consciences to each other.
In designing teams, care must be taken to join together partners
who truly have a shared interest in a common market segment or
practice specialty. For this reason, it is best to allow people to decide
for themselves which team to join. For teams to work, the members
have to be interdependent on each other to achieve their personal
goals: they must be real teams. When team assignments are handed
out by others, too often they end up being teams in name only, with
members perceiving no practical business purpose for being on the
same team.
Team assignments do not have to be, and should not be permanent.
Group thinking can become stale and inertia can set in. If this hap­
pens, firms should shake up teams by creating new ones—task forces
of partners who don’t normally work together.
How the teams are managed is important. Each team should be
required to develop a concrete plan of action, showing specific steps to
be accomplished by each individual. These plans are then reviewed
with a managing partner or practice leader, who accepts only strong
commitments to action. Too often the marketing plan is a wish list of
goals (e.g. “raise awareness of the practice” ), instead of what it should
be: a listing of concrete actions that can be monitored to see if they
were executed or not.
Team plans should show a specific time budget for the designated
actions. This is necessary to ensure that the plans are reasonable. Two
tests must apply. First, each proposed action needs to have sufficient
time budgeted to do it well. This seems trivial, but I have observed
many marketing plans with a list of actions that clearly could not be
fulfilled in the time available. Naturally enough, the team failed to
complete the actions, became dispirited, and abandoned the whole
effort. As is always true of management, the job of the managing
partner or practice leader is to ensure that stretching but attainable
goals are set.
The second “time test” is to look at the total budgeted time for the
team, and compare it to the total available marketing time. Clearly, it
would not be wise to schedule, in advance, all of the team’s marketing
time, since that would not allow for unforeseen proposal opportuni­
ties, new existing client requests or any of a host of other required

Managing

the

Marketing

Effort

139

marketing activities that cannot be predicted. I have learned that, as a
rule of thumb, it is wise to schedule approximately two thirds of the
available marketing time for planned marketing activities, saving one
third for unforeseen opportunities. While situations differ, I believe it
is wise to plan for three months at a time. This will require a review of
progress (and a possible reshuffling of priorities) four times a year—
frequent enough to make the oversight real, but long enough to exe­
cute most planned activities.
The managing partner or practice leader exercising the oversight
function for the team can also critique the plan according to the allo­
cation of investment time given to various categories of marketing
activity. Has the team got the balance right between investing in new
and existing clients? Between generating opportunities and saving
enough time to do an effective selling job when they do have a lead?
Should the team focus on fewer targets and devote more time to each,
or vice versa? If action plans are developed and discussed in advance,
significant influence (if not control) can be exercised over where the
firm’s marketing investments are going.
The system should be built on “contracts for action” to secure
strong commitments, ones that can be monitored and that profession­
als will follow through on. Negotiating these contracts with the team
will force tough choices among competing marketing priorities, and
will focus attention on those few activities that will actually get done.
Team leaders must make sure that each part of the marketing plan is
assigned to a specific individual. What is everybody’s responsibility is
truly nobody’s. So, team members should be asked to specify what
their individual action responsibility is in their personal contract of
action, and how their activities will fit with the team plan.
Through negotiation of these contracts, firm leadership can gain a
better understanding of the personal goals, strengths, and direction of
each professional. Over time, firm management (and team leaders)
can better align the individual’s actions and interests with others who
can be valuable to him or her, and find better ways to provide support.
Partners (and teams) should aim for small improvements and build
from success. Business development is a new experience for many
professionals, and a painful stretch for some. It is also an activity full
of rejection and disappointments. Getting beyond these setbacks is
difficult for many professionals. One-on-one supportive coaching is

140

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

needed, a critical role for each team leader. If people are to learn new
skills, it is not enough to set goals and monitor them.
Team and individual results should be monitored through face-toface methods, with a practice manager outside the team reviewing
plans, activities, and results. Memoranda and statistical reports are
too easy to “file and forget,” and don’t tell the whole story of what
was done, what succeeded, and what did not. It is therefore necessary
to use peer group meetings and one-on-one sessions to act as a con­
science, review results, and set new goals. Only in this way can team
motivation be maintained, by demonstrating that “the firm” notices,
cares, and appreciates what is being done.

CONCLUSION
If marketing is an investment activity, it should be managed as such.
My experience suggests that most firms’ marketing problem is not
that they spend too little time marketing, but that, because of the lack
of organization, much of the time they do spend is wasted. With large
numbers of partners, each making independent decisions on how
much time to invest, where to invest it, and how to invest it, an un­
productive jumble of activities results.
The small-team approach suggested here is very simple to imple­
ment. It requires only that a firm organize small teams, require each
team to submit of a concrete plan of action specifying what will be
done by each team member, and then monitor progress against that
plan. As simple as this is, many firms fail to achieve even this level
of organization. If they choose to follow this approach, they will be
able to:
a. Plan their investments, ensuring that effort is going in the ap­
propriate areas
b. Encourage broader participation in the marketing effort
c. Monitor that planned activities really do take place
d. Allow each professional to play to individual strengths
The steps are simple, and the payback significant.

PART THREE

PEOPLE MATTERS

CHAPTER 13

HOW’S YOUR ASSET?

At the end of my first full year as a management consultant, at the age
of 3 9 , I decided to take stock. How healthy was my career? I quickly
discovered a disturbing paradox. My income statement was fantastic,
but my balance sheet was deteriorating so badly I was in danger of
ruining my career, of going out of business.
Just before starting my consulting career I had published a few
articles which had caught the attention of my target clientele, and I
also had the advantage of having been a faculty member at the Har­
vard Business School for the previous six and a half years. The con­
sequence was that I was incredibly busy. What is more, I had to do no
practice development (otherwise known as marketing and selling),
because the phone constantly rang with requests for me to do work in
the area in which I had built my (budding) reputation.
I was not only very busy (“highly chargeable” ), but, because I was
being hired to do things that I already had a reputation for, I had
relatively few problems with fee levels (I had a “high realization per­
centage” ). I made a lot of money, more than I had hoped for. All
seemed to be going very well.
But was my business (and/or my career) truly healthy? I remem­
bered my business-school training, which taught me that to judge the
health of a business you had to look at the balance sheet as well as the
143

144

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

income statement. What made up my balance sheet? I could think of
two groups of assets for a professional. (We’ll ignore for the moment
my liabilities, particularly the personal ones.)
The first group of assets on which my career was based was my
inventory of knowledge and skills. Professionals get paid for their
time, but that’s not what we sell. We sell knowledge and skill. The
second (potential) asset was my client relationships. Much to my sur­
prise, I discovered that both had deteriorated badly.
The problem with my knowledge and skill was that I hadn’t learned
anything new. By definition, the unsolicited phone calls requesting my
services had been for things that I was already known for. Even though
each client project was customized (to a degree), I found myself doing
basically very similar work for a variety of clients. I had not added to
my abilities. What was even more shocking (and depressing) was the
realization that not only had I not grown my asset, but its value on the
market was going down—rapidly. Left untended, knowledge and
skill, like all assets, depreciate in value— surprisingly quickly.
When I first started out, the ideas contained in my articles (on which
I had launched my business) were relatively new to the market, and I
could therefore command a premium fee to consult or speak about
them. However, with each passing month (and, I could foresee, each
passing year) the price the market would pay for those ideas (and the
related skills and knowledge) would decline. There were probably
more potential clients out there to whom I could keep selling the
“same old stuff,” but if I kept this up, my skills eventually would be
out of date and worthless.
Already the danger signs were there. Friends among my client base
told me that people were saying “ Oh, yeah, we’ve had Maister in and
heard his stuff. What else has he got?” Even with ongoing clients (and
I had a few) they clearly didn’t value as highly what I was doing the
second or third time I did it for them as they did the first time. The
value of my asset was definitely going down.
There was also a strange problem with the second group of assets,
my client relationships and reputation. If I had published a personal
brochure (or resume) about my consulting career to date, it would
have looked very impressive. I had worked for a large number of very
prestigious clients. It felt like my client and contact list represented a
real asset. But was there any real value there?

How's

Your

Asset?

145

It quickly became clear that my client relations would have a high
value if and only if the next time the client had a problem in my field
of interest, I had a high probability of getting the job. That would have
been worth something. But the truth was, that wasn’t the case. I real­
ized that having done “one thing” (or a limited set of things) for a
wide variety of clients meant that I really hadn’t developed relation­
ships that promoted the chances of me getting their next (interesting)
assignment.
I realized that the value of my client relationships was not to be
measured by the number of clients, nor by their prestige, but by how
deep the relationship was. I would have been better off, I realized, if I
had worked for fewer clients, but done a variety of things for them so
that they would have had a chance to see the range of my skills, and
had had the chance to work with me enough to learn to know me and
trust me when new things came up.
As I worked to address these problems in subsequent years, more
harsh realities about professional life became evident. Unfortunately,
I discovered that it was harder to generate asset-building work than to
sell what I was already known for, already had methodologies for,
already had written articles about, already had references for. If I took
the line of least resistance in my practice development activities (i.e.,
sold what it was easiest to sell), chances were that I would milk my
asset, not build it.
Second, I learned that doing asset-building work was often more
stressful, and sometimes less fun, than doing what I was already good
at. Doing the type of work that was easiest and most comfortable was
not necessarily what was best for my career: in fact, it rarely was. I
realized that, in professional life, if you’re comfortable, you’re head­
ing for trouble.
In sum, I learned that unless I actively worked at it, my career pros­
pects would inevitably decline, even when (or perhaps especially
when) I was making lots of money. Having a good current year finan­
cially was clearly a necessary condition for my success, but it was far
from being a sufficient condition. Keeping my career moving forward,
even staying level, was going to take conscious effort.
There were two pieces of good news in all this. First, I discovered
that, if I was prepared to work at it, then there did not have to be a
trade-off between my balance sheet and my income statement. If I

146

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

could be diligent and clever enough in my practice development, then
I could be as busy on asset-building work as I had been on asset­
milking activities. Furthermore, if I did it right, I could deserve and
earn higher fees for learning, growing types of projects than I was able
to earn for the stuff I knew how to do years before. My current chargeability and realization did not have to suffer; I just had to learn to
manage my flow of work and be sure to build new skills—continually
and forever.
The second piece of good news was that it was possible to get hired
for assignments for which I had no methodology, no references, and
little, if any, experience. The secret turned out to be that while new
clients were unlikely to hire me for such things, an existing client who
had, during the current assignment, had a chance to see me in action
and learned to trust me, might, if I played my cards right, give me a
chance. I learned that investing my practice development time with
existing clients rather than new clients was more likely, by far, to help
me grow my asset. The second (or third) assignment from an existing
client (assuming the projects were different) was definitely more likely
to deepen my knowledge, broaden my skills, and make an asset out of
my client relationship than another “first” assignment for one more
new client.
That’s what I learned in my first year. Since then, I have learned that
these experiences were not just the problems of the early stages of a
career. In fact, the more “successful” I got in later years, the greater
was the temptation to exploit existing skills and relationships and the
harder I had to work to make sure that I didn’t just cruise, letting my
balance sheet slip away unexamined.
After having observed thousands of partner-level professionals in a
wide variety of professions in numerous countries, I conclude that the
lessons (summarized in Table 1 3 -1 ) still apply, not only to me, but to
every professional, at any stage in his or her career.

MOVING TOWARD A SOLUTION: THE PERSONAL
STRATEGIC PLAN
To grow your asset well requires a plan, one designed to make your
asset increasingly more valuable on the marketplace. You have to find
ways to (continue to) develop the knowledge and skills that your tar­
get clients value. In essence, we all need a personal strategic plan for
our careers.

TABLE 1 3 -1
The Lessons
LESSON ONE
What you know now and are able to do now, what your current success is built on,
will unavoidably depreciate in value unless you actively work on learning new things
and building new skills. Continual professional development is a lifelong require­
ment, not an option. There may have been a time when once you got good at some­
thing, maybe “made partner,” you could live off that for the rest of your career. If
those times ever existed, they’re gone now. The minute you start thinking you know
how things work, you’re dead.
LESSON TWO
The health of your career is not dependent so much on the volume of business you
do, but the type of work you do (whether or not it helps you learn, grow, and de­
velop), and who you do it for (whether or not you are increasingly earning the trust
of some key clients). In any profession, the pattern of assignments you work on is
the professional development process—you just have to learn how to manage it.
LESSON THREE
No matter how busy you are, you still owe it to yourself and to your career to get
involved with and take charge of your own practice development activities (market­
ing and selling). If you let others in your firm generate the business you work on,
you are putting your career development in other people’s hands—a risky move at
best. If you rely on business flowing to you unsolicited, then, with high probability,
it is going to be “asset milking” rather than “asset building.” What marketing and
selling are about is truly practice development: influencing the qualitative nature of
what you work on, so that you use your work experiences to continue to build your
career.
LESSON FOUR
Since asset building is about managing your affairs for the long-term health of your
career, you’d better take charge of it yourself. Don’t wait for your firm to establish
formal policies to reflect concern about the balance sheet as well as the income state­
ment. It probably should, but whether it does or not, it is in your own interest to get
started yourself.
LESSON FIVE
Alas, you cannot automatically assume that what your firm “asks you to do” will al­
ways be the right thing to build your asset. For example, if you are already experi­
enced in a certain area, chances are that others in the firm will turn to you every
time an issue comes up in that area. If you don’t take charge, others will exploit
your asset. You’ve got to be a good corporate citizen, but you’ve also got to learn to
balance that with what makes sense for your own development.
LESSON SIX
Among the worst mistakes a professional can make is underinvesting in marketing
to existing clients. Existing clients are not only more likely to give you new business,
but the business they’ll give you (if you work to earn it) is likely to promote the
value both of your skill asset and your client relationships asset.

148

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

What can you do to promote your learning, apart from being ex­
posed to a variety of experiences? Traditionally, most people acquire
their skills and knowledge by opportunistic insights, not structured
learning (the phrase is from Donald Schon). However, you can rely
too much on “random” experience as a teacher. To learn well, you
have to set out to learn some specific som ething.
Unfortunately, this requires focus. Like most professionals, I enjoy
variety in my work life. I have wide interests and enjoy learning new
things about lots of subjects. Yet I have learned, from my own career
and from watching those thousands of other professionals, that if you
want to create a truly valuable asset, then you have to focus your
attentions on building a highly specific set of knowledge and skills.
This is true not only because focus means that individual pieces of
learning are more likely to be cumulative and hence speeds up the
value creation process, but also because (with ever increasing inten­
sity in each profession) clients demonstrably value specialization. If
we want our asset to be valuable on the marketplace, we have to
consider what our clients define as value.
With every passing year, I have relearned the importance clients
give to specialization in “their kind of business” (i.e., specialization
either by industry or by “type of client” such as family-owned busi­
nesses, government agencies, entrepreneurial companies, Fortune 500
companies, or international organizations). Meeting a client need not
mean working only in one industry, 100 percent of the time. It does
mean being sufficiently well informed and experienced to stay current
on industry developments, converse with the client about industryspecific issues, being able to offer your professional counsel in a way
that does not require the client to do any “mental translation” of
generalities or terminology into his or her specific situation.
For example, I have learned that the (seemingly “low-level” ) tasks
of diligently reading my clients’ industry trade magazines, newslet­
ters, trade association materials, every single month without fail, has
made me a better professional in their eyes. It has made me, in their
judgment, substantively more valuable to them. Sometimes reading
these materials (or attending their trade association meetings) doesn’t
feel like a “professional development” activity, but I have to remind
myself that, in the clients’ eyes, my asset is not defined as just my
technical skill. For them, my asset is valuable if I have technical skill
and the ability to apply it in a customized way to their situation.

How's

Your

Asset?

149

Choosing an industry (or “type of client” ) focus is a problem for
many professionals who worry about overspecializing. When I began,
I too wanted to work with more than one industry (or, in my case,
profession), and faced a common problem. How did I get to the ulti­
mate goal of both breadth (the variety of clients that I find fun and
fulfilling) and depth (the detailed knowledge of industry specifics that
clients value?)
By observation of others and from my own experience, I conclude
that the correct approach is depth first and then breadth. By first fo­
cusing on clients in a specific industry, you will more quickly build
knowledge and skills they value, will more quickly be exposed to a
variety of (asset-building) types of assignments, and will more quickly
build client relationships. Only after having done this is it wise to
begin branching out. If one took the opposite route, breadth first, one
would be accumulating lots of little pieces of knowledge in a wide
area, and establishing numerous minor client relationships: not the
best strategy for fast skill building.
It is important, I have learned, to make a distinction between
knowledge and skill. Knowledge is relatively easy to accumulate
quickly, but it also depreciates quickly. Skills are hard to win, but
keep their value a little longer. Further, I have learned that it is im­
portant to distinguish between technical skills and counseling skills.
Growing one’s professional, technical skill is, of course, a mini­
mum requirement for keeping one’s career alive. However, it has been
a fascinating lesson to observe lawyers, accountants, consultants, and
other professionals and to note that it really is only a very special few
that have been able to build their careers on technical skill alone.
These few are the gurus, the rocket scientists, the brain surgeons of
their professional specialty, who have somehow persuaded the mar­
ket that they are closer to the frontier of their discipline than their
competition.
For the vast bulk of the remaining professionals I know (including
myself), technical skill alone is rarely enough. To be a valuable pro­
fessional in the eyes of clients, I have learned (sometimes through
bitter experience), takes a variety of interpersonal skills that I lump
together under the title of counseling skills.
Professionals are more valuable to clients if they not only solve their
clients’ problems and “tell” them what they should do, but help the

150

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

client understand more. This includes helping the client look at the
issue in a fresh, more revealing way, and helping the client see what
the options are and what are their relative advantages and disadvan­
tages. This activity sounds simple, but I have learned that it truly is a
skill, and like all skills, it takes practice. By observation, I can report
that some professionals are terrific at this, and others (probably the
majority, including myself) could do with some improvement. What
can not be in doubt is that effectiveness in this area is something that
clients value highly, and hence builds one’s asset and one’s career
prospects.
Other skills fall into this category of counseling ability. Most pro­
fessionals find themselves working with more than one executive in a
client’s firm. Accordingly, the client will receive greater value from
any ability the professional has to deal with groups, help the client
organization arrive at consensus where none existed before, reconcile
and handle diplomatically conflicts of views among client personnel,
and so on. Again, what I have learned is that these skills are called
upon, not infrequently, but in the regular activities of most profes­
sionals’ work.

HOW TO SPEED UP YOUR ASSET BUILDING
With these thoughts in mind, I worked hard over the years to manage
the mix of my business, and, I think, succeeded. I was lucky enough to
be given the chance to work on a variety of interesting, challenging
new types of assignments. A while ago, I gave myself a test.
“OK, David,” I said to the face in the mirror, “What do you know
now, or what can you do now, that you didn’t know or couldn’t do
one year ago? In what way are you a better professional than you were
one year ago?”
I watched my face turn red. “I know I’ve learned something,” I
replied, “but I’m not sure I can tell you what it is.” “Why not?” I
quizzed myself.
“The problem, you see, is this. I’ve had lots of interesting experi­
ences, but I’m not sure I’ve figured out what they taught me. I’ve had
my share of successes, but I’ve never paused to reflect on why that
particular assignment went well— I was always too busy dashing on to
the next assignment. And, unfortunately, I’ve had my share of fail­
ures—client assignments that didn’t work out as planned. And there I

H o w ’s Your

Asset?

151

was even more eager to dash on to the next piece of work, and not
look back on what went wrong. And even if I did look back, I have to
confess that it was more normal for me to think about what the client
people did wrong (‘Those darn clients!’ ) than what I could have done
better.”
Since I was talking to myself, I indulged myself in an old joke. “The
trouble is that some people have five years’ experience, and other peo­
ple have one year’s experience five times.” The difference, of course, is
in the ability to learn. Experience is the best teacher, but you have to
do the homework.
I realized that if I was going to build my knowledge and skills, it
was not enough to have a wide variety of experiences: I had to work
at learning from them. I stole the following quote from somewhere,
but now cannot remember where. I’d love to give appropriate credit,
because it sums up very well what personal asset building is all
about:
What we are is determined by what we experience, which is determined
by what we do, which is determined by what we learn, which is deter­
mined by how we interpret events.

The lesson of this (inspirational?) quote is that, just like my experi­
ence of looking at myself in the mirror, the essence of personal growth
lies in taking the time to look back at what you’ve been doing and
working at extracting the lessons from it.
There are four kinds of “debriefing” that I have found valuable in
promoting learning:
a. By oneself
b. With the team (assuming that others, including juniors, worked
on the assignment)
c. With the client
d. With one’s peers
First, debriefing alone. I find that if I force myself to examine my work
experiences, taking the time at the end of a project to ask myself
“What went well, and why? What didn’t go so well, and why not,” I
almost always come up with something that will help me get better
next time. For myself, I find that if I take notes (i.e., keep a written
personal journal) I am more likely to remember and apply the lessons
next time.

15 2

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

Debriefing with the team has the same goal, and the same ques­
tions. However, debriefing with the client adds an entirely new per­
spective. By asking the client to review the assignment with me, and
tell me, in retrospect, what “we” (the client and I) could have done
better, what we might do “if” there were a next time, I have found that
I get a great deal of assistance in growing my asset, particularly in
those areas of working with client personnel that are so important to
clients but so easy to neglect in the hurly-burly of “getting the project
done.”
There are immense benefits to be gained by asking your clients for
feedback on your performance on a regular, systematic basis. I have
learned that if you ask, clients will be honest with you about what you
could improve. Often the things they say you already were aware of,
but the act of asking forces you to confront (and deal with) your weak
areas. Many firms have organized efforts in this area, including mailed
questionnaires. Whether or not your firm adopts this approach, my
experience suggests that it is in individual professionals’ self-interest
to arrange their own client feedback program just for themselves. Not
only does this activity help build skills, but the act of asking for feed­
back is a powerful tool in cementing client relationships.
By taking every opportunity to discuss your work with peers, you
create the chance that you will derive value when they ask “Why did
you do it this way? What would have happened if you did that?”
Other devices can help skill building. Many of the key interpersonal
skills all professionals need fall into the category of what I call “The
Cabin Attendant Test.” The airlines teach their cabin attendants how
to deal with a rowdy drunk at 35,000 feet. They even coach them in
prepared scripts on precisely what to say to accomplish the desired
soothing effect. However, knowing what to say is easy; having the
skill to actually “pull it off” in real time is an entirely different story.
So it is with some counseling skills. How, for example, do you tell
a client he or she is wrong, without being rude, confrontative, or chal­
lenging? Doing it well takes skill, not knowledge, and a professional
without that skill will not have great career prospects. The answer, of
course, comes from practice. But it must be practice in a situation
where you can afford to fail, afford to watch yourself, try different
approaches and learn. That means rehearsals and role plays. Some of
us can develop these skills rapidly by repeated experience in front of

How's

Your

Asset?

153

real clients. For most of us, a little off-line practice would work won­
ders, particularly if there’s a video camera around!
It’s also a good idea to get on as many joint projects with profes­
sionals from other disciplines as possible. We learn and develop from
our work experiences, and if you get a chance to be on the same
assignment as a top professional from some other area, you’re going
to learn. And learn in a way that no amount of reading or “off-line”
conversations with that professional will ever provide. Figure out who
has something to teach you, and find a way (even if it means cross­
selling their services to your client) to work with that person.

CONCLUSION
Whether you are twenty-five or fifty-five, you will always need to
worry about where your career is going from today. As you think
about your career, here are some questions to ponder:
In what way are you personally more valuable on the marketplace
than last year?
What are your plans to make yourself more valuable on the mar­
ketplace than in the past?
What specific new skills do you plan to acquire or enhance in the
next year?
What’s your personal strategic plan for your career over, say, the
next three years?
What can you do to make yourself (even more) special on the mar­
ket in the near future?
What, precisely, is it that you want to be famous for?

CHAPTER 14

HOW TO BUILD
HUMAN CAPITAL

Managers in professional firms spend a lot of time worrying about
marketing and selling their firms’ services. But few give much thought
to developing the “product” that the firm is trying to induce its clients
to buy: the knowledge and skill of its staff.
Attempts at quick fixes in this area abound: If we need to enter a
new market, bring in a lateral hire. If we need to add to partners’ skills
in a particular service area, send them to continuing education
courses. If we need to train junior staff to handle certain matters bet­
ter, schedule a Saturday seminar or prepare a manual.
Each of these devices has its role. But they are frosting on what
needs to be a more substantial cake: To add to the firm’s human
capital—the collective judgment, knowledge, experience, and ability
of its members—there must be an ongoing, continual effort at all
levels.
Precise definitions of “professional skill” are hard to come by. The
true added value of professionals lies less in what they know than in
what they can do: interview clients effectively, win their trust and
confidence, diagnose their needs, and make the myriad judgmental
decisions as to how each matter should be handled. While profes­
sional know ledge can be codified and easily shared, professional skills
can only be developed through practice.
155

156

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

Like all skillful arts, a professional craft is learned through appren­
ticeship. Clearly, it is in the firm’s interest to ensure that this appren­
ticeship process works effectively and speedily. By developing the
skills of its junior members, the firm adds to the only resource it has to
sell: professional judgment and talent. So why, in many of the profes­
sional firms that I have studied, is this process ignored?

WORK ASSIGNMENTS
Consider, for example, the work assignment system. Most firms
would acknowledge that the kind of assignments junior members re­
ceive; the various cases, industries, and clients they encounter; and the
mix of the senior people they work with largely determine the kind of
professionals they become. Skills, after all, are developed through ex­
perience, and assignments define the experience.
Nevertheless, many firms take an unstructured, even haphazard,
approach to staffing projects. There may be an assignment committee,
but in the day-to-day press of events, it is often circumscribed. Junior
staff are assigned to whichever project appears most pressing— or to
the senior partner who screams the loudest. While periodic confer­
ences may be held about the need for longer-term professional devel­
opment, in practice, work assignments are made according to short­
term criteria.
There are merits to this free-for-all approach: To survive in such a
system—to “get developed”— young professionals must demonstrate
initiative. They must be able to differentiate projects that are routine
from those worth working on, and to lobby effectively to get desirable
assignments. They must be good at inspiring the confidence of useful,
powerful partners—and adept at avoiding others. They must know
when to “invest” time working on pedestrian matters in order to get
a chance to work on more important matters. In short, juniors must
learn how to sell themselves inside the firm and make busy partners
want to take the time to share their expertise. This takes drive, cha­
risma, political skills, and judgment—the very qualities a senior pro­
fessional uses in dealing with clients.
In such a Darwinian system, only the fit survive. Good, promising
young professionals are more frequently chosen for worthwhile
projects by top professionals: These juniors spiral upward to ever in­
creasing glory. “Weak,” unpromising, quiescent professionals tend to
be sucked into pedestrian work with few learning opportunities: They

How

to

Build

Human

Capital

157

spiral downward. Such, at least, is the theory and, in many firms, the
practice.
This system seems most common in those firms that, because of
high junior-to-senior ratios and limited growth plans, expect a rea­
sonably high turnover rate among junior people. For these firms, sig­
nificant investment in training juniors may be wasted if a high
proportion of them are expected to leave. Investments of partner time
in coaching, mentoring, and training are made only on a very selective
basis, once the “stars” have been identified and separated from the
“dogs.”
But not all firms can afford such an unforgiving and potentially
wasteful system. For most, the goal must be to develop as many young
professionals as possible: Only in this way can the firm accumulate
and maintain the skills it hopes to market. Increasingly, therefore,
firms are asking staff committees and/or departmental chairpersons to
plan assignments more carefully—to trade off among the conflicting
pressures of professional development; client demands for quality,
cost effectiveness, and speed; and the preferences of the firm’s mem­
bers.
Actively managed work assignment systems are not easy to imple­
ment: Unless composed of powerful individuals, a committee may
find it hard to enforce the discipline of routing staffing requests
through the proper channels. Moreover, short-run pressures often
force the sacrifice of this longer-term goal. To make such a system
work, there must be firmwide recognition of the need for it and broadbased commitment to its success. As in so much of professional service
firm management, developing this commitment is the responsibility of
the firm’s leaders.

COACHING
Work assignments are, of course, only part of the story. A junior
professional may have received a rich and varied set of experiences,
but this alone will not guarantee that he or she will learn the right
skills. The difference is in the ability to derive the correct lessons.
What is needed to turn exposure into usable knowledge and skill is
good coaching—guided experience.
One senior professional puts it this way: “If I want to help my
people acquire the skills I have, I must get them involved in planning

158

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

the work, understanding how their task fits in, and interpreting the
discoveries made as the project unfolds. There is no use in their sitting
in on client meetings unless I am prepared to discuss with them why I
handled myself as I did. They could too easily not realize the contextspecific factors that affect my decisions. I’m not trying to train them to
Jo , I’m trying to train them to think as I do.”
Being a good coach or mentor is not easy. It takes a genuine interest
in helping juniors improve, not just in appraising their performance.
The coach has to ensure that assignments provide stretching but real­
izable challenges, and that feedback on what was done right and what
needs work is detailed and prompt.
The professional quoted above takes his coaching responsibilities
seriously. Yet all too often one hears young professionals complain
about a lack of attention and specific, helpful advice from the partners
they work for. In turn, partners too frequently view these requests as
unreasonable, or at least as less pressing and less important than the
other (very real) demands on their time.
Clearly, coaching is a time-intensive investment in the long-run
health of the firm. Frequently, however, the firm’s organization, struc­
ture, method of performance appraisal, and culture discourage men­
toring. Other responsibilities—business getting and servicing of
clients— are usually more visible and have quicker “paybacks” to the
individual. For example, most partner-compensation systems reward
short-term business getting and billable hours more than the time
spent working with junior staff.
The professions, no less than industrial companies, find it all too
easy to sacrifice the long-term profitability— building actions in the
name of short-term pressures. Accordingly, coaching is not recognized
and rewarded, and it tends to fall to those who find it personally
fulfilling or who value the future benefits to the firm more than their
own short-term self-interest.
Coaching can yield short-run payoffs. In the fee-sensitive world of
the professions, firms can ill afford write-offs of professional time
resulting from poorly trained juniors taking too long to accomplish
tasks that a more skilled professional could do in a fraction of the
time. Clients are as prepared as ever to pay the high fees of the supe­
rior professional. What they are less willing to do is subsidize ineffi­

How

to

Build

Human

Capital

159

cient training of junior staff. The days when juniors could be trained
by bringing them along to client meetings as “bag carriers” (and bill­
ing their time to the client) are gone. It’s still an excellent coaching
device (accompanied by appropriate debriefing), but firms must view
it as their own investment in training.
Attention to coaching is no longer an option at many firms, it is
mandatory. In a rapidly growing firm, the need is obvious. But even in
a firm that anticipates slow growth and high turnover, training is im­
portant: The firm must maintain its attractiveness to potential asso­
ciates so they will join in spite of diminished partnership prospects.
One of the best ways to accomplish this is by providing superior train­
ing, which makes it worth having been at the firm even if one doesn’t
make partner.

TEACHING PARTNERS
The need to develop skills does not cease on becoming a partner.
Senior partners should continue to coach junior partners. The results
of failure to pass on senior-partner skills can be seen at many secondgeneration firms where client getting was the responsibility of the
founders of the firm and junior partners were charged with doing the
work that the rainmakers brought in. With the rainmakers’ departure,
the partnership is left without skills essential to the success of the
enterprise, and the younger (and now senior) partners are forced to
develop the missing skills on their own, without the guidance of good
coaches.
At other firms, a failure to develop human capital has resulted in a
situation in which all of a firm’s expertise in a given area or for a
certain class of clients is in the head of a single partner (or a small
group). A departure (for whatever reason) leaves the firm with little,
if any, capability to serve the given markets.

ADDING TO THE KNOWLEDGE BASE
I have focused to this point on skills already possessed by the firm.
However, even more important in building human capital is adding to
the firm’s skill and knowledge. A firm should be constantly seeking to
increase its understanding of client industries, to improve service, and

16 0

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

to add to technical capabilities. As obvious as this need is, it is fre­
quently neglected.
In a variety of contexts, I have asked members of professional ser­
vice firms to write down what they have learned from their activities
over the past year that has made them better at what they do—to
identify something they learned about serving clients, managing
projects, or approaching certain matters in a new way. In many cases,
this has proven a difficult exercise. The professionals seem to have
been too busy rushing from project to project to stop and reflect on
their experiences. They say that they feel they have learned something,
but they cannot either identify or communicate what it is. This doesn’t
mean they haven’t learned it— but it does mean the experience has not
been converted into knowledge that can be shared.
One mechanism for sharing knowledge is provided by a prominent
consulting firm: Every Monday morning all professional staff, senior
and junior, attend a one-hour meeting. At each session one staff mem­
ber presents a case his team has worked on and describes how they
handled it, what new approaches were attempted, how they dealt with
client problems, and so on. In brief, the staffer reports on what was
learned on a recent matter. Discussion follows, with junior and senior
colleagues providing critical feedback and examining whether the ac­
tivities described offer anything useful to others in the firm. Each per­
son (or team) has to take a turn at making a presentation. Since
everyone knows this is coming up, each is forced to reflect continually
on his or her experiences; thus, each is more likely to succeed in con­
verting the knowledge available from his experiences into a shared
resource.
In addition, such meetings provide an opportunity for the senior
partners, through the questions they ask, to communicate the diag­
nostic process that is a large part of their professional skill. (“Did you
try .. . ?” “How did the client respond to . . . ?” What would have
happened if . . . ?) Specific client or industry knowledge can be rapidly
communicated to others who may find it useful. And the firm ensures
that everyone knows who is working on what.
In small, close-knit firms, sharing of experience and knowledge
takes place informally, over drinks and in the corridors, and everyone
knows whom to call for assistance. In larger (particularly departmen­
talized or multioffice) firms, leveraging the collective skills of the mem­

How

to

Build

Human

Capital

161

bers is more complicated. For this reason, some firms have created
client-industry committees that cut across functional or disciplinary
boundaries. One barrier to this kind of effort, however, is created by
many of the common systems of rewarding and appraising profes­
sional performance. Most rely strongly on individual (or departmen­
tal) performance and thus discourage efforts on the firm’s behalf. And
even if such efforts are taken into account in compensation, they don’t
afford the same status as client work does.
A departmental structure can both help and hinder knowledge shar­
ing and skill building. Placing professionals working in similar areas
closer together forces them to interact. But it also reduces interaction
with professionals in different areas. For this reason, rather than or­
ganizing departments around functional professional disciplines,
some firms are reorganizing to create groupings where the opportu­
nities and need for sharing knowledge or getting new knowledge are
greatest: small-business-client groupings, for example, or industrybased departments. Short of this, other firms are starting interdisci­
plinary (or interoffice) committees to encourage communication
between otherwise isolated professionals.

MANAGING THE PROJECT MIX
Perhaps the most important decisions about managing the develop­
ment of human capital are those made in selecting client engagements.
If professional skill and knowledge are developed through experience,
then the best way for the professional firm to improve its skill base is
to take on projects that not only exploit the firm’s existing skills but
provide for further development.
This goal is harder to accomplish than it would at first appear.
“Frontier-type” projects can be among the least profitable that the
firm undertakes. They are among the least leveraged, requiring a high
proportion of partner time. In addition, the firm may be forced to
write off substantial amounts of time spent gearing up for the new
work. In contrast, continuing to practice in familiar areas allows the
firm to capitalize on existing knowledge and skills, use its junior time
more effectively (and more profitably), and bill all full rates.
Deciding which and how many “investment projects” the firm
should undertake should be the task of a firmwide committee. Indi­
vidual partners may feel an incentive to go after the most profitable

16 2

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

work (for which they will receive appropriate kudos and, probably,
compensation) at the expense of developing new skills and knowl­
edge. Moreover, the firm’s investments in its future should be part of
a larger strategic plan. As noted at the beginning of this chapter, the
essence of strategic planning for the professional service firm is a clear
sense of direction, not only as to which markets to serve and areas of
practice to engage in, but in terms of recognizing and developing the
skills needed to succeed.

CHAPTER 15

THE MOTIVATION CRISIS

Motivating junior professionals is harder today than it used to be, and
it is more important to the success of the professional service firm. In
the past, the up-or-out partnership structure of the typical profes­
sional service firm provided all the motivating force that was required.
Young professionals knew that if they worked hard and well, added
continuously to their skills, and kept out of trouble, they had a rea­
sonable chance of reaching for the brass ring: the generous rewards
(financial and otherwise) of partnership. Personal attention by part­
ners to motivating juniors was not necessary: the system, combined
with the inherent ambition of young professionals, took care of the
problem.
A number of changes have occurred which make this “automatic”
motivational system cease to function as well as it did. Today’s young
professional can see that the odds of making partner are lengthening
in most firms. Talk of tougher (and changing) partnership standards,
prolonged times to partnership and permanent nonpartner positions
are common in every profession. Rather than inspiring juniors to even
more strenuous efforts to be chosen as one of the select few, the length­
ening of the odds has the opposite effect: Juniors are increasingly ques­
tioning whether the game is worth the candle.
This attitude is being reinforced by both economic and cul­
tural trends. Given the competitive intensity of today’s professional
163

164

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

world, the economic and psychological satisfaction of being a part­
ner at many (if not most) professional firms is not as great as once
it was. It is not unusual to hear partners make comments (in private
conversation) such as “The practice of law [or accounting or med­
icine or consulting] is just not as much fun anymore. Today’s clients
are demanding, cynical about the value they receive, and treat you
less as a professional and more like an ordinary vendor. The pace,
intensity, and workload are greater than ever, and the firm atmo­
sphere is competitive rather than supportive, and certainly less col­
legial. With all this concern about profitability, it seems like we’re
being asked to work even harder for what might turn out to be less
money.”
Similarly, in conversations with mid-level junior staff inside ac­
counting, consulting, law, and other professional firms, I frequently
hear things like “The closer I get to the firm’s partners, the less attrac­
tive their lives seem to be. I’m increasingly questioning whether what
they have is what I want. Professional life requires significant sacri­
fices, for both my spouse and me, and I’m no longer certain that the
rewards are there to justify them.”
Motivation levels are also affected by the range of options open to
young professionals, which is greater today than ever before. It is no
longer considered unethical, or even unusual, for young professionals
to move between firms to advance their careers: In all professions, the
mobility of individuals is on the rise. Satisfying, and frequently less
intense, professional careers are also increasingly attainable inside
corporations, at salaries that are competitive and sometimes superior
to those offered by professional service firms. In addition, in-house
professionals are no longer treated as second class citizens in the pro­
fessions: They continue to accumulate the power, responsibility, and
respect that historically was the preserve of the outside professional
provider.
Finally, we should note that not only is competition for clients in­
tensifying in the professions, but so is the competition for talented
young professionals. The baby-boom generation has passed through
its apprenticeship years. Today’s twenty-five to thirty-five-year-olds
are less numerous than their older siblings, and recruiting, motivating,
and holding onto the talented among them is becoming an increas­
ingly challenging task.

The

Motivation

Crisis

165

THE IMPORTANCE OF MOTIVATION
IN PROFESSIONAL WORK
A less than fully motivated work force is a competitive disadvantage
for any business organization. For a professional firm, it is a death
knell. In few professional firms does the opportunity exist to achieve
productivity and quality through the systems, procedures, close su­
pervision, and technology upon which industrial companies have tra­
ditionally relied to control work pace and quality of output. For
professional work, both productivity and quality are highly corre­
lated with the degree to which the professional worker is engaged and
committed to the task at hand.
All professionals must have had the following experience: You are
responsible for a piece of work about which you just cannot seem to
get excited. It is not that the task is too difficult, too easy, or even
inherently uninteresting: just that the spark is not there. Nevertheless,
being dutiful, you sit at your desk and try to work at it, being neither
productive nor doing your best work.
Then the next morning, for some obscure reason, you begin to see
the work in a new light. You approach the work in a new way, and
begin to delve into the problem. Gradually, what had appeared as
mundane now has an element of interest, which grows into curiosity,
into fascination, and ultimately into involvement, effort, and produc­
tive, creative work. No amount of procedural work plans, tight su­
pervision or incentive schemes could ever substitute for the inner
motivation described here as a means to achieve productivity, quality
and, not coincidentally, professional satisfaction in a job well done.
This link between motivation and performance in professional
work results in an interesting and important phenomenon: the moti­
vation spiral (see Figure 15-1). The elements of this spiral are as fol­
lows: high motivation leads to high productivity and quality, which
leads to marketplace success. In turn, this results in economic success
for the firm, allowing the firm to be generous with its rewards, includ­
ing high compensation, good promotion opportunities, and challeng­
ing work. This atmosphere of ample reward breeds good morale,
which results in high motivation—and the cycle begins anew.
Of course, the spiral effect also works, all too effectively, in reverse.
Poor marketplace success means poor economic success which means
fewer rewards available to be shared. With lesser rewards, morale,

1 66

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

FIGURE 1 5 -1
The Motivation Spiral

and hence motivation, is low. This, inevitably and inexorably, leads to
poor productivity and less than top quality, which reinforces the lack
of marketplace success. In professional work environments, success
breeds success, and failure sets the scene for more failure. The spiral
can begin, up or down, at any point. But once launched, its forces are
hard to resist. In consequence, the motivation crisis is a very serious
problem for any firm that allows it to take hold.
Addressing the problem of motivation in a professional firm re­
quires an examination of all of the firm’s managerial systems and
practices, from recruiting, through work assignments, performance
appraisal and feedback, promotion, and outplacement. However, the
responsibility for achieving high motivation rests not only with those
who exercise management functions within the firm: Changing the
systems is only a partial solution. Increasingly, it will become the re­
sponsibility of every partner to nurture the motivation level of junior
staff by developing good supervisory skills.

MOTIVATION AND THE RECRUITING PROCESS
If high motivation inside the professional firm can no longer be as­
sumed, but must be carefully nurtured, how then does one go about
this? There is a school of thought that asserts that it is difficult, if not
impossible, to motivate anyone who does not have an inner drive,
ambition, or energy level. The best that can be done, according to this
view, is, first, to avoid demotivating an ambitious individual (a result

The

Motivation

Crisis

167

that many organizations, particularly those that are slow-growing or
bureaucratic, seem to achieve all too often); and second, to channel
that drive into fruitful, productive efforts. Consequently, a significant
component in achieving the highly motivated organization is the re­
cruitment process itself, which, if it is to serve its purpose, must screen
as much for drive, energy and ambition as it does for intellectual ca­
pabilities and technical skill.
In his Pulitzer prize-winning book The Soul o f a New M achine,1
Tracy Kidder describes the “signing on” process used by Tom West,
the manager of a team of young computer design engineers, to recruit
and select the members of his team. Rather than make unfulfillable
promises by, for example, minimizing the scale of the effort required,
or by presenting the project as one that would allow for a balanced
life-style, Tom West took the opposite approach. He described accu­
rately the high demands that the work would place on people, and
presented the project as one that only the “best and the brightest,” the
truly committed, would be suited for. Not surprisingly, he screened
out early those who would not be able to take the pace, and generated
an enthusiasm and commitment to success from the very beginning.
In their eagerness to attract the junior professionals needed to staff
engagements, I have observed many professional firms compromising
the simple principle embedded in the Tom West story: that, to serve
the firm’s interests, it is more sensible to ensure that potential recruits
truly know what they are letting themselves in for. Subtle misrepre­
sentations during the recruiting process (about workloads, variety of
work, extent of client contact, the degree of counseling, or any of a
number of issues of concern to young professionals) may serve to
bring more people (bodies?) on board, but will quickly work against
the firm’s interests as new recruits discover the realities of the practice:
a prime example of how to demotivate.
One lawyer I know describes his firm’s recruiting process as fol­
lows: “I describe the real life of being a lawyer as best I can. Then I ask
them ‘Do you really want to be a lawyer?’ It’s amazing how many
hesitate. And if they do, I don’t want them. I’d rather take someone
with slightly less skill but with fire in their belly than a brilliant but
naive student who doesn’t understand what it’s all about.”
Such an approach to recruiting may not produce the raw numbers
that many firms think they need (because potentially good candidates
are ‘scared off’), but this is a less serious error than the opposite result:

168

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

bringing people on board who are not temperamentally suited to to­
day’s practice realities. Furthermore, a professional firm should al­
ways have slightly more work than it can handle with its current staff
putting in a normal work week. Professionals flourish with a full
workplate in an atmosphere of challenge. Expressions of discontent,
complaints about the firm, and poor morale never surface more fre­
quently than when there is not enough work to keep everyone occu­
pied. I have observed more firms get into trouble by attempting to hire
too many people than by hiring too few.

THE PROFESSIONAL PSYCHE
Are professionals different from other types of workers? Do they need
to be managed (and motivated) in special ways? While it is difficult to
support the assertion that all professionals are different from all other
workers, my work has led me to suspect that, when it comes to mo­
tivating forces, the average professional is different from the average
worker in other environments: a difference based, I suspect, not on
such things as educational levels, but on the psyche of those who
choose professional careers.
The typical professional is apt to describe him or herself in the
following way: “I am the type of person who gets bored easily. I hate
doing repetitive sorts of work, and always like to seek out new chal­
lenges. Once I know I can do something, it tends not to satisfy me
anymore.” This is, of course, a somewhat self-flattering description.
In my experience, however, it is an accurate one. Professionals, cer­
tainly the best among them, are constantly driven to seek out the new,
the unfamiliar, the challenging. The key word here is driven.
People who feel the (neurotic?) need to constantly and repeatedly
test their skills against unfamiliar problems with an uncertain proba­
bility of success are frequently insecure, with a low sense of self-worth
(never expressed in public), in constant need of external tests of their
merits to prove (to themselves) that they have still “got it.”
Many professionals, I would assert, are prime examples of what is
now termed “The Impostor Syndrome”— successful people who live
in constant dread that someone will, one day, tap them on the shoul­
der and say “We’ve found you out. You’ve been faking it all these
years.”

The

Motivation

Crisis

169

Because of this, professionals tend to exhibit some clearly defined
behavioral characteristics. They require continual challenge and per­
sonal growth to retain their interest, and are impatient when they do
not receive it. They constantly ask themselves, and their superiors,
“Am I still on track?” Because of their insecurity, and the ambiguity
that surrounds the definition of “good work” in professional con­
texts, they need quick, repeated feedback on their performance to
validate their efforts. They tend to be “scoreboard-oriented”: eager
for visible, well-defined measures of success that can reassure them
(see Table 15-1). They like to have unambiguous goals to shoot at.
From their need to achieve self-respect by receiving the respect of oth­
ers, it follows that professionals value both autonomy in their work
and involvement in policy decisions, whether on engagements or firmmanagement matters. As much as these “rewards” are valued in their
own right, they are valued more as signs that the organization trusts
and respects them.

MOTIVATION AND SUPERVISORY STYLE
From these observations flow some simple rules for maintaining mo­
tivation among professionals. You must provide clear goals; give
prompt feedback and reward performance quickly; treat them like
T A BL E 1 5 - 1
Motivational “M aintainers”
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11

Provide clear goals
Give prompt feedback
Reward performance quickly
Treat them like winners
Involve in decision making
Seek their opinions often
Provide autonomy in work
Hold accountable for results
Tolerate impatience
Provide varied work opportunities
Keep them aware of upcoming challenging goals

Source: C. Bell, “ How to Create a High Performance Training Unit,” T r a in in g , October 1980,
pp. 4 9 - 5 2

1 70

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

winners, involving them in decision-making and seeking their opinion
often; give them autonomy in their work, but hold them strictly ac­
countable for results; be tolerant of their impatience, and provide va­
riety in their work experiences, always keeping the next challenging
goal out front.
As straightforward as these principles may seem, they are fre­
quently missing in many professional work environments I have en­
countered. Unfortunately, the demotivating forces of ambiguous
goals, lack of variety, an absence of feedback, and postponed rewards
are all too present in professional firms.
The best method I have seen of preserving a high level of motivation
in a professional work group is the maintenance of a constant chal­
lenge to individuals composed of two key statements: “Yeah, you’re
good . . . But how good are you?” Both parts of this challenge are
essential to its effectiveness. The first, “Yeah, you’re good,” is neces­
sary to speak to the typical professional’s delicate ego (“Treat them
like winners” ). The second part, “But how good are you?” is neces­
sary to keep the air of challenge needed to engage the professional’s
determination to succeed (“Always keep the next goal out front” ).
A good example of the successful application of this management
approach is also given in The Soul o f a New M achine. A young pro­
fessional suddenly had a flash of brilliance about how to solve a par­
ticularly difficult problem that had appeared intractable. He rushed in
to his supervisor, saying “I’ve solved it, I can have it finished in two
months!” (a short time in the world of computer design). Instead of
saying “Terrific, well done. I’ll certainly remember you at bonus
time,” the supervisor merely said, “Oh, come on!” whereupon the
young professional said “Well, maybe six weeks”—thus committing
himself (an important point) to a self-imposed goal.
Given the importance of eternal challenge in a professional’s life,
there is nothing so motivating as a statement like “ Bet you can’t do
this.” One does not motivate a professional by being the “good guy”
and lessening the pressure: rather one does it by helping that individ­
ual accept the pressure as a challenge to his or her professional pride.
Motivating professionals is somewhat akin to being the coach of an
athletic team: Both roles involve trying to bring out the best possible
performance in talented individuals. The techniques of doing so are
similar in both environments. A good coach is simultaneously the

The

Motivation

Crisis

171

chief cheerleader and chief critic: demanding and supportive (one
without the other is insufficient). When the high jumper is attempting
to clear a given height, the coach is supportive and helpful. But as soon
as that accomplishment is reached, up goes the bar by an inch or two.
The next goal, challenging but achievable, is kept out front. (Raising
the bar by six or seven inches would clearly be demotivating. The scale
of the challenge is clearly important.)
Good coaching requires that close attention be paid to the individ­
ual’s activities, so that specific, constructive advice can be made about
how performance can be improved. While good coaches rarely cosset
those in their charge (the best coaches tend to be abrupt, demanding,
and frequently SOBs), they clearly demonstrate a commitment to
helping their athletes: a commitment that is rewarded with high mo­
tivation and high performance.

THE IMPORTANCE OF MEANING
In a survey of research on the management of professionals (“ Lead­
ership and the Professional,” in Scientists, Engineers and Organiza­
tions2), Morgan McCall notes that successful leaders spend less time
worrying about getting their (professional) subordinates to do some­
thing and more about supplying their subordinates with a meaningful
understanding of what they are doing. This conclusion matches my
own observations and experience. As discussed above, a piece of pro­
fessional work can either strike me as incredibly stimulating, inspiring
the energy and attention necessary for creative, productive work, or it
can appear meaningless, repetitive, and dull: It all depends on whether
or not I can readily see where the challenge in the work lies, and
whether or not I feel that this piece of work is a “worthy” application
of my talents.
The implication of this is that, perhaps above all else, it is the role
of the supervisor of professionals to help create the conditions under
which the forces of commitment, creativity, and involvement can be
unleashed. The supervisor must help the professional find the mean­
ing in the work to be done. In managing the work of others, in any
environment, one can choose to focus either on what it is to be done;
how it is to be done; or why it is to be done (its purpose or meaning).
In the management of professionals the supervisor should be very
clear on the what (“provide clear goals” ), spend only the bare mini­
mum of time on the how (“involve them in decision-making,” “pro­

1 72

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

vide autonomy” ) and spend a lot of time on the why (“provide
meaning” ).
This is particularly important for junior professionals. On any
given professional project, there is an admixture of diagnosis and cre­
ativity together with seemingly picayune but no less important execu­
tion tasks: drafting memoranda, crunching numbers, documenting
progress, and the like. Here, above all, the manager must help the
professional worker place the task in context, see its importance, and
accept the task as worthy of professional effort.
Young professionals are no fools: they know that their work will
contain a significant proportion of less-than-frontier-level activities.
However, it is profoundly demotivating when this work is presented
with the attitude, “Yes, I agree it’s dull and boring, but it’s got to be
done and you’ve been chosen to do it.” The good manager can convey
the spirit that “There’s no task too trivial to be done well: there’s just
as much opportunity to do good or bad work here as there is any­
where else in the project. It’s all important.” This is, of course, no
more than the truth. But in their own personal distaste for “mun­
dane” work, too many partners I have observed fail to convey this
sense of importance.
Rarely have I heard of young professionals becoming demotivated
because of too much work; most often (all too often) demotivation
results from too much meaningless work. And since almost no work
done by a professional firm is in fact meaningless (it is all, or should
be, valuable to clients), this syndrome represents a failure of manage­
ment.

MOTIVATION AND PROMOTION
A great deal of the motivation of professionals is accomplished
through the interpersonal interactions between the professionals and
the partners who lead them. However, as we saw above in our dis­
cussion of the role of recruiting, the systems and structure of the firm
also play an important role. The work assignment system (how indi­
vidual projects are staffed) clearly plays a critical role, since it is this
system that determines the variety and the challenge of the work to be
done by an individual, both major determinants of motivation. In
some cases, work assignments can also be used to ameliorate the ef­
fects of diminishing promotion prospects.

The

Motivation

Crisis

173

Such approaches, however, can never completely substitute for ca­
reer progress, inside or outside the firm, as a motivating force. Pro­
fessionals, certainly the ones any organization would want to keep,
are, almost by definition, ambitious. Any environment where contin­
ued career progress is compromised is almost certain to result in less­
ened motivation. Whatever its other defects, the up-or-out partnership
system has the great virtue that it maintains an air of dynamism, of
continued progress, of challenge, that plays to the psychological needs
of professionals. Further, by removing weaker performers from the
organization, the system avoids the (very strong) demotivating effect
on good performers of showing tolerance for weaker, less productive
people.
In today’s environment, this last point takes on a special impor­
tance. In a professional organization where the odds of making part­
ner are either lengthening or where the criteria for partnership are
shifting (i.e., in most professional organizations), the level of ambi­
guity felt in the middle and upper ranks of the nonpartner staff rises
rapidly. In such an environment it is inevitable that many nonpartners
will begin to question their opportunities within the firm, and ask
themselves whether or not they should begin to look elsewhere.
If the atmosphere is truly ambiguous, and all nonpartners are kept
equally in the dark, it is more than likely that it will be the best young
professionals, the most marketable, who will leave to seek greener
pastures, leaving behind the less-than-superior individuals. Clearly,
to avoid this, professional firms must begin to make distinctions be­
tween the best and the competent at an earlier stage, and ensure that
those the firm wishes to keep know that they are valued. Only then
will it be the weaker performers who will be encouraged to leave. In
their attempts to hold on to more nonpartner staff short of partner­
ship, many professional firms are adversely affecting the overall level
of challenge and motivation felt in the junior ranks.
Given today’s competitive environment, no professional firm can
provide continued career progress to every junior professional within
the boundaries of the firm. Yet we have seen that commitment to
career progress is one of the defining characteristics of the profes­
sional. Fortunately, there is a relatively simple way out of this di­
lemma: outplacement. A firm that is truly committed to (and actively
works at) placing its “alumni” (not passed-over partnership candi­
dates) in good positions can respond to the career progress needs of all

174

M an aging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

of its juniors, and thereby create a highly motivational atmosphere. As
I observe the professional service sector, more and more firms are
discovering the power of outplacement, not as a humanitarian effort,
but as one of the key elements of the firm’s management system.

CONCLUSION
The appropriate organizational response to the motivation crisis in
the professions is not to try to make the atmosphere of the organiza­
tion less intense. The economics of the practice today do not allow this
option. Future success in the professions will flow only to those indi­
viduals and firms who are willing to gird their loins and meet the
intensity demanded by today’s practice. If today’s young profession­
als appear less motivated than in the past, it is not because they cannot
be motivated. Rather, it is because the sources o f motivation that ex ­
isted in the past, and the mechanisms through which they w orked, are
no longer as forceful or effective as they w ere. However, with more
attention to personal supervisory skills and a reexamination of the
firm’s recruiting, work assignment, feedback, and outplacement sys­
tems, the professional firm of tomorrow can be as highly motivating
(and as satisfying) as the firm of yesteryear.

CHAPTER 16

ON THE IMPORTANCE
OF SCHEDULING

The scheduling of work assignments is the single most important man­
agerial activity in a professional service firm. Whoever makes the work
assignment decisions is the person really managing the practice.
Although any single scheduling decision may not have the impact
of, say, a major recruiting or marketing choice, the very frequency of
scheduling decisions makes having the “right” system a matter of par­
amount importance. Yet many firms view scheduling as a more or less
routine administrative matter. That it is not. It is, above all, a mana­
gerial procedure that can powerfully influence the direction and suc­
cess of the firm.
By allocating the right resources to different assignments, there is
the opportunity to influence the cost of the work, its quality, and the
timeliness of its delivery. Scheduling has longer-term consequences as
well. Over time, the pattern of assignments given to professionals will
profoundly influence their professional developm ent, their worth to
the firm and to clients, their satisfaction with the firm, and, as a result,
their motivation and productivity. Viewed as a connected set of deci­
sions, assignments will also play a large role in the dissemination o f
expertise throughout the firm, acting as a primary vehicle for convert­
ing the experience and knowledge of individuals into the experience
and knowledge of the firm as a whole.
175

176

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

Scheduling decisions require a delicate balancing act among goals
that often conflict— profitability versus quality service, short-term ver­
sus long-term benefits to the organization, putting the needs of one
client before another, the morale and development of one staff mem­
ber before another,

WHAT MAKES A “GOOD” SCHEDULING SYSTEM?
P R O F IT A B IL IT Y C O N SID ERA TIO N S
Since, in the short run, staff expenses are fixed, some firms are lured
into acting as if a good assignment system is one that results in high
overall utilization of staff resources. Indeed, in many firms, this is the
dominant consideration in scheduling. The system is driven by the
“Gotcha!” approach— when a new matter is brought in, we look to
see who is not yet fully chargeable and say “Gotcha! You’re assigned.”
In such firms, scheduling is predominantly an administrative activity,
designed to ensure that everyone is kept busy. In fact, high utilization
should be a major (and probably the major) objective for any sched­
uling system. However, it is far from the whole story.
CLIEN T SERV IC E
Scheduling decisions clearly affect the level of client satisfaction to a
significant degree. One senior staff member may be particularly ex­
pert in a field required by two competing projects. The decision to
assign that individual to one project or the other will regrettably, but
inevitably, affect the quality of service delivered to each client. Decid­
ing which client will receive the services of the “office superstar” is a
profoundly strategic decision.
Such necessary trade-offs between clients go beyond technical
skills. One staff member may be particularly well suited to a particular
client because of a match in “style.” Although equally competent,
another staff member may not be appreciated as much by that client.
Perhaps the second person works best with small businesses and that
client is a large firm; the problem is not one of the individual’s defi­
ciencies, but merely very real client preferences. Choosing the right
team to match the “personality” of the client will be a major influence
on the project’s success, and is an issue of profound strategic impor­
tance. Wise use of assignment decisions can profoundly influence the
chances of earning follow-on business and strong referrals.

On th e

Importance

of Scheduling

177

SK ILL BUILDING
As well as profitability and client service, the needs of professional
development must also be met. In a professional firm, skills are devel­
oped on assignments, through exposure to new challenges and new
responsibilities. The assignment system thus influences (and may even
determine) the amount of skill building that takes place in any given
period.
The issue is not only one of the amount of skill-building, but its na­
ture. The pattern of assignments will determine how functional or in­
dustry skills are built up. If the same individual is always assigned to the
same functional topic, the firm builds a functional expert. If it wishes,
it can manage the pattern of assignments to build an industry expert.
Or it can not manage the process at all, and develop generalists.
In making these decisions, the firm must balance the interests of the
firm with those of the individuals. Above a certain level, there may be
no benefit to the firm in an experienced staff member performing yet
one more assignment on the same industry. He or she may be well
down the learning curve, and the firm’s interests might be better served
by having someone else assigned to the project in order to build
breadth in the firm’s expertise. Yet the system also must be responsive
to individual staff member’s needs for development. In most profes­
sional firms, the prospect for advancement is a prime motivating force
among junior personnel. Accordingly, the scheduling system must
provide individuals with the opportunity to gain the experiences and
develop the skills required.
Considerations of development imply not only that individuals are
assigned to the relevant mix of industries, functional areas, and types
of tasks, but also that they are exposed to a variety of senior staff
members. This is important for two reasons. First, senior staff mem­
bers differ in their capabilities and their willingness to share knowl­
edge, skills, and expertise. A junior who always has worked with the
same senior staff member is less likely to be exposed to the range of
talents and knowledge that are expected to be developed. Unless he or
she is exceptionally well rounded and particularly capable of helping
juniors, no single senior can fulfill all of the needs in the development
of an individual.
There is another reason that juniors should be assigned to work
with a variety of senior staff members. In most firms, promotion de-

178

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

cisions are based on the judgments of senior staff who have worked
with the individual concerned. The more senior staff members that
have worked with a given junior, the more likely it is that good deci­
sions will result from the promotion process.

M O TIV A TIO N AND M O RA LE
Finally, we must add another evaluative criterion to profitability, ser­
vice, and development. This is the criterion of staff satisfaction and
morale. While the personal fulfillment of the work force is important
in any enterprise, it is particularly crucial to the professional service
firm. Professional firms compete not only for their services, but also in
the highly competitive market for superior professionals. Profession­
als are strongly motivated by their opportunities for development not
only in organizational terms (“Will I get promoted?” ) but also in
professional terms. They seek challenge; they seek self-improvement.
Furthermore, they have their own interests. Their personal prefer­
ences for specific assignments are a valid “input” to the scheduling
system.
On a more mundane but no less real level, staff satisfaction with
assignment decisions is determined not only by the professional con­
tent of the work but also by such practical matters as: location (“I’ve
been out of town on my last three jobs; I deserve one at home” ),
urgency (“Every one of my projects has been a crisis situation; I know
not all of our jobs are like that” ), colleagues (“Don’t give me Ted or
Julie again; they’re very competent, but we just don’t click” ), and a
host of other personal matters.
The last of these mentioned is particularly important. Most profes­
sional projects, and the productivity of the effort put into them, will
be significantly affected by how well the team works together. The
explicit criterion of building successful working teams is included in
many firms’ assignments procedures. Even without this factor, how­
ever, professional firms must take som e account of the staff’s personal
preferences in assignment decisions.

SCHEDULING RELATES TO OTHER SYSTEMS
If the importance of wise management of scheduling decisions needs
further demonstration, it is worthwhile to examine scheduling in the

On

the

Importance

of Scbeduling

179

context of the firm’s other human resource management systems. The
linkages are shown in Figure 16-1.
The link between scheduling (work assignments) and recruiting is
strong. It is a common experience in all professions that potential
recruits carefully investigate how their work pattern will be deter­
mined. “How soon will I have to choose a specialty?” “Will I get a
chance to work with a variety of individuals, in a variety of industries,
in a variety of functional areas?” “How much freedom will I have to
choose the work I prefer?” These are common recruiting interview
questions.
Since a large part of the long-term success of any professional ser­
vice firm is determined by its ability to attract and retain superior
professionals, the role of the assignment system in marketing the firm
to young professionals should not be neglected. Apart from this per­
spective, there is another link between scheduling and recruiting. If
the firm’s scheduling system requires the individual to take the initia­
tive and lobby to get on good assignments, then there is little point in
recruiting those individuals who are seeking direction in their early

FIGURE 1 6 -1
Relationship Between Major Human Resource Systems in the
Professional Services Firm

1 80

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

professional years. Conversely, a highly centralized, closely adminis­
tered scheduling system will strongly influence the personality of the
firm and hence the type of people best to recruit. (It is not uncommon
for professional firms to place heavy weight in their recruiting on
whether or not a given individual “fits in with our way of doing
things.” )
Many firms have no formal training and development program.
Often, the pattern of work assignments is the program—no other for­
mal administrative procedure exists to influence the development of
human capital. If such a program does exist, it affects the design and
function of the scheduling system: The two administrative systems
must be matched.
Similarly, the performance appraisal and counseling system that
the professional service firm requires must be accommodated to the
procedures for work assignments. Where work assignments are cen­
trally administered through a formal department, the discretion of the
individual to be assigned may not be great. But if the assignment sys­
tem allows for more active involvement of individuals, whereby they
can or must ask for, choose, or lobby for specific assignments, then
career counseling of juniors becomes an important task. They must be
guided as to what is useful work, who are useful partners to work for,
and what the firm’s expectations and criteria are.
There is, of course, a relationship between work assignments, per­
formance, and performance evaluation. The performance of a given
individual on a given project will be context-specific. It will depend on
the individual’s past assignments and experience. In most firms, the
team or project leader will be responsible for any feedback procedures
that are used.
If performance is to be judged in relativistic terms (i.e., performance
demonstrated versus the individual’s stage of development), the eval­
uation system becomes intimately connected with the assignment
system. For example, an individual’s willingness to undertake an oth­
erwise undesirable project will be influenced by how strongly the sub­
sequent performance is to be judged in context. If no mechanism exists
to take this factor into account, work assignments will be heavily
influenced.
Forms of compensation for professionals vary widely and are var­
iously related, at different firms, to performance, utilization, value to

On

the

Importance

of Schedul i ng

181

the firm, experience, profitability of projects and of the firm, and many
other factors. Each is significantly affected by the decisions that flow
from the assignment system.
The link between assignments and compensation may be explicit,
as in a system that ties an individual’s compensation to the person’s
billability or utilization, or it may be implicit, when compensation is
influenced by subjective determinants of performances. In either case,
the compensation system must be designed around the work assign­
ment system or vice versa. They are not independent.
The pattern of assignments will influence an individual’s promotability through the variety of experiences they have provided, the ex­
posure to different partners, and the staff member’s subsequent
performance. The relationship is two-way. If promotion criteria are
such that certain standards must be met (such as demonstrated com­
petence in a variety of areas), the work assignment system must allow
for, and perhaps encourage, the relevant experiences.

WHO SHOULD HANDLE ASSIGNMENTS?
In order to understand the problems inherent in the design of sched­
uling systems, let us imagine that a firm has decided to appoint a
scheduling “czar” (or “czarina” ) to be responsible for all such deci­
sions. What information must be collected in order to make informed
judgments?
First, our decision maker would want information about each of
the projects: a specific list of the tasks to be performed and, from that,
a list of the skills required. This information should indicate when
each phase of the project is due and hence what time constraints and
flexibility exist. Next, the scheduler would need information on the
skill levels and time-phased availability of each of the staff members.
If our decision maker really wanted to do the job properly, he or she
would consider not only who feasibly could do the work but also how
much each individual’s time would cost in relation to the likely pro­
ductivity and quality of that individual’s work.
Unfortunately, our service firm scheduler has even more facts to
collect, absorb, and take into account. What are the professional needs
of the individuals to be scheduled? If these have not been determined,
the scheduler needs to review the recent assignments for each of the
staff members— what industries they have worked in, what tasks they

1 82

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

have performed, what roles and responsibilities they have undertaken
in their project teams, what geographical locations they have been
sent to, with which partners they have worked.
Apart from the objective development needs of the individuals (as
determined by a review committee or the scheduling czar/czarina), the
individual’s own preferences may or may not be relevant to the deci­
sion. Does the individual have a special, personal reason for wanting
to work on a particular industry? Does he or she need to work close to
home this month? Is there a personal magic between this individual
and particular managers or partners? Such considerations may not
carry large weight in the assignment process; but if they carry any
weight at all, the information must be collected and given to the de­
cision maker.
What of the preferences of managers and partners? Do they prefer
to have one professional on their team rather than another? Finally,
perhaps our scheduler will want to know if there are client preferences
either for individual staff members (for example, on repeat projects
for the same client) or for certain categories of staff members (“This
is a ‘preppy’ client, so don’t give me Joe. He’s smart, but he’ll rub them
the wrong way” ). Also relevant to the decision is the client’s relative
importance to the firm. If a client or project is a critical one, it should
be a higher priority in receiving the firm’s best people. Without good
judgment in this area, poor trade-offs in client service and client re­
sponse may result.
We have already created for our scheduling genius a problem of
some complexity. (See Figure 16-2.) There is an extensive data bank
of facts, judgments, and perceptions concerning the staff members
and the projects. In matching the many staff members to the many
projects, the scheduler must achieve an “optimum” allocation that is
a function of the four major variables of profitability, client satisfac­
tion, staff morale, and professional development.
The scheduling system is, above all, a way to assemble and process
large volumes of information and to make strategic (not administra­
tive) choices based upon that complex set of facts, judgments, and
guesses. Our scheduler needs a procedures to ensure that the four
variables are appropriately and consistently weighted, and second, a
source of accurate, relevant information—on real project skill require­
ments, real capabilities and real developmental needs. A scheduling
system consists not only of the decision making process itself, but all

On

the

Importance

of Schedul i ng

183

FIGURE 1 6 -2
The Structure of the Assignment System
CLIENT-RELATED INFORMATION
Specification of Tasks
and Skills Required
Timing and Location
of Work
Client Preferences __
for Staff
Profitability

Assessment o f ______
Importance
STAFF INFORMATION
Skill Level
Availability

Quality & Service

Scheduling
System

Skill Building
—

Morale & Motivation

Past Assignment History —
Future Development Needs Work Preferences
Effective Cost (Salary)
Fit with Team Leaders

the various organizational devices that are used to communicate in­
formation to and from the scheduler.
This analysis clearly leads us to the conclusion that scheduling de­
cisions need to be truly managed. And managed by someone in a
position to make sound strategic trade-offs. It is not a task that can be
delegated very far from the practice leader (or managing partner or
partner-in-charge). Only such people have the knowledge and judg­
ment to take a practice-wide view of scheduling decisions.
For example, it is sometimes necessary for the scheduler to “chal­
lenge” the staffing requests of a powerful partner, who has requested
many of the best personnel to be assigned to his or her matter. Only a
system which had a powerful scheduler (perhaps even the practice
leader himself or herself) could force the necessary reflection on the
best use of the practice’s resources. Wise, strategic allocation of re­
sources among competing uses to accomplish competing strategic
goals cannot come from a system that is run by an administrator, nor
(as is all too common) from a “political, lobbying, horse-trading”
process wherein each senior professional negotiates with the others to

18 4

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

get the best resources (“I’ll let you have Susan this time, if you’ll give
me Fred” ).
There is nothing wrong with powerful partners lobbying to get the
best possible staff for “their” projects— indeed they should act this
way. But someone needs to be on the other side of that discussion,
thinking of the good of the practice as a whole, asking such questions
as: “Why do you need the office superstar on this one? Couldn’t you
take one of our less qualified people who needs to work on a project
like yours and train them? Maybe you could lower your project costs
and also build skills for our practice by doing that.” It is through such
negotiations that the practice leader has the chance to really control
the trade-offs between profits, quality, skill building, and motivation.
And if the practice leader isn’t doing it, then someone else (or some­
thing else) is really managing the practice.

CHAPTER 17

ON THE MEANING
OF PARTNERSHIP

The defining characteristic of the professional service organization as
an organizational type is the expectation of all professionals that they
will, with time and personal development, proceed through the ranks
to be considered for some form of ownership or partnership. Profes­
sionals want careers, not jobs.
Because of this characteristic, most professional service organiza­
tions effectively have an “up or out” system. Even if the firm does not
enforce this policy, the career expectations of individual professionals
will lead them to seek better opportunities elsewhere if their progress
is halted. Reinforcing this system is the tendency of every firm to view
itself as an elite group. Traditionally, the typical professional firm has
acted as if it could afford to take in only the elite as partners; there has
been no room for those who did not excel in the full range of “partner
skills.”
Increasingly, firms are beginning to wonder whether this approach
is still appropriate. They wrestle with decisions about partner candi­
dates who may not meet all the criteria for elevation to premier status,
yet represent assets to the firm. They do not want to lose such people,
and are increasingly asking, “How can we keep people without mak­
ing them partners? Should we consider instituting some new position
or title, such as ‘principal,’ to handle cases like these?”
185

186

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

This issue raises an important question: What is the meaning of
partnership? What does it symbolize? What are its essential ingredi­
ents?
Traditionally, admission to partnership in a professional firm has
brought with it a complex bundle of rewards:
• Equity Participation. Partners share in the net profits (or losses)
of the firm, while nonpartners receive salaries and perhaps bonuses.
• Tenure. In most situations, partners cannot be removed except
by an extraordinary vote of the partnership.
• Autonomy. Whereas juniors must accept the direction or influ­
ence of partners (if only because they will be subsequently judged for
admission to the partnership by the partners), a partner has, in many
firms, a significant degree of autonomy in what and how he or she
practices. A partner’s work is no longer subject to automatic review
by others.
• Participation in Policy Making. As an equity participant in the
firm, a partner usually has a right to be consulted on major policy
decisions of the firm and has a say in how it is to be managed.
• Incom e. While not necessarily a right of partnership, partners
usually earn significantly more than nonpartners. For some, the main
benefit of being made partner is not autonomy, equity, tenure, or be­
ing consulted: It is the simple fact of reaping the financial rewards that
they worked so hard for in their apprenticeship years.
• Internal Status and Recognition. Apart from all of the foregoing
benefits, partnership in the firm is also often eagerly sought because of
the internal status and recognition it represents. Professionals, per­
haps even more than other types of workers, seek the approbation of
their peers: an acknowledgment of their worth. In the culture of most
firms, this recognition is embedded in the transition to partnership. To
be accepted into the partnership represents an anointing and admis­
sion into the ranks of the full professional. To be denied partnership is
to be condemned to second-class status.
• External Status and Recognition. Professionals seek not only the
approbation of peers within the firm, but that of those outside. In the
words of one professional, “For myself, I’d accept a nonpartner po­
sition within the firm; I understand the internal circumstance. But
when my friends and neighbors say, ‘What? They haven’t made you a

On

the

Meaning

of Partnership

187

partner yet?,' it’s very hard to take.” In these circumstances it is as
much the title of partner as it is the substance that is being sought.
What is significant about this list is that it bundles a large number of
separate (or at least separable) rewards into one decision. If you are
made a partner, you receive, in most firms, all six rewards. If you are
turned down, you are denied all six. This strikes me as a somewhat
blunt instrument to use in allocating organizational rewards: It is an
unforgiving system that does not allow for subtle distinctions to be
made. The world is not divided into two types of people: partner
material and nonpartner material. There are degrees.
These reflections suggest that it might be wise to try to unbundle the
six rewards and not embed them all in one “go/no go” decision. It is
certainly feasible. There is no reason why equity participation need be
synonymous with partnership. Indeed, a number of professional ser­
vice firms that are incorporated (though operating on partnership
principles) spread equity participation to ranks below that of partner
equivalent, thus giving a greater number of professionals a stake in the
firm’s success. Even income levels can be separated from partnership.
In some firms a fully productive junior can earn more than a less-thanproductive partner, a scheme many other firms could usefully imitate.
Similarly, it is possible to separate tenure from partnership— in ei­
ther direction. Nonpartners can be given security of employment with­
out being made partner, and many large professional firms have
partnerships without a guarantee of tenure. Like senior officers at any
large corporation, partners can be (gently) asked for their resignation
if they cease to perform or meet the firm’s standards.
Participation in policy making can also be separate from partner­
ship. At a number of firms there are, in effect, two classes of partner:
nominal partners and real partners. The latter wield all of the power
and make all of the important decisions. They rarely consult the nom­
inal partners, and while there are partnership votes, these tend to be
“rubber stamps” of decisions already made by those in power. I am
not suggesting that this is the way to run a firm, although it has its
merits: The point is that there are ways to separate membership in the
partnership from policy making.
Autonomy, likewise, is a matter of degree. In some firms, partners
are truly autonomous, subject only to the constraints of the partner­
ship profit-splitting system. In other firms, junior partners continue to

188

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

act under the direction of department heads and other more senior
partners. The degree of autonomy granted to partners (and expected
by them) is a function of the internal culture of the firm and the choices
the firm has made in this regard. It is not preordained.
Finally, status— internal and external. The relative importance of
partnership as a sign of internal status differs significantly between
firms. In firms with a well-developed class consciousness, the differ­
ence in status between partner and nonpartner is all important. Part­
ners are royalty and all others are “the common people”: A real “usthem” mentality prevails. In such firms, the status value of being a
partner is immeasurable.
However, it need not be that way. In other firms, junior nonpart­
ners serve on important committees, take significant responsibility,
and, within the internal culture, are treated with as much respect as
partners. The difference in status (which still exists) is minimized, and
the privileges of rank are suppressed. In such firms, partnership is not
sought because of status needs. Failing to achieve partnership, or be­
ing delayed in achieving it, has its disappointments, but a loss of face
in the organization is not one of them. Such firms are more likely to be
able to retain desirable professionals short of full partnership.
External status can also be managed. A number of professional
service firms have ceased to make any distinctions in the outside world
as to the rank of staff members. One I know calls everyone an “asso­
ciate” regardless of tenure, income, internal status, responsibilities,
and accomplishments. Internal titles might be used to reflect internal
work assignments (manager, department head, executive committee
chairman), but to the outside world, all members of the firm have
equivalent titles. This is not to say that differences in external status
do not exist, due to reputation, performance, and the like, but the firm
does not go out of its way to accentuate these. External status is a
function of the individual’s abilities, not his or her place in the hier­
archy.
So what does all this mean? It means that professional firms have
more options in distributing their rewards—“hard” and “soft”— than
many have acknowledged. They have more ways of recognizing indi­
vidual performance and distinctions between people than the sledge­
hammer of the partnership decision. By “unbundling” the mixture of
rewards represented by partnership, it should, indeed, be possible to
retain good people without making them partners.

CHAPTER 18

SURVIVING THE
PEOPLE CRISIS

Professional service firms compete in two marketplaces: They com­
pete for clients and they compete for staff. While acknowledging this
truism, most professional firms’ strategic thinking has nevertheless
focused overwhelmingly on the client marketplace alone. Strategy, in
most firms, has just been another name for marketing. Human re­
source issues, such as recruiting, training, and development have been
dealt with as matters of administrative detail, not competitive strat­
egy. This, however, is about to change.
In the next decade and beyond, the ability to attract, develop, re­
tain, and deploy sta ff will be the single biggest determinant o f a p ro­
fessional service firm's competitive success.
How do we know this? Simple demographics. Each year since the
mid-1960s, the number of new entrants into the work force, in every
developed economy, expanded dramatically as the “Baby-Boom” gen­
eration reached their twenties. For example, in the United States, the
number of people in the twenty-five-to-thirty-four age group rose be­
tween 1965 and 1985 from approximately 17 percent of the total
population to nearly 23 percent. A similar growth took place in every
developed economy.
The increase in numbers was not the only trend favorable to pur­
chasers of professional labor. During this same twenty-year period, in
189

190

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

many countries, an ever-increasing percentage of women entered the
work force, particularly the professional work force. Further, the
“Baby-Boom” group had a higher percentage of university graduates
than any previous generation, favoring recruiting organizations that
offered professional careers.
In this environment, the relative neglect of strategic thinking about
the people marketplace by professional firms may have been appro­
priate: You don't worry too much about something that is in plentiful
supply. However, this environment has begun to change.
In every developed economy, the percentage of the population in
the twenty-five-to-thirty-four age group has started to decline from its
1985 peak, and will continue to fall over the next twenty years. In the
United States, this group will decline from 23 percent to 17 percent of
the total population in the next fifteen years.
The changing supply picture must be placed against the background
of what is happening to the dem and for professional workers. Most
observers of the world’s developed economies have noted a shift to the
“knowledge economy.” Educated people with a few years of business
experience are in increasing demand by businesses of all types, and
will have many more options in building their careers than their BabyBoom elders.
To place the potential impact of this in perspective, consider the
following statistic: The “oil shock” of the early 1970s was caused by
only a 5 percent shrinkage in worldwide supply. Professional firms
are facing a 25 percent shrinkage in their nonpartner labor force.
There is going to be a huge people shortage, and its effects will be
major.
Evidence of the changing supply-demand imbalance was clearly
seen in the United States in the late 1980s as entry level salaries es­
calated rapidly in the accounting, legal, and consulting professions.
Its effects have been hidden in the recession of the early 1990s, lead­
ing many to believe that there is now an abundance of available peo­
ple to be hired. However, an examination of the underlying statistics
suggests that the effects of the changed supply-demand imbalance
will return with full force once the recession is over.

Surviving

the

People

Crisis

191

FROM RESOURCE RICH TO RESOURCE
CONSTRAINED
To understand the implications of the shift in the supply-demand bal­
ance of human resources, imagine you are a manufacturer of products
made out of gold, in an environment where gold is relatively cheap
and in plentiful supply.
How would you mine for gold in such an environment? You would
dig out a mound of earth, stress it out, keep the obvious nuggets and
throw the rest away! (The “Up-or-Out” system). When gold is cheap
and plentiful, it isn’t worth a lot of effort to try to turn medium-grade
ore into refined product— it’s cheaper and faster just to go dig some
more and look for more nuggets. In the Baby-Boom years, turnover at
professional firms was high (by design) as many more were hired than
were expected to make it through the ranks to become owners or
partners, and little emphasis was given to converting medium-grade
staff into high performers. In most firms, you made it on your own, or
you didn’t make it. This was a perfect policy for a resource-rich envi­
ronment.
When gold is cheap and plentiful, what is your concern about seek­
ing out efficiency improvements in the use of gold? In principle, effi­
ciency is always a good idea, but in practice, firms don’t worry very
much about the efficient use resources that are cheap and plentiful. In
the 1980s few professional firms spent much time and effort looking
for new ways to reduce the cost of delivery of their services. As a
consequence, few staff members were consistently put to their “high­
est and best use.” Resource allocation decisions (such as staff sched­
uling processes) were driven by criteria such as the short-term “keep
people busy” principle, rather than being driven by issues of produc­
tivity, efficiency, and best use of resources.
When gold is cheap and plentiful, how much do you worry about
the relative profit margins of the different uses to which you put the
gold? Again, product-line profitability is a “nice idea,” but the reality
is that when the resource is cheap, it’s not worth worrying about: Just
make whatever you can sell! What about your policy toward growth?
In a cheap resource environment, you grow as fast as you can, what­
ever way you can. If you can sell it, you’ll make money at it.
What this discussion shows is that there has been a sound logic to
some common managerial policies among professional firms:

192

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

• Up-or-out survival of the fittest
• More preaching than execution of coaching
• Opportunistic resource allocation policies
• Lack of attention to seeking ways to reduce delivery cost
• Lack of project-level profitability analyses
• Business development activities that ignore or downplay the prof­
itability of different kinds of work
All of these policies and practices are smart— as long as the environ­
ment remains resource rich. But what if it changes? Then the policies
firms have used successfully for twenty years might not be so sensible.
When resources become relatively scarce and relatively costly, it sud­
denly does make sense to invest in coaching and training in order to
extract the maximum value from “medium-grade ore.” It suddenly
does become sensible to worry about the efficient use of resources, and
to schedule them carefully, looking for ways to improve productivity
(not just production). It is now necessary to have a good “job-costing”
system so that firm management can track whether resources are be­
ing used on the right applications. And growth as a prime strategy is
now no longer obviously correct. Care must be taken that high-price
resources do not get tied up in too much low-value work.
The changing supply-demand balance for human resources clearly
affects far more than just recruiting and starting salaries. In fact, these
may be the least important aspects of the issue. Many of the en­
trenched management practices that have proven to be so appropriate
for the last twenty years, if preserved, may lead to the firm’s downfall
over the next twenty years. The key will be the willingness to chal­
lenge and reexamine policies that have served the firm well. Will Rog­
ers put it best: “It’s not what we don’t know that hurts us, it’s what we
know for sure that ain’t so.”

WHAT CAN BE DONE?
The changing supply-demand imbalance has three dimensions: scar­
city (firms might not be able to recruit sufficient numbers of people for
their needs), high cost (salaries will escalate for all employees), and
retention (firms will find it harder to hold onto mid-level employees
who will be courted not only by traditional professional firm compet­
itors, but by many other businesses).
Of these dimensions, scarcity of entry-level hires is likely to be the
least of the problems. Most professions provide attractive initial ca­

Surviving

the

People

Crisis

193

reer opportunities relative to other industries. Law school graduates
will probably continue to join law firms, accounting graduates to join
accounting firms, and business school graduates will continue to find
consulting and investment banking attractive first jobs.
The real impact of the people crisis will be felt in absorbing the high
costs that will result from competition for educated young workers,
and continuing to make the professional-firm career path attractive in
an environment when mid-level employees will receive numerous
“head-hunting” calls.
To accommodate an environmental shift as large as the one de­
scribed will take more than tinkering. No single stroke will solve the
problem: What will be required is a cohesive strategy built on many
avenues of attack. Among these avenues, we can identify three broad
approaches that must be considered (see also Table 18-1):
a. Find ways to improve the productivity of higher-priced re­
sources;
b. Find ways to reduce need for costly resources;
c. Investigate the possibilities of substitution for costly resources.

PRODUCTIVITY STRATEGIES
Even if firms attract the numbers of people they need (i.e., deal with
the scarcity issue), they will continue to face the fact that the bulk of
their traditional hires will be at inflated salaries. Accordingly, ways
will have to be found to recoup these higher costs by increasing the
value of the output produced by the higher-priced resources.
Doing this will be the most significant avenue of attack in dealing
with the people crisis. In the competition for scarce, high-priced labor,
those firms that can put high-priced people to better (more produc­
tive) use than their competitors will be best able to pay higher salaries.
Ensuring and raising the productivity of high-priced assets will remain
the strategic issue of the coming decade.
W ORK M ORE H O URS
The most obvious way to obtain more output from any productive
resource is to work it harder. A similar thought has occurred to some
professional firms who have attempted to extract a “quid pro quo”
for higher staff salaries by requiring more billable hours from each of
them.

194

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

TABLE 1 8 -1
Tactics for Dealing with the People Crisis
PRODUCTIVITY STRATEGIES
Speed up apprecticeship process so that costly resources can
handle higher value w ork
Rew ard partners explicitly fo r g o o d coaching
Change engagement staffing so that all are put to “highest and
best use”
Use technology to enhance productive capabilities o f sta ff
members
Increase expected billable hours from sta ff
Change pay schemes to reward perform ance differentials.
REDUCE NEED STRATEGIES
Withdraw from som e services and markets that cannot support
new salary levels
Drop “up-or-out” system to reduce turnover
Rethink fast grow th strategies
Em phasize profitability more, volume o f fees less
SUBSTITUTION STRATEGIES
Use m ore paraprofessionals
Use technology to substitute fo r labor
Hire “nontraditional” candidates and offset by training
Hire people fo r “jo b s ” instead o f “careers”
A ccom m odate part-time, flex-time, “alternate life-style”
w orkers

It is less than clear that this is a sustainable, viable strategy for
dealing with the people crisis. The increase in billable hours (of the
order of 5 to 10 percent) does not offset completely the salary in­
creases, and may work against these firms. The whole point of the
escalating salaries seen in the late 1980s (and predicted to return) is
that there is a scarcity, and hence a need to be m ore attractive to
recruits in a competitive marketplace. Adding to the workload is un­
likely to make a firm competitive with others. At best this is a stopgap
measure until the other actions discussed below can be implemented.

Surviving

the

People

Crisis

195

CHANGE M ETH O D S FO R PERFO RM IN G CLIENT W ORK
If a manufacturing company was faced with a doubling of the price of
a key machine, it would reexamine the way in which it uses that ma­
chine to ensure that it was producing the maximum value of output
and was not being wasted in any way. Similarly, a professional firm
will need to reexamine whether or not its productive resources are
truly being put to “highest and best use.”
Evidence from my consulting and research suggests that many firms
have significant room for improvement here. For understandable rea­
sons—their overriding concern for quality and effectiveness—few
professional firms have paid much attention to efficiency in their op­
erations. In a majority of professional firms, even the best managed,
there is a significant degree of “systemic underdelegation”—work be­
ing done by a higher-priced person that could, with more organization
and training, be done by someone more junior (and less costly). (See
Chapter 4, Solving the Underdelegation Problem.)
In many firms as much as 50 percent of the entire productive ca­
pacity of the firm falls into this category. When the price of staff re­
sources escalates, this situation will become intolerable. Firms will
need to devise management approaches that will ensure that lowervalue work is not being done by higher-priced people except where
absolutely necessary.
Ensuring productive use of higher priced staff will require that sub­
stantial management attention is paid to the work assignment func­
tion (that process which decides who works on what engagements
and what part of the work they do). In many firms this aspect of
office-level management is relatively neglected, and is dealt with as an
administrative function. In a world where, to be productive, every
resource must be put to its highest and best use, scheduling becomes a
major management topic.
Achieving the goal of more efficient staffing will require firms to
invest more in the development of methodologies (so that the more
junior people can handle higher-valued work and produce highervalue output). In the daily press of business, it is often easier for a
senior professional to do a piece of work her- or himself rather than
train the junior to handle it. What is more, most firms’ measurement
systems place great emphasis on personal billable hours: This means
that there is little incentive for the senior professional to take the time

196

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

out to capture and disseminate his or her accumulated wisdom to the
juniors. Accordingly, possible methodologies do not get developed.
IM PRO VE A PPREN TIC ESH IP P R O C ESS
Productivity is not just about performing the same tasks at lower costs.
It is also about recouping the higher costs of staff by making them
more valuable to clients (and hence being able to collect higher fees).
In a professional firm there are three main ways to improve the skill­
building process. The first has already been discussed: use the work
assignment system to expose juniors early to increasingly stretching
client work, and ensure that such work is not “hoarded” by those who
are overly practiced at performing this work.
The second means of improving skill building is through formal
training programs in key areas of knowledge and skill. While these
undoubtedly play a role, most firms have learned that formal training
serves well for knowledge transfer, but is relatively poor in the more
important area of skill building. To speed up the acquisition of critical
skills, firms must turn to the third device: better on-the-job coaching
and teaching by senior professionals.
This responsibility is formally included in the role description of
senior professionals at most professional firms, but it is the rare firm
today where it has a high priority in the appraisal and reward systems
for senior professionals. To achieve the strategic goal of more rapid
skill building, firms will have to design reward systems that will con­
vince senior professionals that good performance in this area will be
rewarded, and poor performance penalized. (For a method of accom­
plishing this, see Chapter 4, Solving the Underdelegation Problem.)
Achieving productivity gains will also require a rethinking of com­
pensation systems at lower levels. The majority of professional firms
make few, if any, performance differentials in their compensation of
junior staff. As the costs of staff escalate, it becomes more important
to make distinctions between high-performing and low-performing
assets.
VALU E EN H ANCEM EN T
An additional means by which the high price of staff might be re­
couped through higher value to clients is “empowering” the individ­

Surviving

the

People

Crisis

197

ual with the tools, methodologies, experience, and accumulated
knowledge of the firm.
A good example of this is provided by those accounting firms that
provide low-level staff auditors with laptop computers, which contain
in storage the entire audit manual of the firm, together with a quasi
“expert” system that allows even the most junior professional to ac­
cess answers to advanced client questions. In addition, the juniors’
computers are compatible with client printers, so that answers to cli­
ent questions and pro-forma calculations can be produced at the client
site.
Another example is provided by the professional service firm that
uses a nationwide electronic mail system to allow any professional to
access the accumulated wisdom and experience of other firm profes­
sionals anywhere in the country.
Value enhancement activities that help junior staff become more
valuable to clients need not be “high-tech.” At least one major con­
sulting firm has attempted to speed up its knowledge transfer activities
by capturing on (many) videotapes the senior staff of the firm explain­
ing in detail how to go about performing the various activities (from
client interviewing through data analysis to structuring presentations
to maximize client understanding and acceptance) that go toward
making a knowledgeable consultant.
Whether low-tech or high-tech, the principle is the same: The more
tools that the organization can provide to the staff, the more valuable
they can become, and the more likely the organization is to recoup
their high cost.
REDUCED NEED ST R A T E G IE S
Even with productivity improvements of the sorts described above, it
is likely that most professional firms will end up with a higher cost
structure than before. Will clients accept higher fee structures, allow­
ing the firms to sustain their current profitability?
The answer, probably, is that some will and some will not. For
critical, frontier-type services (what I have elsewhere described as
brains or expertise services), clients will probably continue to be rel­
atively fee-insensitive. However, the majority of professional services
are outside this category. For more familiar (or well-defined) issues,

198

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irM

clients have a broader choice of potential suppliers, and fee consider­
ations play a greater role in their selection of a professional firm.
As the cost of productive human resources escalates, it will become
essential that the uses to which those resources are put be compared,
and the lower-value uses be carefully examined for their strategic im­
portance. This will require a serious reexamination of the services
professional firms offer, the clients they serve, and the types of busi­
ness they pursue. Greater selectivity will be the name of the game.
Certain services will be dropped (perhaps passed back to the client),
and certain types of clients will be judged to be no longer profitable or
attractive. For many firms this analysis will require a careful reexam­
ination of how (if at all) profitability is measured at the project or
client level.
Not only will these considerations enforce a re-evaluation of which
markets and services the firm should be in, but, in addition, firms will
have to think more carefully about the relationship between growth
and profitability. For the first time in two decades, the growth of pro­
fessional firms will be constrained by their labor supply. Accordingly,
the economics of attracting new business will have to be tested against
the economics of staffing that business, including the opportunity
costs of tying up staff best deployed elsewhere. Such considerations
are rarely included in the “new matters acceptance” policies of to­
day’s firm.
If it is to remain vibrant, every professional firm must grow at a rate
sufficient to provide challenge and opportunities for advancement to
its staff. This has always been so. However, firms will need to ask
themselves why they wish to grow at a rate faster than that needed to
provide career opportunities.
RETEN TIO N
An important part of any firm’s strategy for dealing with the people
crisis will be to reduce its need for new hires by doing a better job of
retaining its existing staff. If you have paid a lot for a resource, and
invested a lot in its training, the last thing you want is for that resource
to disappear. Retention will become a major strategic issue.
What will it take to deal with it? As noted above, a great deal more
attention will have to be paid to helping individual staff members
build their skills. As many studies have shown, morale, motivation,

Surviving

the

People

Crisis

199

and turnover are affected by nothing so much as the nature of the
work given to staff members. Therefore, the productivity issues dis­
cussed above are not just a matter of ensuring the effective use of
resources: They also speak to the issue of retention. Professionals look
for careers, not jobs. As long as their career is progressing, they will
stay. When they feel that they are no longer building skills, they will
jump.
In addition, it may be necessary to rethink the professions’ tradi­
tional “up-or-out” philosophy. Letting good people go who are not
quite good enough for partnership has always been used as a success­
ful motivating force in the professions. However, it is, by design, a
wasteful system, predicated on the assumption there will be an ample
supply of new entrants. Clearly, this model of firm structure may not
be sustainable in a scarcity situation. (It is interesting that many pro­
fessional firms are today exploring “alternate partnership models” to
address this issue.)
Holding on to good people short of partnership is not an easy task:
salary increases alone will not suffice, particularly in an environment
where some firms, short of staff, will be constantly looking to “raid”
other firms. Ways must be found to help senior nonpartner staff feel
valued and not feel the temptation to jump to another firm.

SUBSTITUTION STRATEGIES
P A R A P R O FESSIO N A L S
In the search for substitutes for higher-priced workers, most firms will
be led to cast a critical eye over their real staffing needs. Does all of
their work truly require the services of the highly educated people that
make up their traditional work force?
Already, many firms have found that they can get significant por­
tions of their work done at a reasonable cost to clients by using paraprofessionals, people who do not have traditional qualifications and
can be hired at a lesser cost than the traditional group.
Few professional firms make money on first- and second-year em­
ployees: The value of the work assigned to them does not match the
salaries they receive. The first year or two are viewed as a training
ground for entry level staff, to teach (often by osmosis) the realities of
the profession. In the past twenty years, with entry level staff in abun­

200

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

dance and comparatively inexpensive, this approach to absorbing new
entrants may have been wise. In the future, it may prove to be an
expensive indulgence.
Any examination of the tasks performed by entry level personnel
reveals that much professional work can indeed be done by paraprofessionals. Of course, executing this strategy will require an invest­
ment of time and money to develop the methodologies necessary to
make good use of paraprofessionals. It will also require the develop­
ment of new management structures to oversee the “new” type of
employee, and the discovery of ways to train and integrate traditional
hires into the practice at a more “advanced” level than heretofore.
For many firms, certain “cultural” issues will arise from this strat­
egy: If there are two large groups of staff, one on the professional
track and one not, resentments may arise (as they have at some firms).
Success with a large-scale paraprofessional strategy requires that the
professional “class system” be broken down, and the issue of career
paths for paraprofessionals be worked out in advance.
In spite of these difficulties, this strategy is one of the few listed here
that has the potential to generate the numbers of staff that many large
professional firms require. It has many other potential benefits as well.
First, it offers the potential for reducing the “grunt work” component
of the early stages of professional careers, thus making firms (and
professions) more attractive to scarce potential recruits. Second, it has
the potential to lower the cost structure of the firm’s delivery of cer­
tain services, thus enabling the firm to compete better in a high re­
source cost environment.

N O N TRA D ITIO N A L CAN DID ATES
In seeking substitutes for its traditional hires, firms have other sources
to turn to apart from paraprofessionals. A major option is to stay with
traditional sources of staff, but consider alternatives to traditional
hiring criteria. Already the excess of demand over supply for gradu­
ates of “elite” schools is leading many firms to cast their hiring net a
little wider than in the past.
In the first instance, this often translates into hiring more deeply
from traditional schools—that is, recruiting graduates not in, say, the
top 25 percent of the class. In addition, many, if not most, law and

Surviving

the

People

Crisis

201

accounting firms in recent years have begun recruiting programs at
schools not traditionally considered to be in the top echelon.
Expanding beyond this, some professional firms (such as account­
ing and consulting) have begun recruiting graduates from “nontraditional” programs, in the search for “bright” students wherever they
may be found. Some accounting firms are targeting math, liberal arts,
and science graduates, while at least one major consulting firm has an
active program of supplementing its MBA recruiting with hiring pro­
grams at major law schools. One can predict with great confidence
that this interprofessional competition for bright young people will
escalate.
In all of these substitution strategies, firms will need to offset the
nontraditional nature of their hires by revised training programs, if
the new hires are to be absorbed into the traditional career systems of
the professional firm.
However, not all substitutes might require (or expect) to step on to
the career ladders of the firms. A major option for professional firms
will be to restructure their operations to provide not only “careers”
but also “jobs.”
Another source of substitutes for traditional professional firm hires
will be reentrants to the workplace and experienced people looking
for career shifts. As the demographic statistics reveal, there will con­
tinue to be an abundance of thirty-five-to-forty-four-year-olds in the
workplace, and this may prove to be a useful source of workers for
professional firms if these people can be tempted by the types of work
traditionally performed by twenty-five-to-thirty-four-year-olds inside
the professional firm.
A related substitution tactic would be to accommodate, at any level,
those who seek not a career, but a job. Thus, perhaps at any level,
some staff could elect to be on the professional, ambitious track
(shooting for partnership), while others declare themselves as wishing
to stay in a given function or at a given level, perhaps with lesser pay,
and fewer demands on them. In essence this is being willing to accom­
modate the work preferences of a broader variety of people, including
part-timers, short-week workers, and others who seek an “alternate
work life-style” other than the traditional intense pace that is the hall­
mark of the professional firm.

202

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

TECH N O LO GY SU B ST IT U T IO N
Substitution strategies do not only mean switching from high-priced
labor to lower-priced labor. Much professional work is fundamen­
tally made up of knowledge and information processing activities,
and hence lends itself readily to the automation of basic processes.
While most firms recognize this, few have fully exploited the op­
portunities to tap into the power of the microcomputer. In large part,
this lag is due to the entrenched practice of charging clients by the
hour for work done by professional staff. This circumstance has in­
hibited the large scale adoption of tools that substitute machines for
person-hours.
Yet the opportunities are many. A perfect illustration is provided
by one “Big-Six” tax practice, which has set itself the goal of reducing
by 50 percent (within three years) the person-hours necessary to
produce a tax-return. The exploitation in the legal profession of
data-base systems such as Lexis®, together with integrated word­
processing activities tied into local area networks, has some distance
to go before the full benefits are captured. In many areas of consulting,
the software capability to perform relatively standardized analyses
has not yet yielded all of the labor savings that are possible, and with
the exponential increase of technology, the savings in both time and
money continue to grow.

CONCLUSION
Paraprofessionals. Productivity. Rapid skill building. People manage­
ment skills. Value enhancement. It will immediately be recognized
that few of the items listed above are new topics: Most will have been
discussed at a majority of firms. Not necessarily acted upon— dis­
cussed. What is new is the pressure to implement fully the already
desirable actions.
One cannot underestimate the difficulty that many professional
firms will have in implementing the strategies discussed above. For
twenty years, virtually the entire business lifetime of most professional
firm leaders, firms could be (and have been) run on the principle that
what counted was “getting the business”—if you could get the busi­
ness, you could get the staff to do the work. The historic abundance of
staff has bred a set of attitudes that client-related activities are where
it all happens, and that people issues are somehow secondary.

Surviving

the

People

Crisis

203

This fundamental philosophy, embedded in the fundamental man­
agement practices of the firm (especially its measurement and reward
systems) has been validated by two decades of experience, and will be
hard to change.
Professional firms, by their very nature, are conservative institu­
tions. Formed from the voluntary collaboration of many powerful
and increasingly mobile partners, they can bring about change in the
running of their affairs only with broad consensus. By a similar token,
the changes that matter are not those made by any central group, but
by the collective change of behavior of tens, or hundreds, or thou­
sands of partners beginning to do things differently in the daily con­
duct of their individual practices.
Take, for example, the simple issue of getting partners to focus on
being good coaches of their apprentices; on being good engagement
leaders, delegating work as quickly as possible. As noted above, there
are few firms that do not “officially” require this of their partners:
And there are just as few firms that have any management mechanism
of incentive and reward for its performance. In most firms, “business
getting” is indeed “where it’s at,” and individual partners do not per­
ceive coaching, training, engagement leadership, skill building, and
contributing to retention as high on their priority list; these activities
frequently receive more lip service than day-to-day attention.
If a professional firm is to flourish in the new environment, such
situations must change. Firms will have to find ways to measure and
reward senior professional performance in this area. Successfully im­
plementing such systems is no trivial task. Measuring partner perfor­
mance in the area of engagement leadership can best be done through
some form of regular “upward” reviews by junior staff of their en­
gagement leaders. For understandable reasons, such a management
tool is difficult to institute in a partnership. Yet if it is not done, what
mechanism will work as well to induce all partners to believe that the
firm places an equal weight on performance in this arena as in the
client arena? Few firms have solved this dilemma.
Similar challenges face those firms that attempt to wrestle with
other countercultural management practices. How many firms will be
able to instill the practice of being increasingly selective in new busi­
ness development to reflect resource scarcity and opportunity costs?
How many will be able to make a successful transformation from an

204

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

“up-or-out” culture to one where staff of varying levels of accom­
plishment (and status) feel comfortable remaining in the firm?
As may be seen, the firms that will be most successful in adapting to
the new environment will be those willing to challenge many of their
most cherished notions and most deeply entrenched practices. People
are the most important asset of a professional service firm. It’s time
the firms started acting as if they really believed it.

PART FOUR

MANAGEMENT
MATTERS

CHAPTER 19

HOW PRACTICE LEADERS
ADD VALUE

What it is that distinguishes the most successful firms (or practices)
from ordinary firms in the same market? My experience suggests that
it has little to do with creative strategies or unique management sys­
tems. Nor is it a matter of IQ or professional talent. The partners I
meet in the most successful firms are not consistently smarter or more
talented than their counterparts at other firms. What is noticeably
different at the best firms is a characteristic variously described as
energy, drive, enthusiasm, motivation, morale, determination, dedi­
cation, and commitment.
While many factors appear to play a role in creating this dynamism,
one stands out above all others: the skills and behavior of the practice
leader(s). In firm after firm, I have observed marked changes in per­
formance from the same group of partners where the only thing that
changed was a new individual appointed to the leadership of a prac­
tice. This should not be surprising. A professional practice is like a
sports team, filled with talented athletes who will only win if they
truly fulfill their potential. Professionals, like athletes, when left to
their own devices, don’t accomplish as much as they do when they are
supported by a good coach.
It is tempting to assume that since the typical professional firm is
made up of intelligent, energetic individuals, they can be relied upon
to be autonomous, self-starting professionals, with no need to be man207

208

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

aged. However, my experience suggests that the best managers really
do add a very special value. First, through their actions other people
accomplish more, and focus on more important things, than they
would if left to their own devices. Second, it is through the skill of the
manager that the talents of powerful individuals are shaped into even
more powerful teams, learning from and supporting each other.
Professionals lead busy lives with many conflicting demands on
their time and attention. In such a world, it is all too easy to be driven
by the pressure of events and postpone or neglect activities that may
not have to be done today but are essential for the future. All too
often, the urgent drives out the important. Examples of “postponable” activities that are often neglected due to the pressure of daily
business might include those extra touches of client service that build
relationships; or the added time it takes to help a more junior profes­
sional learn a new approach; or the extra time taken to represent the
firm in important meetings of the business community in order to
build a presence.
Professionals usually understand the importance of these activities
and know what to do to execute them. They intend to do them. But
they do not always get around to them. After all, each of these actions
involves short-term “costs” for a long-term benefit. Left to themselves,
professionals, like all human beings, find it all too easy to take care of
today, at the risk of underinvesting in tomorrow.
I first experienced the power of a skilled manager of professionals
as a young academic, when I lived within a system that had both
short-term goals (teach my classes), as well as long-term goals (re­
search and publication). I could be relied upon to teach my classes,
but even though it was in my own career interest to get the long-term
stuff done, somehow I always found ways to postpone it. The school’s
formal performance appraisal system, conducted annually, was an
exercise in paperwork, and never really worked to motivate me (or
anyone else I knew.)
Then one day, without notice, a senior colleague dropped by. “Da­
vid, we don’t have many opportunities to get together,” he said, “and
I was interested in what you were up to. Why don’t you tell me what
your research is about?” I stumbled to find an answer. “Well, you
might need to get a little more focused,” he observed. “Let’s chat
about it. How can I help?” We discussed my ideas for a while. “What
research sites do you plan to visit?” he asked. I had no idea and

How

Practice

Leaders

Add

Val ue

209

said I was still working on it. “Perhaps I can help you there,” he said.
“Why don’t you make a list of what you’re looking for and I’ll review
it with you, if you wish.”
The conversation continued with the senior colleague gently prob­
ing, making suggestions, and making me well aware (without rubbing
my nose in it) of what I should be working on. After (only) fifteen or
twenty minutes, he said, “Well, I have to leave now, but I’m delighted
we had this chance to chat. Perhaps I can drop by again sometime
soon. I’ll be keen to see what progress you’ve made.”
This individual was very skilled. His tone and questions were gentle
and understanding, but I was thoroughly embarrassed that I didn’t
have good answers to reasonable questions. That fifteen or twenty
minute intervention left me motivated and energized, and I was more
organized, disciplined, and productive than I had ever been for at least
three months afterwards.
The lessons, I hope, are obvious. Before this intervention, I was
cruising along, taking care of business, but not really focused or pro­
ductive, in spite of all the formal incentives and structured perfor­
mance appraisal systems. Basically, I felt like one more cog in the
system. Suddenly, someone was showing a personal interest in me.
Someone clearly cared about me and how I was doing. Someone
wanted me to succeed, and found a nonformal, nonthreatening way to
offer concrete, helpful suggestions. This person let me form my own
conclusions about how well I was doing. I wasn’t being judged, I was
being coached.
Since that time, I have repeatedly observed both the need for, and
the power of, good coaching. I frequently ask groups of partners to
assess the percentage of their capabilities at which they are currently
functioning. The answers vary widely, but can be surprisingly low.
Partners frequently report that they are diligent and are working hard,
but a surprisingly large percentage report that they are not “turned
on” and excited by their practice. They are just “grinding it out.” This
difference between working hard and being excited may be subtle, but
it makes a world of difference in leading to marketplace success.
I once interviewed the managing partner of a large office of an
international professional service firm. I had been told that, without
changing personnel or investing extra funds, he had converted a num­
ber of the firm’s declining and demoralized branch offices into flour­

210

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

ishing practices. I was eager to learn the secret of his success. Would it
be strategic planning? Tight cost control? Marketing training for the
professional staff?
“The key thing that I do,” he told me, “is to call each person into
my office and ask a single question: ‘What do you want to be famous
for?’ ” He reported that a very high percentage of partners have no
answer to the question. “The typical professional,” he continued, “is
a highly trained, intelligent person, usually ambitious, who wants to
feel special and to feel that the firm that he belongs to is special. But it
is remarkable how few people are focused. My job as managing part­
ner is to engage, encourage, focus, and channel the partners’ energies
and ambitions.”
My own research with professional service firms of all kinds has
confirmed the wisdom of these observations. For firms to function
effectively, they must foster an atmosphere of dynamism, of ambition,
of aiming to be the best. It is the manager’s task to keep the profes­
sionals’ eyes fixed on this continuous ambition to improve, to grow,
to develop.

WHAT GOOD COACHES DO
How do good coaches achieve results? Effective practice leaders rec­
ognize that you rarely “turn on” partners (or get them to change)
through speeches, vision statements, or inspirational group meetings.
They know that the only truly effective way to influence people is one
on one, in highly individualized, closed-door counseling. Above all
else, they pay attention to the individual. They are close enough to
what the individual is doing to be able to offer substantive sugges­
tions. They are always “dropping by” to ask “how’s it going?”
Good coaches use many approaches in motivating their people,
recognizing that different individuals are “turned on” by different
things. What works with one partner may fail with another. Among
the many separate and different things that may motivate a given in­
dividual are money, external (marketplace) esteem, internal status
and recognition, autonomy, appreciation, professional pride, team­
work, an especially challenging assignment, rivalry, or any of a nu­
merous list of “hot buttons.” One of the key talents of a good coach
is the ability to recognize what motivates each specific individual, and
deal with people on their own terms. Good coaches do not theorize

How

Practice

Leaders

Add

Value

211

about what should motivate people— instead, on a case-by-case basis
they discover what does motivate each person.
A good coach recognizes that coaching is a continuous process and
does not “save up” feedback and performance guidance for a oncea-year grand counseling session. Constructive feedback and sugges­
tions are much more likely to be accepted (and hence be effective) if
they are offered in small increments. Similarly, if counseling advice is
given long before performance is to be assessed, and not when it di­
rectly leads to reward, then it is more likely to be seen as a source of
help, not as an evaluation. When good coaches give feedback, it
should not be just a critique, but should contain concrete action ideas
for how to improve. Good coaches tell people not only what could be
improved, but h ow . They are thus seen by those they coach as a source
of creative ideas.
Effective practice leaders go out of their way to celebrate successes
and triumphs. They make constant use of approval, visibility, recog­
nition, and appreciation. (Ask your partners how often they hear
“well done” or “thank you.” Ask them whether they’d like to hear it
more often.) However, to be effective, good coaches must also be
demanding. When a good athlete successfully jumps over the high bar,
what does a good coach do? Two essential things. First, celebrate the
accomplishment, and then—raise the bar! (“Come on you can do it!” )
Coaches must be simultaneously chief cheerleader and chief critic—
one without the other is insufficient. Part of the skill of coaching is
knowing how high to raise the bar, that is, judging for each individual,
separately, what next challenge will be stretching but achievable.
Good coaches know that getting people to change is difficult. Peo­
ple prefer to stick with what they know how to do (and the way they
know how to do it) rather than risk exposing themselves by trying to
learn something new. To overcome this, good coaches are adept at
structuring small pilot projects designed to give the individual (and
the group) the experience of an early success. They rarely ask people
to make major changes, but instead say “Let’s just try this one small
thing and see if it will work.” Good coaches give people the confi­
dence to try new things, and help them accomplish more than they
expected they could.
Good coaches build teams. Since most players will probably be
more focused on their own personal performance, it is up to the coach
to look out for the overall best interests of the group. The coach must

212

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

identify opportunities for joint activities. The coach must stay alert for
those situations when what is in the best interest of the player is not
necessarily in the best interest of the team (e.g., who pursues a specific
client, or how a particular matter is to be staffed), and then must
negotiate with the individuals involved to do the “right” team thing.
This inevitably involves the coach in trading favors. (“Help us out on
this one, and I’ll do my best to look after you next time.” ) Good
coaches pay significant attention to how the group’s resources are
being deployed, and whether or not all the bases are being covered.
Good coaches make frequent use of small-group team meetings to
discuss “What are we going to do about X ?” drawing ideas out of the
group. Good coaches are Socratic. They don’t present conclusions
(“I’ve thought about this and decided we’ve got to do X ” ). Instead,
they reason together with their team. If ideas come up that they are
uncertain about, they ask “If we did that, how would we handle the
following adverse consequences?” Good coaches know that their job
is to get people to act differently and to try new things, and that means
making people want to do it. This is accomplished, in large part, by
leading them to discover the right answers for themselves.
As possible initiatives develop some degree of consensus, they ask
for volunteers, or assign roles, to perform activities on behalf of the
group. (“Susan, will you be prepared to do that for us? When do you
think you can get it done by?” ) They also make sure that people don’t
sign up for things they can’t get done, because they do not want to set
the precedent that action promises to the group can be neglected.
Good coaches also work hard at developing joint tasks so that people
get the experience of teamwork and joint responsibility.
Perhaps most important of all, good coaches follow up. They mon­
itor the execution of plans (“By the way, Tom, how’s that seminar
that you agreed to arrange going? Anything I can do to help?” ) If
things are getting off track, they don’t wait for the end of the fiscal
year to see what was and what wasn’t done— they gently intervene
while there’s still time to get things back on track.

HOW THE PRACTICE LEADER SPENDS TIME
What all this reveals is that practice leaders can be valuable by helping
professionals understand and act on their real priorities and help them
balance their activities between those things that help the individual

H

ow

Practice

Leaders

Add

Value

213

(and the firm) today and those that will help ensure their tomorrow.
Left to their own devices, bright energetic people will look after “to­
day.” Practice leaders are needed to be the guardians o f the long-term.
They are valuable when they act as the conscience of their colleagues:
not necessarily giving them new goals, but helping them achieve the
goals they have set for themselves. The manager’s role is to be the
reminder, the coach, the supporter, as individuals struggle to balance
today’s pressures with longer term accomplishments.
This is not necessarily easy. Of everyone in the firm, it is most likely
the manager who is most familiar with and must deal with today’s
financial results. There is thus a danger that the manager can become
the most short-term oriented individual in the office rather than the
most long-term oriented.
The best indicator of the orientation of managers is how they spend
their time. A manager’s time can be divided into five categories:
• Administrative and financial matters
• Doing professional (billable) work
• Personal marketing and selling
• General client relations
• Dealing and talking with senior professionals and staff
Where in this list is the manager’s greatest opportunity to “make a
difference?”
As pressing as financial and administrative matters can appear, they
are not points of high impact from a long-term perspective. Adminis­
tration is a matter of “hygiene”: if done poorly it can hurt the practice,
but outstanding administration never promotes the future success of
the practice. It must be taken care of, but it does not build for the
future. Practice leaders must find ways to get the administration per­
formed (with quality) without consuming all of their precious time.
Virtually every practice leader should have a high-powered admin­
istrative officer to whom administrative and financial matters can be
delegated. In almost all cases, such a person is self-funding, since the
time freed up for the practice leader to apply to high-valued tasks is
worth much more than the cost of an administrative officer. Any prac­
tice leader spending more than 10 percent of his or her time on ad­
ministrative or financial matters is being an administrator, not a
manager.
What of doing professional work (i.e., staying personally billable)?

214

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

Is this a necessary activity for a practice leader? To a certain extent.
Managers, in order to have the credibility to lead, must continue to
earn the professional respect of those they are hoping to influence.
They must also ensure that they are not completely isolated from the
market. And yet it is clear that performing personal billable work on
his or her own clients is not a highly leveraged use of a manager’s time.
There is only a limited opportunity to help and influence others in the
office when doing this.
How much of this must the manager do in order to retain the re­
spect of colleagues and remain in close contact with the market? An­
swers may vary by profession and by firm, but it could be argued that,
if it is the right kind of work, a manager can continue to demonstrate
“value as a professional” by being no more than 10 to 20 percent
chargeable. Doing professional work is fulfilling and fun, and coach­
ing others is not always so, but one must recognize which is the true
“building” activity.
A similar line of reasoning applies to new business development or
selling. The manager must be involved in this to earn the respect of the
senior professionals. Yet a manager adds the most value not by sell­
ing, but by teaching others how to sell. There is the leverage. There are
forms of business community activities and new prospective relation­
ship building that the senior professionals cannot do as well alone and
the manager is needed to help— but not to be a substitute. A manag­
er’s role is to be a teacher first and a “doer” second. Both are needed,
but the priorities must be clear.
Time spent dealing with senior professionals is, as we have dis­
cussed above, a very high-value activity, if done well: helping others
solve their problems, helping them keep their priorities straight, help­
ing them set stretching goals for themselves. These are the activities
that produce results beyond what the people would accomplish if left
to their own devices. The best coaches devote significant time to this
area, anywhere from 30 to 60 percent of their work-week.
What of client relations? It is important to note that, as used here,
client relations is a separate category from both business development
and personal professional work. Instead, we are referring to the ac­
tivity of visiting clients of other partners in the practice to discuss the
client’s satisfaction with the firm’s services, their emerging business
issues, and the like. Of course, these visits are not intended to go

How

Practice

Leaders

Add

Value

215

behind the backs of the partners responsible for those clients and
would usually be done in conjunction with those partners.
This activity is immensely valuable. Spending time with existing
client executives on top of what the professionals are already doing
goes a long way in cementing relationships, assuring client satisfac­
tion, and uncovering new business issues with decision makers. Of
course, the visits also act as a powerful quality assurance function. If
a manager can use time and position to support senior professionals in
this area, it will have a highly leveraged impact and deserves 20 to 40
percent of the manager’s time.
The percentages given above are not, of course, absolutes. For ex­
ample, a manager in a very large practice may have so much oppor­
tunity to make an impact in the client relations and coaching areas
that it is sensible for him or her to reduce his or her personal billable
hours to zero, establishing and retaining credibility solely through
assisting others with their client work and client relations activities.
Some managers reviewing the five categories of activity might ask
“Where is the time for doing strategy and planning, for sitting alone
and thinking?” I believe strongly that a manager sitting alone is not
managing. Strategy and planning are not distinct from the activities
described above. If the manager is active in visiting clients to discuss
their emerging issues, and active in meeting with partners individually
or in small groups, then the strategic task will be well executed.

WHO SHOULD COACH?
It should be clear from this discussion that, except in the smallest of
firms, one person cannot possibly coach all other partners. Accord­
ingly, coaching should be the responsibility not only of the managing
partner, but of each and every one of the departmental practice heads
in the firm. Unfortunately, while departmental practice leaders often
understand the importance of their role, they don’t always act upon it.
When working with practice group leaders, I often ask the question:
“If you had an extra day per week to spend on increasing the success
of your practice group, what would you do with that day?” The most
common answer is “Spend more time with my partners.” “Doing
what?” I ask. The replies to this question include much of what we
have discussed above: following up on planned initiatives, motivating
partners, cheering them on, solving problems and conflicts such as
staffing or scheduling, holding small-team meetings to develop action

216

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

plans, and discussing strategies. They readily agree that performing
these activities would make a significant difference to the success of
the practice. “Then why don’t you spend that day a week?” I ask.
“Too busy,” comes the reply, “We’ve got to stay billable.”
Let’s do the arithmetic on this argument. Let’s examine a practice
leader who is responsible for a group containing ten partners, with
total billings of $8 million and a profit of $3 million. (Naturally, you
should substitute your own numbers in this example.) One day a week
represents 20 percent of the practice leader’s time. Let’s assume a
2,500-hour year. This translates into 500 fewer billed hours. (We’ll
assume the practice leader keeps up all other activities, including busi­
ness development, but just reduces his or her billable time by 500
hours.) Now assume that the practice leader’s billing rate is $400 per
hour. This means a cost of $200,000. What is the probability that
with one day a week available (week-in, week-out, throughout the
year) to focus on managing an $8 million practice generating $3 mil­
lion in profit, the practice leader could recoup an investment of
$200,000? If the practice leader has any managerial skill, the proba­
bility should be very high, perhaps over 99 percent. It might even be
worth considering having the coach manage for two days a week!
What this analysis attempts to show is that it is clearly more eco­
nomic for the practice leader to help other people become success­
ful—or even more successful than they already are— rather than
focusing on his or her own activities. The practice leader’s job is not to
be the most successful practitioner in the group, nor its best salesper­
son. Instead, the job is to help others succeed as practitioners and
salespeople.

EVALUATING THE PRACTICE LEADER
Since the job of the practice leader is to help the group succeed, prac­
tice leaders should be judged on how well they accomplish this task.
They should never be evaluated on their individual performance (i.e.,
their personal numbers on such things as billings, business generation,
etc.), since this sets up an irreconcilable tension between what they are
being asked to do, and how they are measured. Instead, practice lead­
ers should be explicitly judged on the aggregate performance results of
the group they manage (i.e., total group billings, total group business
generation).
In addition, practice leaders should receive feedback. Like every

How

Practice

Leaders

Add

Value

217

partner, a practice leader has clients. However, a practice leader’s
main clients are not those outside the firm, but the partners within the
group. To ensure that practice leaders are fulfilling their role, some
firms have instituted a feedback system from the partners in the group
to the practice leader. Each of the partners anonymously rates the
practice leader on questions such as those shown in Figure 19-1. The
results are tabulated by a third party, and the practice leader (and, in
some cases, firm management) receives the aggregate results.
Although many firms break this rule, it is also important that prac­
tice leaders do not receive “position pay,” that is, they should not
automatically be compensated more highly for taking on the coaching
role. Like everyone else, they should be paid for performance—their
group’s performance. Such a reward system should help the practice
leader in performing the role since all the team members will know
that the only way for the practice leader to succeed is by helping them
succeed. This should make them more ready to accept the practice
leader’s direction and suggestions.

THE MANAGEMENT STRAIN
Naturally, it takes a talented person to be able to do well on the cri­
teria shown in Figure 19-1, and an even more special kind of person
willing to be held accountable for performing against those criteria.
Not everyone has what it takes to be an effective practice leader. The
more I spend time with professional service firms, the more I realize
how different the required skills are between being an outstanding
professional and being an effective manager, and how stressful the
manager’s role can be.
On an average day, the typical professional can concentrate his or
her attentions on one or two major projects, staying focused and prob­
ably ending the day with visible signs of progress. For the typical
manager of professionals, the day is broken up into numerous small
chunks of amazing diversity: dealing with a disgruntled client, han­
dling the personal problems of a staff member, analyzing financial
reports, interviewing a potential new recruit, approving various ad­
ministrative arrangements, working on a new business presentation,
and a thousand other matters, each of which must, in rapid succes­
sion, command the manager’s full attention. The ability to change
mental gears rapidly is one of the manager’s most important talents,
as is the ability to continuously evaluate and reshuffle priorities.

218

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

FIG U RE 1 9 -1
Evaluation of the Practice Leader
To evaluate the practice leader, please complete the following questions. Indicate
your agreement or disagreement, using the following scale: 1 = Strongly disagree;
2 = Somewhat disagree; 3 = Neither agree or disagree; 4 = Somewhat agree;
5 = Strongly agree
THE PRACTICE LEA D ER.........
Is more often encouraging than critical

1

Is accessible when I want to talk
Keeps informed about what I am doing

1
1

Is fair in dealings with partners

1

Causes me to stretch for performance goals

1

Is concerned about long-term issues, not just short-term profits

1
1

Conducts team meetings in a manner that breeds involvement
Is consultative in his/her decision making
Is sufficiently involved with nonpartners and their issues

1
1

Provides constructive feedback that helps me improve my
performance

1

Is a source of creative ideas about our business
Gives me the freedom to set my own goals
Makes me feel that I am a member of a well-functioning team

1
1

2
2

3
3

2

3

2
2

4

5

4
4

5
5

3
3

4

5

4

5

2

3

5

2
2

3

4
4

2
2
2

3
3

5

4

5

4

5

3

4

5

3
3

4
4

5

4

5

2

3
3

4

5

2
2

5

Acts more like a coach than a boss

1
1

Helps me understand how my tasks fit into the overall objec­
tives for the firm

1

2

3

4

5

Keeps me informed about the things I need to know to perform
my role properly.

1

2

3

4

5

Actively encourages me to volunteer new ideas and make sug­
gestions for improvement of the practice

1

2
2

3

4

5

3

4

5

2

3
3

4
4

5

3

4

5

Helps me to grow and develop

1

Encourages me to initiate tasks or projects I think are
important
Is publicly generous with credit

1
1

Is prompt in dealing with underperformers
Is good at keeping down the level of politics and “politicking”

1
1

4

5

1

2
2

3

Encourages innovation and calculated risk taking

3

4

5

Relates the total reward system (compensation, recognition,
etc.) to job performance, rather than such things as position
or seniority
Emphasizes cooperation as opposed to competitiveness
between work groups

1

2

3

4

5

1
1

2

3

4

2

3

4

5
5

Is effective in communicating with partners

2
2

5

H o w Practice

Leaders

Add

Value

219

The manager must also learn to live with a higher level of ambiguity
and risk than the typical partner, whose success or failure, for better
or for worse, is in his or her own hands, dependent on what he or she
does. The manager must accomplish goals through others, and his or
her success is less under his or her personal control. The results of the
typical partner’s work are often clearly visible, and the client feedback
frequently prompt. However, for the manager, the very definition of
what “success” means is less clear, and the feedback on whether it has
been achieved is more circuitous and ill-defined. Rarely can a manager
go home knowing that something concrete and substantial was ac­
complished today.
The manager of professionals must also possess a great deal of
“bounce-back ability.” As David Ogilvy put it in his Ogilvy on Ad­
vertising, 1 the CEO of the professional firm must be a good leader of
frightened people and resilient in adversity. Professionals look to their
managers for inspiration, enthusiasm, and confidence (never so much
as when things are tough). Rather than indulge the inevitable emo­
tions that accompany daily triumphs and disasters, the manager must
maintain an even keel. Paul Alvarez of Ketchum Communications
says the hardest and most important lesson that he had to learn on
taking over the managerial reins was that he had to operate on the
principle of “No Good Days, No Bad Days.”
To be successful, the coach must also be able to suppress his or her
own ego needs, since the very nature of the job is to make other people
feel successful and important. The job of the manager is to build a
team, not an empire. The best leaders of professionals are quick to
give credit to others, and to play down their own role in successes—a
behavior trait that many superb professionals have to work to acquire
at some personal psychological cost.
The coach’s job contains other stresses: Since few professionals like
to be told what to do, the manager must act through persuasion and
cajoling, even where the manager sees the way clear. Living with the
frustrations of building consensus and resisting the temptation to just
act are a permanent struggle. This is particularly true in resisting the
temptation to intervene in the professional work of others. Managers
must allow professionals to make their own decisions (and perhaps
mistakes) in order to allow them to develop. Since the manager’s job
is to teach, he or she must have patience with those still trying to learn.
For many, taking on the manager’s role means giving up a significant

220

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

degree of the personal fulfillment that comes from practicing one’s
professional craft.
Since there are no surer paths to the decline of a professional firm
than the absence of honest, constructive criticism and the failure to
confront nonperformers, the coach must also bear the emotionally
hard tasks of giving and justifying performance feedback and, on oc­
casion, termination notices. Managers must also be responsible for
reconciling conflicts, especially on the use of resources. In their man­
agement of group resources, they must routinely arbitrate between
partners on who gets what staff member, who chases what lead, who
is given what opportunity.
Coaching takes time, patience and ingenuity. It is often frustrating
and only occasionally rewarding. The practice leader must have the
ability to interact with others in such a way that critiques are accepted
as welcome assistance, not as interference. The practice leader must be
able to ask people to stretch without making them resentful or defen­
sive. It requires a style that results in the practice leader being seen as
a personal resource to them, not as a nit-picking supervisor, nor as a
boss. Good practice leaders create motivation in others by communi­
cating and demonstrating their own enthusiasm. Cynicism and excite­
ment are both infectious—which of the two the practice leader
communicates is critical.
A crucial requirement of leadership in a professional firm is the
ability to earn the trust of others. To trust a leader does not necessarily
mean that one always agrees with him or her. Trust is the conviction
that the manager means what he or she says, that the manager cares.
That what is being done is not self-serving or driven by ego, but be­
cause he or she is truly serving the long-term firm purposes. The peo­
ple they coach must believe that the coach’s motives are pure—the
coach is not being authoritarian, but is really trying to help. A coach
must make people believe that they are being asked to change not to
make the coach look good and not just to benefit the greater glory of
the firm, but because the coach has helped them see what is in it for
them .
In many firms, regrettably, being appointed as a practice leader is
some form of “reward.” The position goes to the most eminent, or the
most senior, or the best business-getter among the partners. None of
these criteria is appropriate. Practice leadership should be seen as a
role or a responsibility, not a title, a promotion, or a reward. There is

How Practice

Leaders

Add

Value

221

a highly specialized and difficult job to be done here. Naturally, prac­
tice leaders cannot be effective if they do not have the professional
respect of their colleagues. They must have a history of being able to
do what they ask others to do. They must be good professionals. But,
as in sports, the coach does not have to be the best player in order to
coach well.
Finding good coaches in a professional firm is tough. There are few
individuals who “naturally” possess the skills described here. There
are even fewer who are eager to give up a portion of their practice to
accept the responsibilities discussed. However, given the desire to
learn them, coaching skills can be developed—and therein lies the
opportunity. Given both the scarcity and the power of good coaching,
it is entirely possible that a firm’s competitive success can be built on
a superior ability to get the best out of its people.

CHAPTER 20

HOW TO CREATE
A STRATEGY

A few years ago, I was given the opportunity to examine the strategic
plans of most of the major competitors in a given professional service
marketplace. Each had performed a thorough analysis of the market­
place and had identified which client industries were most attractive,
based on such factors as growth, profitability, need for services, and
so on. Each had analyzed carefully the most attractive clients in these
industries, and had identified the most desirable target prospects. Each
had analyzed which services and specialties were most in demand
among these target clients.
The result of this analytical endeavor (on which each firm scored a
perfect ten) was that each firm wrote a strategic plan which read “Our
strategy is to target the following clients in the following designated
industries and serve them with the following key services.”
Nothing wrong with that. Except that each competitor had exactly
the same list of target clients, industries, and key services: They all had
got their arithmetic right. Their strategic plans could have been re­
shuffled and redistributed, with firm names replaced, and no one
would have been the wiser.
Rather than finishing their strategy development task, these firms
had just reached the starting point. In the jargon of business schools,
strategy development is the search for ways to “ build a competitive
223

224

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

advantage through distinctive capabilities.” Stripped of its grandiose
terminology, this is a straightforward idea: the development of a set of
actions that will make the firm’s services m ore valuable to clients than
the services of competing firms.
When the most desirable markets to compete in have been identi­
fied, the firm must then turn to the more difficult task of deciding how
it will compete. This next stage of the strategy development effort is
clearly less about marketing tactics than about internal, operational
matters: how to change the firm’s methods of delivering services so
that clients derive additional benefits from its approach compared to
that of the best competitors.
Viewed in this light, developing a strategy is fundamentally a cre­
ative activity, not an analytical one. It’s about finding new ways o f
doing things that provide an advantage over the competition. How
can this be done? Table 2 0 -1 , while not exhaustive, lists some of the
major alternatives.
The challenge for an individual firm is not to find a positive answer
to each of the questions posed: It would be unrealistic to expect any
single firm to excel on each dimension listed. Rather, the strategy chal­
lenge is to pick two or three of these alternatives and be sufficiently
innovative in finding ways to achieve the extra value for clients in
those areas.

WHAT SHOULD YOU STRATEGIZE ABOUT?
There is a natural, but regrettable, tendency for professional firms, in
their strategy development processes, to focus on new things: ‘‘What
new markets does the firm want to enter? What new clients does the
firm want to target? What new services does the firm want to offer?”
This focus on new services and new markets is too often a cop-out. A
new specialty (or a new office location) may or may not make sense
for a firm, but it rarely does much (if anything) to affect the profit­
ability or competitiveness of the vast bulk of the firm’s existing prac­
tices.
On the other hand, an improvement in competitiveness in the firm’s
core businesses will have a much higher return on investment since the
firm can capitalize on it by applying it to a larger volume of business.
Unfortunately, enhancing the competitiveness of the existing practice
will inevitably require changes in the behavior of the existing partners.

TA BLE 2 0 -1
Possible Strategies for Being More Valuable to Clients
a. Can we develop an innovative approach to hiring so that we
can be more valuable to clients by achieving a higher calibre of
staff than the competition?
b. Can we train our people better than the competition in a
variety of technical or “counseling” skills so that they will be more
valuable on the marketplace than their counterparts at other firms?
c. Can we develop innovative m ethodologies for handling our
matters (or engagements, transactions or projects) so that our
delivery of services becomes more thorough or efficient?
d. Can we develop systematic ways of helping, encouraging and,
above all, ensuring that our people are skilled at client counseling
in addition to being top technicians?
e. Can we become better than our competition at accumulating,
disseminating, and building on our firmwide expertise and
experience, so that each professional becomes more valuable in the
marketplace by being empowered with a greater breadth and depth
of experience?
f. Can we organize and specialize our people in innovative ways,
so that they become particularly skilled and valuable to the market
because of their focus on a particular market segment’s needs?
g. Can we become more valuable to our clients by being more
systematic and diligent about listening to the m arket: collecting,
analyzing, and absorbing the details of their business than does our
competition?
h. Can we become more valuable to our clients by investing in
research and developm ent on issues of particular interest to them?

As Table 20-1 suggests, it implies new methods of operating, new
skill development, new accountabilities. In the real world of profes­
sional firms, these changes are potentially disruptive, uncomfortable,
contentious, and political.
How much easier to take a view of strategy which in essence says,
“Existing partners will carry on as before, and we’ll solve our strategy
problem by adding laterals to develop a new specialty or opening a

226

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

new office in another city!” I describe such reasoning as “adding pim­
ples to the elephant.”
Of course, new specialties and locations must be considered. A firm
must have strategies both for new things and for the core: One with­
out the other is insufficient. But it should never be forgotten what
strategy is really all about: changing current methods of operating in
order to render more value by existing partners on existing services to
existing market segments.

WHO SHOULD DEVELOP THE STRATEGY?
One of the most unfortunate myths about the strategy development
process is that it is the responsibility of the firm leadership, or a firm­
wide committee, to develop a strategic plan and then persuade or
“sell” the rest of the partnership on following that vision.
There are a number of problems with this approach to developing
strategy. First, most professional firms are made up of subgroups pro­
viding significantly varying services to different groups of clients. Con­
sequently, any attempt to address the questions shown in Table 20-1
becomes impossible to achieve if considered at the level of the whole
firm.
For example, the best way for a litigation group in a law firm to
achieve a competitive advantage may be completely different from
what the real estate group in the same firm needs to do to differentiate
itself from its competitors. The consulting division of an accounting
firm may require a completely different strategy than what the same
firm’s audit group must do to distinguish itself. Figuring out how to
make the firm’s services more valuable to clients logically belongs at
the level of each service line, that is, at the practice level.
One would be hard pressed in most professions to identify whole
firms that are perceived in the marketplace as differentiated as firms.
Clients will readily talk about the strengths and weaknesses of differ­
ent practice groups within firms, but rarely can they perceive differ­
ences between whole firms (unless the entire firm is built around welldefined specialties). Accordingly, any attempt to develop a strategy
from the top, and striving for actions that will differentiate the whole
firm, will be doomed to failure.
There is a second problem with top-down, firmwide strategic plan­

How

to

Create

a Strategy

227

ning. If a central group (however formed) develops a vision of how to
compete, then, as noted above, there remains the task of “persuading”
the rest of the partnership to implement the prescribed course of ac­
tion. It is on this rock that most professional firm strategic initiatives
falter. Partners, as we all know, value their autonomy and resist hier­
archical direction. They cannot be “instructed” to practice differently;
they can, at best, be convinced. However, presenting the final conclu­
sions of a strategy developed by others is not a particularly persuasive
tactic for obtaining “buy-in.”
Any new strategic initiative concerning the existing practice will
inevitably require new modes of behavior on the part of large num­
bers of people, especially partners. Predictably, many traditional pat­
terns of behavior will be challenged, reward systems will frequently
have to be modified, and roles and responsibilities reassigned. Accord­
ingly, any strategy development process must be consultative, one in
which individual partners can become convinced that the benefits to
them personally of achieving the goals will be worth the personal
“costs” of doing new things or different things.
For these reasons, it is essential that the professionals in the firm
perform the strategic planning activities themselves. They must
“own” the recommendations if they are to be implemented, and this is
hard to achieve if the recommendations are those of a staff group, a
management committee, or an outsider.
Since strategy is not just about what the firm wants to achieve, but
how the firm is to achieve it and w ho is going to do it, an action plan
must be devised, and the best people to do that are those who are
going to be responsible for implementing it. Therefore those people
must be involved early. In fact, they should be primarily responsible
for developing and proposing the strategy. People always feel more
committed to self-selected goals than to goals and plans imposed from
above.
The best way to structure the strategy development process in firms
is to do it as much “bottom-up” as possible. What this means is that
each practice group (or area) should be asked to develop a strategy for
their practice area. They should be presented with a set of “challeng­
ing” questions (see Table 20-2) about how they plan to improve the
competitiveness of their practice area. A date should be scheduled for
the firm’s management to listen to a presentation of their plan, and the
management (this is important to the process) should act as “friendly

228

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

T A BL E 2 0 - 2
Some “Friendly Skeptic” Questions to Appraise
a Strategic Plan
W hat special capabilities do you plan to have that your best competitors
cannot match?
Why can’t they match them?
W hat actions will you take to put these capabilities in place?
In what way are your investment priorities likely to be different from those
o f the competitors?
How do you know the clients will like what you’re planning? W hat field
testing have you done? W hat client input have you obtained?
W ho will be in charge of executing each component o f the plan?
W ho was involved in the development of this plan? Is everyone in
agreement? (Who was not consulted? Do they have a role in executing the
plan?)
On whom will you be dependent for the execution of this plan? Do they have
sufficient incentive to do their part? Is it in their interests to do what you
want? Do you have to modify your reward systems to make this happen?
Specifically, which 5 or 10 clients, by name, represent your most likely
source o f expanded business for the next few years? W hat actions do you
plan to take to get closer to these clients?
Which new clients are at the top of your priority list? Why? W hat makes you
think you can get their business?
W hat is the one most significant thing that each of the main competitors is
doing that will affect you? W hat do you plan to do in response?
In what way do you plan to take advantage of the firmwide network? How
do you plan to get the cooperation of others?
How do you plan to contribute to the firmwide network? How will what you
are doing benefit them?
W hat are the staffing implications o f your plans? Where will you get the staff
from?
W hat are the main assumptions on which your plan is based? Which is the
most “ risky” ? (i.e., if it can go wrong, where will it go wrong?)
How will we know if the plan is working? W hat indicators can we agree on,
and when shall we review them?
W hat early warning signals will there be if the plan is not working? W hat
contingencies have you put in place?

How

to

Create

a Strategy

229

skeptic”: challenging, questioning, asking for evidence on specula­
tions, questioning the reasoning, always asking “Who’s going to do
it? How do you plan to pull it off? How are the best competitors going
to respond? What is your practice area going to do to promote/assist
other groups in the firm?”
Usually, the team will be sent away from the first such meeting to
revise its thinking, and return for a second presentation. In most cases,
this process will result in a clear plan of action and a request for some
form of investment. When the management has listened to (and chal­
lenged) the plans of each of the groups, it will now be in a position to
develop a strategy for the firm. It has heard the “best shot” of each
group in describing the opportunities available, and can now decide
on the aggregate level of investment it thinks prudent to make, which
opportunities seem the best investment and which will make the firm
strongest. Management can then negotiate with each practice head
any modifications for action plans not fully approved or funded.
In some firms the formal management group might choose to in­
volve other senior people in either the “friendly skeptic” critique pro­
cess or the final resource allocation decisions, rather than doing it
alone. In part this choice will be based on considerations of whether
firm harmony will be promoted or compromised by doing this.
The results of this strategy process at the firm level should be a set
of “contracts” between the firm management and the leaders of the
various practice groups. The contract should spell out the measurable
goals the group is aiming for, the action steps they plan to take, the
investments they require, and the support they need. It is also a good
idea to ask for some “milestone” points: “When will we review
progress and how will we measure whether it’s working?”
What is important about this strategy development process is that
it represents not just a one-time event, but a shift in the ongoing man­
agement processes of the firm. It puts in place a “conscience” mech­
anism which forces each practice area to consider (and, over time,
reconsider) how it is operating, where it is going, and how it plans to
compete.
In too many firms, the strategy development process is a discrete
activity, wherein the firm attempts to predict where the market is go­
ing and then prepare for that future. This approach is fatally flawed.
Professional marketplaces are too changeable and fluid to “bet the

230

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

firm” on a single vision of the future. Besides, as noted above, most
analytical exercises on “where the market is going” tend to result in
firms reaching the same (obvious) conclusions as their competitors.
The strategy development task is not an exercise in forecasting.
Rather, the goal is to create the responsive organization; to put in
place a set of operating procedures which force the practitioners to
listen to their marketplace on an ongoing basis, not as a one-time
piece of market research; to require them to reexamine their methods
of operation periodically with a critical eye on the search for improve­
ment; to commit to actions that benefit the firm in ways that do not
necessarily show up in the monthly profit-and-loss statements of the
firm.
The strategy process described here is not an exercise in budgeting
or goal setting. Many strategy development “exercises” fail because
groups underestimate the practical managerial difficulties of translat­
ing strategic ideas and analyses into action. In their strategy develop­
ment activities groups should spend a small proportion of their time
(say, no more than 20 percent) figuring out what goals they want to
achieve, and the rest on devising action plans that will get them there.
Paperwork should be minimized. Managers should not ask for a
written strategic plan; rather, they should ask for an interactive pre­
sentation, with only a few overheads or exhibits. The benefit of the
process lies in the thinking and reasoning about the issues that takes
place, and the development of (and commitment to) a concrete action
plan. Too many strategic plans lie unchallenged and unread, and
hence unimplemented. The only piece of documentation that matters
in this process is that listing action commitments: who will do what
and by when.
The view of strategy espoused here can be summarized as follows:
It is not the responsibility of the firm’s management to develop and
enforce a strategy for the firm. However, it is their responsibility to
ensure that strategy development is done. It is not their job to do the
thinking and scheming about competitive issues on behalf of the rest
of the partners; it is their job to ensure that partners go through the
thinking and scheming process. This does not represent an abandon­
ment or delegation of management’s responsibility. Rather, it substi­
tutes a vision of the manager as a (demanding) coach, a conscience,
instead of the manager as boss, decision maker, or overlord.

How

to

Create

a Strategy

231

This approach is certainly counter to the way strategy is developed
in industrial companies. But then, professional firms are not like in­
dustrial companies. An industrial company CEO, once a course of
action has been identified, has the power and authority to make it
happen. Not so the managers of a professional firm. In an industrial
company, the same (or similar) products are made again and again:
One group can validly consider the “best” way to make the product
on behalf of everyone. Not so the professional firm. In a world of
autonomous partners, each with his or her own differing kind of prac­
tice, “bottom-up” strategy development is the only way to go.

PERSONAL STRATEGIC PLANNING
The concept of bottom-up strategy development can, and should, be
pushed further. In the most successful firms I know, all of the individ­
ual partners act as if they have personal strategic plans for their own
careers—they have each thought through what their special value on
the marketplace will be, what will make them more than just one
more practitioner in their specialty, how they plan to achieve this
vision of personal career progress.
In such an environment, the overwhelming bulk of the strategy de­
velopment task is done. The firm’s strategy, if it exists, serves solely as
the icing on this cake of individual energized, directed efforts. Unfor­
tunately, in too many firms (even in, or perhaps especially in, those
with well developed firmwide strategic plans), the individual partners
have no such commitment to a personal development plan. The strat­
egy of the firm (or even the practice area) is not theirs; it is someone
else’s responsibility.
A firm will have achieved little if it has developed a formidable
strategy but has partners who have no vision of their personal devel­
opment goals, career strategies, designated specialties, or individual
vision of excellence. Again we can note: The job of management in a
professional firm is not to develop a strategy for the partners, but to
ensure that they develop one for themselves.
To institute this system of personal strategic planning takes nothing
more than practice leaders engaging in private closed-door meetings
with each partner and asking “What, precisely, is it that is going to
make you special (or even more special) in the marketplace over the
next few years? Would you like to develop a specialized expertise in a

232

M anaging th e P rofessional. S ervice F irm

particular technical area, in certain types of transaction, in the prob­
lems of certain types of clients? You probably can develop cuttingedge expertise in any one of these, but not all of them simultaneously.
The choice is yours. All the firm asks of you is that you focus and
stretch; that you pick a career-building goal and work towards it.”
By posing this question (and requiring an answer) practice leaders
are ceding to partners, as they should, the autonomy to determine
their own professional lives. However, by requiring an answer, they
ensure that partners’ efforts are energized and directed.
In theory, such an approach could lead to a practice area becoming
unfocused as each individual partner pursues a personal vision of ex­
cellence. In practice, this is rarely the case. The practice leader posing
this question does not just accept whatever the partner says, but in­
stead plays the friendly skeptic role. For example, he or she may point
out that a partner has chosen something that no other partner wants
to pursue, and ask “Do you really want to try to develop that specialty
alone? There are some of your colleagues committing themselves to
developing a practice in a related area: Would being a part of that
team fulfill your ambitions?”
In the course of such negotiations viable teams are likely to emerge.
Perhaps the teams will not be as neat as they would have been if the
practice leader, in his or her wisdom, had chosen the strategy for the
department, but the likelihood of successful implementation is far
higher. As noted frequently, the critical stumbling blocks in strategy
development are making it happen, follow-up, and action implemen­
tation. By basing the process on the personal enthusiasms and ambi­
tions of the individual partners, this problem is greatly alleviated.

THE ROLE OF FIRM MANAGEMENT
IN STRATEGY
Apart from encouragement (and monitoring) of strategy development
at the practice and individual level, a major question that firm man­
agement should wrestle with is: What can and should the firm be
doing to assist the practices and ensure the firm’s competitive success?
The management of the firm has two key roles to play in the strat­
egy development process: It must establish policies concerning the
“rules of the game” (firm policies) and “expenditures” (firm-level in­
vestments and funding).

How

to

Create

a Strategy

233

It is part of management’s job to ask: “How will we get others to
behave differently (more competitively) than in the past? Are we sure
that our people have the incentive to execute the designated activities?
Are some important things not getting done because people perceive it
is not in their interest to spend time on them?”
An example may illustrate the point. Many firms (or practices) in­
clude as part of their competitive strategy the goal of marketing to
existing clients. Yet in these same firms partners will often report that
the rewards (financial or cultural) are far greater for bringing in a new
client than for bringing in an equivalent amount of revenue from an
existing client. Similarly, firms may preach the benefits of increasing
leverage, yet continue to evaluate partners primarily on their personal
billability rather than on the volume of business they are responsible
for. Examples of this “folly of asking for X while rewarding Y”
abound among professional firms.
Accordingly, firm management should examine whether they have
provided the best “context” for individual partners and practices to
compete successfully, today and in the future. They must question
whether the right incentives and rewards are in place. It is only with
some exaggeration that one can assert: “Tell me how you measure and
reward partners, and I’ll tell you what your strategy is, because I’ll be
able to tell you what choices the partners will make in running their
practices.”
In executing its strategy responsibility, the firm’s management
should review policies (“rules of the game” ) such as the following:
Performance appraisals (For what do we hold people accountable ?)
Profitability and other measurement systems (How do we keep
score?)
Systems for salary, bonus, and profit allocations
(What incentives drive the behavior of our people?)
Selection, role definition, and evaluation of practice leaders
Quality assurance procedures
An example of a strategic move in this area is provided by the account­
ing firm that has committed itself to mandatory client feedback on all
engagements above a certain size, in order to create an internally vis­
ible scorecard on service quality. This is a move more profoundly
strategic in achieving service quality than any amount of training pro­
grams and retreat speeches could accomplish. Or, to take another

234

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

example, the multioffice actuarial firm that has committed itself to
annual staff satisfaction surveys, the results of which are to be used in
the performance appraisal of office managers. Again, changing the
“scorecard” will be infinitely more powerful in changing behavior
(and achieving strategic improvement) than preaching the importance
of “human resource management” or including “professional fulfill­
ment” in the mission statement of the firm.
The second responsibility of firm management in the strategy pro­
cess is to set the ground rules for investment of firm funds. Strategy
development is fundamentally an investment notion: A competitive
advantage doesn’t come free. Accordingly, if the firm is to be better
“positioned” tomorrow, the firm must spend something today. It
might not be out-of-pocket cash: the firm may have to invest its (oth­
erwise billable) time. Since the firm’s ability to make investments,
whether of time or money, is obviously limited, the firm must establish
some priorities.
As noted above, those best positioned to suggest or propose specific
investments are those responsible for executing the strategy: the prac­
tice groups. However, it is the responsibility of the firm management
to set the ground rules for how investment proposals will be treated.
Perhaps more important, it is the role of firm management to stimu­
late and elicit investment proposals.
One of the unfortunate quirks of professional firm accounting is
that most of the critical strategic activities (such as training, allowing
selected individuals reduced chargeability in order to develop new
specialties, developing new project methodologies to achieve efficien­
cies, engaging in new service development) do not show up as “invest­
ments” in the firm’s accounts. Rather, they show up as reduced
billability, that is, lower net income. As the saying goes, “One per­
son’s investment is another person’s loss.” Accordingly, individual
partners, subject to the ongoing financial control systems of the firm,
tend to postpone or avoid investment activities for fear of being judged
as missing their income targets.
It is therefore an important responsibility of firm management to
create an opportunity for investment proposals to be brought for­
ward, considered outside the normal accounting procedures of the
firm, and approved or disapproved in advance on the merits. The
“bottom-up” strategy development process described here is just such
a process.

GETTING STARTED
In launching a strategy development process, I have found two ques­
tions to be of particular value. Posing them either to the management
committee, the practice areas, or (better) to the partnership at large, I
seek answers to these questions:
a. If you could invest $X million in the next year (above and be­
yond our current level of investment) with the goal of improving
the competitiveness of the practice and making its future more
secure, what would you spend it on?
b. If you could improve our competitiveness by changing one as­
pect of the firmwide management practices and policies (mea­
surements, reward systems, organization, compensation
policies, selection and appraisal of practice leaders, etc.), what
would you change?
The answers to these questions usually provide an excellent starting
point for the essential debate that is the crux of strategy: How can we
get better at what we do?

CHAPTER 21

FAST-TRACK STRATEGY

Here’s how it’s done. You divide the firm into small teams or practice
groupings (by location, by discipline, by industry). Go for the smallest
subgroupings you’ve got, keeping the teams as small as possible. You
give each team four sheets of paper (Figure 2 1 - 1 ) which have four key
objectives, one to a page.
The four key objectives are to:
• Raise client satisfaction
• Increase skill building and dissemination of skills
• Improve productivity (not just production)
• Get better business
Beneath the objective listed on each page are five columns:
• What actions are proposed
• Which individual will take responsibility for each action
• How much time will be spent on each action
• When each will be done by
• How we’ll know each action’s been done
You tell each group that a “coach” (either a managing partner or a
member of the executive committee) will meet with them for two to
three hours in four to six weeks’ time to discuss what actions they are
prepared to commit to do over the next three months to make progress
toward the four objectives.
237

238

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

FIG U RE 2 1 -1
Raise Client Satisfaction
Increase Skill Building
Improve Productivity
Get Better Business
Action

Person
Time
Responsible Required

Due
Date

Tracking
(Completion)
Indicator

They are informed that only actions will be accepted, not goals.
Thus, it is not permissible to write “Raise our market awareness”—
that’s a goal. Instead, they must choose something like “Put on three
seminars on topics X, Y, Z .” They can’t put “Train juniors better”—
that’s also too vague. They must put something like “Hold weekly
discussion sessions with staff including presentations by senior part­
ners on their respective specialties.”
Each action, it will be noted, must be the responsibility of a specific
person: This is not meant to discourage teamwork (different actions
may be part of an integrated plan), but is required to ensure a specific
focus of responsibility. Many people may be involved in putting on a

Fast-Track

Strategy

239

seminar, but some specific someone must be “on the hook” for ensur­
ing that it all comes together and takes place.
During the discussion of the action plan, the coach will “test” the
feasibility of the plan. Will the proposed actions really make a differ­
ence? Has enough time been budgeted to complete each action prop­
erly? Is there enough nonbillable time available to do it all? Is the team
leaning too much on a few individuals? Are there other people who
have some time who could be brought into the effort?
Like all good coaches, the coach will alternate between encourag­
ing ambition (“Couldn’t you accomplish a little more in three months?
Can’t we put a bit more stretch into this plan?” ) and dampening ex­
cessive enthusiasms (“Let’s take it a step at a time. I recommend you
limit yourselves to what you really think you can get done. Remember
we’re asking for solid commitments” ). If necessary, the coach might
offer some suggestions (not instructions) for possible actions.
The coach will try to guide the team (gently) to actions that are
likely to have a payoff, to work. What the coach wants is what the
team wants— the early successes that breed not only optimism and
enthusiasm, but also the morale and commitment to do more— to try
it again.
At the end of this conversation, the surviving plan becomes a “con­
tract” between the coach and the team. Before the meeting concludes,
a specific, ironclad meeting date is chosen approximately three months
hence to review the execution of the plan, and its impact—what
worked, what didn’t, what proved easy to pull off, what is more com­
plicated than it first looked. At that meeting, in addition to the lookback review, a new action plan covering the next three months (using
the same planning forms) will be discussed and agreed to. And so on,
and so on, until the process becomes a routine part of the management
control systems of the firm.
That’s it—that’s fast-track strategy making.

WHAT’S DIFFERENT ABOUT THIS
What’s different about this approach to strategy is that it doesn’t
waste a lot of time talking about the objectives of the practice. The
objectives of the practice are the same as the firm’s—the same as every
firm’s. If you’re making progress on client satisfaction, skill building,

240

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

productivity, and getting better business, you’ve got all the strategy
you need. And if these aren’t your objectives—well, it’s hard to imag­
ine what you are up to.
Most, if not all, other strategic topics can fit within these four cat­
egories. Take, for example, that of technology— where does it fit in
this system? The answer is that some teams may see technology as a
way to enhance profitability. Others may identify practical opportu­
nities to use it to further the goals of client satisfaction or skill build­
ing. If it furthers none of the four goals, then what’s the point of
technology? Or consider another “hot topic” nowadays: globaliza­
tion. Some practice groups may be involved with international clients
and will list tactics addressing this area in the name of client service,
profitability enhancement, or getting better business. Staff morale and
retention will be addressed in the skill-building category.
This approach to strategy cuts through all the hoopla and hocuspocus that goes on in the name of strategic planning and goes directly
to actions— actions for which there is a finite horizon, an identifiable
accountability, and most of all, a high degree of confidence that some­
thing will actually happen. It’s not grand scheme, inspirational vision,
analysis-paralysis strategy making. There are no great volumes of
paper, nothing to be filed on a shelf, no “Business Unit Planning
Methodologies,” no “Analysis of Strengths and Weaknesses,” no
“Competitor Analysis,” no boring presentation to sit through: just
action steps which people commit to. It’s strategy through activity:
Try something, anything, but act—now\
The action steps are not meant to be transformational, home run
ideas that take months to get organized for, and broad consensus to
implement (such as “Let’s form a committee to develop a new human
resource model for the firm”; “Let’s turn all our partners into business
advisors” ). These things almost always fail to be implemented. The
action steps are a first set of ideas that can be done within three months
(no long “planning horizons” please). They’re not a complete strat­
egy, but they are the first of an ongoing series of actions, reconsidered,
reanalyzed, and readjusted every three months. If what we thought of
doing first doesn’t work, we’ll do something different in three months
time, but let's get started!
This approach takes strategy out of the realm of being a periodic
(“Once every X years” ) exercise, and builds strategic thinking (“How
can we improve from where we are” ) into the regular operations of

Fast-Track

Strategy

241

the firm. It is a system to institutionalize continuous improvement,
and create the “constantly learning organization.” It fights compla­
cency, because each three months it asks, “. . . and what are you going
to do next?”
This approach is not a budgeting process— it’s a complement to
financial budgeting. Practice group budgets describe what firms aim
to accomplish with their billable time. The fast-track strategy process
provides a framework for practice groups to make wise use of their
nonbillable time. What a group does with its billable time determines
its income for the year. What it does with its nonbillable time deter­
mines its future.
Unlike uniform firmwide planning systems, this approach doesn’t
impose the same force-fit solutions on every practice. There’s no cen­
tralized plan handed down from on top to be followed by everyone re­
gardless of circumstances. What one part of the firm needs to do to
improve profitability may be different than some other part of the firm.
That’s OK—as long as they both do something. Some may approach
client satisfaction through technical approaches, others by focusing on
client service. That’s OK too—as long as they all accept their obligation
to contribute in some way in this area. This approach to strategy max­
imizes the chance that each practice does what is right for its circum­
stances. It automatically accommodates the needs of small offices and
large offices, mainstream practices and emerging practices.
This brings us to the next virtue of this approach to strategy: Each
group is given the freedom and autonomy to plan its own activities—
the plan is theirs. They are not being asked to execute the ideas of
others (with which they may or may not agree). The group is being
asked to plan as a team: Together they must develop the action lists to
be discussed with the coach. Planning together and making their own
decisions increases the likelihood of enthusiasm in implementation.
In this approach, everyone has a role in strategy development. The
message is sent and reinforced every three months—what happens to
this firm is what you come up with. Each one of you is a strategic
planning committee member—except there’s no such committee.

THE ROLE OF THE COACHES
Coaches (usually firm management) get to play a key role in this ap­
proach to strategy—not by telling people what to do, but by encour­

242

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

aging them to take responsibility for their practice’s success (and the
firm’s success). They must make the process work by giving as much
attention and seriousness to reviewing the action plans as they do to
the monthly financials. If they do not, the system will wither away as
yet another bureaucratic exercise.
One part of this system is critical: Follow-up. The system is about
negotiating “contracts for action.” What makes it work is the fact that
the coach will be coming round to see how things have worked out.
Not a year from now, but in three short months (the short cycle is
essential to breed the sense of urgency that leads to action). If the
follow-up meetings do not take place as scheduled, then the whole
approach falls to the ground. If management doesn’t take the process
seriously by visibly monitoring what has been agreed to, the level of
activity will grind to a halt.
The coaches have a final, perhaps most important role in making
the system work. They have the responsibility and the duty to crossfertilize (“Group X has tried this: Do you think it can work for you?” )
and to find new linkages (“You guys seem to be thinking along the
same lines as one of our other teams—why don’t you talk to them and
develop some joint activities?” ). By capturing and sharing the best
ideas from each team, they can, over time, develop the firm’s accumu­
lated experience on “what works.” By encouraging and supporting
continued experimentation in each of the four key areas, they will
help to breed a flexible, adaptable, responsive organization— one that
is constantly trying new things and responding to the marketplace.

PART FIVE

PARTNERSHIP MATTERS

CHAPTER 22

PARTNER PERFORMANCE
COUNSELING

Of all the ways of improving a professional firm’s success, partner
performance counseling is one of the most powerful. Done well, it can
help ensure that all professionals are making the most of their talents
and capitalizing fully on their potential. Unfortunately, the process
rarely works this way in practice. In many firms, partner performance
reviews are a rushed (and often poorly executed) step in a larger com­
pensation process.
In these firms, reviews tend to focus overwhelmingly on the “lookback” appraisal function (in order to serve as an input to reward
decisions) and contain only a minimal “look ahead” counseling component. Partners frequently complain about ineffective goal setting,
ambiguous performance criteria, a lack of feedback (of any sort), and
a process that is not well understood. A common complaint is “I can
tell from my compensation award what you think of my performance,
but I can’t tell why you think that; and I’ve no idea what you want me
to change.”
The performance counseling process can (and should) be designed
to help partners, creating the opportunity for them to:
• Reflect on and learn from the past year’s accomplishments
• Receive constructive feedback, positive or negative
• Receive personalized advice on how best to advance their career
245

246

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

• Receive guidance in setting realistic but stretching personal goals
for “growing their asset” and making a contribution to the firm
In what follows we shall describe a process designed to accomplish
these goals.

STEP 1. SPECIFYING PERFORMANCE CRITERIA
The first essential element of any effective performance counseling
system is a shared understanding of what aspects of performance the
firm wishes to stress. There is often much ambiguity here. In my
view, the key performance indicators, for which all partners would
be held accountable, should be made up of the following six cate­
gories:
1. Profitability of work supervised
2. Client satisfaction on work supervised
3. Coaching on work supervised
4. Contributions to practice development
5. Contributions to the success of others
6. Personal growth (career strategy)
The first three categories, it will be noticed, relate to the partner’s
performance in managing and supervising client work. Taken to­
gether, they signal that any partner handling a client matter has three
responsibilities: to the client (client satisfaction); to the firm (profit­
ability); and to those who worked with the partner on the assignment
(skill building). Not coincidentally, these three performance indica­
tors coincide with the three traditional goals of most professional
firms— (client) service, (professional) satisfaction, and (financial) suc­
cess. (See Chapter 1, A Question of Balance.)
Note that the financial measure being proposed relates to the over­
all profitability o f the client assignments that the partner is responsible
for, not just his or her personal billings. Systems that stress a partner’s
personal numbers (rather than the aggregate of what he or she is re­
sponsible for) tend to lead to “hoarding” of work and a lack of at­
tention to efficiency and productivity. There is little virtue in partners
managing engagements so that their own numbers look good if this
leads (as it often does) to poor management of the efforts of other
professional staff involved. (See Chapter 4, Solving the Underdelega­
tion Problem.)

Partner

Performance

Counseling

247

Even in firms that do focus on the total client billings rather than
personal numbers, there is frequently a problem. In many firms’ re­
ward systems, one frequently sees reference to performance indicators
such as “supervising an extraordinary volume of fees.” This indicator
can be dangerous, since it is not result oriented or performance ori­
ented. The issue should less be one of what volume you manage than
what results you accomplish with that volume—profitability, client
satisfaction, or skill building.
To avoid this problem, firms should calculate a full profit and loss
statement for each client assignment, specifically calculating the costs
of the resources, partner and nonpartner, that were consumed in con­
ducting the assignment. At the end of the year, these can then be ag­
gregated to provide a figure on the total profitability of each partner’s
work. (See Chapter 3, Profitability: Health and Hygiene, for a discus­
sion of profitability measures.)
Client satisfaction can be measured on a systematic basis by using
feedback questionnaires. If done routinely, these can be aggregated
annually, to provide a “score” on client satisfaction, by partner. (See
Chapter 8, A Service Quality Program.) Similarly, the use of routine
“upward feedback” questionnaires from junior professionals on all
client assignments can provide a metric on each partner’s performance
in coaching. (See Chapter 4, Solving the Underdelegation Problem.)
Through the use of these systems, quantitative indicators of all three
engagement performance areas can be obtained.
It should be noted that this system of simultaneous accountability
for profitability, client satisfaction, and coaching explicitly discour­
ages hoarding of “client responsibility.” In some firms, particularly
those where emphasis is given to volume, partners compete for client
responsibility because it increases the “bulk” of their practice. Under
the system proposed here, volume is no guarantee of good perfor­
mance. A partner who accepts responsibility for a client assignment
also accepts an accountability to perform in three measurable areas.
Accordingly, partners will accept (or keep) this responsibility if and
only if they think they can execute and supervise the work well. This
should give the firm greater flexibility in making sure that work is
assigned to appropriate partners.
The remaining three performance categories (practice develop­
ment, helping others, and self-improvement) need to be judged, not
measured. This is particularly true of the “contributions to practice

248

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

development” category. Many firms attempt to quantify this perfor­
mance by assigning “origination” credits to specific individuals who
brought in specific pieces of new business. Such systems are fraught
with problems.
First, origination credit systems tend to reward the volume of busi­
ness brought in (i.e., the top line) rather than either its profitability
(the bottom line) or its strategic desirability. Consequently, an incen­
tive is created to bring in any work, rather than the types of work that
will truly develop the practice. A second flaw of quantified origination
credit systems is that they interfere with (if not destroy) teamwork in
practice development. Credit usually goes only to those who “sell and
close,” leaving little incentive to participate in other necessary prac­
tice development activities such as writing articles, participating in
seminars, and so on. (See Chapter 12, Managing the Marketing Ef­
fort.)
In the typical professional firm, it is usually easy for an executive or
compensation committee to tell who has contributed to and been ef­
fective in practice development, even if there are no hard statistics on
this. By making the system judgmental, there will be a greater likeli­
hood that individual partners will find a way to contribute to the
overall effort, and that rewards for practice development activities
can take into account not only the volume of business won but also its
value to the firm. By explicitly including this criterion in the perfor­
mance counseling system for all partners, a signal will be sent that,
one way or another, all partners should contribute to developing the
practice. Some may never “sell,” but they may write articles, give
speeches, nurture existing clients, or any of a myriad of other activities
which support the growth and development of the firm.
The fifth performance category described above was “contributions
to the success of others.” One of the eternal risks in any performance
appraisal and counseling system is that it encourages an excessive
focus on individual performance and destroys teamwork. To coun­
teract this, each partner should be asked to point to specific ways in
which he or she has contributed to the success of others. A partner
who cannot meet this criterion should be deemed as having failed to
meet his or her obligations as a member of a firm.
The final category is self-improvement. Every partner should (on a
look-back basis) be able to show some way in which he or she has

Partner

Performance

Counseling

249

grown as a professional, and (on a look-forward basis) have a plan for
growing his or her asset.

STEP 2. DESIGNING THE COUNSELING PROCESS
SELF-EV A LU A TIO N
The process should begin with the firm sending to each partner the
quantitative information it keeps on partner performance (preferably
including financial and nonfinancial scorecards, as described above)
with a note saying:
Please prepare a self-evaluation o f your accom plishm ents this year. As
you prepare your review, please exam ine the enclosed quantitative in­
form ation on your activities. If you believe any o f this is in error, or in
any way misleading, please feel free to com m ent.

The firm should include the " official” statistics that it collects on that
partner (perhaps also a listing of new business that the partner as­
sisted in winning). It is important that data be provided not only for
the latest year, but also for at least one preceding year. This is neces­
sary to ensure that “good performance” is taken to mean im prove­
ment and not just sustaining a given level of result. To do otherwise
will only encourage “cruising.” Counseling discussions should focus
upon year-on-year changes, not just the latest year.
The firm should also send the goals and action plans from the part­
ner’s previous counseling session. It is remarkable how frequently past
plans are filed and forgotten. This undercuts the credibility of the
performance counseling process. The simple gesture of saying “We
haven’t forgotten the goals you set two years ago, here’s what you said
and what we agreed to” conveys a powerful message about the seri­
ousness of the process.
Figure 22-1 provides a format for the partner self-appraisal. It will
be noted that the partner is invited to comment on all six performance
areas.

STEP 3. IMPLEMENTING THE PROCESS
The partner is now ready to meet with the counselor. But who should
this be? In a small firm, all partners could be counseled by a single
compensation committee chosen for that purpose. In larger firms, this

250

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

FIGU RE 2 2 -1
Partner Self-Evaluation
Ple a s e d e s c r ib e a n d r e v ie w y o u r p r in c ip a l a c c o m p lis h m e n t s in t h e p a s t y e a r . Y o u r r e v ie w
s h o u ld fo c u s m o r e o n a c c o m p lis h m e n t s (resu lts a c h ie v e d ) a n d less o n a d e s c r ip t io n o f a c t iv i­
ties (w h a t y o u d id ). I f s p e c ific g o a ls w e r e a g r e e d o n in a p r e v io u s c o u n s e lin g s e s s io n , p le a s e
r e la t e y o u r c o m m e n t s to t h o s e g o a ls . Y ou s h o u ld a d d r e s s t h e fo llo w in g p e r f o r m a n c e c a t e g o ­
ries:

1. PRO FITA BILITY
Please comment on your contributions to firm profitability through wise engagement manage­
ment, control of billings, accounts receivable, work-in-process, and other financial matters.
2. Q U A LITY O F C LIEN T RELATIONS AND SERVICE
What special accomplishments have you achieved in providing outstanding service to clients,
either through technical achievement or relationship management?
3. COACHING AND O TH ER CO N TRIBU TIO N S T O SKILL BUILDING
Please comment on your contribution to building skills in others through your supervision of
more junior professionals on your engagements.
4. PRACTIVE D EV ELO PM EN T
Describe your accomplishments in contributing to the development of our practice, through
assisting in developing new work from existing clients, new clients obtained, or any other
activities advancing the reputation of the firm. Include here your accomplishments in commu­
nity activities, any speeches, participation in seminar panels, publications, etc., and any civic
service, social club, or other outside activity which you wish to include.
5. GOOD CITIZENSHIP
Please comment on any achievements in the area of firm, office, or practice contributions,
such as participation in firm recruiting, committees, or other nonbillable assignments you
have performed. You may also want to refer to ways you have contributed to the success of
the firm not otherwise covered above. In particular, please identify what you have done in the
last year that the rest of the partnership has benefited from. The following list of possibilities
may help:
1. M a d e in te lle c tu a l/ t e c h n ic a l c o n t r ib u tio n s u s e d b y o t h e r s
2. T r a n s fe r r e d m y s k ill t o o t h e r p a r tn e r s a n d /o r ju n io r s
3 . M a d e m e t h o d o l o g y im p r o v e m e n t s u s e d b y o t h e r s
4 . I n c r e a s e d m a r k e t a w a r e n e s s o f o u r p r a c t ic e
5. B r o u g h t in w o r k f o r o t h e r s t o w o r k o n

6. S u c c e s s fu lly c r o s s - s o ld m y p a r tn e r s to m y c lien ts
6. PERSONAL D EV ELO PM EN T
Review the ways you judge that you have improved your knowledge and skill in the past
year. W hat has made you a more valuable professional? You may wish to comment on:
• In c r e a s e in t e c h n ic a l k n o w le d g e a n d s k ill
• In d u s tr y k n o w l e d g e
• S u p e r v is o r y a n d m a n a g e m e n t s k ills
• C lie n t c o u n s e lin g a n d r e la t io n s h ip m a n a g e m e n t s k ills

Partner

Performance

Counseling

251

is impossible, and the counseling must be done by practice leaders—
those in charge of a discipline, an office, or a practice area. In fact, this
approach is preferable. The job of being a practice leader carries with
it the responsibility of helping other partners in the group to succeed.
Indeed, that’s almost the definition of the role. Counseling and per­
formance appraisal are, therefore, central to the practice leader’s func­
tion. A compensation committee may be appropriate to take the
results of the counseling and translate them into compensation
awards, but the counseling itself is a managerial function.
FORCED RANKING
Obviously, the counselor must also prepare for the meeting. A good
discipline is for the reviewing partner to form a tentative, beginning
opinion on where the reviewed partner falls relative to all other part­
ners on each of the six performance categories. An effective way to
do this is to place the partner in one of four levels in each category:
superior (top 25% ), good (upper 50% ), acceptable (lower 50% ),
and needs improvement (lower 25% ). This “forced ranking” is of­
ten emotionally difficult (no one wants to tell others that they are
below average) but the courage to be honest is the essence of good
counseling.
The partner should also be invited to rank himself or herself on this
scale for each of the six categories. In the meeting between that part­
ner and the counselor they would discuss and compare their evalua­
tions. Differences in the partner’s self-perception and the reviewing
partner’s evaluation would be discussed and docum ented (for review
by the compensation committee).
The virtue of documenting the two ratings (one by the partner, one
by the counselor) is that the partner has a right to know as soon as
possible if the reviewing partner’s judgment is different from the part­
ner’s own self-evaluation. Although it might appear potentially confrontative, the documentation of ratings means that the partner being
reviewed has the comfort that what he or she has been told in the
counseling session is the same as what is being forwarded to the com­
pensation committee. Any differences in perception that remain after
the counseling session, if put in writing, become valid input to the
compensation committee. This process has the virtue that it guaran­
tees the partner feedback on his or her performance and it forces dif­
ferences in perception to be brought out for discussion.

252

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

If the firm uses a structured form for counseling sessions (in gen­
eral, a good idea), it can be productive to include a section which rates
not only accomplishments but specific skills. For example, the form
could include the following skills:
• Communications skills (ability to express thoughts in a logical,
fluent, and concise manner)
• Counseling skills (tact, the ability to explain, to persuade others
in a nonconfrontative style, see the other person's point o f view,
keeping client inform ed, listening well, etc.)
• Creativity and innovativeness
• Planning and organization (ability to get things done)
• Leadership (motivation o f subordinates, effectiveness in delega­
tion)
• Cooperativeness and team play
• Drive, self-motivation
Both a self-rating and a feedback rating could then be made on these
items as well as the six categories described above. If a counseling
session is to be constructive, the suggested areas for improvement
need to be as specific as possible. By providing the opportunity to
point out the need for improvement in specific skills, the partner can
only benefit.
An overall evaluation category should be included on the form.
This is a reasonable expectation for a partner to have and is needed to
ensure that no misperceptions remain about what the performance
review implies for the remainder of the compensation-setting process.
It should serve to reduce (but never eliminate) the number of “sur­
prises.” (Great performance review, no compensation increase!)

CA REER PLANNING
The next stage of the counseling discussion is the “career planning”
portion. Career planning (“What’s my role in the firm?” ) cannot and
should not be separated from the performance evaluation process
(“How am I doing?” ). Rather these need to be two portions of the
same process. One way of doing this is to include a section in the
partner counseling process that explicitly asks the partner being re­
viewed (and the reviewing partner) to engage in career planning for
that partner, that is, to identify which “career” track offers that part­
ner the greatest opportunity to make a contribution to the firm.

Partner

Performance

Counseling

253

This is seeking an answer to the question “What, specifically, do
you wish to be famous for?” Possible options that could be included
as career tracks are:
• Technical expert in a particular service area
• Industry expert
• Superior client counselor
• Superior ability to get things done through others
• Special abilities in practice development
• Special ability to work with certain types of clients (e.g., Fortune
500, entrepreneurs, high net worth individuals)
• Superior ability to transfer skills to others
Together, the counselor and the partner can think through what that
partner could do to make himself or herself “special in the market­
place.” Forcing a discussion on career plans will make the counseling
process more long-term, and will signal to all partners the need for
them to develop some form of special skill or focus that will make
them different.

GOAL SETTING AND ACTION PLANNING
The final, and most important phase of the counseling process is goal
setting and action planning. This could be enhanced by including in
any documentation a section that establishes clear priorities for im­
provement among the possible goal categories. Firms have had great
success with rating systems that “force” a ranking among possible
goals and success criteria. For example, the forms could ask partners
to do the following:
For the 6 categories of achievement place a “ 1” by the strongest cate­
gory and a “ 6 ” by the category most in need of improvement. Then
place a “2 ” by the next strongest category and a “5 ” by the category
needing the next most improvement. Place a “ 3 ” and a “4 ” in the re­
maining categories. Use these rankings to choose priorities among your
goals.

It is important to force the discipline of designing (and documenting)
concrete action plans by requiring that every action item must show a
due date, a tracking measure (i.e., a milestone to show whether the
action has been performed or not), and an estimate of time required.
This discipline helps to highlight ambiguous goals (“become better
known” ) and also to reveal actions that might be infeasible because of

254

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

time limitations. The objectives and plans thus created form the be­
ginning of the appraisal system for the following year.

CONCLUSION
The test of successful counseling is simple: Does the partner being
reviewed know specifically and precisely what to do to improve his or
her performance in the coming year? If so, then the counselor has
done the job properly. If not, then the counseling has failed, and so has
the counselor. Accordingly, I consider it a good discipline for the coun­
seling process to end with a statement signed both by the partner and
the counselor affirming that the partner does know where to go from
here.
The design of an effective counseling and appraisal process is not a
difficult task. Good implementation is difficult because counseling is a
relatively time-consuming activity that requires a significant commit­
ment (and no little skill) from those charged with managerial respon­
sibility. They (and the firm) must accept (and believe) that the job of
a manager is to help other people succeed—and that the counseling
process is a major instrument in making this happen.

CHAPTER 23

THE ART OF PARTNER
COMPENSATION

Partner compensation is the most troublesome topic in professional
service firm management. A firm may live happily with its system for
a long time, but when the topic comes up— and it inevitably does—the
ensuing debate can be the most bitter and divisive the partnership ever
faces.
The issues are indeed profound. In the division of profits, what is an
appropriate balance between recognizing current performance versus
long-term contributions? Who should get more: the big business get­
ter or the most creative professional? The partner who trains associ­
ates well or the one who works the most billable hours? The leader of
a large department or a pioneer in a new practice area? Most impor­
tant, who, in a partnership of supposed peers, should make these de­
cisions? Partners, after all, are owners, not employees.
At least as important as dollars and cents are the signals commu­
nicated, or at least perceived to have been communicated, through
compensation decisions. These messages— about what gets rewarded
and about the relative status and respect accorded each partner—
affect not only the firm’s culture and atmosphere, but also, by influ­
encing how partners choose to spend their time, its strategic direction.
Many firms postpone evaluations of their compensation system as
long as possible, attempting to handle problems case by case. In my
255

256

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

view this is dangerous and unwise. When working with professional
service firms on other management issues such as marketing, client
service, or coaching of junior staff, I continually encounter one major
stumbling block in improving effectiveness in these areas. At some
point in every discussion, one or more partners will say, “Yes, I can
see we would be better off if we did these new things. But how will
that affect my compensation? If I get paid for doing other things, I’m
not going to give much attention to these new topics.” As a result of
this reaction and reasoning, the firm finds it hard to make progress on
important business issues. All too often, because of the obsolescence
or rigidity of the compensation system, conservatism prevails, and the
firm finds it hard to implement strategic initiatives.

THE SENIORITY SYSTEM
Historically, in most professions, partner compensation has been
closely tied to seniority. Some firms do this explicitly, using a lockstep
model: Increases are set by a formula in which the only variable is how
long an individual has been a partner. Other firms may say they decide
compensation on a number of factors, but seniority nevertheless often
dominates the process. (I have analyzed compensation results for nu­
merous firms, and more often than not the weight statistically given to
seniority is much higher than generally acknowledged or intended.)
There are two ways to justify a seniority-based system: First, the
senior partners’ past efforts have contributed to the firm’s current
profitability, and second, their greater experience makes them more
valuable to the firm now. Both are testable propositions, however,
and should not be assum ed to be true. Some partners’ past contribu­
tions may long ago have ceased to benefit the firm, and the incremen­
tal value of extra years may be slight.
Moreover, past contributions and greater experience are two quite
distinct rationales. The former is an “equity” claim, with equity own­
ership having been built up by past contributions, while the latter
asserts the greater current worth of a senior partner. The latter, if
adequately demonstrated, is more readily acceptable to younger part­
ners. The equity interpretation is harder. In a corporation, equity is
built by making contributions to support certain fixed financial assets.
In a professional firm, equity contributions primarily mean building
up the assets of goodwill, skill, and reputation. In a competitive, trans­

The

Art

of

Partner

Compensation

257

actional marketplace, these assets depreciate rapidly, and claims for
“equity returns” are less valid.
Perhaps the greatest benefit of the seniority system is that, by de­
emphasizing year-to-year performance, it avoids the whole problem
of trying to weight the various forms of performance. It thus has the
virtue of being easy to administer—as we shall see, an important con­
sideration. Its most commonly cited weakness is that, in failing to
reward superior professionals, the firm risks losing these productive
people. In a competitive environment, in which lateral moves of part­
ners are commonplace and younger professionals are less willing to
wait for (increasingly uncertain) future rewards, the danger is partic­
ularly acute.
While this may be the most visible problem of the seniority system,
it is not the most important. Far more significant, in my experience, is
the fact that the system fails to recognize and reward differences in
performance among partners of equivalent tenure (at all levels) and
thus creates an environment that can be extremely discouraging to a
number of partners. “Why,” they ask, “should I strive for outstanding
performance, when such efforts are neither rewarded nor even ac­
knowledged?” Such reactions are particularly likely in firms in which,
because departures from the seniority system are avoided, poor per­
formance is not confronted.
In the world of professional services, there is a fine line between the
good and the excellent. It is, however, upon such distinctions that
reputations and profits are built. Once partners stop striving for ex­
cellence and settle for competence, the firm has entered a period of
inevitable decline.
In spite of the problems of the lockstep system, some of the most
prestigious and successful professional firms continue to use it. Such
firms assert that by avoiding discussions of partners’ relative contri­
butions, they preserve collegiality and can focus attention externally,
on winning and serving clients, rather than internally, on intrafirm
politics. Instead of financial incentives, these firms depend on such
mechanisms as firm culture and “social control” to motivate partners
to work at their peak and to accept various roles in promoting the
long-run health of the firm. If a partner’s slice of the pie is predeter­
mined, all that remains is an incentive to work to increase the size of
the pie—a welcome coincidence of individual and firm interests.

258

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

Lockstep systems appear to have survived mostly among firms that
have not suffered declines in overall profitability. When there is more
than enough to compensate everyone well, there is less pressure to
compare and evaluate individuals. Few firms, however, have the twin
blessings of a bountiful environment and a homogeneous group of
bright workaholics.

PERFORMANCE-BASED COMPENSATION
As many firms have discovered, the path to a performance-based
compensation system is fraught with difficulties. Not the least of
these is a general discomfort about assessing each partner’s perfor­
mance. Partners, it is felt, should deal with each other as peers; per­
formance appraisals are something one engages in with employees,
not with those who are, in a real sense, owners. I believe this view is
misguided. As the manager of a successful professional service firm
observed to me:
You have to be tougher on partners than nonpartners. If you believe
that partners’ performance is more critical to the firm than juniors’,
then you must hold the partners at least as accountable. Most firms
have elaborate performance appraisal and reward systems for their
young professionals. Why not for partners? To believe that all partners
can be trusted to perform well forever without being held accountable
flies in the face of reality, particularly in a large firm. And if you are
overpaying one partner, it comes straight out of the pocket of another
partner, and therefore it is not to be treated lightly.

Even firms attempting a performance-oriented compensation system
often try to minimize its explicit appraisal aspects. This is a serious
mistake. Once one departs from a strict lockstep system, performance
assessment and compensation decisions are inextricably intertwined:
They are two sides of the same coin. The issue is not whether perfor­
mance appraisals can be avoided— they cannot — but whether they
are done thoroughly or superficially.

MEASUREMENTS AND JUDGMENTS
In order to avoid “subjective” assessments of partners’ work, some
firms divide partnership profits solely according to measurable crite­
ria: business origination, hours billed, total hours or dollars super­

The

Art

of

Partner

Compensation

259

vised, percentage of time or dollars written off or uncollected, and so
on. Even more extreme, some firms attempt what might be termed a
“profit center” approach, whereby all expenses are allocated among
the partners, creating a “profit and loss” statement for each partner,
compensation awards being made accordingly.
Such methods almost always lead to the sacrifice of mutual coop­
eration among partners and fail to recognize that many important
contributions can’t be measured. Consider the partner who is dili­
gent in referring business to other partners at a cost to his own
billable-hours total. What of the partner who spends time training
juniors? Or the partner who solves troublesome administrative
problems? As sophisticated as accounting methods have become, no
system can successfully capture and encourage all of the kinds of be­
havior required. Measurement-oriented (or “formula” ) approaches
also work against the efficient delivery of professional services. Part­
ners who are too busy or overqualified should pass on work to oth­
ers, using younger partners or associates where appropriate— but if
numbers are all that count, there are real reasons to hoard work
rather than delegate it.
Measurements are inherently short-term oriented. How do you ac­
count for the partner who develops a new practice area that will add
to firm profits for years to come, or who established the firm’s strong
reputation in certain types of matters, or who strengthens the firm by
being an excellent coach? Each has contributed more than will show
up in this year’s numbers. Whenever compensation is based too
heavily on current contributions, investments in the firm’s future will
suffer. Partners will strive to “look good” today. Yet as the profes­
sions become more competitive, the future must be planned for, in­
vested in, and worried about. Clients are less loyal, and time and
effort must be spent in developing new specialties and penetrating
new industries and geographic areas—at the expense of today’s billable hours and origination credits.
It follows that, like most important decisions in a professional ser­
vice firm, decisions about compensation must result from a judgment
process, not a measurement process (although, to be sure, judgments
should be formed with knowledge of whatever statistics are avail­
able). The ways to improve a measurement system are usually obvi­
ous. How does one improve a judgment system?

260

M anag in g th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

THE CHARACTERISTICS OF
A JUDGMENT SYSTEM
In systems involving judgments there are always winners and losers.
When complex trade-offs are made, someone inevitably disagrees
with the results. (One managing partner asserts that “you know
you’ve got a good set of compensation decisions when everybody feels
a little hard done by.” ) What is more, no system is perfect: In any
judgmental process, errors will occasionally be made.
If such is the case, where should one look to make improvements?
As in the courts, attention should be directed at the judgment process,
not the decisions. If the process is thorough, unbiased, and equita­
ble—and is perceived to be so— then good judgments will result and,
just as important, be accepted. Using the judicial metaphor, we can
identify a number of essential characteristics:
• If the people being judged do not trust the judges, the system
won’t work.
• The laws governing the decision must be consistent and well un­
derstood.
• Judgments should not be made until a sincere effort has been
made to collect all pertinent information, and the defense has
been allowed to make its case.
• Judgments that are explained are more readily understood and
accepted than those that are not.
With these propositions as a starting point, how does one run an
effective compensation-setting process?

SELECTING THE JUDGES
In firms ruled by their founding partners or some other group of ac­
knowledged leaders, there seem to be few fights over compensation.
Pie-splitting disputes often follow on the heels of governance disputes.
As one managing partner puts it, “A partner’s satisfaction with his
compensation and that of others largely depends on his perception of
the legitimacy and integrity of the group deciding compensation.”
Problems arise particularly when there is confusion over the respec­
tive roles of the executive and compensation committees. The execu­
tive committee of the firm must play an important role in setting
compensation. Its members are, after all, most likely to know about

The

Ar t

of P a r t n e r

Compensation

261

every partner’s activities. But theirs should not be the sole voices. The
credibility of the committee is much enhanced, I have learned, when
the compensation committee has both representation from the exec­
utive as well as additional compensation committee members elected
or appointed for the sole purpose of providing for “checks and bal­
ances” on the (already considerable) power of the executive. These
“supplemental members” of the compensation committee should be
chosen for objectivity, fairness, diligence, trustworthiness, and com­
mitment to the firm as an institution.
In order to select wise, virtuous, and objective judges, some firms
choose compensation committee members from the ranks of senior
partners—those already receiving the maximum share of profits al­
lowed. This works well only as long as these partners continue to
share the same values and sense of direction as the rest of the firm;
once their values differ, they will lose trust. Other firms use an elec­
toral process in an effort to ensure legitimacy, but this is no panacea:
In a firm divided over values and direction, no judiciary, elected or
appointed, will ever be fully trusted. Strategy, governance, and com­
pensation are inextricably intertwined, and lack of consensus in any
one spills over into the others.
Compensation decisions need to be made in an atmosphere free of
politicking, lobbying, and sectional interests. My research has con­
vinced me that a compensation committee should be small: three to
five partners is ideal, seven may be tolerable. Tough compensation
decisions can be made by democratically elected judges, but not
through the direct democracy of open debate among all of the firm’s
competing factions. Voting and compromise (common practices in
large committees) do not tend to produce fairness in results. A small
group must decide. A larger oversight group (say, for example, a
board of partners) can accept or reject, but if it rejects, it should send
back the entire set of decisions, rather than tinkering with a few.

SETTING CRITERIA
An inevitable part of being a judge is interpreting conflicting laws and
precedents, but there must be laws. The rules by which partners are
appraised—the varying forms of contribution to the firms’ success
that will be recognized and their order of importance—must be clear.
It is neither fair nor sensible to evaluate performance against criteria
that are ambiguous or change without notice. A written statement of

262

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

compensation policy, including a detailed description of the
information-collecting process, should be updated and circulated ev­
ery year.
However, in contrast to what seems a widely held view, the com­
mittee need not give different criteria the same weight in every part­
ner’s case. Indeed, I would argue, it cannot. As professional firms
mature, individuals and groups contribute in different ways. One
group may be looked to specifically for generating business; another
to specialize in a new area in which billable hours and revenues are
small in the short term; another may act as a service department to the
rest of the firm. Looked at another way, the form of contributions can
be expected to change with time, with, for example, more emphasis on
billable hours earlier in a partner’s career and more on business get­
ting or management later on.
In such an environment, a rigid formula— “hours count 60 percent,
new business 30 percent, and profitability 10 percent”— is unwork­
able. The firm may believe that business development and billable
hours are more important than development of associates and should
indicate that, but it would be a mistake to apply the rule uniformly—no
one would bother with associate development. What is required is a
process of “management by objectives,” whereby each individual, in
consultation with the executive committee, agrees to a set of objectives
for the forthcoming year, and is assessed accordingly. This approach
clarifies what is expected and, by forcing each partner (and hence the
firm) to contemplate goals, encourages active planning rather than op­
portunistic, reactive behavior. In a professional world that increasingly
requires strategic thinking, this is no small thing.
The management-by-objectives approach also allows the compen­
sation committee to evaluate every activity. If a partner is responsible
for recruiting, then his or her performance can be evaluated in that
context. If a branch manager devotes a lot of time to managerial du­
ties, then the evaluation depends on how well those duties were exe­
cuted. In this way, a firm can avoid “position pay,” that is, increasing
compensation to reflect a job title. A manager’s job is to make others
productive and the firm profitable. If he or she succeeds, then he or she
should be rewarded handsomely; if not, the reward should not be
automatic. (Incidentally, one of my guiding principles is that any pro­
fessional firm paying its managers more than its top producers is in
trouble. Top producers shouldn’t be attempting to become managers

The

Ar t

of Pa r t ne r

Compensation

263

to increase their pay and status. Glory, and dollars, should always
flow to those who excel at client work.)
Compensation adjustments should be based on relative im prove­
ments in performance, not on absolute levels. A partner whose clients
were billed $2.3 million this year, down from $2.9 million the year
before, probably deserves less of a raise (if any) than one whose clients
were billed $1.5 million, up from $700,000. To do otherwise would
encourage “coasting.” While this may seem obvious, in numerous
firms I have studied, a partner with high billings is highly rewarded,
regardless of changes from the previous year. (In part, this happens
because compensation committees are flooded with numbers and thus
fail to analyze past years’ statistics thoroughly.)
Finally, it is essential to note that in any firm, an inflexible compen­
sation structure is likely to become moribund over time. In one era,
business getting may be particularly important; in another, the prior­
ity may be improving the profitability of the firm’s existing work. As
the partnership’s strategy changes, so should the weighting of perfor­
mance criteria. As long as the changes are announced and discussed
before they are implemented, reevaluation is to be commended rather
than avoided.

GOOD JUDGMENTS ARE INFORMED JUDGMENTS
One of the most common complaints about judgment systems is that
the judges are incapable of arriving at an equitable decision because
“they just don’t have the facts” or they misinterpret those they do
have. In compensation systems, this is often a valid cause for com­
plaint—and certainly the single greatest cause of mistrust of judges.
Fortunately it is easily addressed. The compensation committee must
be vigorous in collecting as much information as it can, from as many
sources as it can, seeking not only the “hard,” measurable facts (which
frequently are less hard than they appear) but qualitative descriptions
as well: what each partner has accomplished during the year, what
help he has provided to other partners, how useful he has been as a
coach, and so on. The committee should not be afraid to solicit opin­
ions, so long as they are treated as such.
There are a number of ways to accomplish this. First, send every
partner a summary of his or her statistics and invite comment on any
possibilities for misinterpretation. What should the committee mem­
bers know about that partner’s significant triumphs and regrets?

264

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

While face-to-face meetings between partners and members of the
compensation committee are not unusual, many firms do this only on
the individual’s initiative or target those in trouble. Such meetings
should not be so restricted: The committee should conscientiously
ensure that every partner meets with one of its members. Not only can
partners provide explanations, they can also reflect on the past year,
discuss what they had set out to do and frequently adjust plans for the
coming year. Among firms that adopt this practice, I never fail to hear
praise for it.
Another important source of information on a partner’s perfor­
mance is the opinions of other partners. In a small, homogeneous firm,
where partners practice in similar areas with similar types of clients,
the compensation committee can easily assess all partners accurately.
However, in a large multidepartmental or multisite firm, it is not sur­
prising that partners worry that the small group of committee mem­
bers may not be qualified to judge every partner’s contributions. The
greater the distance between the judges and the judged, the less trust
and confidence exists.
Certainly the assessments of departmental and branch office heads
should be solicited; this is a common practice. Yet judgment by in­
formed peers can be far more extensive. At a number of well-run firms
I have studied, the committee invites, either by memo or in interview,
all partners to answer the following: “With which other partners have
you had professional contact in the last year? For each, based on your
involvement, how would you rate his or her performance and contri­
bution to the firm ? In what ways does he or she excel ? In what ways that
we may not otherwise know about has he or she contributed to the
firm’s success? For what should he or she be complimented? If you
could encourage this person to do one thing differently, what would it
be?”
This approach may be daunting to firms that have never tried it, but
it gives the judges an accurate reading of how a partner is perceived by
his or her peers and it uncovers essential information, favorable and
unfavorable. Knowing that all opinions will be treated as confidential
in the committee and that no one opinion will be accepted without
cross-checking, partners are likely to offer sincere opinions on the
merits, strengths, and weaknesses of others. It is a time-consuming
process, but well worth the cost.

The

Art

of

Partner

Compensation

265

ARRIVING AT DECISIONS
Equity requires that, whatever a firm’s rules are, they need to be ap­
plied in a consistent manner throughout the firm. This is often more
difficult to accomplish than it would seem. In a mid-sized firm of, say,
thirty partners, a compensation committee may be faced with a
spreadsheet with ten to fifteen columns of data (origination, hours,
etc.) for each partner, and must somehow absorb all of this data to
arrive at thirty decisions that reflect consistent treatment of each of the
factors of interest.
In my research and consulting experience, I have found that many
firm committees will attempt to process this vast amount of data in a
very “impressionistic” way, attempting to absorb simultaneously the
confusion of messages contained in hundreds (if not thousands) of
numbers, in addition to trying to bear in mind important qualitative
considerations. Even with the best of intentions, this rarely results in
complete consistency or an observable logic in the overall set of deci­
sions. Because of the unstructured approach taken to the analysis of
the information, it also tends to be more time consuming than it needs
to be. Decisions of this importance and complexity cry out for a more
formal analytical approach.
In fact, quantitative tools are available to analyze such data. (See
Chapter 24, Patterns in Partner Compensation.) Many firms state
that, in arriving at compensation decisions, they consider more than a
single year’s performance and reward superior performance over a
period of time. However, it has been my experience that, because of
the unstructured decision-making process, few firms in fact reexamine
past performance statistics and rely instead on what is often an im­
perfect, impressionistic memory of previous years’ performance. It
should be stressed that a formal approach to analyzing the measurable
aspects of performance does not preclude the application of impor­
tant qualitative judgments. It merely ensures that this is done in a
conscious, consistent manner.

EXPLAINING THE DECISIONS
Having gone through this thorough performance-appraisal process,
the compensation committee would be foolish not to let the partners
know how they fared. To conclude with the simple announcement of
each partner’s take is to invite discontent. Feedback must be given and

266

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

decisions must be explained (preserving, of course, the confidentiality
of specific opinions expressed to and within the committee).
This cannot be overemphasized: If the reasoning behind a judgment
is explained, it is more likely to be accepted. Moreover, feedback en­
courages excellence. Even where compensation awards are accepted
as equitable, a natural follow-up question is, “What do I have to do to
do better next year?” At firms that provide no feedback, partners are
left to guess at— and, possibly misinterpret—the compensation com­
mittee’s intended message.

DISCLOSURE
Despite what is becoming common practice, I believe disclosure of
every partner’s compensation to all other partners has as many risks
as benefits. It is understandable that firms choose to do this: These are,
after all, partnerships of owners, in which democracy and collegiality
are highly valued. Yet if everyone’s compensation is disclosed, the
temptation to compare is well nigh irresistible. And this game, as ev­
eryone readily concedes, is destructive. Andrew Grove, in his book
High Output M anagement, 1 observes that if people are concerned
about their absolute level of compensation, then they can be satisfied.
However, if their focus is on relative standing, then they can never be
satisfied.
Disclosure certainly discourages the cooperative behavior required
in most professional practice. Opportunities for misunderstandings
and resentment are high. The process by which qualitative judgments
were reached is hard to explain simply, yet if only measurable data
were disclosed, partners might interpret decisions solely in those
terms. Another difficulty is that justifications are frequently sought
not only about oneself but about others— “Why did he get more than
I?”— and this might require disclosing the personal circumstances of
others or opinions given by third parties.
Disclosure also makes it difficult to implement the hardest deci­
sions— dealing with the less-than-productive partner or one with per­
sonal problems. Compensation awards can become symbolic of
status, of a place in the pecking order. Thus, reductions in compen­
sation affect the partner’s public image— an unnecessary compound­
ing of punishments.
Owners can be kept informed without knowing everything. A sum­

The

Art

of P a r t n e r

Compensation

267

mary, aggregated by broad age groupings, specialty, or some other
category, can give partners a full understanding of the range and dis­
tribution of compensation and where they stand within it. (See Chap­
ter 24 for one method of doing this.)
Clamors for disclosure are themselves symbolic: What is really be­
ing sought is reassurance that the judges are objective, fair, and con­
sistent. Along these lines, there is one aspect of disclosure that must
not be overlooked: How the compensation committee has dealt with
itself. Here, some disclosure must take place, in either aggregate or
detailed form.

BALANCING PAST AND PRESENT
I argued above that seniority, per se, is a poor and increasingly unten­
able basis for awarding partner compensation. This should not be
interpreted to mean that past contributions to the firm’s success
should be totally discounted. Indeed, firms must be very careful not to
become too short-term oriented in compensation. One of the most
common misunderstandings I have found among professional firms is
a belief that the alternative to a seniority-based system has to be a
cut-throat “last year’s performance only” approach.
This is an overreaction. In the professions, superior performance is
evident only over an extended period of time, and should be so ap­
praised. A given year’s compensation decision should be seen as one
of a series, not as a game to be won or lost each year, with no view to
past or future. Rapid changes in anyone’s compensation, except where
there is a clear consensus that they are merited, are extremely disrup­
tive—as are, at the other extreme, fine distinctions made on the basis
of small differences in a single year’s performance.
One way to balance past and present is to think of compensation
awards as a smoothed, moving average of performance, updated ev­
ery year as new evidence comes in. In order to accomplish this, a firm
may choose to make compensation decisions on the basis of statistics
covering a three-year period rather than a single year’s time. Each year
the three-year cumulative totals for each partner are updated by add­
ing in the most recent year’s results and dropping those from four
years ago. Thus, a good year will continue to show up in the data for
an extended period of time, but not forever. Similarly, the impact of
one good (or bad) year will be dampened when added in with four
average years. If performance improves each year, the partner will

268

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

have a gradually rising share. If it consistently declines, so will his
share. (Incidentally, this device thus deals naturally with the gradually
retiring partner.)
A second device—one gaining favor among the professions—is
what I have come to call the “two-pool system, in which some large
percentage of the profits is distributed (prospectively) based upon
long-term considerations, while a smaller pool (say, 5 or 15 percent)
is distributed (retrospectively) in recognition of outstanding contri­
butions in the current year. These special awards are clearly outside
the long-term compensation structure, so that a single year’s “bonus”
does not become part of the recipient’s longer-term expectations.

COMPENSATION AND STRATEGY
In spite of the tactical and pragmatic advice offered above, there is
ultimately only one test of a compensation system: whether or not it
encourages the full range of behavior needed for the firm’s success. If
partners are spending their time wisely and energetically on things
that benefit not only themselves but also the firm, then the system is
working. If an individual’s best interests don’t coincide with the firm’s,
the system needs an overhaul. To apply this acid test, one first has to
understand what makes the firm succeed. What are its best interests?
As many firms have discovered, this requires careful thought. Com­
pensation decisions cannot be made in a vacuum: They are an integral
part of what defines the firm. Sorting out these complexities is an art,
and is likely to remain so.

CHAPTER 24

PATTERNS IN PARTNER
COMPENSATION

It is remarkable how frequently professional firm compensation sys­
tems fail to accomplish a simple goal— motivating partners to focus
on those aspects of performance that will make the firm successful.
The problem is not that the firm’s compensation committee neces­
sarily rewards the wrong things (although some do that). The issue is
that the typical partner often doesn’t know what is being rewarded, or
doesn’t believe what is said by the compensation committee about
what has been rewarded.
Official declarations of policy don’t solve the problem. Most firms
have a statement of compensation principles of the form “Among the
numerous factors taken into account are . . .” (followed by a laundry
list of quantitative and qualitative performance indicators). These
declarations are uniformly ambiguous and rarely meet the partners’
need to know what factors were actually used and with what weights.
It is perhaps a sad fact, but nonetheless true, that most partners are
not prepared to take on faith that the compensation committee has
done what it says it has done. When it comes to compensation, issues
of trust, credibility, and confidence abound in professional firms. This
is a serious business issue. If the partners misperceive what is being
rewarded, then they will focus their attention and efforts only on the
269

270

M an aging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

things they think are rewarded, and fail to focus on other important
performance areas that will affect the success of the firm.
So how can the compensation committee convincingly communi­
cate what it has done? Simple disclosure of compensation results alone
will not do the job. Even if I know what each and every partner in my
firm made this year, it is not a simple task for me to deduce what has
been rewarded unless I am intimately familiar with each and every
partner’s performance. This is difficult in a small firm, and impossible
in a large firm. Even if, as a partner, I am given a spreadsheet (or, more
likely, a thick, bound document) containing all the information used
by the committee, it will be difficult to detect patterns in the numbers
by staring at voluminous columns of data.
What is needed is an approach that demonstrates unequivocally
what has been rewarded, clearly reveals how much reliance has been
placed on quantitative factors, and how much on qualitative factors,
and yet can preserve (where necessary) the confidentiality of specific
individual partner data.
Fortunately, such an approach exists— a “Compensation Commit­
tee Report” that makes use of graphs and some basic statistics. To
illustrate the approach, let’s examine a fictional firm of thirty-two
partners that collects quantitative (descriptive) data on its partners in
six areas:
a. Age (an indicator of seniority)
b. Personal billing rate
c. “Grade” for contribution to business development
d. Total dollars billed as client partner
e. Percentage of standard fees billed and collected (“realization
rate” )
f. Personal billable hours
Of course, numerous other qualitative factors are taken into account
by the committee of our fictional firm, but it is only for these factors
that there is quantitative data. With this information in hand, the
committee goes off into its deliberations and, using its best judgment,
develops a schedule of “points” (or profit shares) for each partner.
The committee then issues a report showing the graphs illustrated
here. We, along with the partners in our fictional firm, will examine
them one at a time.

Patterns

in P a r t n e r

Compensation

271

Figure 24-1 shows the relationship between points (profit share)
and age. (On this, as on all of the graphs, each “dot” represents an
individual partner.) Did seniority play a role in the committee’s deci­
sions? As any reader can see from the graph, there is a general rising
trend—older partners tended, on average, to get more points. How­
ever, it can also be seen that there is a significant degree of “scatter.”
This factor was not treated by the committee in a formulaic way.
A partner who cares to examine the evidence carefully might note that
the “seniority effect” (the upwards trend) is quite marked between the
ages of, say 35 and 41, but after that age there is no clear pattern.
What the committee has appeared to do is give attention to seniority
in the first few years of partnership, but rely on other (performance?)
factors after that.
Is this pattern appropriate? That’s for the committee and the part­
nership to decide, according to their compensation philosophy. How­
ever, by showing the graph, the partners can at least see what has been
done.
The statistic at the top of the graph is a measure of the strength of
the relationship, that is, how tight a fit can be seen between the two
factors (points and age). A figure close to 0 percent would mean that
there is no observable relationship between the two factors. A figure
close to 100 percent means that the two factors tend to be highly
correlated. The specific number (known formally as the “R-squared
statistic” and a standard feature in most spreadsheet programs) can
be used to answer the question, “How much of the variation in one
factor (e.g., points) can be ”explained“ by the other factor (e.g.,
age)?”
In this case the answer is 39 percent, which means that age seems to
“explain” 39 percent of all differences in point holdings, leaving 61
percent to be explained by other factors. This may overstate the case.
It could be that what’s really going on is that (say) it is billings that
really drives point holdings and since older partners have higher bill­
ings, the “age (or experience) effect” is deceptive. Fortunately, we
have more than one graph, and can test that hypothesis. We can state
with confidence that the “age effect” is not more than 39 percent.
Of course, this analysis says nothing about the actual reasoning
process used by the compensation committee. In saying that there is a
correlation of (up to) 39 percent between age and points, we are say-

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

272

FIGURE 2 4 -1
Strength of Relationship is 39%

o

i

i

I

_|

10

20

60

70

Age of Partner

FIGURE 2 4 -2
Strength of Relationship is 52%

45 r
40

o
£
w
c
o
Q_
_I

_J __________ I__________ I__________ l_
50

100

150

200

300

250

Partner's Personal Billing Rate

FIGURE 2 4 -3
Strength of Relationship is 28%

r
40 45

IT 35 -

05

6

30 -

|

25 -

20

■
■

-

1 15 -

£ io 5 -

o L
1

2

3

4

"Grade" for Contribution to Business Development

350

Patterns

in

Partner

Compensation

273

FIG URE 2 4 - 4

FIG U RE 2 4 - 5
Strength of Relationship is 8%

45
40

■

■

0) 35
(C 30
sz
(/)

■
■

25 _

o
w

0.

c

*o

Q_

■

h

■
■

■

20 -

■

■

■
■

:

15 —

■

■

■
■

■

■ ■

■
■ ■

10
5
n
88

i

i

90

92

i
94

I
98

100

J _________ I_________ i_________ I_______
500
1000
1500
2000
2500

3000

96

Percentage of Standard Fees Collected

FIG URE 2 4 - 6
Strength of Relationship is 0%

45
40
CD
CO

-C

CO

o

CL

0.

"

30

■

25
20 -

w 15 c

'o

.

35

■

-

" ■

■
■

■

■■
"
■

10

5 n

Partner's Personal Billable Hours

274

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

ing that the committee has acted as if the weight given to age was this
amount. We are not analyzing their decision process, but the conse­
quences of their decisions. We can say nothing about their decisions
on individual partners, but we can say a great deal about the trends,
generalizations, and patterns that emerge from their decisions.
Next, we turn to the partner’s personal billing rate (Figure 2 4 -2 ).
Again, readers can draw their own conclusions. I see a clear trend,
with a reasonable degree of scatter. Clearly, high-rate partners in our
fictional firm tend to receive more points.
Is it appropriate that billing rate be so correlated with point hold­
ings? Again, that’s for the firm to decide. Our purpose here is sim­
ple—to disclose what has been done. However, if the firm sets its
partners’ billing rates by the market (i.e., individual billing rates re­
flect the value of the partner in the marketplace) then it is entirely
appropriate that high personal billing rates should be reflected in
higher point holdings—the most valuable professionals are being re­
warded more highly.
Figure 2 4 -2 suggests that billing rates “explain” 52 percent of the
differences in points. However, we must be careful, since it is probable
that older partners also have higher billing rates and there is therefore
some “overlap” going on. For this reason, we cannot add together the
39 percent from the age graph and the 52 percent from the rate graph.
Fortunately, there is a method for dealing with this. In most spread­
sheet packages there is another statistic (called “multiple regression” )
which will eliminate overlap and tell us how much of the differences in
points can be explained by the two factors of age and rate taken to­
gether, without double counting. In this case, the answer it gives is 59
percent, meaning that after eliminating overlaps, age and billing rate
together can “explain” a total of 59 percent of the differences in point
holdings. One way of interpreting this is to say that if age alone can
account for 39 percent of differences in point holdings, then adding in
billing rate can explain an additional 20 percent (59 minus 39) of the
differences.
Let’s turn to “contributions to business development” (Figure
2 4 - 3 ). This is a “quasi” quantitative factor. Our fictional firm collects
information on each partner’s business development efforts and re­
sults and assigns a grade for their overall contribution, on a scale of 2
through 5, with 5 being the highest grade. (They intended to use a 1 to
5 scale, but in practice never assign a 1.)

Patterns

in P a r t n e r

Compensation

275

As can be seen, there is also a rising trend here. On average, a higher
“score” for business development will result in higher points. As al­
ways, we must look not only at the trend but the amount of scatter
around the trend. There is a significant amount of scatter, revealing
that the business development grade influenced compensation, but
did not determine it. By itself, it appears to “explain” 28 percent of
differences in points.
As before, we must be careful of overlaps. It is possible that highbilling-rate partners are also the best at business development. The
“multiple regression” statistic referred to above can be applied again
and, this time, reveals that taking the three factors of age, billing rate,
and grade for business development into account simultaneously will
“explain” a total of 74 percent of all the differences in points. This is
up from 59 percent for age and billing rate alone, implying that busi­
ness development performance explains 15 percent of the differences
in points that age and billing rate cannot explain.
Figure 2 4 -4 shows that “Total Dollars Billed as Client Partner”
played some role in compensation setting (there is somewhat of a
rising trend), but that it was probably not a dominant influence (there
is a lot of scatter). While the relationship seems to have a strength of
21 percent, there is a lot of overlap with other factors: Adding this
factor to those we have already considered only adds (according to the
nongraphical analysis) an incremental 2 percent to the 74 percent we
have already explained.
The last two graphs are revealing. Figure 2 4 -5 shows that there is
a barely observable relationship between points and the percentage of
standard fees collected (the “realization rate” ). (If anything, it seems
as if there is a slight trend downwards.) It would appear that “good
profitability management” was not applied across the board as a fac­
tor in determining points. This does not prove that the compensation
committee did not take into account this factor in individual cases. It
does show that they did not apply a consistent pattern across the
range of partners.
Finally, Figure 2 4 -6 reveals that our fictional firm did not, for bet­
ter or for worse, place much reliance on a partner’s personal billable
hours in setting compensation— there is no observable trend. (While
unusual, this may be an appropriate finding. If too much emphasis is
given to individual partner hours, there might be an incentive to hoard
work that should more appropriately be done by others.)

276

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

We have examined each of our available quantitative factors. Can
anything be said about the qualitative factors used by the committee?
At least this: If one takes together simultaneously all of the six quan­
titative factors, then a total of “only” 76 percent of the differences in
points can be explained. (This result comes from the “multiple regres­
sion” statistic referred to earlier.) Therefore, we can conclude that the
compensation committee relied on qualitative factors for 24 percent
of its decision making. We cannot tell whether these other factors
were sensible (quality of work, associate training, cooperativeness,
etc.) or not (politicking, arbitrariness, etc.) But we have shown that
our fictional firm’s system is not purely a formula driven one. Is 24
percent weight given to judgment too much or too little? As always,
that’s for the firm to decide. But at least the partners know.
For better or for worse, the ambiguity of “What’s rewarded around
here?” has been significantly reduced. Of course, it has not been elim­
inated. There is still that 24 percent judgmental component that we
cannot explain. (Although it is worth noting that the device used in
awarding a “grade” for business development can be applied in other
judgmental areas such as associate coaching, thereby turning a judg­
mental factor into a quasi-quantitative one.)
There is also a degree of ambiguity left because of the overlap be­
tween performance factors. If, for example, “billings as client part­
ner” and “personal billing rate” tend to move together, which is really
being rewarded? It’s not easy to say precisely.
However, progress has been made. With six simple graphs (and a
few statistics) we, and the partners of the firm, have a pretty good fix
on what’s been done in this firm. I can easily tell, as a partner in this
particular firm, that I’d be better off focusing on my billing rate and
my contribution to business development as a means of getting more
points, and should worry a little less about my billable hours. I may
not like those conclusions, but I now know what is given attention
and what is not. And I don’t have to rely on believing or trusting the
compensation committee.
It should be pointed out that the graphical/statistical approach to
disclosure of compensation awards still permits a significant degree of
confidentiality to be preserved if the firm so wishes. The “dots on the
page” do not identify which partner is which. Accordingly, the ap­
proach can still be used by those firms with policies against disclosure
of individual partner compensation. (There will be the potential for a

Patterns

in P a r t n e r

Compensation

277

breach of confidence in a small firm where one or two partners are
“away from the pack” and hence show up as readily identifiable on a
graph.)
However, many firms who do follow a nondisclosure policy do so
because they fear misinterpretation of the results (i.e., questions of the
form, “Why did X get more than me?” ). If they provided the type of
analysis recommended here, where the overall patterns of compensa­
tion are made clear, there would be fewer disadvantages to disclosure
of compensation.
Naturally, any compensation committee would want to review this
analysis before disclosure to the partners. I can hear the conversation
now: “Did we really intend to give little or no weight to the profitable
management of matters (the realization rate)? Of course not! That’s
not the signal we intended to send. We thought we were taking it into
account in our individual decisions. Yet when you put it all together,
there is no pattern. Perhaps we should review the decisions again!” In
this fashion, the graphical (and statistical) analysis, used on a “trial
balance” basis, can become a useful decision-making tool within the
committee to ensure that the pattern of its decisions sends the right
signals to the partners.
Naturally, there are many possible enhancements to this approach.
Some firms may wish to analyze how the percentage change in points
relates to performance factors, not just the absolute level of points.
Others will want to examine performance data over a period of time
(say, a three-year average) rather than just the latest year. Many such
enhancements are sensible. The key issue, however, is sharing the anal­
ysis with the partners. A compensation committee has not done its job
until it can show (not just tell) the partners precisely “what is re­
warded around here.”

CHAPTER 25

PIE-SPLITTING

In 1983, I decided to conduct a simple study of compensation prac­
tices among law firms to see how different firms would deal with
different types of partners. Although the results are both old and from
a single profession, I still get comments from clients about the survey
and hear that they still use it to test views within their firms. So I have
decided to include it here.
With the assistance of Steven Brill, the editor of The American
Lawyer, and Bruce Heintz, a law firm consultant, I invented seven
archetypal partners of a fictional firm and provided statistical and
descriptive information on each (see Table 2 5 - 1 ). Those who partic­
ipated in the study were asked to indicate for each archetype what the
likely range of compensation (high and low) would be in their firm
relative to the compensation of an average partner.
Each of the archetypes can be given a brief label:
A is the average partner,
B is the rising young superstar,
C is the unproductive older partner,
D is the individualistic solo operator,
E is the hardworking “back-room” lawyer,
F is the executive committee member actively maintaining a prac­
tice,
279

TABLE 2 5 -1
The Archetypes: Eight Partners of a Fictional Firm
Partner
A

Partner
B

Partner
C

Partner
D

The
typical
lawyer

Young
and
entrepreneurial;
has
built a
loyal
group
o f associates
around
him.

Seems
to have
run out
o f gas;
suspect
som e
personal
problems at
hom e.

“Jou rney­
m an”
A
lawyer;
prima
w orks
donna
hard,
E xecu­
solo
but
tive
oper­
com ­
brings
ator;
in little
mittee
likes
busi­ m em ber;
high
ness;
tries to
visi­
relies
do ev­
bility
on oth­ erything;
ers; a
m ajor
cases;
a little “partner force in
too
associ­
the
firm.
glib.
ate. ”

Billable
Hours
Worked

100

141

74

105

115

Nonbill­
able Hours
Worked

100

152

51

92

Dollars
Managed

100

198

33

Write-off
Performance

100

120

Unbilled
Dollars

100

Collections
Per­
formance

Partner
E

Partner
G

Partner
H

M an­
ages
branch
office,
which
has
p oo r
profit­
ability.

M ajor
rain­
m aker;
passes
on cli­
ents
and
w ork
for
others
to han­
dle.

92

95

35

60

243

156

150

45

55

129

90

112

50

102

101

150

63

132

105

59

40

93

121

80

108

100

110

72

50

95

115

83

103

Business
Getting

100

200

25

73

15

175

74

312

Billing Rate

100

64

129

104

103

112

108

139

Age

38

34

55

42

41

49

49

60

280

Partner
F

TA BLE 2 5 - 1 (CONT.)
Department

Corporate

Real
estate

Tax

Litigation Corporate Corporate Corporate

Average Excellent

Average

Above
Average

Slightly
Above
Average

Average

Not
Known
Outside

Very
Visible

Not
wellKnown

Very
WellKnown

Thought
to be
WellKnown

Superb

Not
Good:
Some­
what
Territo­
rial

Very
Cooperative

Not
Very
Coop­
erative

Very
Willing

Very
WellLiked

Not
Per­
ceived
as Coopera­
tive

Not
Coop­
erative

Average

Out­
standing

Poor

Poor

Average

Out­
standing

Not
Enough
Evi­
dence

Not
Good

Average

Not
Much

Willing
But
Rarely
Chosen

None

Will
Serve
When­
ever
Asked

Exten­
sive

A
GreatDeal

Used to
be In­
volved
But Not
Any­
more

100

p

p

p

p

p

p

p

Quality of
Legal Work

Average Excellent

External
Respect in
Community

Average

Excellent

Cooperativeness
with other
partners

Average

Ability to
Develop
Associates
Committee
Work & Firm
Management

C O M P E N S A T IO N

Probate

All numbers shown (except for age) are expressed as percentages of the average for all the firm’s partners.
Figures above 100 represent superior performance: Thus, for example, Partner D worked 5 percent more
billable hours than the firm average, but 8 percent fewer nonbillable hours. When it came to the amount of
work performed for his clients but not billed (unbilled dollars), Partner D’s performance was only 4 0 percent,
far less than the firm average. Similarly, his performance on collections was 50 percent: He took twice as long
to collect as the average partner.

281

282

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

G is the struggling branch manager, and
H is the major rainmaker who doesn’t put in many billable hours.
Table 25-1 gives a more developed picture of each. Before reading on,
you may wish to complete the survey, by filling in what compensation
each archetype would receive at your firm, compared to the average.
Alternatively, you may wish to circulate the survey among all of your
partners, to determine the degree of consensus that exists concerning
what should be rewarded at your firm.
In my survey, forty-six firms sent usable responses, a response rate
of approximately 20 percent, which is low but not unreasonable for
surveys of this kind. The responses yielded some provocative findings.
In spite of low billable hours and textual hints of noncooperativeness, partner H, who combined seniority and major business-getting
ability, would receive the highest compensation in most of the respon­
dent firms (Figure 2 5 - 1 ). This is understandable: Bringing in business
is often the most highly valued characteristic in awarding partner com­
pensation.
But the message contained in the survey responses is more compli­
cated: While most firms would award partner H more than the other
archetypes, they differ drastically in how much more. The median
award for partner H was 175 percent of the average partner’s com­
pensation, but a quarter of the firms would give H less than 25 percent
more than the average partner’s compensation, and a tenth would
give less than 10 percent more than the average. Three firms even
reported that they would assign less than the average partner’s com­
pensation to partner H! At the other extreme, a tenth of the firms
would assign partner H more than 210 percent of the firm average
and, for a quarter of the firms, the share would be more than twoand-one-half times the average partner’s compensation.
The range expressed in these results is truly astounding. Ignoring
the bottom and top tenths of responses, we see that partner H could
receive anywhere from 110 to 250 percent of the firm average.

FIRM SIZE DOESN’T MAKE A DIFFERENCE
Flow partner H (or any of the other partners) is treated does not appear
to be related to the size of the respondent’s firm. Analyzed by firm size,
the survey responses showed the same basic pattern as they did when

FIGURE 25-1
What You Make Depends on Where You Work

Pie-Splitting

60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130 140 150 160 170 180 190 200 210 220 230 240 250
Percent

283

284

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

taken as a whole. Within each size group, the awards to partner H cen­
tered on the 160 to 190 percent range, but there were dramatic swings
within each group that swamped any statistical differences between the
groups. For example, one small firm (fifty lawyers or less) would give
partner H only 62 percent of the firm average, while another would
award 262 percent. Among the largest firms (150 lawyers plus), an­
swers ranged from 115 percent to 250 percent. (The absence of a sta­
tistical relationship between the size of the firm and the compensation
decision holds true for all of the archetypes, not only partner H.)
A similar story is revealed when the responses are analyzed by form
of governance. Of the firms responding, 72 percent identified them­
selves as electoral democracies, while 22 percent said they were ruled
by an oligarchy of powerful partners and 6 percent described them­
selves as benign dictatorships. For none of the archetypes could a
statistical difference be found between what the democracies would
award as compensation and what the others would award. Again, the
main message from the data was one of huge variability between firms.
The same conclusion holds true for different methods of choosing a
compensation committee: There were no statistically significant dif­
ferences between the 68 percent of firms that elected their committee,
the 15 percent that appointed it, and the 17 percent whose compen­
sation committee was hereditary.
Could the wide range of answers for the different archetypes be due
to an uncertainty on the part of the respondents as to what each ar­
chetype would receive in their firm? It appears not. For each archetype,
respondents were invited to indicate a “high” and a “low” figure, to
allow for factors affecting compensation that were not accounted for
in the exercise. The vast ma j ority of firms gave estimates that ranged no
more than 20 percent from the high figure to the low, and very few firms
(less than one in ten) exceeded a 30 percent range. Thus, it seems that
most respondents felt that they had sufficient information to place the
archetypes reasonably and accurately within their own systems.

THE OTHER RESPONSES: WHO GETS
HOW MUCH?
We have discussed partner H. What of the remaining partners ?
As anyone familiar with law firms would probably guess, the part­
ner most highly rewarded after partner H was deemed to be partner F:
the executive committee member who works close to the firm average

Pie-Splitting

285

on billable hours, more than double the average on nonbillable hours,
and has “origination credits” 75 percent above average. The median
award given to this individual by the forty-six firms was 155 per­
cent—50 percent of the respondents would give less than this, and 50
percent more. As with partner H, the range of treatment of this hard­
working executive committee member by different firms was dra­
matic. One-quarter of the firms would award less than 130 percent of
the firm average, while one-quarter would assign partner F more than
190 percent. Ignoring the top and bottom 10 percent of responses, we
find a compensation range of 120 to 225 percent of the firm average.
Even though firms might have significantly different averages, this is
again an incredible range.
It is interesting to compare the relative treatment of partners H (the
“big rainmaker” ) and F (the “major force of the firm” ). Even though
the median awards to F and H vary by only 20 percent, there was
significant disagreement among the forty-six firms surveyed as to
which of these two should receive the higher compensation: 54 per­
cent gave more to partner H, but 46 percent gave more to partner F.
The exercise was designed to explore these different reactions. Busi­
ness getting is important, and partner H excels at this (as well as being
more senior). However, billable hours and firm management, partner
F’s relative strengths, are also important, and he has a respectable
business-development statistic. As expected, the different firms split
about evenly on the matter of who is more valuable to the firm (if,
indeed, a single year compensation award can be interpreted in that
light).
Most firms agreed that the older rainmaker and the middle-aged ex­
ecutive committee member would receive significantly more than any
other of the archetypes. However, the same trade-off between business
getting, firm management, and seniority was revealed at the next level.
After H and F, the next two most highly rewarded partners were B and
G. Partner B was our fictional firm’s rising young superstar, with billable hours 41 percent above firm average, origination credits (and su­
pervisory responsibility) double the firm’s norm, and nonbillable
hours 52 percent higher than average—all at the tender age of 34. In
contrast, partner G, the branch manager, underperformed all of the
firm’s norms except two: nonbillable hours (presumably management
activities) and age (49, compared with the average of 38).
Who gets the greater share? Half of the firms in the survey chose the
superstar, and half the more senior branch manager. In each case, the

286

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

median award was 112 percent of firm average, although as before, the
variation exhibited among the forty-six firms was large. The young su­
perstar would earn more than the average compensation at 29 percent
of the firms surveyed, while another 29 percent would give her or him
in excess of 140 percent of average (with some ranging up to the 190
to 200 percent range). Similarly, more than one-quarter of the firms
would give the branch manager less than the firm average, and an
equivalent percentage would award him or her more than 135 percent.
Moving down the rankings, we find D and E our next interesting
pairing, both of whom were awarded compensation close to firm av­
erage. Partner D— the “prima donna solo operator”—worked an av­
erage number of billable and nonbillable hours but had origination
credits some 27 percent below firm average. By comparison, one would
expect A, the average lawyer, to be more highly valued because of A’s
superior business development record. However, 55 percent of the
firms would give partner D at least 100 percent of firm average (partner
A’s reward ), 34 percent would give at least 10 percent more than A, and
17 percent would award at least 25 percent more than A. Presumably,
D’s age (42, compared to A’s 38) accounts for this difference.
Most firms ranked partner E, the journeyman back-room lawyer,
significantly below partner D. The majority of the firms would award
E less than firm average, and 15 percent would give less than 87 per­
cent of firm average. Another 25 percent, however, would give E 110
percent or more. Partner D’s comparative strength is business getting,
although he is below average in this and exhibits a poor collections
performance; E works more billable hours, has better collections and
write-off performances, but has significantly fewer origination cred­
its. As noted, most firms would give D more than E, but not much
more. The median compensation for D was 100 percent of firm aver­
age for E, 97 percent.
Finally, the majority of firms in the survey agreed that the lowestrated partner was archetype C, the 55-year-old lawyer working only
74 percent as many billable hours as the average partner and scoring
below the average on every measure except age and billing rate. The
median firm in the survey would award this partner only 90 percent of
the average partner compensation. (So much for seniority!) However,
as in all previous cases, the range of awards among the forty-six firms
was dramatic. A tenth of the firms in the survey would award less than
65 percent, while another tenth would award at least 170 percent

Pie-Splitting

287

(presumably due to seniority). Almost half the firms would give part­
ner C at least as much as partner D or E, and (to my eyes) an amazing
one third of the firms would give C more than the young superstar,
archetype B!

NO CONSENSUS
Clearly, the most significant lesson to take away from this study is the
single word “confusion.” The most important parts of the table of
results are not the relative rankings of H, F, D, or E, but the amazing
differences exhibited in the pie-splitting practices of different firms, in
particular the relative weights they give to the factors of seniority,
business getting, billable hours, management responsibilities, and col­
lections performance.
Variations in the criteria firms use in splitting the partnership pie
are understandable and, indeed, desirable. Different strategic posi­
tions in the marketplace require different compensation systems. A
firm with a large institutional client base and with multidisciplinary
matters will probably need to give less weight to business origination
and more to billable hours and supervisory and management respon­
sibilities. A firm dependent on small transactional matters will need to
have a broad base of business getters and will therefore tend to rate
origination credits higher. A diverse, multisite firm will have a greater
need for management skill and will tend to reward this more highly
than a relatively homogeneous, single-site firm would.
Compensation system experts note that any compensation scheme,
if it is to stand up over time, must pass two tests: that of internal equity
and that of external equity. Internal equity requires that, whatever the
rules are, they be applied in a consistent manner. Even when internal
consistency has been achieved, there remains the test of external eq­
uity: Do the compensation rewards in the firm reflect the economic
realities of the open market? In the past, law firms have not had to
confront this issue because, until recently, there has been no appre­
ciable market in law firm partners. It is clear from the results of this
survey, however, that, as this market develops, many firms will be
forced to make significant shifts in the relative rewards they allocate to
different types of partners.

CHAPTER 26

PARTNERSHIP
GOVERNANCE

The design of a governance system for a professional partnership is an
exercise in constitution forming, and the lessons of history and political
science in this area are instructive. Two models of governance have his­
torically been in contention: the aristocratic (in which appointed lead­
ers have significant power to make decisions on behalf of citizens) and
the democratic (which emphasizes the autonomy of the citizenry).
The aristocratic model is applicable where strong leadership is cru­
cial to the success of the organization and where the requisite skills for
leadership can be readily defined and identified. However, it runs into
problems when the standards of skill, wisdom, and virtue are unclear.
Who, after all, is to judge the judges, and on what criteria? Popular
election does not appear to screen for skill, virtue, or wisdom. More
important, how, in an aristocratic system, can we ensure that the cho­
sen leaders receive the consent of the governed?
The problems of democracy are no less clear, no less damning. Is it
really possible to maintain equality of influence and power over gov­
ernment? Does not power tend to concentrate in the hands of a mi­
nority with great wealth, political skill, or determination? If everyone
is to have an equal say, how can decisions be made with sufficient
knowledge? How can a popular government act with vigor, speed,
and decisiveness, particularly in crisis? How can a democracy handle
289

290

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

the twin problems of the tyranny of the majority and the obstruction­
ism of the minority?
One solution is to adjust our view of what democracy entails. In
early Greek society, particularly in Athens, democracy meant the
equivalent of a permanent town meeting— all decisions of conse­
quence were made in public assembly. As many professional service
firms have rediscovered, this view of democracy tends to result in
much wasting of time, slowness of response, and extreme conserva­
tism in action. The consensus decision making that such processes
imply is only feasible, Rousseau argued, among small, highly homo­
geneous bodies of people. (Even in Athens, disruptive citizens could
be banished from the town meeting.) As they grow, all societies be­
come more diverse, and consensus democracy increasingly infeasible.
Accordingly, the world has changed its view of democracy, allowing
elected representatives accountable to the populace to act according
to their conscience and their greater knowledge of the facts surround­
ing a specific situation. Between elections, the government is free to
act without repeated referenda; it is judged on its long-term perfor­
mance.

WHAT MAKES PROFESSIONS DIFFERENT?
In spite of the success of this model in national life, all kinds of pro­
fessional service firms continue to struggle with the tension between
the desire for autonomy and for the benefits of government. Why
should this be so? Why is Athenian democracy so eagerly defended
among the professions, when that battle was lost decades or even
centuries ago in other commercial enterprises?
The explanation is in part economic. Democracies flourish when
the nation is at peace and the harvest is bountiful— as, historically,
was the environment of the professions in the post-World War II era.
However, when war is declared or the crops fail, even the most ardent
democracy selects a government that will direct the troops and tell
factories what to produce. The style, if not the structure, of govern­
ment changes. The national purpose calls for more centralized power,
more authoritative (if not authoritarian) behavior. Since the peaceful,
bountiful environment the professions enjoyed in their peak is no
more, Athenian democracy is increasingly inappropriate. Yet the tran­
sition is a difficult one, largely due to the nature of professional work
and those who choose it.

Partnership

Governance

291

It is a common complaint that professionals are unmanageable. In
every profession I have studied, managing partners say theirs is an im­
possible task because of the independent nature of the “prima donnas”
they are supposed to lead. Samuel Butler, the presiding partner of Cravath, Swaine & Moore, has likened his role to that of the only fire hy­
drant on a street with fifty dogs. Another managing partner, well
informed about a variety of professions, observes that “professional
service firms are managed in one of two ways: badly or not at all.”
In my experience, the problems of the ill-managed firm frequently
derive not from a lack of skills on the part of the manager, but from
the unwillingness of others to allow the manager freedom to act. This
pattern—common in law, medicine, architecture, indeed in all the pro­
fessions— suggests that there are forces in professional work that
cause this “unmanageability.”
One of the most salient psychological characteristics of those who
choose professional careers is a strong need for autonomy. People
choose professions (rather than, say, corporate careers) because the
work is not routine or rigidly structured. Thus, the professions have
more than their share of people with an aversion to taking directions.
One of the most important features of partnership is the seeming ab­
sence of hierarchy among partners. Of course, there usually is a hier­
archy, but the game of equal status is played on the surface. The
decision-making process is as much a device for certifying status—the
right to participate— as for getting things done.
A final attribute, I believe, contributes to the unmanageability of
professionals: their daily roles as “experts.” In many professions, es­
pecially the advisory professions, clients need trust and reassurance,
and, to be successful, professionals must project an air of omnipo­
tence and omniscience. Naturally enough, this manner carries over
into other areas of the professional’s life and breeds a sense of selfconfidence, of mastery, that can seduce the top professional into be­
lieving that he or she can handle anything. Hence, every partner has
an opinion on how the firm’s affairs should be conducted and believes
that no decision should be made without his or her input.

STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE
The prevalence of participatory democracies in professional partner­
ships can be explained by more than the economic and psychological

292

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

factors given above. Perhaps most important of all is the nature of
professional work itself.
In a service in which the “technology” is well established, which
can be delivered with a reasonably routine set of actions, specializa­
tion and division of labor are possible (and demanded by the market­
place); organizations that deliver this type of service tend to be
bureaucratic, hierarchical, and “managed.” Where a service is so cus­
tomized or complex that its execution remains more of an art than a
science, organizations tend to be more free-form, less hierarchical,
and less bureaucratic. Sociologists of business refer to these two ex­
tremes as “mechanistic organizations” and “organic organizations.”
Part of the turbulence affecting professional-service-firm gover­
nance, I would argue, is that a growing portion of the work is becoming
less of an art and moving more toward the science end of the spectrum.
In all areas of practice, services that begin as the domain of the creative,
experienced professional inevitably “mature” and can be delivered by
using more junior personnel and relatively well-specified procedures.
Accordingly, as the proportion of such services increases, professional
service firms are becoming less “organic” and more “mechanistic.” If
they wish to avoid a bureaucratic future, they must strive to get work
that truly demands a high proportion of creative, artlike approaches.
Routine work, though temptingly profitable because past experience
can be leveraged to cut costs, inevitably results in a routinized work
environment—anathema to those who choose professional careers.
Partners’ autonomy has been justified in the professions because of
the need to customize work activities to fit each client’s needs. Profes­
sionals have demanded (if not always retained) the right to practice as
they see fit, subject to minimal constraints: Only the service provider
knows a particular client’s circumstances and needs; no one can
second-guess. This view, however, was more valid in the days of the
generalist than in today’s marketplace of specialization. Partners are
more interdependent than when each served his own stable of clients:
Now, coordination of a number of specialists is a requirement, bring­
ing with it a demand for leadership.

THE EMERGING NORM
While it remains true that there are a broad variety of governance
systems among the best professional firms, it can nevertheless be stated
that there is an emerging norm, which has the following components:

Partnership

Governance

293

a. An elected board of partners, whose function is to discuss and
resolve matters of firm policy, meeting three to four times a year.
This board is not an executive body, running the firm, but in­
stead focuses on long-run policy issues.
b. A managing partner who devotes a significant proportion of his
or her time to the executive function (50 to 100 percent). This
individual is either elected by the partnership at large or ap­
pointed by the board, most commonly the latter.
c. A high-level business manager (or chief financial/administrative
officer) who serves as the “right-hand man (or woman)” to the
managing partner, to free him or her from administrative duties
and business analytic tasks.
d. An executive committee, formed from the (appointed) heads of
practice areas and offices, who serve as part of the management
team headed by the managing partner.
e. A compensation committee formed from the executive commit­
tee, supplemented by additional members either directly elected
or appointed by the board.
Like the nation state, these elements can be divided into three groups.
The board (and occasionally, the partners as a whole) represents the
legislative branch whose duty it is to approve or disapprove the pol­
icies under which the polity will operate. The managing partner, to­
gether with the executive committee and the business manager, form
the executive branch. Finally, the compensation committee represents
the judiciary.

THE BOARD
The ultimate “approval” body in a professional firm is, of course, the
partnership, which reserves the right to approve major policy deci­
sions on such matters as mergers, new partners, and the like. How­
ever, among the largest firms, a distinction is made between a
“decision-making” role and an “approval” role for the partnership.
Sheer numbers (and, increasingly, geography) prevent the partners, en
masse, debating every policy decision. In consequence, most large pro­
fessional firms elect a board of partners whose task it is to examine
policy issues and either decide or present decisions to the partnership
for ratification.
This board of partners corresponds closely to the corporate model
of a board of directors representing the interests of the “shareholders”

294

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

(in this case, partners). Like a corporate board, a primary function of
this body is to oversee and monitor the activities of the executive (the
managing partner) to ensure that the shareholders’ interests are being
served. Some professional firm boards meet monthly, but, as with
corporate boards, a more common pattern is three or four times a
year.
In most large professional firms, members of the board are elected
by the partnership for terms typically ranging from two to four
years, sometimes with restrictions on the number of consecutive
terms an individual may serve (i.e., three two-year terms, two threeyear terms, etc.). This last constraint is more often harmful than
helpful, since it may force a valuable board member who has the
support of his or her colleagues to step down. The opposite argu­
ment, that individuals may serve too long, can be accommodated
through the electoral process.
Most multisite large professional firms make some efforts to ensure
that the board is broadly representative of the practice. This is ac­
complished most usually by each operating unit directly electing its
representative. Occasionally, heads of practice units (offices or disci­
plines) become de facto members of the board, although this is less
common, due to the fact that these heads (see below) are frequently
appointed by the managing partner, who is, in turn, appointed by the
board.
It should be stressed that a significant shift has taken place in the
roles and responsibilities of the board. Historically, many firms asked
the body described here as the board to run the firm, that is, serve an
executive, rather than a policy, function. However, a number of forces
have led to a shift. First, many firms have observed that where the
firm’s highest committee serves both a policy and an executive role,
the day-to-day minutiae tend to dominate the committee’s delibera­
tions and real policy debates are neglected. Accordingly, most firms
have found it wise to separate the policy and executive functions. This
same conclusion is generated by a “division of powers” consideration.
By separating the policy and executive functions, the firm avoids hav­
ing too much power located in one body. Finally, most firms have
recognized that the managerial task, involving the day-to-day running
of the professional firm, requires a distinctly different set of skills and
abilities than those required at the policy level.

Partnership

Governance

295

THE MANAGING PARTNER
The skills necessary to fulfill the prime managerial role (the managing
partner, the chief executive officer, or chairman of the executive com­
mittee) are a combination of both “business skills” and “personal
skills.” (See Chapter 19, How Practice Leaders Add Value.) The man­
ager’s role involves a great deal of time spent working with individual
partners, helping them resolve their issues and dealing with conflicts,
in ail senses of the word.
Much of good management in a professional firm depends on per­
suasion, interpersonal dealings, dealing with delicate and often pri­
vate matters with and for the partners. The best manager is often
neither the most outstanding professional, the best business getter,
nor even the best “financial brain.” Rather, it requires someone who
is skilled at building consensus, and able at resolving disagreements.
Such skills do not always come to the fore in open, contested, direct
elections. Specifically, it is wise to empower the board with choosing
the firm’s managing partner. However, it should also be said that to
obtain the credibility to lead, this selection (or nomination) should be
ratified by the partners through a vote. In this way, the partners retain
the right to veto an unwise selection, and the “manager” will receive
a mandate to exercise his or her function.
Most commonly, the managing partner position is for a term (typ­
ically two to five years), thereby subjecting the managing partner to
the discipline of receiving the support of partners (or their represen­
tatives, the board) in order to retain his or her position. While this
formal reappointment of the managing partner on a periodic basis is
typical, it is increasingly the case that once an effective managing part­
ner is found, the person tends to retain the position for a significant
period of time. Among major professional firms, the days of “rotat­
ing” the managing partner’s function appear to be on the wane, if not
gone.
Some firms have continued the practice of having the executive
function shared by an executive committee, with the managing part­
ner, as chair of this committee, being no more than “primus inter
pares” in relation to the other committee members. There are dangers
in this model of succumbing to “committee-itis.” If too many people
are jointly responsible for the execution of firm business, the chances
that implementation will be deferred increase exponentially. Accord­

296

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

ingly, most professional firms are evolving to a model of governance
whereby executive committees, where they exist, serve an “advise and
consent” role to the managing partner of the executive committee, but
managerial responsibility is focused in that individual.
In structuring a governance system, it is important to note that
there is a potential trade-off between structure and process. For ex­
ample, if those charged with a responsibility adopt the process of ex­
tensive prior consultation, then the need for structural guarantees
(such as representative committees) can be diminished. Increasingly,
professional firms are reducing their dependence on committees to get
things done. Rather than appoint a group with “shared responsibil­
ity” (which all too often turns into no one’s responsibility), firms ap­
point a single individual to take responsibility for a given area, subject
to the condition that the individual is expected to be consultative,
involve others in the reasoning process, and build consensus before
acting. Thus the virtues of involvement and implementation are
achieved in a time-conserving manner.
A similar process solution to the problem of participation is the
habit of effective managing partners of holding regular partnership
meetings at which the managing partner can report latest develop­
ments, let partners know what topics are to be addressed at forthcom­
ing board meetings, and answer questions. This approach, done well,
allows those outside the official power structure to participate. Of
course, done poorly, this process can become a meaningless pro forma
exercise at which nothing is accomplished. However, this only serves
to illustrate the point that simple structural solutions (“mandatory
partner meetings” or “circulation of board minutes” ) rarely solve gov­
ernance issues by themselves. It is the style with which they are im­
plemented that determines their success.

THE MANAGEMENT TEAM
More important than any executive committee is the group of indi­
viduals who are charged with running the practice day-to-day. Prac­
tice unit heads, together with the managing partner, form the
management team, a distinct entity from the executive committee, but
one which must truly function as a team in the running of the firm.
The managing partner should use the management team as a sounding
board for ideas and as his or her “eyes and ears” on issues that should
be addressed.

Partnership

Governance

297

In most firms, the designated heads of offices and practice areas are
chosen by the managing partner (often subject to the approval of the
board). They should be chosen less for their prominence, technical
ability, or business-getting talents than for their managerial skill in
running a practice unit. (Since this skill is relatively scarce, and the
duties often onerous, direct election by practice unit members is fast
fading as a means of identifying these individuals.)
In many firms, the role of practice head (responsible for an office or
discipline) is a significant role in making things happen and affecting
the future of the firm. As the creation of the board of partners, the
management team is directly accountable to the board, and, through
them, to the partners.

THE BUSINESS MANAGER
In most professional firms today, a high-powered chief financial of­
ficer supports the managing partner and serves as his or her right
hand.
Such a person should (and, in well-run firms, does) shoulder the
burden of numerous activities that often consume the time of the
chairman of the executive committee, including:
• Reviewing financials, operating statistics
• Supervising the preparation of budgets
• Dealing with leases, contracts, computers, etc.
• Analysis of new strategic initiatives
This frees up the managing partner for more high-value activities such
as:
• Conducting formal and informal performance reviews
• Having informal (unscheduled) interactions with other partners
• Assisting partners on client matters
• Assisting partners on their personal professional matters
• Visiting client’s firm or office and other client relations activities
It is the norm today that administrative matters and the analysis of
major business issues are delegated to a business professional. Such a
person does not make decisions, nor (far less) deal with partner issues.
However, this person does free up the managing partner to make these
decisions and deal with partners by serving as a high-powered re­
source to the managing partner. Experience has shown that as much

298

M anaging the P rofessional Service Firm

as 25 percent of the managing partner’s time (i.e., something on the
order of five hundred hours) can be freed up with the support of a
sufficiently skilled business officer. If these five hundred hours were to
be applied to the higher value tasks on the list above the value created
would be sufficient to justify a significant investment in the business
manager position.

THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
In most well-run firms, the compensation committee is made up of
two parts: all or part of the executive committee, supplemented by
other members separately chosen. Three equally appropriate ap­
proaches appear to be equally common in selecting these supplemen­
tary members:
a. The non-executive members of the board play this role
b. Supplementary members are appointed by the board
c. Supplementary members are chosen by direct election
The presence of the executive committee (or at the very least its man­
aging partner) on the compensation body is essential to ensure that
consistency is established between the “signals” issued by the execu­
tive in the day-to-day running of the firm and the annual performance
review conducted by the compensation committee. However, the prin­
ciple of separation of powers leads many firms to conclude (correctly
in my judgment) that the executive function should not be completely
coincident with the (judicial) compensation function.
It is rare that any special compensation arrangement is made for
board members, other than reducing their targeted workload by the
number of hours consumed by their board responsibilities. (If board
activities take 10 percent of their time, for example, then their other
performance indicators such as personal billings, etc., would be ad­
justed pro rata.)
The managing partner cannot be assessed in this way. As already
noted, the task of the managing partner is to help make the firm suc­
cessful, and he or she should be assessed on results in this area. (Not,
it should be stressed, on the hours he or she puts into the job, or on
personal practice results. The former rewards “make-work” and the
latter ignores any contribution or weakness in performing the mana­
gerial function).

Partnership

Governance

299

It is most functional if the managing partner’s reward is closely tied
to aggregate firm results. If the firm does well, the managing partner
has the most to gain; if it does not, it is the managing partner whose
reward is most affected. In a good year, the managing partner should
receive the highest compensation in the practice. In a bad year, it will
be the first to be cut.

EVALUATING A GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
The governance structure described here is not perfect, and effective
variations do exist. However, this structure does pass some important
tests that any governance structure must meet.
By having an elected board appoint, or at least nominate, the ex­
ecutive (managing partner and office heads), it maximizes the
chances that people with the right skills are placed in positions o f
authority, and that they w ork together as a team .
The Board, as the highest-level committee, provides a place for
"heavy hitting” partners w ho may not be g o o d managers to nev­
ertheless hold important positions of influence.
Policy functions are effectively separated from executive functions,
and a place is provided for people of different skills to make their
respective contributions.
There should be a clear, shared sense o f w ho is responsible for
w hat, thereby eliminating the chances of gridlock.
The structure allows, even if it does not ensure, speedy decision
m aking.
There is a clear procedure to rem ove those no longer effective.
The structure makes it possible to set clear goals, and hold people
accountable for them.
The people charged with executive functions should, within this
system, have the time to carry them out.
There is a vehicle, or forum for dissatisfaction to be expressed, and
those outside the official channels can participate.
Governors have the consent o f the governed.
Perhaps most important, committee-itis in decision making is
avoided.
This list represents a not inconsiderable group of virtues: a list that
many alternate governance structures would be hard pressed to meet.

PART SIX

MULTISITE MATTERS

CHAPTER 27

THE ONE-FIRM FIRM

What do investment bankers Goldman Sachs, management consult­
ants McKinsey, accountants Arthur Andersen, compensation and
benefits consultants Hewitt Associates, and lawyers Latham & Wat­
kins have in common? Besides being among the most profitable firms
(if not the most profitable) in their respective professions? Besides
being considered by their peers to be among the best managed firms in
their respective professions? The answer? They all share, to a greater
or lesser extent, a common approach to management that I term the
“one-firm” system.
In contrast to many of their competitors, one-firm firms have a
remarkable degree of institutional loyalty and group effort that is
clearly a critical ingredient in their success. The commonality of this
organizational orientation and management approach among each of
these firms suggests that there is indeed a “model” whose basic ele­
ments are transferable to other professions. The purpose of this article
Note to the reader: This chapter was written as an article in 1985. The information on specific
firms contained in this article was gleaned from a variety of “ public domain” sources, as well as
selected interviews (on and off the record) at a number of professional service firms, including
but not restricted to those named herein. However, none of the information presented here
represents “ official” statements by the firms involved.
In the years since this piece was written a number of changes have taken place in some of
these firms. I have chosen not to update my “ reporting” since my primary purpose was (and is)
to describe an effective management model, and not to make comments about specific firms.

303

304

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

is to identify the elements of this model of professional firm success,
and to explore how these elements interact to form a successful man­
agement system.

WHAT IS MEANT BY “WELL MANAGED”?
The firms chosen for discussion were identified in the following way.
In the course of my research and consulting work, I have made it my
practice to ask repeatedly the question, “Which do you consider the
best managed firm in your profession?” The question is, of course,
ambiguous. In any business context, “well-managed” can be taken to
refer, alternatively, to profitability, member satisfaction, size, growth,
innovativeness, quality of products or services, or any of a number of
other criteria. The difficulty in identifying “successful” firms is par­
ticularly acute in the professions because many of the conventional
indicators of business success do not necessarily apply. For example,
since there are few economies of scale in the professions, neither size
nor rate of growth can be taken as unequivocal measures of success:
Many firms have chosen to limit both. Even if “per-partner” profit
figures were available (which they are not), they would also be unre­
liable measures, since many professional firms are prepared to sacri­
fice a degree of profit maximization in the name of other goals such as
professional satisfaction and/or quality of worklife. Finally, since
“quality” of either service or work product is notoriously difficult to
assess in professional work, few reliable indicators of this aspect of
success are obtainable.
In spite of these difficulties, it has been remarkable how frequently
the same names appear on the list of “well-managed” firms in the
professions, as judged by their peers and competitors. The firms dis­
cussed here were on virtually everyone’s list of admired firms, often
together with the comment, “I wish we could do what they do.” It
should be noted that other firms, not discussed here, were also men­
tioned frequently. However, as expressed earlier, what makes Arthur
Andersen, Goldman Sachs, Hewitt Associates, and Latham & Wat­
kins worthy of some special attention is not only that they are suc­
cessful and well respected, but that, in spite of being in different
professions, they appear to share a common approach to management
(the one-firm firm system) that is readily distinguishable from many of
their competitors. This approach is clearly not the only way to run a
professional service firm, but it is certainly a way that is worthy of
special study.

THE “ONE-FIRM” SYSTEM
LO Y A LT Y
The characteristics of the one-firm firm system are institutional loy­
alty and group effort. In contrast to many of their (often successful)
competitors who emphasize individual entrepreneuralism, autono­
mous profit centers, internal competition, and/or highly decentral­
ized, independent activities, one-firm firms place great emphasis on
firmwide coordination of decision making, group identity, coopera­
tive teamwork, and institutional commitment.
Hewitt Associates (described along with Goldman Sachs in a recent
popular book as one of “The 100 Best Companies in America to Work
For” )1 says that, in its recruiting, it looks for “SWANs”: people who
are Smart, Work hard, are Ambitious, and Nice. While emphasis on the
first three attributes is common in all professional service firms, it is the
emphasis on the last one that differentiates the one-firm firm from all
the others. “If an individual has ego needs that are too high,” notes Pe­
ter Friedes, Hewitt’s managing partner, “they can be a very disruptive
influence. Our work depends on internal cooperation and teamwork.”
The same theme is sounded by Geoffrey Boisi, the partner in charge
of mergers and acquisitions at Goldman Sachs: “You learn from day
one around here that we gang-tackle problems. If your ego won’t
permit that, you won’t be effective here.”2 By general repute, Gold­
man has achieved its eminence with a minimum of the infighting that
afflicts most Wall Street firms. In contrast to many (if not most) of its
competitors on the Street, Goldman frowns upon anything resem­
bling a star system.
D OW NPLAYIN G STA R D O M
The same studied avoidance of the star mentality is evidenced at
Latham & Watkins. As Clinton Stevenson, the firm’s managing part­
ner, points out: “ We want to encourage clients to retain the firm of
Latham and Watkins, not Clint Stevenson.”3 Partner Jack Walker
reinforces this point: “I don’t mean to sound sentimental, but there’s
a bonding here. People care about the work of the firm.”4 The team
philosophy at McKinsey, one senior partner explained to me, is illus­
trated by its approach to project work: “As a young individual con­
sultant, you learn that your job is to hold your own: You can rest
assured that the team will win. All you’ve got to do is do your part.”

306

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

Above all else, the leaders and, more important, all the other mem­
bers of these firms view themselves as belonging to an institution that
has an identity and existence of its own, above and beyond the indi­
viduals who happen currently to belong to it. The one-firm firm, rel­
ative to its competitors, places great emphasis on its institutional
history, broadly held values, and a reputation that all actively work to
preserve. Loyalty to, and pride in, the firm and its accomplishments
approaches religious fervor at such firms.
T EA M W O R K AND C O N FO R M ITY
The emphasis on teamwork and “fitting in” creates an identity not
only for the firm but also for the individual members of the firm. This
identity, for better or for worse, is readily identifiable to the outside
world. References by others in the profession to members of one-firm
firms are not always flattering. Members of other large accounting
firms, particularly those where individualism and individual contri­
butions are highly valued, often make reference to “Arthur An­
droids.” The term “A McKinsey-type” has substantive meaning in the
consulting profession— sometimes even down to the style of dress. In
the 1950s, I am told by a McKinsey-ite, a set of hats in the closet of a
corporation’s reception room was an unmistakable sign that the McKinsey consultants were in. The hats have disappeared, but the men­
tality has not. Goldman Sachs professionals are referred to by other
investment bankers as the “IBM clones of Wall Street.”
LONG H O U RS AND HARD W O RK
For all the emphasis on teamwork and interpersonal skills, one-firm
firm members are no slouches. All of the firms discussed here have
reputations for long hours and hard work, even above the norms for
the all-absorbing professions in which they compete. Indeed, the way
an individual illustrates his or her high involvement and commitment
to the firm is through hard work and long hours. Latham & Watkins
lawyers are reputed to bill an average of 2,200 hours apiece, with
some heroic performers reaching the heights of 2,700 hours in some
years. This contrasts with a profession-wide average of approximately
1,750. At Goldman Sachs, sixteen-hour days are common. It has been
said: “If you like the money game, here’s [Goldman’s] a good team to
play on. If you like other games, you may not have time for them.”5
James Scott, a Columbia Business School professor, has commented:

The

One-Firm

Firm

307

“At Goldman, the spirit is pervasive. They all work hard, have the
same willingness to work all night to get the job done well, and yet
remain in pretty good humor about it.”6 Similarly, McKinsey, Hewitt,
and Arthur Andersen are all hard-working environments, above the
norms for their respective professions.
SEN SE O F M ISSIO N
In large part, the institutional commitment at one-firm firms is gener­
ated not only through a loyalty to the firm but also by the develop­
ment of a sense of “mission,” which is most frequently seen as client
service. All professional service firms list in their mission statement
what I call the “3 Ss”: the goals of (client) service, (financial) success,
and (professional) satisfaction. What is recognizable about one-firm
firms is that, in their internal communications, there is a clear priority
among these.
Within McKinsey, a new consultant learns within a very short pe­
riod of time that the firm believes that the client com es first, the firm
second, and the individual last. Goldman Sachs has a reputation for
being “ready to sacrifice anything—including its relations with other
Wall Street firms—to further the client’s interests.”7 At Hewitt Asso­
ciates, firm ideology is that the 3 Ss must be carefully kept in balance
at all times; however, client service is clearly number one. None of this
is meant to suggest that one-firm firms necessarily render superior
service to their clients compared with their competitors; nor that they
always resolve inevitable day-to-day conflicts among the 3 Ss in the
same way. The point is that there is a firm ideology which everyone
understands and which no one is allowed to take lightly.
CLIENT SERVICE
The emphasis at one-firm firms is clearly one of significant attention to
managing client relations. In these firms, client service is defined more
broadly than technical excellence: It is taken to mean a more farranging attentiveness to client needs and the quality of interaction be­
tween the firm and its clients. Goldman Sachs pioneered the concept on
Wall Street of forming a marketing and new business development
group whose primary responsibility is to manage the interface between
the client and the various other parts of the firm that provide the tech­
nical and professional services. In most other Wall Street firms, client
relations are the responsibility of the individual professionals who do

308

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

the work, resulting in numerous (and potentially conflicting) contacts
between a single client and the various other parts of the firm. Hewitt
Associates, alone in its profession, has also pioneered such an “account
management” group. At McKinsey, in the words of one partner, “Ev­
eryone realizes that the (client) relationship is paramount, not the spe­
cific project we happen to be working on at the moment.”
The high-commitment, hard-working, mission-oriented, team­
intensive characteristics of one-firm firms are reminiscent of another
type of organization: the Marine Corps. Indeed, one-firm firms have
an elite Marine Corps attitude about themselves. An atmosphere of a
special, private club prevails, where members feel that “we do things
differently around here, and most of us couldn’t consider working
anywhere else.” While all professional firms will assert that they have
the best professionals in town, one-firm firms claim they have the best
firm in town, a subtle but important difference.

SUSTAINING THE ONE-FIRM CULTURE
Up to this point, we have been talking about a type of firm culture, a
topic much discussed in recent management literature.8 Our task now
is to try to identify the management practices that have created and
sustained this culture. Not surprisingly, since human assets constitute
the vast majority of the productive resources of the professional ser­
vice firm, most of these management practices involve human resource
management.
A good overview of the mechanisms by which an “elite group”
culture, with emphasis on the group, can be created is provided by Dr.
Chip Bell,9 a training consultant, who suggests that the elements of
any high performance unit include the following:
• Entrance requirements into the group are extremely difficult.
• Acceptance into the group is followed by intensive job-related
training, followed by team training.
• Challenging and high-risk team assignments are given early in the
individual’s career.
• Individuals are constantly tested to ensure that they measure up
to the elite standards of the unit.
• Individuals and groups are given the autonomy to take risks nor­
mally not permissible at other firms.
• Training is viewed as continuous and related to assignments.
• Individual rewards are tied directly to collective results.

The

O n e -F i r m

Firm

309

• Managers are seen as experts, pacesetters, and mentors (rather
than as administrators).
As we shall see, all of these practices can be seen at work in the onefirm firms.

RECRUITING
In contrast to many competing firms, one-firm firms invest a signifi­
cant amount of senior professional time in their recruitment process,
and they tend to be much more selective than their competition. At
one-firm firms, recruiting is either heavily centralized or well coordi­
nated centrally. At Hewitt Associates, over 1,000 students at sixtyfive schools were interviewed in 1980. Of the seventy-two offers that
were made, fifty accepted. Each of the 198 invited to the firm’s offices
spent a half-day with a psychologist (at a cost to the firm of $600 per
person) for career counseling to find out if the person was suited for
Hewitt’s work and would fit within the firm’s culture. At Goldman
Sachs, 1,000 MBAs are interviewed each year; approximately thirty
are chosen. Interviewing likely candidates is a major responsibility of
the firm’s seventy-three partners (the firm has over 1,600 profession­
als). Goldman partner James Gorter notes, “Recruiting responsibili­
ties almost come before your business responsibilities.” 10 At Latham
& Watkins, all candidates get twenty-five to thirty interviews, com­
pared to a norm in the legal profession of approximately five to ten
interviews. As a McKinsey partner noted:
In our business, the game is won or lost at the recruiting stage: We take
it very seriously. And it’s not a quantity game, it’s a quality game.
You’ve got to find the best people you can, and the trick is to under­
stand what b e s t means. It’s not just brains, not just presentability: You
have to try and detect the potentially fully developed professional in the
person, and not just look at what they are n o w . Some firms hire in a
superficial way, relying on the up-or-out system to screen out the losers.
We do have an up-or-out system, but we don’t use it as a substitute for
good recruiting practices. To us, the costs of recruiting-mistake turn­
over are too high, in dollars, in morale, and in client service, to ignore.

TRAINING
One-firm firms are notable for their investment in firmwide training,
which serves both as a way to add to the substantive skills of juniors

310

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

and as an important group socialization function. The best examples
of this practice are Arthur Andersen and McKinsey. The former is
renowned among accounting students for its training center in St.
Charles, Illinois (a fully equipped college campus that the firm ac­
quired and converted to its own uses), to which young professionals
are sent from around the world. In the words of one Andersen part­
ner: ‘T o this day, I have useful friendships, forged at St. Charles with
people across the firm in different offices and disciplines. If I need to
get something done outside my own expertise, I have people I can call
on who will do me a favor, even if it comes out of their hide. They
know I’ll return it.”
Similarly, McKinsey’s two-week training program for new profes­
sionals is renowned among business school students. The program is
run by one or more of the firm’s senior professionals, who spend a
significant amount of time inculcating the firm’s values by telling Mar­
vin Bower stories— Bower, who ran the firm for many years, is largely
credited with making McKinsey what it is today. The training pro­
gram is not always held in the United States but rotates among the
countries where McKinsey has offices. This not only reinforces the
one-firm image (as opposed to a headquarters with branch offices),
but also has a dramatic effect on the young professionals’ view of the
firm. As one of my ex-students told me: “Being sent to Europe for a
two-week training program during your first few months with the
firm impresses the hell out of you. It makes you think: ‘This is a class
outfit.’ It also both frightens you and gives you confidence. You say,
‘Boy they must think I’m good if they’re prepared to spend all this
money on me.’ But then you worry about whether you can live up to
it: it’s very motivating.” All young professionals are given a copy of
Marvin Bower’s history of the firm, Perspectives on McKinsey, which
unlike many professional firm histories, is as full of philosophy and
advice as it is dry on historical facts.

“ GROWING THEIR OWN” PROFESSIONALS
Unlike many of their competitors, all of the one-firm firms tend to
“grow their own” professionals, rather than to make significant use of
lateral hiring of senior professionals. In other words, in the acquisi­
tion of human capital, they tend to “make” rather than “buy.” This is
not to say that no lateral hires are made— just that they are done
infrequently and with extreme caution. “I had to meet with the asso­

The

O n e -F i r m

Firm

311

ciates (i.e., not only the partners) before the firm [Latham & Watkins]
took me on,” Carla Hills, former Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development, recalls. “Lateral entry is a big trauma for this place. But
that’s how it should be.”

AVOIDING MERGERS
A related practice of one-firm firms is the deliberate avoidance of
growth by merger. Arthur Andersen, unlike most of the large account­
ing firms, did not join in the merger and acquisition boom of the 1950s
and early 1960s, in an attempt to become part of a nationwide account­
ing profession network. Instead, it grew its own regional (and inter­
national) offices. Similarly, the decade-long merger mania in
investment banking has left Goldman Sachs, which opted out of this
trend, as one of the few independent partnerships on the street. In con­
trast to many other consulting firms, McKinsey’s overseas offices were
all launched on a grow-your-own basis, initially staffed with U.S. per­
sonnel, rather than on an acquisition basis. With one recent exception,
all of Latham & Watkins’s branch offices were all grown internally.
It is clear that this avoidance of growth through laterals or mergers
plays a critical role in both creating and preserving the sense of insti­
tutional identity, which is the cornerstone of the one-firm system.

CONTROLLED GROWTH
As a high proportion of the professional staff shares an extensive, com­
mon work history with the one-firm firm, group loyalty is easier to fos­
ter. Of course, this staffing strategy has implications for the rate of
growth pursued by the one-firm firm. At such firms (in contrast to
many competitors), high growth is not a declared goal. Rather, such
firms aim for controlled growth. The approach is one of, “We’ll grow
as fast as we can train our people.” As Ron Daniel of McKinsey phrases
it: “We neither shun growth nor idolize it. We view it as a by-product
of achieving our other goals.” All of the one-firm firms assert that the
major constraint on their growth is not client demand, but the supply
of qualified people they can find and train to their way of practicing.

SELECTIVE BUSINESS PURSUITS
Related to this issue is the fact that one-firm firms tend to be more
selective than their competitors in the type of business they pursue. It

312

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

has been reported that an essential element of the Goldman culture is
its calculated choosiness about the clients it takes on. The firm has let
it be known, both internally and externally, that it “adheres to certain
standards— and that it won’t compromise them for the sake of a quick
buck.” 12 At McKinsey, the firm’s long-standing strategy is that it will
only work for “the top guy” (i.e., the chief executive officer) and, as
illustrated internally with countless Marvin Bower stories, will only
do those projects where the potential value delivered is demonstrably
far in excess of the firm’s charges. Junior staff at McKinsey quickly
hear stories of projects the firm has turned down because the partner
did not believe the firm could add sufficient value to cover its fees.
Similarly, while Andersen has been an aggressive marketer (a prop­
erty common to all the one-firm firms), Andersen appears to have
taken a more studied, less “opportunistic” approach to business de­
velopment than have its competitors.
Consequently, one-firm firms tend to have a less varied practicemix and a more homogeneous client base than do their more explicitly
individualistic competitors. Unlike, say, Booz, Allen, McKinsey’s
practice is relatively focused on three main areas: organization work,
strategy consulting, and operation studies. In the late 1970s (the hey­
day of “strategy boutiques” ), many outsiders commented on the
firm’s reluctance to chase after fast-growing new specialties.13 But
McKinsey, like all of the other one-firm firms, enters new areas “big,
or not at all.” Andersen’s strategy in its consulting work (the fastest
growing area for all the large accounting firms) has been more clearly
focused on computer-based systems design and installation than has
the variegated practices of most of its competitors. Goldman has been
notably selective in which segments of the investment market it has
entered, and has become a dominant player in virtually every sector it
has entered.

OUTPLACEMENT
One of the fortunate consequences of the controlled growth strategy
at one-firm firms and the avoidance of laterals and mergers is that
these firms, in contrast to many competitors, rarely lose valued people
to competitors. At each of the firms named above, I have heard the
claim that, “Many of our people have been approached by competi­
tors offering more money to help them launch or bolster a part of the
practice. But our people prefer to stay.” On Wall Street, raiding of

The

One - Firm

Firm

313

competing firms’ top professionals has reached epidemic proportions;
yet, this does not include Goldman Sachs. It is said that one of the
rarest beasts on Wall Street is an ex-Goldman professional: Very few
leave the firm.
Turnover at one-firm firms is clearly more carefully managed than
it is among competitors. Those one-firm firms that do enforce an upor-out system (McKinsey and Andersen) work actively to place their
alumni in good positions preferably with favored clients. McKinsey’s
regular alumni reunions, a vivid demonstration of its success in breed­
ing loyalty to the firm, are held two or three times a year. In part, due
to the caring approach taken to junior staff, one-firm firms are able to
achieve a very profitable high-leverage strategy (i.e., high ratio of jun­
ior to senior staff) without excessive pressures for growth to provide
promotion opportunities.

COMPENSATION
Internal management procedures at one-firm firms constantly re­
inforce the team concept. Most important, compensation systems
(particularly for partners) are designed to encourage intra-firm coop­
eration. Whereas many other firms make heavy use of departmental
or local-office profitability in setting compensation (i.e., take a
measurement-oriented, profit-center approach), one-firm firms tend
to set compensation (both for partners and juniors) through a judg­
mental process, assessing total contribution to the firm. Unique among
the large accounting firms Andersen has a single worldwide partner­
ship cost-sharing pool (as opposed to separate country profit centers):
Individual partners share in the joint economics of the whole firm, not
just their country (or local office). “The virtue of the ‘one-pool’ sys­
tem, as opposed to heavy profit-centering, is that a superior individual
in an otherwise poor-profit office can be rewarded appropriately,”
one Andersen partner pointed out. “Similarly, a weaker individual in
a successful office does not get a windfall gain. Further, if you tie
individual partner compensation too tightly to departmental or office
profitability, it’s hard to take into account the particular circum­
stances of that office. A guy that shows medium profitability in a
tough market probably deserves more than one with higher profit­
ability in an easy market where we already have a high market share.”
Hewitt Associates sets its partner compensation levels only after all
partners have been invited to comment on the contributions (qualita­

314

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

tive and quantitative) made by other partners on “their” projects and
other firmwide affairs. Vigorous efforts are made to assess contribu­
tions to the firm that do not show up in the measurable factors. Peter
Friedes notes:
We think that having no profit centers is a great advantage to us. Other
organizations don’t realize how much time they waste fighting over
allocations of overhead, transfer charges, and other mechanisms caused
by a profit-center mentality. Whenever there are profit centers, coop­
eration between groups suffers badly. Of course, we pay a price for not
having them: specific accountability is hard to pin down. We often
don’t know precisely whose time we are writing off, or who precisely
brought in that new account. But at least we don’t fight over it: we get
on with our work. Our people know that, over time, good performance
will be recognized and rewarded.

Goldman Sachs also runs a judgment-based (rather than
measurement-based) compensation system, including “a month-long
evaluation process in which performance is reviewed not only by a
person’s superiors but by other partners as well, and finally by the
management committee. During that review, ‘how well you do when
other parts of the firm ask for your help on some project’ plays a big
part.” 14 At Latham & Watkins, “ 15 percent of the firm’s income is set
aside as a separate fund from which the executive committee, at its
sole discretion, awards partners additional compensation based on
their general contribution to the firm in terms of such factors as client
relations, hours billed, and even the business office’s ‘scoring’ of how
promptly the partner has logged his or her own time, sent out and
collected bills, and otherwise helped the place run well.” 15

INVESTMENTS IN RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT
In most professional service firms, particularly in those with a heavy
emphasis on short-term results or year-by-year performance evalua­
tion, any activity that takes an individual away from direct revenueproducing work is considered a detour off the professional success
track within the firm and is therefore avoided. This is not the case with
one-firm firms.
As the one-firm culture is based on a “team-player” judgmentsystem approach to evaluations and compensation (at both the part­
ner and junior level), it is relatively easier (although it is never easy)

The

O n e -F i r m

Firm

315

for one-firm firms to get their best professionals to engage in nonbill­
able, staff-like activities such as research and development (R&D),
market research, and other investments in the firm’s future. For ex­
ample, McKinsey is noted in the consulting profession for its inter­
nally funded R&D projects, of which the most famous example is the
work that resulted in the best seller, In Search o f Excellence. This
book, however, was only one of a large number of staff projects con­
tinually under way in the firm. An ex-student of mine noted that “at
McKinsey to be selected to do something for the firm is an honor: It’s
a quick way to get famous in the firm if you succeed. And of course,
you’re expected to succeed. Firm projects are treated as seriously as
client work, and your performance is closely examined. However, my
friends at other firms tell me that firm projects are a high-risk thing to
do: They worry about whether their low chargeable hours will be held
against them later on.”
Andersen likewise invests heavily in firmwide activities. For in­
stance, it conducts extensive cross-office and cross-functional indus­
try programs, which attempt to coordinate all of the firm’s activities
with respect to specific industries. In fact, it is rumored, although no
one has the statistics, that Andersen invests a higher proportion of its
gross revenues in firmwide investment activities than does any other
firm.
Goldman’s commitment to investing in its own future is illustrated
by the firm’s policy of forcing partners to keep their capital in the firm
rather than to take extraordinarily high incomes. Hewitt’s commit­
ment to R&D is built into its organizational structure. Rather than
scatter its professional experts throughout its multiple office system
(staffed predominantly with accounting managers), it chose to con­
centrate its professional groups in three locations in order to promote
the rapid cross-fertilization of professional ideas. Significant invest­
ments of professional time are made in nonbillable research work
under the guidance of professional group managers who establish
budgets for such work in negotiation with the managing partner.

COMMUNICATION
Communication at a one-firm firm is remarkably open and is clearly
used as a bonding technique to hold the firm together. All the firms
described above make heavy use of memorandums to keep everyone
informed of what is happening in other parts of the firm, above and

316

M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm

beyond the token efforts frequently made at other firms. Frequent
firmwide meetings are held, with an emphasis on cross-boundary (i.e.,
interoffice and interdepartmental) gatherings. Such meetings are val­
ued (and clearly designed) as much as for the social interaction as for
whatever the agenda happens to be: People go to the meetings. (At
numerous other firms I have observed, meetings are seen as distrac­
tions from the firm’s, or the individual’s, business, and people bow
out whenever they can.)
At most one-firm firms, open communication extends to financial
matters as well. At Hewitt, they believe that “anyone has a right to
know anything about the firm except the personal affairs of another
individual.” At an annual meeting with all junior personnel (including
secretaries and other support staff), the managing partner discloses
the firm’s economic results and answers any and all questions from the
audience. At Latham & Watkins, junior associates are significantly
involved in all major firm committees, including recruiting, choosing
new partners, awarding associate bonuses, and so on. All significant
matters about the firm are well known to the associates.

ABSENCE OF STATUS SYMBOLS
Working hard to involve nonpartners in firm affairs and winning their
commitment to the firm’s success is a hallmark of the one-firm firm
and is reinforced by a widely common practice of sharing firm profits
more deeply within the organization than is common at other firms.
(The ratio between the highest paid and the lowest paid partner tends
to be markedly less at one-firm firms than it is among their competi­
tors.) There is also a suppression of status differentials between senior
and junior members of the firm: an important activity if the firm is
attempting to make everyone, junior and senior alike, feel a part of the
team. At Hewitt Associates, de-emphasizing status extends to the
physical surroundings: everyone, from the newest hire to the oldest
partner has the same size office.
The absence of status conflicts in one-firm firms is also noticeable
across departments. In today’s world of professional megafirms com­
posed of departments specializing in vastly different areas, one of the
most significant dangers is the professionals in one area may come to
view their area as somehow more elite, more exciting, more profit­
able, or more important to the firm than another area. Their loyalty is
to their department, or their local office, and not to the firm. Yet the

The

One-Firm

Firm

317

success of the firm clearly depends upon doing well in all areas. On
Wall Street, different psychological profiles of, and an antipathy be­
tween, say, traders and investment bankers is notorious. In some law
firms, corporate lawyers and litigators are often considered distinct
breeds of people who view the world in different ways. In some ac­
counting firms, mutual suspicion among audit, tax, and consulting
partners is rampant. In consulting firms, frequently there are status
conflicts between the “front-room” client handlers and the “back­
room” technical experts.
What strikes any visitor to a one-firm firm is the deeply held mutual
respect across departmental, geographic, and functional boundaries.
Members of one-firm firms clearly like (and respect) their counter­
parts in other areas, which makes for the successful cross-boundary
coordination that is increasingly essential in today’s marketplace.
Jonathan Cohen of Goldman Sachs notes that out-of-office socializa­
tion among Goldman professionals appears to take place more fre­
quently than it does at other Wall Street firms. Retired Marvin Bower
of McKinsey asserts that one of the elements in creating the one-firm
culture is mutual trust, both horizontally and vertically. This atmo­
sphere is created primarily by the behavior of the firm’s leadership,
who must set the style for the firm. Unlike many other firms, leaders of
one-firm firms work hard not to be identified with or labeled as being
closer to one group than another. Cross-boundary respect is also
achieved at most one-firm firms by the common practice of rotating
senior professionals among the various offices and departments of the
firm.

GOVERNANCE: CONSENSUS-BUILDING STYLE
How are one-firm firms governed? Are they democracies or autocra­
cies? Without exception, one-firm firms are led (not managed) in a
consensus-building style. All have (or have had) strong leaders who
engage in extensive consultation before major decisions are taken. It is
important to note that all of these firms do indeed have leaders: They
are not anarchic democracies, nor are they dictatorships. Whether one
is reading about Goldman’s two Johns (Weinberg and Whitehead),
McKinsey’s (retired) Marvin Bower and Ron Daniels, Latham &
Watkin’s Clinton Stevenson, or Hewitt’s Peter Friedes, it is clear that
one is learning about expert communicators who see their role as
preserver of the “true religion.” Above all else, they are cheerleaders

318

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

who suppress their own egos in the name of the institutions they head.
Such firms also have continuity in leadership: While many of them
have electoral systems of governance, leaders tend to stay in place for
long periods of time. What is more, the firm’s culture outlasts the
tenure of any given individual.
Of course, the success of the consensus-building approach to firm
governance and the continuity of leadership at one-firm firms is not
fortuitous. Since their whole philosophy (and, as I have tried to show,
their substantive managerial practice) is built upon cooperative team­
work, consensus is more readily achieved here than it is at other firms.
The willingness to allow leaders the freedom to make decisions on
behalf of the firm (the absence of which has stymied many other “dem­
ocratic” firms) was “prewired” into the system long ago, since every­
one shares the same values. The one-firm system is a system.

CONCLUSION: POTENTIAL WEAKNESSES
Clearly, the one-firm firm system is powerful. What are its weak­
nesses? The dangers of this approach are reasonably obvious. Above
all else, there is the danger of self-congratulatory complacency: A firm
that has an integrated system that w orks may, if it is not careful,
become insensitive to shifts in its environment that demand changes in
the system. The very commitment to “our firm’s way of doing things,”
which is the one-firm firm’s strengths, can also be its greatest weak­
ness. This is particularly true because of the chance of “inbreeding”
that comes from “growing your own” professionals. To deal with
this, there is a final ingredient required in the formula: self-criticism.
At McKinsey, Andersen, Goldman, and Hewitt, partners have as­
serted to me that “we have no harsher critics than ourselves: We’re
constantly looking for ways to improve what we do.” However, it
must be acknowledged that, without the diversity common at other
professional service firms, one-firm firms with strong cultures run the
danger of making even self-criticism a pro forma exercise.
Another potential weakness of the one-firm firm culture is that it
runs the danger of being insufficiently entrepreneurial, at least in the
short run. Other more individualistic firms, which promote and re­
ward opportunistic behavior by individuals and separate profit cen­
ters, may be better at reorganizing and capitalizing on emerging trends
early in their development. Although contrary examples can be cited,
one-firm firms are rarely “pioneers” : They try to be (and usually are)

The

One-Firm

Firm

319

good at entering emerging markets as a late second or third. But be­
cause of the firmwide concentrated attack they are able to effect, they
are frequently successful at this. (The similarity to IBM in this regard,
as is much of what has been discussed above, is readily noticeable.)
The one-firm approach is not the only way to run a professional
service firm. However, it clearly is a very successful way to run a firm.
The “team spirit” of the firms described here is broadly admired by
their competitors and is not easily copied. As I have attempted to
show, the one-firm firm system is internally consistent: All of its prac­
tices, from recruiting through compensation, performance appraisal,
approaches to market, governance, control systems, and above all,
culture and human resource strategy, make for a consistent whole.

CHAPTER 28

HUNTERS AND FARMERS

In the previous chapter (The One-Firm Firm) I attempted to describe
one (not the only) success model in running a professional firm. What
I hope became clear in this description is that making this “collabo­
rative” approach to practice work requires more than just an elusive
“teamwork culture.” Rather, it is achieved by making some definitive
decisions on “hard” business systems such as compensation, hiring,
training, organization, and choice of service lines.
In recent years, I have come to call these firms “Farmers” because,
like such communities, these firms deliberate about what crops to
sow, arrive at a (gutsy) decision, and then “bet the farm” on that crop.
In other words, one-firm firms are focused on the services they bring
to market, and build their success by investing heavily in the chosen
areas. They succeed through focus, muscle, and concentrated efforts
in a few hand-picked areas. The collaboration and teamwork that are
the hallmark of the one-firm firms or Farmers derive not from an
aesthetic preference (for team spirit) but from the simple fact that
since the firm has “bet the farm,” the success of the community de­
pends on whether the crop comes in (i.e., the firm has bet successfully
as to what the market wants). While some individuals may sow the
seeds, others mend the fences, and yet others cook the meals, all must
do their part to make the farm succeed. What counts is not individual
performance, but contribution to aggregate success. Teamwork comes
321

322

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

from truly “being in this together.” There is no way for an individual
to do well unless the organization as a whole succeeds.
The reason for the Farming model’s success should be easy to see. If
we know what we are trying to bring to market, then it is easy to figure
out what tools we need, what training to do, what kind of people to
hire, how and where we should focus our marketing. The fact that
one-firm firms are known for their training, methodology develop­
ment, hiring, and focused marketing is no accident.
The Farmer’s greatest virtue is also its greatest weakness. As we
have seen, most of the strengths of this approach derive from focus:
the fact that large numbers of professionals do the same thing or take
the same approach to practice. Farmer firms enter new markets “big
or not at all.” However, while focus is a business virtue, it is not the
only one. Successful businesses can be, and have been, built on virtues
such as entrepreneuralism, opportunism, flexibility, diversity, and
quick responsiveness to emerging new client needs. None of these
particularly plays to the Farmer’s strengths. Rather, they are virtues of
what I term the “Hunter” system.
Think of it this way: You have a firm of five partners, and you must
make one of two choices. The first choice is that you collectively de­
cide to practice the same specialty, in the same way, and develop joint
marketing plans. On a firmwide basis you make collective investments
in the same methodologies and practice tools. Your firm will, if you
succeed, become known for something very particular. Your other
option is to diversify your risk. The five of you choose different spe­
cialties, thereby being able to offer your market a range of services.
You will have a harder time figuring out what methodologies to de­
velop, since each of you practices in a different area, but you will have
willingly given up the benefits of focus to obtain the strength of diver­
sity. Your success will now depend on the entrepreneurial ability of
each of your five partners.
Hunter firms attempt to maximize the entrepreneuralism of their
members, by creating the maximum possible degree of individual au­
tonomy. Rather than being “constrained” by firmwide choices on
what markets to serve and which services to offer, Hunter firms en­
courage each individual (and each small group) to respond and adapt
to the local market. The benefits (and limitations) of firmwide consis­
tency (in services, in markets, and in approach) are sacrificed in order
to capture the benefits of local market opportunities.

Hunters

and

Farmers

323

Like the Farmer system, the Hunter approach only works when it is
done properly. Very concrete management systems are required to
pull this strategy off. To succeed, the Hunter firm must attract, moti­
vate, and reward the best entrepreneurs. In contrast to the Farmer
model, where rewards must be structured to emphasize teamwork
and group contribution, the Hunter system requires that individuals
rise and fall according to the results of their own entrepreneurial ef­
forts.
In essence, in a Hunter firm, it is everybody’s job to “chase the
buffalo.” If buffalo die out, individuals are free to chase deer. And if,
while out hunting, they spy a flock of geese, they don’t have to check
back with any central committee or managing partner to see if geese
are “on strategy.” The message is simple: There is no central strat­
egy—just kill meat!
In order to succeed, Hunter systems need to be more short-term
focused in their rewards. Those who kill meat get rewarded. Those
who can no longer kill meat—well, it would be nice to support them,
but if we divert too much reward from the best hunters, we may sup­
press their entrepreneuralism. So, the message inevitably ends up:
your’re as good as your latest numbers.
A key point about the Hunter-Farmer distinction should be stressed
immediately. First, while I have made it sound somewhat “brutish,”
the Hunter approach is, indeed, a success model. Entrepreneuralism,
flexibility, responsiveness, and fast adaptation to shifting market
needs are powerful business virtues. Any firm that could successfully
maximize these will be a formidable competitor.
Next, it is important to note that the terms do not refer to differ­
ences in marketing aggressiveness. Similarly, the reader should not
think of Hunters as “business getters” and Farmers as “doers.”
Farmer firms are not “wimps” when it comes to marketing. Indeed,
the best Farmers are superb at marketing. The key distinction is that
Farmers approach marketing as an organized, joint activity done as
teams, while Hunters view marketing as a matter of individual re­
sponsibility.
We now come to the tough question. Is it possible for a single or­
ganization to capture both the Hunter and Farmer benefits? Can a
single firm obtain the virtues both of focus and firmwide approaches
on the one hand, and of entrepreneuralism, flexibility, and adaptabil­
ity on the other?

324

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

My own conclusion would be no. As I have tried to argue, it is not
enough to be “sort of ” a Farmer. To capture the benefits of focus,
then a very detailed set of business and management decisions must be
made. Similarly, to be a good Hunter, some concrete (and very dif­
ferent) systems are required.
To test this proposition, I compare and contrast in Table 2 8 -1 the
main managerial choices that each of the two approaches requires. As
may readily be seen, the two approaches are rarely compatible. You
may want to use this listing as a diagnostic test, by circling the item on
each row that best describes your firm. In my view, there is a premium
to be placed on internal consistency between and among a firm’s man­
agement systems. If you circle mostly items in one column, you’ll be in
better shape than if you circle equal numbers in either column. If you
do end up mostly in one column, then you may want to give some
thought to the items that appear in the other column.
Because these management practices are almost always conflicting
between the Hunter and Farmer approaches, firms who attempt to
capture both groups of benefits (individual entrepreneuralism and
collaborative strategy) must make significant compromises in man­
agement practices, which usually, in my view, results in lessened per­
formance. Accordingly, professional firms must decide (or discover)
whether they are Hunters or Farmers, and learn to capitalize on the
strengths of their chosen model. There is a temptation for firms to
believe that the “grass is always greener” on the other side. Collabo­
rative firms often yearn for more entrepreneuralism, while individu­
alistic firms bemoan their lack of organization. However, in their
search to have both, firms must be careful not to compromise their
basic strength.

Hunters

and

Farmers

325

TABLE 28-1
HUNTERS

FARMERS

BASIC CONCEPTS
Central Principle

Individual (or small
group) entrepreneuralism

Firmwide collaboration

Key Strengths

Diversity, Flexibility

Focus Strategy

Internal Atmosphere

Competitive

Collaborative

Management Style

Bottom-line numbers
focus

“Values” “Mission”

Self-Image

Streetfighters

Team players

Leader

Best hunter

High priest

Decision Making

Decentralized
(autonomous)

Coordinated
(interdependent)

C O N T R O L SYSTEMS
Philosophy

Results measurement
(almost exclusively)

Greater use of judgments

Planning Systems

Mostly financial

Strategic

Profit Centers

Strongly used, tied to
compensation

For accounting purposes
only

Compensation Systems

Short-term performance
only

More use of rolling
averages

Frequent year-to-year
adjustments

Smaller year-to-year
adjustments

Big range high-to-low

Small range high-to-low

Seniority counts little

Seniority more important

Compensation Based on:
Firm Profits

20

50

Profit Center Results

30

30

Individual Results

50

20

Attitude to Overhead

Resist with vigor

Prepared to invest

Internal Structure

Loose, frequently shifting

More organized

How Risk Is Taken

In small chunks by many
groups

In large chunks on a
firmwide basis

Territories

Not allocated

Allocated

Internal Transfer Pricing

Formalized, “full-cost”

Less dependence

Level of R&D

Lower

Higher

326

M an aging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

TABLE 28-1 (cont.)
HUNTERS

FARMERS

OPERATIONS
Size of Operating Groups

Smaller

Larger

Location Strategies

Many locations
opportunistic

Fewer locations,
well-planned

Length of Engagements

Shorter (smaller)

Longer (larger)

Observed Leverage
(Junior/Senior Ratio)

Lower

Higher

Variety of Work Done
for Clients

High

More focused

Use of Established
Procedures on
Engagements

Less

More

Where Value Added to
Clients

Back-room analytics

More front-room
consultation

Size of Engagement Team

Smaller

Larger

HUMAN RESOURCES
Recruiting

Less selective, rely on
“Testing in action”

Selective, partners
involved

Key Appraisal
Characteristic

Revenue production

More varied roles for
individuals

Use of Lateral (Senior)
Hires

Extensive

Reluctant

Turnover

High, especially thru
“quitting”

Also high, but more
asked to leave

“Fast Track”
Opportunities

High

Low

Training

On-the-job

Formal, structured

Rotation of Juniors

Infrequent

Regular, systematic

M A RKET PO SITIO N
Emphasis on Client
Relations

Lesser

Higher

Best Marketing
Opportunities

Emerging practice areas

Practice areas with scale

Typical Size of Client

Varied, but frequently
smaller

Larger

Hunters

and

Farmers

327

TABLE 28-1 (cont.)
HUNTERS

FARMERS

Optimum Positioning

Creative, innovative,
frontier

Reliable, efficient,
thorough

Reaction to Mkt. Shifts

Good at small, fast shifts

Better at getting
organized for systemic
change

Levels in Client
Organization

Anywhere

Aim for higher levels

Mkt. Appeal

Product/industry
specialists

Generalists

Attitudes to Growth

Opportunistic, prime
goal

Studied, secondary goal

Use of Mergers

High

Lower

Expansion Strategy

Same service, new
markets

Same markets, new
services

CHAPTER 29

MAKING THE
NETWORK WORK

Many, if not most, professional firms today are multilocation opera­
tions. Accountants, consultants, advertising agencies, and others have
slowly built up their international presence. In the United States and
Europe, multicity firms have emerged in professions where they did
not exist before. These networks seem well poised to compete in the
modern marketplace. However, before they can do so, they have some
significant internal managerial problems to solve: the challenge of
making their networks work.
The problem can be easily described. Unlike their clients, most
international firms are not hierarchical companies with a simple
chain of command. With rare exceptions, most of them are, in ef­
fect, federations of local organizations trading under the same brand
name. Few firms, if any, have yet been able to forge together these
separate organizations to take advantage (on a regular, systematic
basis) of their collective power; that is, to form a truly connected
network.
Collaboration and cooperation across (internal) boundaries is
preached internally, and is fervently desired, but is hard to accom­
plish. Not because of bad management, but because of the complex
managerial task of reaching for the benefits of both local autonomy
and collaborative action.
329

330

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

A major cause of the problem lies in the nature of professional
practice. By very definition, professional work requires customization
and the need to adapt the practice to the special, individualized needs
of a local clientele. In turn, this implies that a major degree of local
autonomy is essential to any professional practice. Unlike many of
their manufacturing clients, professional firms cannot be “ruled from
the center” by imposing standard operating practices to be followed
everywhere. If they are to act in harmony, it will come about only
from a process of coalition building among powerful, independent,
and autonomous peers, not through centralized edicts from a corpo­
rate “elite.”
The importance of local autonomy creates a peculiar dilemma for
the multisite professional service firm. If the local practice is respon­
sible for winning engagements from clients, solving their problems,
and serving them well, then what is the role of the overall firm? What
does it do? How does the firm (or the network) “add value” above
and beyond that provided by the local practice? What value do clients
get from going to the multisite firm that they could not get by going to
a good local firm? What value does the local practice get from the
network when it is still responsible (in the main) for generating and
servicing its own business? In summary, what is the value of the net­
work?
The potential justifications for the network fall into two categories.
First, the network can be valuable if it helps the local practice perform
its local tasks better, and/or if the local client receives more value
because its local provider is more empowered, as a result of being part
of a network. I term this the “local value” issue. Second, the network
can be of value in pursuing and serving multisite (or international)
clients that no one practice could pursue alone. This is the “multilo­
cation client” issue. These two justifications represent two completely
different purposes (or rationales) for the network, requiring signifi­
cantly different management practices to execute.
Of the two, the most important to professional firms is ensuring
that the network functions well in addressing the “local value” issue;
that is, ensuring that the local practice, because of its association with
the network, is better able to win and serve local clients. The reason
for this conclusion is that, at least to date and for the foreseeable
future, the local practice dominates, in size and importance, the mar­
ketplace for professional services. Multipractice or multinational cli­

Making

the

Network

Wo r k

331

ents are glamorous, exciting, and even, perhaps, profitable; but they
are not the bulk of the business and are unlikely to become so. Ac­
cordingly, the network’s best opportunity to add value is being helpful
across the broad volume of the local practice.
A second line of reasoning supports this conclusion. When firms do
pursue international business they rapidly discover that a “strong lo­
cal presence” in the countries of interest is a prerequisite to winning
multinational engagements. Hence, it is in the firm’s interests to en­
sure that the network is first functioning well on the local issue before
attempting to tackle the multinational purpose. A third reason might
also be mentioned. Since multinational work requires collaboration,
and this in turn rests on mutual trust, respect, and confidence, the
likelihood of success will be promoted if the local practice has a his­
tory of deriving benefit from the network, interacting with other prac­
tices for this purpose and establishing relationships across the firm.

EMPOWERING THE LOCAL PRACTICE
What, then, can the network do for the local practice that it cannot
achieve by itself? One obvious benefit of belonging to the network,
both to the practice and its clients, is the power of the brand name. For
the client, the affiliation of the practice with the international network
provides comfort, confidence, and (one hopes) quality assurance: In es­
sence the “You can’t be criticized for going with IBM” effect. While
this is undoubtedly powerful, it can be a mistake to rely too heavily on
this justification for the network. After all, in most professions there
are at least a handful of equally prominent brand names. Although a
brand name might help you begin a relationship, it is not that helpful
thereafter. Yet, in some professional firm networks I have observed, the
brand name remains the main benefit that the local practice receives.
What else can the network provide? An answer often given is “cli­
ent access to expertise throughout the network.” Again, there is great
validity to this, as long as the local client truly has a need for this. In
my observation, professional firms are good at delivering this benefit
on “frontier” issues, where the firm’s expert is readily identifiable, and
that person’s involvement can be charged to the client. However, if the
client (and hence the practice) is trying to tap into the firm’s accumu­
lated past experience (either on a given functional topic or in the cli­
ent’s industry) in order to perform the current engagement more
efficiently or effectively, then this is a benefit that’s harder to deliver.

332

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

Few firms in my experience have data banks on past projects, for­
mal inventories of skills and experiences, or any other mechanisms to
tap into the firm’s accumulated wisdom. For a very good reason: such
mechanisms are hard to maintain, require significant investment, and
can rarely be charged to the client. Accordingly, when a “nonfrontier”
issue does come up that might benefit from assistance from elsewhere
in the firm, few practices will go to the bother of “tapping the net­
work.” In most professions, the firm that could design an effective
knowledge and experience sharing mechanism would obtain a signif­
icant competitive advantage.
Two other devices, training and sharing o f m ethodologies are em­
ployed by most professional firms, and used well. However, it is in­
teresting to note that, in a majority of firms, these devices involve
mostly the junior staff. In my experience, there is relatively little for­
mal organization of training and sharing of the latest ideas and ap­
proaches among the senior staff. In my view, a significant opportunity
exists here to take greater advantage of the network in this area.
In principle, the network could assist the local practices by compil­
ing and analyzing the com parative econom ics of the various practices
and assisting the managers of the practices in running their businesses
more effectively. In my experience, while some firms are dabbling in
this area, few local practice heads would cite this as one of the great
benefits of belonging to the network.
Last, but not least, we should acknowledge the importance of re­
ferrals. Many local practices report that this is the greatest benefit that
they receive in belonging to the network: introductions to the local
operations of multinational companies served elsewhere by the firm.
This is clearly a real benefit.

PURSUING THE MULTILOCATION CLIENT
The issue of referrals appropriately brings us to the question of using
the network to pursue and serve multilocation clients.
The first point to be made here is that, in my experience, every
international professional service firm has as a strategic priority the
goal of serving its multinational clients in multiple countries. Even
those professions where international networks are not common, such
as the law, are vigorously examining this issue. This is driven by the

Making

the

Network

Wo r k

333

perception that business has (as the catchphrase has it ) “gone glo­
bal”—that there is a new era whereby firms can win new business
from a client, not just one country at a time, but in the form of mul­
ticountry engagements.
Two problems exist with this view. First, it remains to be seen how
many multinational corporations will indeed purchase their profes­
sional services on a multicountry basis, and how many will continue
the strongly entrenched past norm of decentralizing the purchase of
professional services to their head of operations in each of the coun­
tries. No one knows for sure which way things will go, but the truly
multicountry purchase is today a small percentage of most profes­
sional markets, even if it is potentially the most profitable.
Second, if firms are to win this business, they must be able to deliver
what the multicountry purchaser is primarily seeking: multicountry
coordination, control, and consistency. Yet this central benefit flies in
the face of how most professional firms are organized—as autono­
mous, distinct profit centers (or separately owned partnerships or
companies).
Because of this structure, organizing to serve the multicountry cli­
ent places strains on the way the network has traditionally been op­
erated. Local practices have been accustomed to controlling their
client relationships. In the multicountry engagement, there needs to
be, for the client’s benefit, someone in charge across boundaries. Nat­
urally, local practices fear this loss of control, and worry about being
dictated to.
In addition, they worry about profitability. Who is to negotiate the
fees for the engagement? How will the revenues be allocated across
the various practices involved? Why should we spend time trying to
obtain a multicountry engagement when we incur all the marketing
cost and get only some of the revenues?
Various firms have experimented with different mechanisms to
solve these issues. At least one advertising agency has assigned a
worldwide supervisor to each multinational client, with authority to
see that the client is served in the manner required by the client world­
wide. Obviously correct in principle, this action would create signif­
icant implementation difficulties at many firms. What, precisely, does
this person have the “authority” to do in a part of the firm where he

334

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

or she does not reside (i.e., in another profit center)? Where I have
seen this role work, the individual operates less through authority and
more by persuasion, working through the local chain of command,
and trading favors.
Another mechanism with which some firms have attempted to over­
come the barriers to cooperation is the use of “transfer payments”
(i.e., internal accounting between operating units) to recompense
those individuals (and profit centers) who perform activities for the
“common good” of others in the network. It is impossible to design a
simple transfer payment system that will provide sufficient incentive
for all the desirable behaviors, but these systems can lower barriers to
cooperation (if not remove them). A problem in many firms with this
solution is that, historically, work done by an individual in one office
for another office in the firm is paid at a discount from standard fees
(to encourage professionals to focus on client work). Naturally, this
does not provide much incentive to get involved in work outside the
base office. Where (as I have seen it applied) multinational work is
paid for at a premium in the internal records, more volunteers can be
found to get involved in this (supposedly) important strategic work.
A common experiment that professional firms are making is the
formation of a separate multinational group, not associated with any
one part of the network (i.e., solving the network collaboration prob­
lem by taking the issue out of the network). These groups perform any
or all of three roles: They are a home for specially hired (or developed)
multinational specialists; they fund and develop special services for
the multinational market; and they serve as the multinational market­
ing arm.
This makes eminent sense, until one considers the internal politics
of the professional firm. After all, who is to pay for the activities of this
group, which is rarely self-funding? Naturally the answer is the local
practices through their contributions to “overhead.” As might be ex­
pected, local practices are suspicious of such overhead (which they do
not control), and tend to fund it thinly, if at all. Second, who is this
“elite” group going after? The same clients that the local practice is
pursuing for local engagements! Third, who is going to do the multi­
country work? The local practice will want to do that part which is
relevant to its locale, but (again) who’s in charge of it if someone else
has the relationship with the client?

M a k i n g

the

N e t w o r k

W o r k

335

SOME IDEAS ON COLLABORATION
In my experience, no “structural” solution (such as those discussed
above: changing lines of authority, transfer payments, or creating sep­
arate groups) will solve the network problem. Rather, the real issue
must be addressed head on: How do you get cooperation in an envi­
ronment of autonomous units?
Some basic principles about human nature may help here. The first
rule I would offer is: Groups don't cooperate, people d o . An individ­
ual in one location might not feel much fervor in doing a favor for an
individual in another location. But if he or she has worked with a
specific person there, there is a greater chance that help will be forth­
coming. What this means is that to promote cross-boundary cooper­
ation, firms should create as many opportunities for individuals to get
to know each other and work together as possible. Possibilities in­
clude: rotation of staff on temporary assignments; cross-staffing of
client work even when not essential; frequent meetings to discuss de­
velopments and latest techniques; and so on. Even though they may
not appear to be dramatic moves, these actions will go a long way
toward breeding the collaborative spirit that the new environment
seems to require.
In similar spirit, the second rule I would offer is: Start small
and go for the early success. If the firm wishes to get people eager
to cooperate across boundaries, there is no better way than to find
an opportunity to demonstrate that it w orks (for all parties). In
other words, rather than trying to sell the whole organization on
acting collaboratively, find a limited project that those who are will­
ing to try can act on. For example, quietly go after a single multi­
country engagement and prove it can work. If the collaborative
benefits are there, they can be publicized and the new program
“rolled out.”
Finally, I would offer: N etw orks get built a link at a time. This
means that responsibility lies not only with the firm, but with each
individual local practice. Rather than trying to take advantage of the
whole firm, local practice managers should think about which of its
numerous links to other practices in the firm could be strengthened by
bilateral collaboration. This task is easier to execute, and quicker in
its payback.

336

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

These suggestions clearly do not solve the problems faced by pro­
fessional firms in this area, but they may help. The issue of collabo­
ration among autonomous units is one of the business world’s harder
managerial problems. In the next chapter, Creating the Collaborative
Firm, we will delve more deeply into possible solutions

CHAPTER 30

CREATING THE
COLLABORATIVE FIRM

As noted in the previous chapter, large professional service firms, di­
vided into different departments or numerous local offices, face a con­
stant dilemma. On the one hand, the firm wishes to induce and reward
individual initiative in each department or office. On the other hand,
the firm has a need for coordinated action, mutual support, and shared
responsibilities. To achieve this, the firm must reward those individ­
uals who, somewhat selflessly, contribute to the success of the firm as
a whole, even when this contribution is not reflected (at least in the
short term) in their individual performance measures.
The tension between individual groups and the needs of the firm are
frequently revealed when individual profit centers forego activities
(such as market research on a particular industry) whose benefit to the
firm as a whole is large enough to warrant the cost, but whose benefit
to the individual profit center is not sufficient to warrant them engag­
ing in that activity. Even if the profit center (or individual) is assured
that contribution to overall firm success will (through some judgmen­
tal process) be recognized and rewarded, such rewards are often seen
as more uncertain and risky than the “hard” evidence of individual
profit center profitability or individual revenue generation.
The problem exists in single-site firms as well. Virtually all mul­
tidisciplinary professional firms fervently advocate cross-selling of the
firm’s full range of services to clients who use only one department.
337

338

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

Yet, remarkably, few of these firms have made cross-selling a normal
part of daily behavior. Much more common is the pattern of behavior
whereby individuals focus on improving the profitability of their own
group, rather than assisting other groups in order to penetrate their
clientele.
This problem is a difficult one, to which there is no easy answer.
Some principles can, however, be established. First among these is the
essential role of long-term repeated interaction betw een the sam e p e o ­
p l e .Cooperation emerges when people find it in their interest to do
favors for each other, to help each other out. However, these favors
rarely occur simultaneously. Rather, it’s a case of “You do a favor for
me now, and I’ll owe you one: I’ll help you on your problems next
time you ask.” To sustain this, the future must have a large enough
shadow: those who are to cooperate must have a large enough chance
of interacting with, and needing, each other again.
In many ways, this view of cooperation and collaboration leads
individuals and firms into a Catch-22. If I’ve never cooperated with X
in the past, I’m less likely to cooperate with him or her in the future.
Those I have collaborated with are likely to receive my cooperation
again. Firms that have a history of collaboration will cooperate more
in the future. Firms trying to get it started will have to seed and nur­
ture the fragile plant before it takes on a life of its own.
The foundation o f cooperation is not really trust, but the durability
o f the relationship. It is readily evident that firms which have grown
through mergers and lateral (senior-level) hires always have less in­
ternal cooperation than those that have grown from within. As obvi­
ous as this may seem, this observation casts significant doubt on those
firms that have had a strategy of trying to justify the benefits of merg­
ers through cross-selling and cross-referral of the newly acquired ser­
vices.
We have already noted that groups don't cooperate, people d o . If
cooperation is based on reciprocal favors, separated in time, an audit
partner in Milan is unlikely to do a favor for the consulting depart­
ment or for the Brussels office, trusting that the favor will be remem­
bered and repaid. But he or she is more likely to believe that a favor
done for a given individual will be remembered and repaid. Attempts
to get the audit department (as a group) to cooperate with the con­
sulting department or the Brussels office (as groups) are doomed to
failure. Firms must create a situation where the same people from

Creating

the

Collaborative

Firm

339

these different departments (or different geographic locations) inter­
act frequently.
It is important to note that cooperation must be a two-way street:
It can only evolve when both parties are in a position to be helpful to
the other. If one party is always giving the favor, and the other receiv­
ing, the situation is unstable and unlikely to be perpetuated. The ab­
sence of this has caused many collaborative efforts to die. For
example, audit partners constantly complain that “you consultants
keep asking me to introduce you to my clients, but you are never able
to win me an audit— I have to do that myself. So if you can’t help me,
why should I make the effort?” The same is heard internationally:
Large-country practices get “tired” of helping small-country practices
of their own firm unless they see an opportunity to receive direct ben­
efit in return.
To overcome this, it is necessary to introduce another principle: To
get a favor you must first give a favor. Consultants who want an audit
partner to help them should first find a way to be helpful (free of
charge or immediate obligation) to the audit partner whose client they
are targeting. Giving favors first doesn’t always work. People who do
this may get “burned” a few times by those who do not return favors.
But in the long run they will get more cooperation (and the benefits of
cooperation) than those who refuse to be the first mover.
Once established, collaborative activity can be infectious—if coop­
eration is indeed worthwhile, those doing it will clearly be seen to be
benefiting. However, it must get started somewhere, in a visible way,
to “lure” others into trusting behavior. Accordingly, professional firm
managers should look for opportunities to create small-scale but
highly visible examples of collaborative behavior, so that the partners
can overcome their fear, temptation, and skepticism and give cooper­
ation a real try.
In Table 3 0 - 1 , I have listed many of the “network collaboration”
tactics that large multisite professional firms consider in attempting to
induce more cooperation in their networks. Based both on my direct
observation of these tactics at work, and on the reasoning given above,
I have arranged these tactics in order of what I judge to be their effec­
tiveness.
Because they both involve people from different groups working
together on the same client project, the two best tactics for nurturing

340

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

TABLE 3 0 -1
Tactics to Achieve Network Benefits and Collaboration
(In approximate order of effectiveness)
Cross-staffing
Rotation of staff
Generating integrated client work
Reorganization around people with whom we want to collaborate
more
Centralization of selected network decisions
Firm-level funding of collaborative activities (“free” resources)
System of cross-boundary “client relationship partners”
Appointment of practice coordinators
Rewards for collaboration in compensation system
Joint training
Joint committees
Transfer payments and other accounting devices
Information sharing
Data bases to facilitate access to expertise
Education/awareness of resources available

future collaboration are cross-staffing of engagements (i.e., profes­
sionals from different profit centers or departments on the same client
project) and semipermanent rotation of staff (i.e., assignment of in­
dividuals in one group to work for a period of time such as a year in
some other group).
In firms committed to breeding collaboration, these tactics are used
even where the specific client project does not require the cross­
staffing. For example, a firm may assign a consulting person to be part
of an audit team, performing audit work, even though that person will
be less productive on the audit engagement. This “investment” is
made in the belief that future collaboration between that consultant
and the audit personnel he or she worked with will amply repay the
loss of efficiency in doing today’s assignment. The “semipermanent”

Creating

the

Collaborative

Firm

341

assignment of personnel from one group (e.g., one geographic loca­
tion) to another follows the same logic.
A related, and powerful, tactic is to use the firm’s practice develop­
ment efforts to generate the type of client project that truly requires
multiple disciplines (or multiple locations) on the same project. It is
important to note that this is not simple “cross-selling” where differ­
ent groups do different projects for the same client. That approach
does not give people from the different groups common work expe­
riences; and thus fails to provide the opportunity for them to get to
know each other and hence trust each other. Instead of “cross-selling”
distinct projects, the goal is to sell projects that simultaneously require
an integrated staffing. (This approach also has the not insignificant
benefit of being easier to sell—the client has a clear reason to want to
use staff from the same firm. In a pure cross-sell, with no overlap of
work teams, it is hard for the client to see what extra value is obtained
from buying from one firm.)
Obviously, the tactics of cross-staffing, rotation, and selling inte­
grated projects are both slow and costly, and for that reason are often
avoided. But they remain the most effective tools for laying the
groundwork for future collaboration. Many firms have learned that,
if the groundwork is not laid, then the other tactics described below
lose their efficacy. There are no “shortcuts” to creating collaboration:
Firms must make the investment if they wish to receive the benefits.
Next on my list is reorganization. Many firms have found that the
most effective way to get individuals to cooperate is to put them in the
same profit center. For example, one major law firm decided to real­
locate its staff so that all those practitioners serving the same industry
were in the same group, regardless of their formal discipline (corpo­
rate law, tax, creditor’s rights, etc.). Now, serving that industry did
not require that the corporate “department” (or individuals within it)
needed to do or receive favors for the tax “department”: They were in
the same group, working towards the same goal. A similar trend to
reorganizing into (multidisciplinary) industry groups is evident in
consulting firms and, increasingly, accounting firms.
In the same spirit of creating small-scale “forced” interpersonal
dealings that lead to future voluntary cooperation, some firms create
firmwide budgets which allow them to provide “free” resources to the
individual groups (e.g., access to experts) that encourage them to
draw upon firmwide resources. Alternatively, these funds are used to

342

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

manage firm-level investments in R& D, market research, product de­
velopment, and so on. These approaches, which have proven to be
very effective, create collaboration where none existed before because
they take the decision on whether to cooperate or not out of the hands
of the individuals involved. Trust and confidence that favors will be
reciprocated are no longer required. Instead, a single firmwide body
makes the decision.
Some firms have experimented with creating greater collaboration
by appointing cross-boundary (i.e., inter-profit-center) organizational
positions such as “worldwide account managers” or “nationwide in­
dustry leaders.” The success of these positions is varied. My experi­
ence suggests that the key to making this tactic work is (not
surprisingly) money. If the person fulfilling this role has funds to spend
(on market research, proposal support, methodology development,
etc.), then he or she can be a source of help to individual offices.
Accordingly, this person can collect IOUs for favors done, and thereby
ask for favors to help another office, as well as ask for cooperation
with his or her own firmwide agenda. (See Chapter 31, Coordinating
Industry Specialty Groups.)
Some organizations have attempted to induce cooperation by re­
serving some firm wide funds to be allocated (retrospectively) to those
individuals (or groups) that have exhibited g o o d citizenship by coop­
erating in ways that do not necessarily show up in the factors that
normally drive compensation (or profit-allocation) decisions. These
approaches can work, but in my experience, they tend to induce only
the highly visible forms of cooperation (special events) rather than the
ongoing daily cooperation that is the essence of a true network. This
tactic is generally a good idea, but is rarely sufficient as a stand-alone
device.
Many notable firms have achieved success by making use of joint
(cross-profit-center) training and committees. These achieve the col­
laboration result not through the substance of the training or the
agenda of the committee meeting, but through the simple fact that
individuals are brought together in a work environment. While not as
powerful (in my estimation) as the earlier cited cross-staffing and ro­
tation tactics, the same principle is at work.
While transfer payments (of various sorts, such as commissions for
work referred by one group to another) have a certain appeal, my
observations suggest that they are “blunt instruments.” They are hard

Creating

the

Collaborative

Firm

343

to fine-tune (either overrewarding or underrewarding) and hence as
often fail as they succeed.
For example, if referral fees (or commissions) are paid when one
group introduces a new client to another (internal) group, how does
one decide what is sufficient effort to warrant the fee? Is the transfer
price the same when a new client is handed over “on a plate” as when
a simple introduction is made, and the receiving practice still has to go
through a full proposal effort to win the engagement? If not, where is
the demarcation line? It is on such basic issues that most transfer
pricing schemes founder.
Finally, we turn to what I call the “facilitators” of cooperation:
data bases; information sharing and cross-education of resources;
products and skills available elsewhere in the network. I have learned
that such tactics make a good last step (easing the implementation of
cooperation where it has been induced by other tactics), but a poor
first step.
As the discussion above has attempted to show, the problem of
cooperation is not one of lack of knowledge of the opportunities and
benefits of collaboration; rather, it is a managerial problem of creating
the environment in which people know their counterparts in other
groups so well that collaboration (the bet that a favor given will be
returned) represents a fair wager.
No one of the tactics presented here will alone solve the problem of
collaboration in a network. However, there are a sufficient number of
tactics available to suggest that, properly addressed, the goal can be
reached. But not quickly: Collaboration must be nurtured— it cannot
be force-fed.

CHAPTER 31

COORDINATING
INDUSTRY SPECIALTY
GROUPS

In the typical multisite professional service firm, the predominant or­
ganizing principle is that of geography. The local office managing
partners (OMPs) have dominant voices in the day-to-day affairs of
the firm. It is they, rather than any “headquarters” group, who col­
lectively control the firm’s financial and human resources. They not
only exert significant influence over the market direction of the local
practices for which they are responsible, but also control the main
engines that drive the firm: the assignment, appraisal, compensation,
and promotion of the professional staff.
This emphasis on local office initiative and independence is
readily understandable. In spite of the growing significance of stan­
dardized, “packaged” services and products, most professional
work remains a highly customized, and customizing, activity with a
significant need for individual initiative both in the winning of cli­
ents and the conduct of the work. It is usually necessary to adapt the
firm’s service offerings to the needs of the local marketplace, creat­
ing a requirement for extensively decentralized decision making. Lo­
cal resources and identity are frequently as important competitively
as national capabilities and image, and responsibility for the former
falls naturally to the OMP. Looking internally, it is clear that the
critical functions of coaching, directing, appraisal and reward of
professional staff all require a detailed understanding of the specific
345

346

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

individuals involved. Again, the local OMP is the person best situ­
ated to be in command of these critical levers.
As competition in the professions intensifies, however, firms in­
creasingly face the need to integrate their practices across office
boundaries. They must strive to ensure that professionals working in
the same functional or industry specialties take a consistent ap­
proach to the marketplace and can draw upon the accumulated wis­
dom and experience of the firm in that practice area. Clients
increasingly select their professional service providers not only on
the basis of local presence and functional expertise, but also on the
extent to which the provider has experience and special insight into
the peculiar problems and needs of the client’s industry. Now the
professional firm must coordinate its activities across office bound­
aries not only as to functional specialty, but also its industry expe­
rience. Accordingly, one of the fastest growing titles in the
professional service world is industry head, industry coordinator, or
some such phrase.
The situation of these industry heads is not enviable. Typically,
they bear significant responsibility for the firm’s aggregate practice
in their designated industry but possess little direct authority over
the key resources of the firm (most importantly the people). My re­
search, which has involved extensive study of firms in a wide variety
of professions, suggests that successful implementation of industry
programs remains one of the most problematic areas of management
in the multisite professional service firm. In part, I have found, this
is because the full complexity of the industry specialization problem
in the multisite firm is frequently underestimated. In this chapter, I
will explore these complexities, attempting to clarify the alternatives
available for dealing with them, and make recommendations where
my research has revealed examples of “good practice.”
Much of the discussion that follows applies not only to industry
specialty programs, but also to any form of cross-office coordination
of practice areas. Many of the problems and solutions discussed here
can also be applied to the departmentalized single-site firm that is
attempting to coordinate its various industry activities across func­
tional departmental boundaries, as well as to the coordination prob­
lems of firms practicing in different countries.

Coordinating

Industry

Specialty

Groups

347

CLOSE CONTACT BUILDS MORALE
In theory, the potential benefits of cross-office industry coordination
are many. It can bring increased synergy, leverage, productivity, and
quality in both the marketing of the firm’s services and their opera­
tional delivery. From the client’s perspective, close contact between
professionals in different offices, working on similar matters, should
lead to a higher level of service, since the firm’s talents, skills, and
expertise can be leveraged to be made available to a broader array of
clients.
The competence of the professionals working in a given practice
area is likely to be more rapidly advanced if lessons learned in one part
of the firm are speedily disseminated throughout all of the firm’s of­
fices. From a marketing perspective, close integration of a practice
area across offices allows the firm to present a more consistent image
in the marketplace and ensure that its (usually decentralized) market­
ing activities are working in harmony. In addition to all of this, cross­
office coordination, by bringing together professional staff from the
firm’s various offices, can have a salutary effect on pride and morale.
Given this array of potential benefits, why is successful practice
area integration so difficult to achieve? In part, it is the very breadth of
the potential benefits sought that creates many of the problems. Con­
sider, for example, this brief extract from the responsibilities of one
industry head at a large consulting firm:
The industry head shall develop and recommend, in consultation with
the office heads, an overall strategy for the firm’s practice in his indus­
try. He will be responsible for the evaluation and monitoring of the
market and competition in the designated industry, and the develop­
ment and dissemination of practice aids and other marketing tools to
be used throughout the firm. He will assist in the identification of key
new client opportunities and coordinate the development of proposal
and engagement teams drawn from across the firm to enhance the firm’s
chance of success in key engagements. He shall be responsible for the
development of new products and services for his industry and ensure
their adoption throughout the firm. He will identify and recruit per­
sonnel within the offices to work in his industry, and shall oversee the
professional development of such people, including such training pro­
grams as may be deemed appropriate. He is also responsible for ensur-

348

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

ing that all work performed in this industry conforms to the firm’s
standards of work quality.

Given this array of responsibilities, it is easy to see why practice area
management can be so problematic, both for the individual (or team)
charged with these responsibilities and for the powerful OMPs, whose
autonomy and authority might be diminished if all of these functions
are exercised by some other individual or group. To accomplish all of
the tasks described above, an individual would need to acquire signif­
icant power and influence within the firm.
The problem is exacerbated by the fact that so much of practice
area management involves nonbillable staff work, such as market re­
search, the updating of brochures, or investing in new product devel­
opment. Unlike the industrial corporation, the professions have
traditionally had lean organizations with a minimum of staff roles.
The road to glory has always been bringing in and working on client
engagements. Accordingly, practice area management activities are
resented not only as threats to local autonomy, but also as an over­
head cost burden viewed with suspicion and constantly subject to
challenge.

FIVE W AYS TO SHARE KNOWLEDGE
Because of these concerns, many firms have attempted to achieve
cross-office coordination without the formal designation of industry
practice leaders or other organizational restructuring. Other, more
basic, coordination mechanisms are sought which are organization­
ally more acceptable, require less administrative overhead burden,
and involve less suppression of local initiative. Since they are used
even where formal, organizational coordination programs have been
implemented, it is worth discussing these methods briefly.
Most basic are the information-sharing approaches to coordina­
tion, such as “skills inventory data bases,” involving the collection
and dissemination of information on the practice area specialties of
staff members, so that individuals needing assistance from others in
the firm can speedily access those with the special expertise. As simple
as this concept is, it can be a troublesome system to implement and
keep up to date, particularly in a large firm. In addition, the mere
existence of the information is no guarantee that it will be used.
Another generic approach to industry coordination is the use of a

Coordinating

Industry

Specialty

Groups

349

“transfer pricing” system, whereby an office can buy the services of
professionals from other firm offices to facilitate sharing of expertise.
Frequently, however, the transfer payment system used by profes­
sional firms has precisely the opposite effect. For example, the system
may successfully account for the billable time of a senior partner
working “out-of-office,” but fail to recognize adequately the oppor­
tunity cost of lost revenues to the home office because of the interrup­
tion of that partner’s business development activities. In consequence,
local OMPs are reluctant to volunteer their best people to engage in
firmwide activities. (This problem is particularly acute within firms
that place a great emphasis on profit center accounting and tie indi­
vidual rewards closely to profit center results.) Accounting system
barriers to practice area integration are complicated by the fact that it
is frequently the same (usually small) offices that are the main seekers
of assistance, and the same (usually large) offices that repeatedly are
the providers.
A third basic approach to encouraging coordination is the use of
the compensation system to encourage cooperative behavior and re­
ward it appropriately. Many firms include “general contributions to
the firm’s success” in their appraisal system of both staff and partners,
and attempt to base compensation awards, at least in part, on such
contributions. However, the way in which performance appraisals are
actually conducted often creates disincentives for individuals to en­
gage in firmwide activities. As previously noted above, it is typically
the local office OMP who has the major voice in the appraisal and
compensation of staff in his office. Accordingly, professionals are re­
luctant to engage in out-of-office work (i.e., working on engagements
being run out of another office), for fear that their contributions will
not be adequately recognized and rewarded by their home office
OMP.
A fourth coordination approach is to make extensive use of “dis­
cussion” committees, bringing individuals with similar client bases
together to discuss mutual interests, common opportunities and
shared problems. While these are favored because they do not involve
binding decisions which might infringe upon local autonomy, they are
frequently ineffective for the same reason, as well as often resented
because of the nonbillable time required.
A final generic approach to industry coordination is that of goal
sharing: ensuring that the overall strategy of the firm is well under­

350

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

stood and disseminated, so that local OMPs (and others) can inte­
grate their decisions into the strategy. This, too, is frequently
ineffective. In more than one firm I have heard the complaint: “We
can try to tell the offices which industries we plan, as a firm, to focus
upon, but we have no means of enforcing it. The offices continue to
pursue whatever opportunities seem to make sense in their own area.”

WHERE ACTION MUST BE CENTRALIZED
One of the common characteristics of all of the coordinative mecha­
nisms described above is that they function on a decentralized basis:
None of them requires a centralized entity which might threaten the
autonomy of the offices. Most firms, however, quickly come to rec­
ognize that in spite of the importance of local autonomy and initia­
tive, there are industry-specific activities that the local offices cannot,
should not, or will not do for themselves that justify more centralized
approaches.
At least six distinct justifications can be identified: First are those
activities which, if left to the offices, might involve duplication of
tasks. (Collection of market intelligence about an industry might fall
into this category.) Next are those activities that are avoided by offices
because their cost cannot be justified by the benefit that would accrue
to a single office, even where the aggregate benefit to the whole firm
might warrant the investment. This is, of course, the economies of
scale argument. (Among numerous other activities, industry training
might fall within this category.) Third are those activities that an of­
fice might avoid because of the high risk involved, such as investments
in research and development of new products and services. A central­
ized industry group, acting on behalf of the whole firm, should be
expected to have a different risk profile than an individual office, and
hence could get involved in more speculative activities than those an
office could justify. The fourth rationale for centralized (or at least
centrally coordinated) industry activities is that a central industry
practice group should be able to afford a longer-term perspective on
investments in the firm’s industry practice than a single office might,
given the pressure for short-term results felt by the typical local office.
A central industry group could also be expected to be able to make
better informed decisions as to the firm’s industry practice, because of
its more global access to information. For example, a local office might
fail to recognize significant industry trends requiring a studied re­

Coordinating

Industry

Specialty

Groups

351

sponse by the firm. Centralized industry activities might also be jus­
tified on the grounds of the needs for consistency in the approach to
market, a need that might arise from marketing, operational, or even
(in the case of such services as audits) regulatory considerations. Fi­
nally, centralized industry decision making can be justified on the
grounds of strategy: the need to maximize the chances of industry
penetration by targeting the same sorts of clients with the same sorts
of services.
As can be seen, the case for forming firmwide industry groupings is
strong. The duplication, scale, risk, long-term perspective, limited in­
formation, consistency, and strategy arguments might be used to jus­
tify a wide range of centralized decision making. To accept these
arguments fully and centralize too much might, however, risk trans­
forming the organization into an insensitive bureaucratic operation,
with too much suppression of the local office entrepreneuralism upon
which most professional firms have been built. Accordingly, in most
firms with established industry specialty groups, the charter of these
groups is to coordinate firmwide activities, not centralize them. The
group is meant to function as an advisory department, whose role is to
assist and support line activities in the individual offices, rather than
to direct them. They are meant to be facilitators, catalysts, and coor­
dinators, not czars. In consequence, those responsible for firmwide
industry activities frequently have more responsibility than authority.

THE INDUSTRY HEADS NEED CRUCIAL SKILLS
A senior officer of a large consulting firm once commented to me that
the single most important determinant of the success of an industry
practice area was the selection of the individual to head the practice.
This conclusion has been borne out repeatedly in the course of my
research and consulting work with multisite professional service
firms. The reasons for this are not hard to detect: The role of practice
head is an ambiguous one, requiring an individual with very special
skills.
In some firms, practice head responsibilities fall either to the most
prominent firm professional in the field— usually on the grounds that
such a person, through his prominence, is best suited to help the firm
win new clients—or to the person who is most technically skilled in
the area—on the grounds that this individual is best situated to act as
a “thought leader” for the practice area and keep the firm at the fore­

352

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

front of innovative services and products to offer to clients. My re­
search has led me to the conclusion that neither of these approaches,
which can be jointly described as the superstar approach, is the best
way to proceed. Instead, I have learned, firms should select as industry
practice heads those individuals who possess the greatest managerial
and leadership skills, in particular, those adept at organizational pol­
itics.
Because of limited authority, a practice leader must win, through
persuasion or inspiration, the cooperation of a large number of sep­
arate offices. He must persuade OMPs and others within the offices to
give attention to “his” industry or practice area in their business de­
velopment activities. Since he cannot conduct all of the practice area
activities (such as market research, development of training programs,
etc.) himself, he must get the offices (and the individuals within them)
to agree to spend their time on his program. Above all else, the indus­
try head must get individuals to participate in his area for the benefit
of the firm, rather than their parochial local office needs, in spite of
powerful forces leading individuals to focus on their immediate shortrun objectives. He must do all of this in competition with other in­
dustry or practice area heads, who are also trying to win resources of
money or professional time from the offices or the firm’s managing
committee.
To accomplish all this, an industry practice head requires good po­
litical skills: the ability to recognize and listen to the needs (and val­
ues) of his constituency (the local offices), the ability to inspire that
constituency to share his enthusiasm for his agenda, and the ability to
“horse trade” favors over time so that help and assistance is forth­
coming when it is needed. A practice leader in a multioffice environ­
ment cannot use the authoritarian coercion, or reward power, to
accomplish his goals. Rather, he must achieve influence by being in­
strumental in helping others achieve their goals. He must be expert at
finding or creating consensus, common ground, common purposes.
A practice head must be an enthusiastic, articulate person, able to
convey a vision to others in the firm who are asked to contribute their
services in the name of the common good. To be successful at winning
cooperation from the offices, the practice leader must be able to com­
municate the importance of, and the opportunities within, his spe­
cialty. He must be good at selling new ideas internally as well as
externally, and have the discretion to give up on bad ideas when sup­

Coordinating

Industry

Specialty

Groups

353

port for them is not forthcoming from the organization. He must
be, in the words of one managing partner, a “tactical but committed
zealot.”
In the various professional service firms with whom I have worked
on this topic, I have made it my practice to ask individual industry
heads for the one activity they think they should spend more time on
in order to increase their effectiveness. The responses contain frequent
references to such phrases as:
• “develop a network”
• “inspire enthusiasm”
• “listen to OMPs’ needs”
• “encourage participation by giving prompt and visible recogni­
tion to those who help”
• “travel a lot to stay close to the line”
• “create and nourish teamwork”
• “bring people together frequently to give a sense of belonging to
something bigger than their local office”
These pieces of advice are all concerned with learning how to play
organizational politics—to win the enthusiasm and commitment of
others to the industry head’s agenda.

KEEPING AN AFFORDABLE BALANCE
One of the dangers of appointing zealous industry practice heads is that
they will continually push for more firm resources to be invested in
their particular specialty. (They would not be doing their job, if they
did not.) The fears among line partners that centralized industry and
other practice area activities might consume more resources than they
merit is based in reality. In part, this danger is due to the fact that the
range of possible activities which could be justified under the name of
industry coordination is large. Consider, for example the extract from
the industry head “charter” given earlier. In that brief description, we
can identify at least eight distinct and potentially conflicting roles to be
played. Using analogies to equivalent functions in an industrial corpo­
ration, we can see that an industry group could function as a:
• M arket research department, assembling market data and per­
forming analyses to identify market opportunities
• Strategic planning department, deciding how the firm’s resources
in a given area can best be deployed

354

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

• Sales prom otion department, developing brochures, articles,
booklets, and other sales aids
• Research and developm ent department, working on enhancing
the products and services offered by the firm
• Quality control department, ensuring that work conforms to
specifications
• Training department, responsible for developing both sales and
operations skills
• Sales management department, ensuring that the firm’s experts
are made available to local offices to help win important engage­
ments
• Production scheduling department, influencing the assignment of
key people to important engagements
Not all of these activities will be needed simultaneously in every in­
dustry practice area, but if the industry specialty is to be a real stra­
tegic thrust for the firm and not just a convenient marketing label,
then most will be required at one time in the life of the practice.
Clearly, one of the most important elements in good industry practice
area management is to establish a clear understanding of the particu­
lar needs, at a given time, of a particular practice. In the early stages of
the life cycle of a new industry practice, the emphasis may be upon
market research and strategic planning. In a mature practice, more
attention (and funds) should probably be directed towards training
and quality control.
The allocation of investment funds among these various activities
and between the various industry specialties of the firm is one of the
most significant strategic decisions a professional service firm can
make. It is through the availability of free resources in favored indus­
tries that the officers of the firm can influence centrally the strategic
emphases of the local offices, while preserving local autonomy in de­
cision making. A well-funded industry program can provide a larger
range of (free) services to the local offices, and hence influence the
direction of their practices. A poorly funded program can provide few
services and will have a greater struggle persuading local offices to
participate.
Deciding on the level and allocation of industry program funding is
a difficult process, largely because of the problems in assessing the
effectiveness of an industry program. A firm may be able to measure
the growth in its volume of work in a given industry, or even, if its cost

Coordinating

Industry

Specialty

Groups

355

accounting system is sufficiently sophisticated, the profits generated
by an industry firm-wide. But it will still remain difficult to relate this
to the level of investment made in that industry’s practice area pro­
gram. As a result of these difficulties, industry programs must be as­
sessed by a procedural, judgmental process rather than a numerical,
measurement-oriented system. These assessments should not be made
on a short-term basis. Ultimately, industry program investments are
strategic choices.
The basic elements of an effective industry program management
system would include the following. First, to avoid the temptations of
empire buildings and to preserve the manageability of what is, in any
event, a difficult responsibility, industry practice areas should be de­
fined in relatively narrow terms. Large programs should be broken up
to make them more manageable. Funding for programs should be
based on strategic emphasis, not on size. An industry practice area
that accounts for a large proportion of the firm’s fees does not neces­
sarily warrant a greater investment than a small but emerging area.
As with any investment decision-making process, a request for
funds should be backed up with a detailed proposal from the industry
head justifying the request. Such a proposal should clearly indicate
what proportion of the funds are to be spent on each of the distinct
activities listed in the beginning of this section. As a natural tie-in, a
retrospective review of accomplishments should be scheduled for each
program every few years. (I do not recommend that this be done every
year. By their very nature, investments in industry practices are long­
term, risky investments and should be appraised accordingly.) I con­
sider it good practice to impose a “sunset” policy on industry
practices, whereby they have to justify their very existence after a
certain number of years. Without such a policy, there is the danger
that inertia will become a major factor in the allocation of practice
area investments. It is also usually a wise policy to make the industry
head position a nonpermanent assignment, so that new blood and
fresh thinking can be brought into an industry practice every five to
ten years. (Considerations of burnout, in what we have seen is a dif­
ficult position, also affect this conclusion.)
Finally, any industry program must be tested against the rigorous
criterion of acceptance by the line offices, whose appraisal of specific
practice areas should be repeatedly and vigorously sought. OMPs and
other line partners should be polled on the merits of the various re­

356

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

ports, products, and services produced by the practice area. They
should be asked how helpful to them, as an office, the existence and
conduct of the practice area has been. Given line skepticism toward
firmwide “overhead” activities, this test is a tough one. Yet it is crit­
ical. An industry head in a multioffice professional service firm, as we
have seen, has something to “sell,” and his customers are the line
offices. Only by being adept at convincing his clients of the value of his
services can he accomplish his goals and achieve success. This is never
an easy task, but if the firm is to develop and market industry expertise
on a coordinated multisite basis (an increasingly important require­
ment for success), it is always an important one.

PART SEVEN

LAST THOUGHTS

CHAPTER 32

ASSET MANAGEMENT

If there has been one major theme in this book, it is that the key to
ensuring any professional firm’s future is wise management of its two
key assets :
a. Its inventory of skills, talents, knowledge, and ability
b. The strength of its client relations and reputation
Achieving a good income statement result is a necessary condition for
professional firm success, but it is far from a sufficient criterion. To
have been judged a good year, a firm must not only achieve its volume
and profit goals, but do so in a way that both builds new skills and
strengthens client relations.
What would an asset management approach look like? What fol­
lows is a summary of some of the “new” management processes dis­
cussed in this book.

APPROACH 1: A LOOK-BACK MIX EVALUATION
In Chapter 13, How’s Your Asset, we argued that client work can fall
anywhere along a spectrum of “asset milking” to “asset building.”
Accordingly, wise management of the firm would require that a firm
judge its success in part on the type of work it was generating. How­
ever, while most firms have volume goals for their new business de359

360

M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm

velopment effort; few have a mechanism to judge the qualitative mix
of business they bring in.
Accordingly, what do their people go out and sell to meet their new
business targets? The familiar or the new? It is much easier to sell a
project on something you are known for, have references for, have
methodologies for, and can be convincing that you can solve, than it
is to sell an asset-building project for which you cannot provide five
references, one that will help you learn new skills or develop new
methodologies. Not only is it easier, but it is more comfortable to do
the familiar project: You feel more confident about being able to solve
the client’s problem.
If there is a temptation for successful firms to exploit their reputa­
tion, rather than use their practice to build their balance sheet, the
problem is even greater for less established firms in the building stage.
Hungry for work, they will (appropriately) be keen to accept what­
ever they can get. For them, the risk that income statement consider­
ations will dominate balance sheet concerns is even greater.
Unfortunately, there is a spiral effect at work. If a firm starts off with
a weak balance sheet, it can get too hungry and need to bring in any
work, whether it grows the balance sheet or not. Hence it ends up
growing its balance sheet less rapidly than a firm that has already
positioned itself to be able to be more selective about its projects. A
less hungry firm is more likely to grow its assets faster, assuming it
uses the benefits of its reputation wisely.
The solution is for firms to establish mechanisms to appraise the
quality of their practice, as well as its quantity. One such method is a
regular look-back mix-evaluation. Every three months (or some such
period) firms should pull out the list of projects they have been work­
ing on and give each project a grade (say from 1 to 5) on each of a
number of selected “balance-sheet-building” criteria. Did this engage­
ment:
a. Allow us to develop new skills?
b. Expose us to an important new client?
c. Allow us to train our juniors?
d. Increase (not just sustain) an important existing client relation­
ship?
e. Allow us to work higher in client organizations?
f. Introduce us to an important new market segment?

Asset

Management

361

Done regularly, and taken seriously, this evaluation of the “quality”
of the practice, not just its aggregate volume, would provide guidance
for future new business development efforts, and act as a “conscience”
measure. While one would not expect all engagements to score high
on all measures, the assessment of the mix will give a good guide as to
whether or not practice development efforts are helping the balance
sheet as well as the income statement.

APPROACH 2: EXPLICITLY MEASURE AND
REWARD SKILL TRANSFER
The asset management issue is not solely (or perhaps even mainly) a
marketing issue. As important as what matters are brought in is the
issue of how they are handled. In the short run, it is always more
economic to get the assignment performed by those who already know
how to do it. But if this is always the operating rule, how will the firm
ever transfer and grow its skills? At some point, the firm must use its
staffing system to assign people to the project who don’t yet have the
skills, so they can learn from project leaders. Yet how many project
leaders seek out neophytes to help them with their projects? It is in the
project leader’s interests to get his or her project staffed with the office
rising star, not the one who needs developing.
Most firms say that they reward “building skills in others” in their
compensation scheme, but few senior professionals I have met within
these firms believe that this consideration plays anywhere near the
role played by (aggregate) revenue growth, current profitability and
personal workload. It is not surprising, therefore, that it receives more
lip service than execution. The issue, therefore, is how to make it
credible and operational. In Chapter 4, Solving the Underdelegation
Problem, we looked at a method that would introduce a strict ac­
countability: the “upward feedback” or “Rate your Engagement Ex­
perience” system.

APPROACH 3: MEASURE AND REWARD CLIENT
SATISFACTION LEVELS
There is perhaps no more valuable asset that a firm has than the sat­
isfaction of its clients. Yet few firms have any systematic means of
tracking client satisfaction levels or rewarding those who excel in this
area. In Chapter 8, A Service Quality Program, we looked at a method
to put in place explicit measures and rewards for this activity by man­

362

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

dating an inescapable client feedback system. In every case where this
system has been installed, the behavior of all professionals has
changed to pay more attention to these asset-building, reputation­
enhancing activities.

APPROACH 4: INCLUDE BALANCE SHEET
QUESTIONS IN PARTNER GOAL SETTING,
EVALUATION AND REWARD
Most compensation schemes for senior professionals stress income
statement measures— revenues, workload, profits. Few recognize or
encourage investment in asset-building activities such as development
of new methodologies or transfer of skills. The measures proposed in
Approaches 2 and 3 above provide systematic scorecards on skill
transfer and client satisfaction that can be used in reward systems to
shift the focus to activities that have a long-term benefit.
In addition to these, we saw in Chapter 22 (Partner Performance
Counseling) that it is possible to include “balance sheet” questions in
the performance evaluation system for senior professionals. For ex­
ample, they could be asked to address the questions “What have you
done that makes us stronger for the future?” or “ In what way are you
personally more valuable on the marketplace than last year?”
These questions effectively constitute a system of “personal strate­
gic planning” (see Chapter 20, How to Create a Strategy). If they
become an integral part of the senior professional goal setting, per­
formance review and reward system, they can influence the senior
professionals to focus more on asset-building activities.

APPROACH 5: PLACE MORE EMPHASIS ON
MARKETING TO EXISTING CLIENTS
We noted above that, in order to grow its skills, any practice needs to
bring in a certain proportion of projects for which the firm does not
have well established methodologies, for which it cannot provide ready
references, for which it does not already have a reputation. Who is
likely to award such a project to the firm ? A new prospect or an existing
client? With overwhelming probability, such asset-building projects
are likely to come from existing clients, if they are explicitly pursued.
Accordingly, as we discussed in Chapter 9, firms should develop ex­
plicit marketing plans and budgets to penetrate existing clients.

Asset

Management

363

APPROACH 6: SYSTEMATIC DEBRIEFING
OF ENGAGEMENTS
It is trivial to observe that most new learning (skill, talent, and knowl­
edge accumulation) in professional firms takes place on engagements.
However, it is not trivial to point out that many firms (and individu­
als) fail to capture and disseminate much of this potential learning.
In principle, one of the competitive advantages of large firms is that
the value they can bring to market is not just the individual talents of
individual practitioners, but the individual empowered by the accu­
mulated knowledge, wisdom, systems, methodologies, and experi­
ences of the firm. Realizing this potential value takes effort and
attention. It requires systematic efforts to debrief engagements and
capture (on paper or on videotape) “what we learned from this one,”
so that the new knowledge, however incremental, can be put to work
the next time not only by the individual who did the project but by
others in the same practice.
A few firms of my acquaintance are diligent in this. They make
documentation of ‘ what we learned from this one” a requirement of
every project leader: as inescapable a responsibility as sending out the
bill. They hold regular practice group meetings for the sole purpose of
sharing latest ideas, tactics, and approaches (see Chapter 14, How to
Build Human Capital). Alas, most firms of my acquaintance expect
this to happen “naturally.” Being a “nonbillable” activity, it gets in­
finitely postponed, and the capturing of knowledge is spotty at best.

APPROACH 7: INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING
STUDY OF PROJECT METHODOLOGIES.
As discussed in Chapter 2, The Professional Firm Life Cycle, all pro­
fessional services go through a life cycle which requires that firms
learn how to increasingly use less costly staff to deliver engagements
as the service matures. A good test of whether this is happening (i.e.,
whether or not the firm is adding to its assets by developing valuable
methodologies to deliver services at lower cost) is to compare the
staffing of similar engagements performed two or three years apart.
Hopefully, the firm will find that, in the intervening period, it has
learned how to perform these “similar” engagements with more meth­
odology, less senior time, and more practice tools. If not, then the firm
may wish to commission a special study to analyze each of the work
tasks required by the engagement, and, just as in any industrial engi­

364

M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm

neering study, find ways to redefine work tasks and develop tools to
allow for more effective “production” in the future.

CONCLUSION
The approaches listed here are far from exhaustive in giving ways for
firms to manage their balance sheet. However, they point the way to
the sort of management processes that are required if firms are to
ensure a healthy future. The challenge of the future for professional
firms does not lie in being good at forecasting. Rather it lies in using
today’s activities to ensure that the firm is strong enough to meet
tomorrow’s challenges. The good news is that income statement
thinking does not have to be sacrificed to ensure a good balance sheet.
Done right, one can make as much money on asset-building work as
on work that exploits preexisting assets. One can make money
through sharing and development of skills as easily as living off them.
The bad news is that it doesn’t happen naturally. Firms must manage
for it.

REFERENCES AND SOURCES

CHAPTER 11.
1.

ATTRACTING NEW CLIENTS

Gerald M. Weinberg, T h e S e c re t s o f C o n s u ltin g : A G u id e to G iv in g a n d
G e t tin g A d v ic e S u c c e s s fu lly (New York: Dorset House Publishing, 1985).

CHAPTER 12.

MANAGING THE MARKETING EFFORT

I gratefully acknowledge the contributions of Mike Cummings and Barry
Schneider of SAGE, Inc. to an early draft of this chapter.
CHAPTER 15.

THE MOTIVATION CRISIS

1. Tracy Kidder, T h e S o u l o f a N e w M a c h in e (Boston: Little, Brown, 1981).
2. Morgan W. McCall, Jr., “ Leadership and the Professional,” in T. Con­
nolly, ed., S c ie n tis ts , E n g i n e e r s , a n d O rg a n iz a tio n s (Monterey, Calif.:
Brooks/Cole Engineering Division, 1983).
CHAPTER 19.

HOW PRACTICE LEADERS ADD VALUE

1. David Ogilvy, O n A d v e rtis in g (New York: Vintage Books, 1983).
CHAPTER 23.

THE ART OF PARTNER COMPENSATION

1. Andrew S. Grove, H ig h O u t p u t M a n a g e m e n t (New York: Random
House, 1985).
CHAPTER 27.

THE ONE-FIRM FIRM

1. R. Levering, M. Moskowitz, and M. Katz, T h e 1 0 0 B est C o m p a n ie s to
W o rk f o r in A m e r ic a (Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1984).
365

366

References

and

Sources

2. B. McGoldrick, "inside the Goldman Sachs Culture,” In s titu tio n a l I n v e s ­
t o r , January 1984.
3. S. Brill, "i s Latham & Watkins America’s Best Run Firm?” A m e r ic a n
L a w y e r, August 1981, pp. 12-14.
4. Ibid.
5. Levering et al. ( 1984).
6. McGoldrick (January 1984).
7. Ibid.
8. See, for example, V. J. Sathe, C u lt u r e a n d R e la te d C o r p o r a t e R ea lities
(Homewood, IL: Richard D. Irwin, 1985).
9. C. Bell, “ How to Create a High Performance Training Unit,” T r a in in g ,
October 1980, pp. 4 9 -5 2 .
10. McGoldrick (January 1984).
11. Brill (August 1981).
12. McGoldrick (January 1984).
13. See, for example, “The New Shape of Management Consulting,” B u s i­
n ess W e e k , 21 May 1979.
14. McGoldrick (January 1984).
15. Brill (August 1981).
CHAPTER 3 1 .

CREATING THE COLLABORATIVE FIRM

Some of the ideas in this article were derived from an academic text ( T h e
E v o lu tio n o f C o o p e r a t io n by Robert Axelrod, Basic Books, 1984) that offers
interesting insights into the problem of cooperation in a variety of fields.

INDEX

Accounting, 26, 27 , 29, 20 1 , 329
Actuarial services, 28
Advertising, 26, 122, 130, 329,
333
Alvarez, Paul, 2 1 9
Andersen, Arthur, and Company,
3 0 3 , 304, 3 0 6 , 3 0 7 , 3 1 0 3 1 3 , 3 1 5 , 318
Apprenticeship, 7, 23 , 156, 196
Archetypal partners, 2 7 9 -2 8 7
Architecture, 26, 28 , 72, 74, 291
Aristocratic model of governance,
289
Articles, 1 2 1 -1 2 3 , 1 2 6 -1 2 7 , 135
Assertiveness, 116, 117
Asset building, 1 4 3 -1 5 3 , 3 5 9 -3 6 0
Asset management, 3 5 9 -3 6 4
Athenian democracy, 290
Autonomy, 1 8 6 -1 8 8 , 2 8 9 , 291,
292

Booz, Allen and Hamilton, Inc.,
312
Bower, Marvin, 310, 312, 317
Brains projects, 4, 7, 12, 18, 21,
22, 197
Brand name power, 331
Brill, Steven, 7 5 -7 6 , 279
Broadcasting, 5 3 -5 7 , 59
Brochures, 121, 122, 1 2 9 -1 3 0
Burnout, 355
Business managers, 2 9 3 , 2 9 7 -2 9 8
Butler, Samuel, 291
Cabin Attendant Test, 152
Career planning, 2 5 2 -2 5 3
Car repair, 6 9 -7 0 , 7 3 -7 4 , 76
Client-industry committees, 161
Client industry meetings, 54, 63,
6 5 ,1 3 5
Client panels, 54
Clients, 3, 5 3 -1 4 0
leverage and, 4 - 6
listening to, 53, 55, 56, 59,
6 1 -6 8
managing marketing effort,
1 3 3 -1 4 0

Ballroom-scale seminars, 122, 130
Bell, Chip, 308
Board of partners, 2 9 3 -2 9 4 , 299
Boisi, Geoffrey, 305
Bonus pool systems, 27
367

368

Index

Clients (c o n t .)
marketing to existing, 9 7 -1 1 0 ,
146, 147
new: s e e New clients
practice development and,
5 3 -6 0
purchasing process, 1 1 1 -1 2 0
satisfaction of, 2 3 7 -2 4 0 , 24 6 ,
2 4 7 , 3 0 7 -3 0 8 , 3 6 1 -3 6 2
service quality and, 6 9 -7 7 ,
7 9 -9 5
value of relationship, 1 4 4 -1 4 5 ,
149
Closing techniques, 118
“ Clutching at straws” marketing
tactics, 1 2 9 -1 3 1
Coaching, 4 4 - 4 8 , 1 5 7 -1 5 9 , 196,
2 0 3 , 2 0 9 - 2 1 2 , 2 1 5 -2 1 6 ,
2 2 0 , 2 4 1 -2 4 2 , 2 4 6 , 2 4 7
Cohen, Jonathan, 3 1 7
Cold calls, 121, 122, 130
Collaborative firms, 3 3 5 -3 4 3
Communication, in one-firm
firms, 3 1 5 -3 1 6
Community/civic activities, 122,
128, 135
Compensation: s e e Partner com­
pensation
Compensation committee, 2 93,
2 9 8 -2 9 9
Compensation Committee Report,
2 7 0 -2 7 7
Competition, 42
Concern, 113, 114
Conformity, 306
Consulting, 2 6 , 28, 72, 74, 20 1 ,
2 0 2 , 329
Contracts for action, 139
Counseling skills, 1 4 9 -1 5 0 , 152
Courting, 5 3 - 5 9 , 1 1 1 -1 2 0
CPA firms, 7, 15
Creativity, 116

Cross-office industry coordina­
tion, 3 4 5 -3 5 6
Cross-selling, 3 3 7 -3 3 8 , 341
Cross-staffing, 3 35, 340, 341
Current service evaluation, 62
Customization, 1 8 -1 9
Daniel, Ron, 311, 317
Debriefing, 63, 6 6 -6 7 , 83, 84,
1 5 1 -1 5 2 , 363
Democratic model of governance,
2 8 9 -2 9 0
Direct mail, 121, 122, 130
Disclosure of partner compensa­
tion, 2 6 6 -2 6 7 , 270
Discussion committees, 349
Efficiency-based practice, 21, 22,
2627, 29, 30
Embarrassment, 83, 88
Empathy, 120
Engagement-level profitability, 44,
46
Engagement team debriefings, 63,
6 6 -6 7 , 83, 84, 363
Engineering, 27, 28
Equity participation, 186, 187, 256
Executive committees, 2 9 3 , 295,
299
Expectations, 7 1 -7 2 , 75
Experience-based practice, 21, 22,
2 4 -3 0
Expertise-based practice, 2 1 -2 4 ,
2 7 - 30
Exposed feeling, 113, 114
Farmer firms, 3 2 1 -3 2 7
Fast-track strategy, 2 3 7 -2 4 2
Feedback
client, 63, 67, 8 3 -8 9 , 9 4 -9 5
partner compensation and,
2 6 5 -2 6 6

Index

369

Feedback questionnaires, 67, 8 3 89, 9 4 -9 5
First Law of Service, 71
Fixed-price contracts or bids, 26
Focus, 148, 149, 2 0 8 , 210
Focus groups, 66
Forced ranking, 2 5 1 -2 5 2
Friedes, Peter, 30 5 , 314, 317
Friendly skeptic critique process,
2 2 7 -2 2 9

Impostor Syndrome, 1 6 8 -1 6 9
Individualism, 306, 322, 323
Industry specialty group coordina­
tion, 3 4 5 -3 5 6
Initiative, 115, 156
In S e a rc h o f E x c e lle n c e , 315
Insecurity, 112, 113
International firms, 2 40, 3 2 9 -3 3 6 ,
339
Investment banking, 26, 74

Goal sharing, 3 4 9 -3 5 0
Goldman Sachs, 3 0 3 -3 0 7 , 309,
3 1 1 - 3 1 5 , 3 1 7 , 318
Gorter, James, 309
Governance: s e e Partnership gov­
ernance
Greek society, early, 290
Grey Hair projects, 4 - 5 , 18, 21, 22
Grove, Andrew, 266
Growth, profitability and, 1 6 -1 8 ,
3 6 -3 9
Guilt, 83

Journeymen, 7
Junior-level staff, 3 -2 0 ; s e e a lso
Staff
coaching and, 4 4 -4 8 , 1 5 7 -1 5 9 ,
196, 2 0 9 - 2 1 2 , 2 1 5 -2 1 6 ,
220, 2 4 1 -2 4 2 , 246, 247
in efficiency-based practice, 26
in experience-based practice,
2 5 , 26
in expertise-based practice, 23,
27
marketing to existing clients
and, 1 0 3 -1 0 4 , 136
motivation of, 1 6 3 -1 7 4
importance, 1 6 5 -1 6 6
professional psyche, 1 6 8 169
promotion and, 1 7 2 -1 7 4
recruiting process and, 166—
168
supervisory style and, 1 6 9 171
scheduling and, 1 7 7 -1 7 8
underdelegation and, 4 1 -5 0
work assignment system, 156157

Heintz, Bruce, 279
Hewitt Associates, 3 0 3 -3 0 5 , 307,
3 0 9 , 3 1 3 - 3 1 4 , 3 1 6 -3 1 8
H ig h O u t p u t M a n a g e m e n t

(Grove), 266
Hills, Carla, 311
Hotel industry, 72, 76
Hot tips, 91, 92
Human capital development, 1 5 5 162
coaching, 1 5 7 -1 5 9
teaching partners, 159
work assignment system, 1 56—
157
Hunter firms, 3 2 2 -3 2 7
IBM Corporation, 319
Image, 30

Kidder, Tracy, 167, 170
Knowledge and skill, 144, 1 4 9 151, 155; s e e a lso Human
capital

370

Index

Latham & Watkins, 3 0 3 -3 0 6 ,
3 0 9 ,3 1 1 ,3 1 4 ,3 1 6 ,317
Law firms, 7, 72, 2 0 0 -2 0 2 , 29 1 ,
332
Leadership: s e e Practice leadership
Leverage
client marketplace, 4 - 6
example of, 9 -1 4
management, 31, 32, 36
people marketplace and, 6 - 8
profitability and, 8 -9
Lifecycle of professional service
firms, 2 1 -3 0 , 363
efficiency-based practice, 22,
2 6 -2 7
experience-based practice, 22,
2 4 -2 6
expertise-based practice, 22,
2 3 -2 4
Listening, 53, 55, 56, 59, 6 1 -6 8 ,
119
Local value issue, 3 3 0 , 331
Location strategies, 27
Look-back mix evaluation, 3 6 0 361
Loyalty, 30 5 , 30 6 , 3 1 7
Management by objectives, 262
Management team, 2 9 6 - 2 9 7
Managing partners, 2 9 3 , 2 9 5 -2 9 9
Margin management, 3 1 -3 5
Marketing
to existing clients, 9 7 -1 1 0 , 146,
147, 2 3 3 , 362
managing effort, 1 3 3 -1 4 0
tactics for new clients
advertising, 122, 130
articles, 1 2 1 -1 2 3 , 1 2 6 -1 2 7
ballroom-scale seminars, 122,
130
brochures, 121, 122, 1 2 9 130

cold calls, 121, 122, 130
direct mail, 121, 122, 130
newsletters, 122, 1 2 8 -1 2 9
proprietary research, 122,
1 2 3 , 1 2 7 -1 2 8
publicity, 122, 129
small-scale seminars, 122,
1 2 3 -1 2 4
speeches, 1 2 1 -1 2 3 , 125
sponsorship of cultural/sports
events, 122, 130
video brochures, 122, 1 3 0 131
Market research, 61, 63, 6 5 -6 6 ,
8 3 , 315, 3 53, 354
Master craftsmen, 7
McCall, Morgan, 171
McKinsey and Company, Inc.,
3 0 3 , 3 0 5 - 3 1 3 , 3 1 5 , 317,
318
Meaning of work, 1 7 1 -1 7 2
Mechanistic organizations, 292
Medicine, 26, 28, 291
Mergers, avoidance of, 311
Middle-level staff, 3, 4, 9 -1 4 , 17
Mission, sense of, 307
Mission statements, 3, 79
Morale, 19, 3 6 , 4 1 , 43, 48, 99,
165, 198
Motivation, 41, 4 3 , 48, 99, 138,
1 6 3 -1 7 4 , 198; s e e a lso
Practice leadership
importance of, 1 6 5 -1 6 6
meaning of work, 1 7 1 -1 7 2
professional psyche, 1 6 8 -1 6 9
promotion and, 1 7 2 -1 7 4
recruiting process and, 166—
168
scheduling and, 178
supervisory style and, 1 6 9-171
Motivation spiral, 165, 166
Multinational firms, 3 2 9 -3 3 6

Index
Multiple-location strategy, 27
Multiple regression, 2 7 4 -2 7 6
Networking, 122, 135
New clients
importance of winning, 9 9 -1 0 0
marketing tactics for
advertising, 122, 130
articles, 1 2 1 -1 2 3 , 1 2 6 -1 2 7
ballroom-scale seminars, 122,
130
brochures, 121, 122, 1 2 9 130
cold calls, 121, 122, 130
direct mail, 121, 122, 130
newsletters, 122, 1 2 8 -1 2 9
proprietary research, 122,
123, 1 2 7 -1 2 8
publicity, 122, 129
small-scale seminars, 122,
1 2 3 -1 2 4
speeches, 1 2 1 -1 2 3 , 125
sponsorship of cultural/sports
events, 122, 130
video brochures, 122, 1 3 0 131
marketing to existing clients
and, 9 7 -9 9
Newsletters, 122, 1 2 8 -1 2 9
Nontraditional candidates, 2 0 0 -

201

Nuturing, 5 3 -5 7 , 59
Ogilvy, David, 2 19
O g ilv y o n A d v e r t is in g (Ogilvy),

219
One-firm firms, 3 0 3 -3 1 9 , 322
avoidance of mergers, 311
characteristics of, 3 0 5 -3 0 8
communication in, 3 1 5 -3 1 6
compensation in, 3 1 3 -3 1 4
governance, 3 1 7 -3 1 8

371

outplacement, 3 1 2 -3 1 3
recruiting, 309
research and development in,
3 1 4 -3 1 5
selective business pursuits, 3 1 1 312
status symbols, absence of,
3 1 6 -3 1 7
sustaining, 3 0 8 -3 0 9
training in, 3 0 9 -3 1 0
weaknesses of, 3 1 8 -3 1 9
Organic organizations, 292
Outplacement, 15, 16, 3 1 2 -3 1 3
Overtime, 27
Paraprofessionals, 25, 1 9 9 -2 0 0
Participation in policy making,
186, 187
Partner compensation, 27, 186,
190, 1 9 2 -1 9 4 , 2 5 5 -2 7 7
arriving at decisions, 265
balancing past and present,
2 6 7 -2 6 8
disclosure of, 2 6 6 -2 6 7 , 270
feedback, 2 6 5 -2 6 6
industry specialty group coordi­
nation and, 349
informed judgments, 2 6 3 -2 6 4
measurements and judgments,
2 5 8 -2 6 0
in one-firm firms, 3 1 3 -3 1 4
patterns in, 2 6 9 -2 7 7
pie-splitting, 2 7 9 -2 8 7
scheduling, 179 -1 8 1
selection of judges, 2 6 0 -2 6 1
seniority system, 2 5 6 -2 5 8 , 267,
271
setting criteria, 2 6 1 -2 6 3
two-pool system, 268
Partner performance counsel­
ing, 2 4 5 -2 5 4 , 362
designing process, 2 49, 250

372

Index

Partner performance counsel­
ing (c o n t .)
implementing process, 249,
2 5 1 -2 5 4
scheduling and, 179, 180
specifying criteria, 2 4 6 -2 4 9
Partnership, meaning of, 1 8 5 -1 8 8
Partnership governance, 2 8 9 -2 9 9
board of partners, 2 9 3 -2 9 4 ,
299
business manager, 293, 2 9 7 298
compensation committee, 29 3 ,
2 9 8 -2 9 9
emerging norm, 2 9 2 -2 9 3
evaluation of, 299
executive committee, 2 9 3 , 295,
299
management team, 2 9 6 - 2 9 7
managing partner, 2 9 3 , 2 9 5 299
in one-firm firms, 3 1 7 -3 1 8
strategy and, 2 9 1 -2 9 2
Perceptions, 7 1 -7 2 , 7 4 -7 5
Performance-based compensation,
258
Performance counseling: s e e Part­
ner performance counseling
Permanent associates, 25
Personal journal, 151
Personal risk, 112, 113
Personal strategic planning, 146,
1 4 7 -1 5 0 , 2 3 1 -2 3 2 , 362
P e rs p e c tiv e s o n M c K in s e y

(Bower), 310
Pie-splitting, 2 6 0 , 2 7 9 -2 8 7
Practice development, 5 3 -6 0 ,
1 4 5 -1 4 7 , 2 4 6 -2 4 8 ; s e e
a lso Marketing; New cli­
ents
Practice leadership, 2 0 7 -2 2 1 ,
3 5 1 -3 5 3

coaching, 2 0 9 -2 1 2 , 2 1 5 -2 1 6 ,

220
evaluation of, 2 1 6 -2 1 8
stress of, 217, 2 1 9 -2 2 0
time use, 2 1 2 -2 1 5
Presentations, 119
Procedure projects, 4 - 6 , 18, 22
Productivity, 19, 31, 32, 35, 237,
2 38, 2 40; s e e a lso Motiva­
tion
strategies, 1 9 3 -1 9 9
Professional psyche, 1 6 8 -1 6 9
Professional service firms
clients, 3, 5 3 -1 4 0
leverage and, 4 - 6
listening to, 5 3 , 55, 56, 59,
6 1 -6 8
managing marketing effort,
1 3 3 -1 4 0
marketing to existing, 9 7 110, 146, 147
new: s e e New clients
practice development and,
5 3 -6 0
purchasing process, 1 1 1 -1 2 0
satisfaction of, 2 3 7 -2 4 0 ,
2 4 6 ,247, 3 0 7 - 3 0 8 ,3 6 1 362
service quality and, 6 9 -7 7 ,
7 9 -9 5
value of relationship, 1 4 4 145, 149
collaborative firms, 3 3 5 -3 4 3
Farmer firms, 3 2 1 -3 2 7
Hunter firms, 3 2 2 -3 2 7
industry specialty group coordi­
nation, 3 4 5 -3 5 6
international, 2 4 0 , 3 2 9 -3 3 6 ,
339
levels of organization, 7 -8
leverage and: s e e Leverage
lifecycle, 2 1 -3 0 , 363

Index
efficiency-based practice, 21,
22, 2 6 -2 7 , 29 , 30
experience-based practice, 21,
22, 2 4 -3 0
expertise-based practice, 2 1 24, 2 7 -3 0
meaning of partnership, 185—
188
mission statements, 3, 79
one-firm firms, 3 0 3 -3 1 9 , 322
avoidance of mergers, 311
characteristics of, 3 0 5 -3 0 8
communication in, 3 1 5 -3 1 6
compensation in, 3 1 3 -3 1 4
governance, 3 1 7 -3 1 8
outplacement, 3 1 2 -3 1 3
recruiting in, 309
research and development in,
3 1 4 -3 1 5
selective business pursuits,
3 1 1 -3 1 2
status symbols, absence of,
3 1 6 -3 1 7
sustaining, 3 0 8 -3 0 9
training in, 3 0 9 -3 1 0
weaknesses of, 3 1 8 -3 1 9
partner compensation, 27, 186,
1 9 0 , 1 9 2 -1 9 4 , 2 5 5 -2 7 7
arriving at decisions, 265
balancing past and present,
2 6 7 -2 6 8
disclosure of, 2 6 6 -2 6 7 , 270
feedback, 2 6 5 -2 6 6
industry specialty group coor­
dination a n d , 349
informed judgments, 2 6 3 264
measurements and judgments,
2 5 8 -2 6 0
in one-firm firms, 3 1 3 -3 1 4
patterns in, 2 6 9 -2 7 7
pie-splitting, 2 7 9 -2 8 7

373

scheduling, 179-181
selection of judges, 2 6 0 -2 6 1
seniority system, 2 5 6 -2 5 8 ,
267, 271
setting criteria, 2 6 1 -2 6 3
two-pool system, 268
partner performance counseling,
2 4 5 -2 5 4 , 362
designing process, 249, 250
implementing process, 249,
2 5 1 -2 5 4
scheduling and, 179, 180
specifying criteria, 2 4 6 -2 4 9
partnership governance, 2 8 9 299
board of partners, 2 9 3 -2 9 4 ,
299
business manager, 2 9 3 , 2 9 7 298
compensation committee,
293, 2 9 8 -2 9 9
emerging norm, 2 9 2 -2 9 3
evaluation of, 299
executive committee, 293,
2 9 5 , 299
management team, 2 9 6 -2 9 7
managing partner, 293, 2 9 5 298, 299
in one-firm firms, 3 1 7 -3 1 8
strategy and, 2 9 1 -2 9 2
practice leadership, 2 0 7 -2 2 1 ,
3 5 1 -3 5 2
coaching, 2 0 9 -2 1 2 , 2 1 5 -2 1 6 ,

220
evaluation of, 2 1 6 -2 1 8
stress of, 217, 2 1 9 -2 2 0
time use, 2 1 2 -2 1 5
profitability, 3, 4, 3 1 -3 9 , 246,
2 47
growth and, 1 6 -1 8 , 3 6 -3 9
leverage, 31, 32, 36
leverage and, 8 -9

374

Index

Professional service firms (c o n t .)
margins, 3 1 -3 5
productivity, 31, 32, 35
scheduling system and, 176
underdelegation and, 4 1 - 4 4
project types, 4 - 6
promotion, 6 - 7 , 1 2 -1 5
motivation and, 1 7 2 -1 7 4
scheduling and, 179, 181
staff: s e e Staff
strategy development, 2 2 3 -2 3 5
appraisal of, 228
fast-track, 2 3 7 -2 4 2
focus of, 2 2 4 -2 2 6
launching, 235
management role in, 2 3 2 -2 3 4
personal, 146, 1 4 7 -1 5 0 ,
2 3 1 -2 3 2
structure of, 2 2 6 -2 2 7 , 2 2 9 231
training, 23 , 25, 54, 196, 332
in client-contact skills, 91, 93
joint, 342
in one-firm firms, 3 0 9 -3 1 0
scheduling and, 179, 180
underdelegation, 4 1 -5 0 , 195
Profitability, 3, 4, 3 1 -3 9 , 2 46,
247
growth and, 1 6 -1 8 , 3 6 -3 9
leverage and, 8 - 9 , 31, 32, 36
margins, 3 1 -3 5
productivity, 31, 32, 35
scheduling system and, 176
underdelegation and, 4 1 - 4 4
Profitability quiz, 33, 34
Profit-per-partner basis, 3 1 -3 3 ,
3 6 -3 7
Profit-sharing, 27
Project types, 4 - 6
Promotion, 6 - 8 , 12- 15
motivation and, 1 7 2 -1 7 4
scheduling and, 179, 181

Proprietary research, 122, 123,
1 2 7 -1 2 8 , 135
Publicity, 122, 129
Public relations, 28
Purchasing process, 1 1 1 -1 2 0
Qualification stage, 1 1 1 -1 1 4
Quality control, 354
Quality work, 54
Raspberry Jam Rule, 121, 125, 129
Realization reports, 32, 44
Recruiting process
motivation and, 1 6 6 -1 6 8
in one-firm firms, 309
scheduling and, 1 7 9 -1 8 0
Reduce need strategies, 194, 1 9 7 198
Referrals, 332
Rehearsals, 152
Reputation, 23, 144
Research and development, 354
in one-firm firms, 3 1 4 -3 1 5
Retention, 192, 1 9 8 -1 9 9
Reverse seminars, 63, 6 4 -6 5
Rewards
marketing to existing clients
and, 1 0 9 -1 1 0
in service quality program,
9 3 -9 4
Risk, atmosphere, 73
Rogers, Will, 192
Role plays, 152
Rousseau, Jean-Jacques, 290
Sales promotion, 354
Scarcity issue, 192, 193
Scheduling, 4 8 -4 9 , 175, 195, 354
good system, 1 7 6 -1 7 8
management of, 1 8 1 -1 8 4
related to other systems, 178—
181

Index
Schon, Donald, 148
S cien tist , E n g in e e r s a n d O r g a n iz a ­
tio n s (McCall), 171

Scott, James, 3 0 6 -3 0 7
Screening, 12, 15
S e c re ts o f C o n s u ltin g , T h e (Wein­

berg), 121
Seduction principle, 122, 125, 131
Selection stage, 115
Self-evaluation, 2 4 9 , 250
Self-improvement, 2 4 6 -2 4 9
Seminars, 121, 135
ballroom-scale, 122, 130
small-scale, 122, 1 2 3 -1 2 4
Seniority system, 2 5 6 -2 5 8 , 267,
271
Senior-level staff, 3 -2 0 ; s e e a lso
Practice leadership; Staff
coaching and, 4 4 - 4 8 , 1 5 7 -1 5 9 ,
196, 20 3 , 2 0 9 - 2 1 2 , 2 1 5 21 6 , 22 0 , 2 4 1 -2 4 2 , 246,
247
in experience-based practice, 25
in expertise-based practice, 23,
24
underdelegation and, 4 1 -5 0
work assignment system, 1 5 6 157
Senior partner visits, 54, 63, 66,
83, 84
Service quality, 6 9 -7 7 , 7 9 -8 2 ,
3 6 1 -3 6 2 ; s e e a lso Motiva­
tion
program, 8 3 -9 5
Skepticism, 113, 114, 122
Skill building, 93, 196, 2 3 7 -2 4 0 ,
3 6 1 , 362
scheduling and, 1 7 7 -1 7 8
underdelegation and, 4 2 , 4 8 , 49
Skills inventory data bases, 348
Small-scale seminars, 122, 123—
124

375

Small-team approach, 1 3 6 -1 4 0 ,

212
S o u l o f a N e w M a c h in e , T h e (Kid­

der), 167, 170
Speeches, 1 2 1 -1 2 3 , 125, 135
Sponsorship of cultural/sports
events, 122, 130
Staff, 3, 4, 1 4 3 -2 0 4
asset building, 1 4 3 -1 5 3
efficiency-based practice, 26
experience-based practice, 25,
26
expertise-based practice, 23
human capital development,
1 5 5 - 162
coaching, 1 5 7 -1 5 9
teaching partners, 159
work assignment system,
156157
leverage and, 6 -8
motivation, 1 6 3 -1 7 4
importance of, 1 6 5 -1 6 6
meaning of work, 171 -1 7 2
professional psyche, 1 6 8 -1 6 9
promotion and, 1 7 2 -1 7 4
recruiting process and, 166—
168
scheduling and, 178
supervisory style, 169-171
productivity strategies, 1 9 3 199
reduce need strategies, 194,
1 9 7 -1 9 8
retention, 192, 1 9 8 -1 9 9
rotation of, 335, 340, 341
scheduling, 1 7 5 -1 8 4 , 195
good system, 1 7 6 -1 7 8
management of, 1 8 1 -1 8 4
related to other systems, 178—
181
substitution strategies, 194,
1 9 9 -2 0 2

376

Index

Staff (c o n t .)
supply-demand imbalance,
1 9 0 -1 9 3
value enhancement, 1 9 6 -1 9 7
Star mentality, 3 0 5 -3 0 6
Status and recognition, 1 8 6 —
188
Status symbols, absence of,
3 1 6 -3 1 7
Stevenson, Clinton, 30 5 , 3 1 7
Strategic planning, 61, 3 53, 354
Strategy, partnership governance
and, 2 9 1 -2 9 2
Strategy development, 2 2 3 -2 3 5
appraisal of, 228
fast-track, 2 3 7 -2 4 2
focus of, 2 2 4 -2 2 6
launching, 235
management role in, 2 3 2 -2 3 4
personal, 146, 1 4 7 -1 5 0 , 231 —
232
structure of, 2 2 6 -2 2 7 , 2 2 9 231
Substitution strategies, 194, 1 9 9 -

202
Sunset policy, 355
Superpleasing, 5 3 -5 7 , 59
Superstar approach, 3 5 1 -3 5 2
Supervisory style, motivation and,
1 6 9 -1 7 1
Supply-demand imbalance for
human resources, 1 9 0 193
Suspicion, 113, 115
Sweat equity, 31
Systematic client feedback, 63, 67,
8 3 -8 9 , 9 4 -9 5
Systemic underdelegation, 4 1 -5 0 ,
195
Target utilization, 10
Teaching partners, 159

Teamwork, 1 3 4 -1 4 0 , 2 1 1 -2 1 2 ,
2 3 8 , 2 4 8 , 305, 3 0 6 , 319,
3 2 1 -3 2 2
Technical quality, 6 9 -7 1 , 79, 120,
149
Technology substitution, 202
Tenure, 186, 187
Threatened feeling, 113, 114
Time use by practice leadership,
2 1 2 -2 1 5
Training, 23, 25, 196, 332, 354
in client-contact skills, 91, 93
joint, 342
in one-firm firms, 3 0 9 -3 1 0
scheduling and, 179, 180
Transfer payments, 334, 3 4 2 -3 4 3 ,
349
Trust and confidence, 59, 97, 99,
101, 114, 116, 119, 220,
2 69, 342
Turnover rate, 14, 15, 43, 157,
191, 199, 313
Two-pool system, 268
Underdelegation, 4 1 -5 0 , 195
User groups, 6 3 -6 4
Value enhancement, 1 9 6 -1 9 7
Value specialization, 148
Video brochures, 122, 1 3 0 -1 3 1
Walker, Jack, 305
Weinberg, Gerald, 121
Weinberg, John, 317
West, Tom, 167
Whitehead, John, 317
Word of mouth, 54
Work, meaning of, 1 7 1 -1 7 2
Work assignment system, 1 5 6 157, 172; s e e a lso Schedul­
ing
Wyckoff, Daryl, 72

ALSO AVAILABLE:

TRUE

PROFESSIONALISM

THE CouRAGE To
CARE ABOUT YOUR

PEOPLE, YOUR CLIENTS,
AND YOUR CAREER

DAVID H. MAISTER
,., . , . ,, ,

" '

M ANA<.r~G

1111

Ptor t:\\1o s" t

St:1v1 cc

fl~ 't

TRUE PROFESSIONALISM
Tile Courage to Care About Your People,
Your Clients, and Your Career

David H. Maister
"Full of the practical wisdom that we have
come to expect from David Maister. Professionals
of every kind will find something useful in this
collection of rich insights and ideas."
-LAWRENCE A. WEINBACH,
Managing Partner and Chief Executive,
Andersen Worldwide
ISBN: 0-684-83466-9 $24.00

