Million
Dollar
Consulting
The Professional’s
Guide to Growing
a Practice

Fourth Edition

Alan Weiss

New York Chicago San Francisco Lisbon London
Madrid Mexico City Milan New Delhi
San Juan Seoul Singapore
Sydney Toronto

Copyright © 2009 by Alan Weiss. All rights reserved. Except as permitted under the United States
Copyright Act of 1976, no part of this publication may be reproduced or distributed in any form or by any
means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of the publisher.
ISBN: 978-0-07-162619-4
MHID: 0-07-162619-0
The material in this eBook also appears in the print version of this title: ISBN: 978-0-07-162210-3,
MHID: 0-07-162210-1.
All trademarks are trademarks of their respective owners. Rather than put a trademark symbol after every
occurrence of a trademarked name, we use names in an editorial fashion only, and to the benefit of the
trademark owner, with no intention of infringement of the trademark. Where such designations appear in
this book, they have been printed with initial caps.
McGraw-Hill eBooks are available at special quantity discounts to use as premiums and sales promotions,
or for use in corporate training programs. To contact a representative please e-mail us at bulksales@mcgrawhill.com.
Product or brand names used in this book may be trade names or trademarks. Where we believe that there
may be proprietary claims to such trade names or trademarks, the name has been used with an initial cap
or it has been capitalized in the style used by the name claimant. Regardless of capitalization used, all such
names have been used in an editorial manner without any intent to convey endorsement of or other
affliation with the nameclaimant. Neither the author nor the publisher intends to express any judgment as
to the validity or legal status of any such proprietary claims.
This publication is designed to provide accurate and authoritative information in regard to the subject matter covered. It is sold with the understanding that neither the author nor the publisher is engaged in rendering legal, accounting, or other professional service. If legal advice or other expert assistance is required,
the services of a competent professional person should be sought.
—From a declaration of principles jointly adopted by a Committee of the American Bar Association and
a Committee of Publishers.
TERMS OF USE
This is a copyrighted work and The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (“McGraw-Hill”) and its licensors
reserve all rights in and to the work. Use of this work is subject to these terms. Except as permitted under
the Copyright Act of 1976 and the right to store and retrieve one copy of the work, you may not decompile, disassemble, reverse engineer, reproduce, modify, create derivative works based upon, transmit, distribute, disseminate, sell, publish or sublicense the work or any part of it without McGraw-Hill’s prior consent. You may use the work for your own noncommercial and personal use; any other use of the work is
strictly prohibited. Your right to use the work may be terminated if you fail to comply with these terms.
THE WORK IS PROVIDED “AS IS.” McGRAW-HILL AND ITS LICENSORS MAKE NO GUARANTEES OR WARRANTIES AS TO THE ACCURACY, ADEQUACY OR COMPLETENESS OF OR
RESULTS TO BE OBTAINED FROM USING THE WORK, INCLUDING ANY INFORMATION THAT
CAN BE ACCESSED THROUGH THE WORK VIA HYPERLINK OR OTHERWISE, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
McGraw-Hill and its licensors do not warrant or guarantee that the functions contained in the work will
meet your requirements or that its operation will be uninterrupted or error free. Neither McGraw-Hill nor
its licensors shall be liable to you or anyone else for any inaccuracy, error or omission, regardless of cause,
in the work or for any damages resulting therefrom. McGraw-Hill has no responsibility for the content of
any information accessed through the work. Under no circumstances shall McGraw-Hill and/or its licensors be liable for any indirect, incidental, special, punitive, consequential or similar damages that result
from the use of or inability to use the work, even if any of them has been advised of the possibility of such
damages. This limitation of liability shall apply to any claim or cause whatsoever whether such claim or
cause arises in contract, tort or otherwise.

contents

P R E FA C E

vii

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

ix

PART ONE

Preparing to Be a Million Dollar Consultant

1

CHAPTER 1

What Is a Consultant?

3

CHAPTER 2

Propulsion and Volition: Rudderless Ships Are
Only Good at Drifting

25

CHAPTER 3

Breakaway Speed: Achieving Escape Velocity

47

CHAPTER 4

Breaking Paradigms: Why the Ski Instructor
Should Always Be in Front of You

67

CHAPTER 5

Racing through the Turns: Don’t Skid, but
Don’t Stop

83

iii

iv

CONTENTS

PART TWO

Tactics: Implementing Million Dollar
Consulting

105

CHAPTER 6

If You Don’t Blow Your Own Horn, There Is
No Music: Squidlike Marketing

107

CHAPTER 7

Expanding Resources: Growth for Proﬁt’s,
Not Growth’s Sake

136

CHAPTER 8

Making Money When They Have “None”:
How to Make Money Where Most People Can’t

159

CHAPTER 9

Stop Thinking That Time Is Money: If You’re
Charging a Per Diem, You’re Still Just Practicing

175

Mid-Book INTERLUDE For Boomers, Second
Careers, Retirees, and Mature Newcomers:
How to Turbocharge Your Start

199

CHAPTER 10

Bulletproof Proposals: Don’t Trip as You’ve
About to Cross the Finish Line

207

CHAPTER 11

Omnipresence: Absence Doesn’t Make the Heart
Grow Fonder; It Makes People Forget

220

CHAPTER 12

How to Make Big Money in Bad Times: Knowing
When to Hold ‘Em and When to Fold ‘Em

243

CHAPTER 13

Technology Is a Tool, Not a Fool: How to Use
Technology and Still Have a Life

262

CONTENTS

v

PART THREE

The Self-Actualization of the Million Dollar
Consultant

283

CHAPTER 14

The Million Dollar Partners: Borrow $1,000 and
They Own You, but Borrow $1 Million and . . .

285

CHAPTER 15

Graceful Growth: Growth Doesn’t Always Equal
Expansion

308

CHAPTER 16

The Market Gravity Relationships: When Prospects
Call You Seeking to Become Clients and Clients
Never Want You to Leave

331

CHAPTER 17

Accelerating Repeat and Referral Business:
Thinking of the Fourth Sale First

353

CHAPTER 18

Beyond Success: Money Is Only a Means to an End

365

INDEX

385

This page intentionally left blank

preface

I

’VE WRITTEN 32 books, but Million Dollar Consulting remains my all-time bestseller. Who even dreams that a business book will be constantly on the shelves
for almost 20 years?
When my agent ﬁrst offered the book, then titled Confessions of a Consultant, no less than 15 publishers turned us down. McGraw-Hill wasn’t enamored
of the concept either, but instead asked for a different approach that led to
Million Dollar Consulting.
What I’ve learned consistently from that time to this is that it’s better to
move when you’re 80 percent ready and make up the other 20 percent while
you’re moving than it is to wait until you’re 100 percent prepared. The delay in
waiting for that ﬁnal 20 percent is dysfunctional and adds little value in the eye
of the beholder (or buyer). You’ll ﬁnd this refrain in the pages that follow.
Mark Twain said that even if you’re on the right track, if you just sit there,
someone will pass you by. This book is about movement and progress, and the
changes from the previous edition (about 40 percent) respect the changes in our
society, economy, technology, and profession.
A few reviewers, while overwhelmingly positive overall, have taken me to
task for not writing about building large practices, with scores of employees, that
represent a signiﬁcant equity stake for one’s retirement. In effect, they are
unhappy that I didn’t write a book I never intended to write!
This book is for the entrepreneur who wants to build a blazingly successful solo practice. It is as simple as that. Once you’re successful with that practice, you have further options, but not before.
Real wealth is discretionary time, being able to do what you desire when
you desire to do it, whether it’s watching your kids’ soccer games and dance
recitals or creating a new client proposal. You can always earn more money, but
you can’t make more time.
My way has been to consistently earn seven ﬁgures a year, provide
tremendous value to clients, lead the good life, work smart and not hard, and
generate the money required for both retirement and living well now, today,
in the present.
vii

viii

PREFACE

The philosophy behind Million Dollar Consulting is unchanged. However,
since its original publication in 1992, I’ve met quite a few more million dollar
consultants who have read my work. Many have worked with me in the Million
Dollar Consulting® Colleges, the Million Dollar Club, and the Private Roster
Mentor Program.
I’m pleased to invite you now to join our company.
ALAN WEISS,
East Greenwich, RI

acknowledgments

FOR THE FOURTH EDITION
I’m pleased to publicly express my gratitude to Betsy Brown, the editor who ﬁrst
obtained the original Million Dollar Consulting in 1991; to editor Mary Glenn,
who supervised editions two and three; and to Knox Huston, who is responsible
for this newest edition. Every one has been a pleasure to work with.
Thanks to my agent, Jeff Herman, for his representation over the years.
He is my ﬁrst and only agent, and exceptional.
I want to thank technical genius Chad Barr of CB Software, who guides
me in cyberspace.
Thanks to Koufax and Buddy, who carry on the tradition of L. T. Weiss
in a wonderful way.

FOR THE THIRD EDITION
I’m pleased to publicly express my gratitude to Jarvis Cofﬁn, CEO of Burst! Multimedia; Keith Darcy, executive vice president of IBJ Whitehall; Marilyn Martiny, director of solution selling at Hewlett-Packard; and Lindsey Matheson,
COO, and Joe Zammit-Lucia, CEO, both of Cambridge-Pharma Consulting.
Thanks to my agent, Jeff Herman, for his representation over the years, and
to Mary Glenn, senior editor at McGraw-Hill, for supporting this third edition.
This is my ﬁrst book without my longtime friend and colleague,
L. T. Weiss, and I want to send him my love, which I’m sure he can
clearly hear.

FOR THE SECOND EDITION
Once again, my sincere appreciation goes to the clients of Summit Consulting
Group, Inc. In particular, I’m indebted to Lowell Anderson, CEO of Allianz
Life; Barbara Schisani, senior vice president at Merck Medco Managed Care;
Connie Bentley and Matt Galik, CEO and vice president, respectively, of Times
Mirror Training Group; and Paul Cottone, CEO of Mallinckrodt Veterinary.
ix

x

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

My thanks to the ﬁnest editor I’ve known through seven books and four
publishers, Betsy Brown, senior editor at McGraw-Hill. I’m appreciative of the
technology contributions from Rebecca Morgan, Darek Miliewski, Terry Brock,
and Marlene Brown, all of whom are “bilingual,” in that they can work with the
latest technological marvels while still speaking passable English. And the book
simply wouldn’t have been completed in the midst of a very heavy consulting,
speaking, and writing schedule without my crack research team, Claire
McCarthy, Laurie Marble, and Paul Dunion. And thanks to Phoebe Weiss for
prooﬁng and invaluable ofﬁce work.
My love to my wife, Maria, who keeps us both young.
Finally, my deepest gratitude and respect to L. T. Weiss, my collaborator
and best friend for 10 years, for unerring editorial assistance through seven books.

FOR THE FIRST EDITION
I am indebted to the many clients of Summit Consulting Group, Inc., who, over
the past nine years, have allowed me to practice, develop, and hone my craft.
Their trust at ﬁrst amazed me and now exhilarates me.
In particular, I want to thank Fred Kerst at Calgon, Rick Haugen at
Allergan Optical, and Mike Magsig of Cologne Reinsurance, three of the ﬁnest
chief executive ofﬁcers I’ve had the pleasure to work with and learn from.
I also very much appreciate the longstanding working relationship I’ve enjoyed
with Del Macpherson, Jim Jones, and George Rizk of Merck, who know how
to work hard and laugh harder. All three are admirable people in America’s
“Most Admired Company.”
I owe a great deal to Ben Tregoe for giving me 11 years of ﬁne (and not so
ﬁne) tuning all over the world. Ben cofounded Kepner-Tregoe in a garage and
built it into a business staple. To this day, his remains the best mind I’ve encountered in this business.
My thanks go to Bill Howe, principal of Kenny, Kindler, Hunt, and Howe,
for 10 years of irregular lunches in the ﬁnest restaurants in New York and
10 years of regular commonsense “smacks in the head” that kept my ego from
becoming an entry in the Rose Bowl Parade.
Finally, common sense is hereditary, and I inherited 100 percent of mine
from my wife, Maria, and from Danielle and Jason, who claim to be my kids.
I am humbled by the fact that although they have seen my act many times, they
continue to tolerate it and help me to improve it.
And for the second consecutive book, my appreciation goes to L. T. Weiss
for his unerring editorial assistance and judgment.

PA R T
ONE

PREPARING
TO BE A
MILLION DOLLAR
CONSULTANT
The State of the Art
Most art is in the eye of the beholder

Do not seek to follow in the footsteps of the men of old; seek what
they sought.
Matsuo Basho (1644–1694)

This page intentionally left blank

CHAPTER
1

WHAT IS A
CONSULTANT?

ART AND SCIENCE
An attorney is a person who has graduated from an accredited school of law,
passed a bar examination in the state in question, and deals with matters requiring legal opinions and actions. A doctor is a person who has graduated from an
accredited medical school, passed state examinations in appropriate areas of
expertise, and is licensed to practice medicine in conformance with certain regulatory laws and ethical practices. A certiﬁed public accountant is a person who . . .
You get the idea. Most professions have a clear deﬁnition. They require
formal certiﬁcations and have speciﬁc, enforceable limitations. A teacher needs
education courses and a college degree. A bus driver needs a driver’s license.
A manicurist must be state certiﬁed to work on your nails in a salon. But there
are no such constraints on the consultant.
Anyone, at any time, and virtually anywhere can be a consultant. There is
only one other calling I know of that has as much inﬂuence over the public and
requires as few formal qualiﬁcations, and that’s astrology. In fact, I have found
that more licensing is required to be a palm reader on the Boardwalk in Atlantic
City than is needed to become a consultant.
At the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in Naples, Florida, where I was holding a
Million Dollar Consulting® Graduate School, I told senior management that
I had 12 world-class consultants in the room to work on some hotel challenges.
We weren’t asked for hospitality experience, or references, or client lists. The
reaction was simply, “Wow, we’re lucky to have you.”
Later, a woman in the class told me, “When you said there were a dozen
world-class consultants present, I looked around to see who they were!”

3

4

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

The horrible news about consulting is that there is no barrier to entry. The
great news about consulting is that there is no barrier to entry.
The Institute of Management Consultants (IMC), for which I once served
as a board member, has been doing its level best to try to establish a recognized
certiﬁcation process for a couple of decades, but this is unlikely, in our lifetimes,
to attain the state sanctions accorded to other professions. Membership in
that organization is static or declining and represents less than 1 percent of actual
solo practitioners and less than 0.5 percent of those who call themselves
consultants.1
Yet consulting is a profession that can earn its practitioners wealth far in
excess of what can be earned in ﬁelds with rigid qualifying criteria. And this
wealth is not only in the form of ﬁnancial success. It also includes a dramatic
learning curve, experiences of a broad and diverse nature, and the potential to
provide value to clients that can have an impact on tens of thousands of people
at any given moment.

One Percent Solution: tools for change®—Improve by 1
percent a day, and in 70 days you’re twice as good. Wealth is
not money, but discretionary time. You need to make the
money necessary to have maximum discretion as to how you
spend your time, the antithesis of the corporate grind.

In view of this peculiar situation, I would like to begin by establishing a
deﬁnition of a consultant. This is not a deﬁnition for the ages, or one that will
be acceptable to everybody. However, it is sufﬁcient to serve as a working deﬁnition for the remaining chapters, and it serves to establish what a consultant is
and what a consultant is not.
A consultant is someone who provides value through specialized
expertise, content, behavior, skill, or other resources to assist a client
in improving the status quo in return for mutually agreed-upon compensation. A consultant improves the client’s condition.

1 Sources such as Kennedy Information in Peterborough, New Hampshire, and my own
work with IMC, Society of Advancement for Consulting® (SAC®), and others result in an estimate of about 200,000 individuals working full-time in a solo consulting practice. Double that
number when you consider others who are between jobs, part-time, subcontracting to others,
and so forth.

WHAT IS A CONSULTANT?

5

Consultants may be internal —working for the organization full time—or
external. The latter group is hired on a situational basis. Those situations may
last for a day or a year, but most are (and should be) of fairly brief duration. There
will be more about timing in later chapters.
The most important part of my deﬁnition for those of you who are seeking to build consulting practices is the notion of bringing something of value to
the equation that justiﬁes a fee above and beyond the client’s normal business
investment.
Too many consultants do not market well because they fail to identify their
value proposition: how is the client improved after the walk-away? This is never
about methodology or input; it’s about business results and output.
Consulting is not synonymous with implementing, delivering, instructing,
or executing, although consulting may include any of these activities. Many and
perhaps most of the people working for the big consulting ﬁrms (Deloitte or
Boston Consulting Group, for example) with thousands of employees are not
consultants at all. They are actually implementers, specialists in outplacement or
technology, who are the management equivalent of plumbers or electricians.
That’s right—most consultants really aren’t.
A client who hires an outside instructor to conduct programs that the client
has developed or purchased elsewhere has no more hired a training consultant
than the client who hires part-time ofﬁce help has hired a typing consultant.
A great deal of the confusion that exists in the marketplace and among consultants ourselves is caused by an overly encompassing use of terms.
Some trainers are also consultants, and some professional speakers also consult, just as some Web site developers also consult on search engine optimization.
But merely being a site developer, a speaker, or a trainer does not de facto make
one a consultant any more than being a consultant makes one a trainer, a speaker,
or a programmer.
Only consulting can achieve the ﬁnal bridge to unconscious competency
and the application of new skills to the job.
There are many large training ﬁrms that have not been successful in
crossing over into consulting and many large consulting ﬁrms that have not
been able to develop a training function. Although these are compatible, they
are two separate disciplines that require separate skills. Thus, try as they
might, with advertising, promotion, and attempts to manage public perception,
historical training ﬁrms such as Wilson Learning, Forum, Kepner-Tregoe, and
dozens of others have had little success as consulting ﬁrms (no matter what
they’ve put on their business cards), and major consulting ﬁrms usually subcontract training assignments to others.
The fact is that consultants must deliver value-added to the client. If the
consultant isn’t bringing anything to the endeavor that the client doesn’t already
possess, then why make the investment?

6

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

The value added that the consultant brings to bear usually falls into one of
six basic categories:
1. Content. This is the most common consulting value, largely because
most people enter consulting coming out of a ﬁeld they already know
well. (They didn’t go to school to become a consultant nor did they
begin their careers that way.) Their comfort, experience, and
relationships usually lie within such a ﬁeld. Consequently, there are
retail-store display consultants, textile consultants, shrink-wrap
packaging consultants (whose job, no doubt, is to ensure that no one
opens a package of batteries or paper clips without dislocating a
ﬁnger), and a plethora of similar content experts. Whatever the
industry or pursuit, its work, or content, provides the basis for
someone to consult in it. Although content consulting is often the
province of those who break from organizational life to go out on
their own, it is also the realm of specialized ﬁrms. Any expert witness
in a legal case is a content consultant, acting in that capacity.
2. Expertise. Many consultants have a particular expertise that
transcends industries and is applicable to a wide variety of
environments. For example, Bain & Co. tends to specialize in
strategic planning. Its clients are diverse, having only one thing
necessarily in common: the value added they are seeking is help with
strategic planning. Bain can adapt its approaches to various areas of
content. The type of ﬁrm doesn’t matter. Bain can apply its expertise
and formulas equally well to any type of business, whatever its exact
nature. Many consultants who strike out on their own after working
for a larger consulting ﬁrm include expertise as their value added
because they have been so intimately exposed to those areas of
expertise during the course of their work. (No, this is not illegal,
unethical, or even uncomfortable. Ideas cannot be patented, and
indeed, there is nothing new under the sun. The basic analytic
problem-solving skills we all use today were ﬁrst postulated by the
Greeks two millennia ago.)

One Percent Solution: These ﬁrst two categories are the
difference between content and process. Pay heed. This
distinction will be critical as we discuss your success in
consulting. For the solo practitioner, process expertise is far
more valuable than content expertise.

WHAT IS A CONSULTANT?

7

3. Knowledge. In my deﬁnition, knowledge is largely experiential. People
who have knowledge are the ones who have “been there before.” A
bank board on which I served chose to hire a former regulator as a
consultant because he had vast knowledge of the rules and procedures
the regulators would be enforcing in a stricter banking environment.2
Engineering consultants are often hired out of this same need.
In general, knowledge is a broader category than expertise, just as
engineering is a broader discipline than the speciﬁc pursuit of
calculations of projected shareholder value. Moreover, knowledge
includes an understanding of process as opposed to content. That is, the
consultant understands the process of time management irrespective
of content or the process of decision making regardless of the
environment. This is often referred to as process consultation.
It involves form as well as substance.3
4. Behavior. The value added in this case is interpersonal. These
consultants may facilitate groups to achieve conﬂict resolution or
teach others how to make presentations and interact with an
audience. They are virtually never behind the scenes, as the others
may be, but are hired speciﬁcally to be onstage. They possess a set of
interpersonal competencies that enables them to resolve conﬂict,
enhance brainstorming and creativity, focus on critical issues, listen
to customer or employee feedback, and so on. Their utility is in the
overt role they play, which, for any number of reasons, management
itself cannot assume. Sometimes an objective third party is required,
and sometimes speciﬁc behaviors must be applied. Many people who
specialize in these areas have found themselves naturally drawn to
them because of previous successes in dealing with such issues.
Mediators and arbitrators come to mind as consultants in this ﬁeld.
5. Special skills. Some people have highly developed, well-deﬁned skills that
can be in great demand. These are often talents and innate abilities. For
example, image consultants, who are able to improve one’s wardrobe
and grooming, bring to bear an instinctive sense of style and impact.
(Contrast this with shareholder-value specialists, whose approach can be
reduced to formulas, matrices, and calculations.) An image consultant
may know nothing of the content of the client’s work and may not have
2 Note that these terms have considerable overlap. The former regulator could also be seen
as a content expert or a contact expert. The key, and the reason for the separation at all, is that the
client’s perception of what he is hiring (buying) and the consultant’s perception of what is being
offered (the value) are both critical to successful marketing.
3 See Edgar Schein, Process Consultation (Reading, Mass.: Addison-Wesley, 1987), and my own
book, Process Consulting (San Francisco: Jossey-Bass/Pfeiffer, 2002).

8

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

precise expertise or knowledge (e.g., about where to get the best buy on
clothes or how to arrange a closet), but nonetheless has a talent for
creating a certain look. Consultants in this area have a gift, or
specialized talent, that the client usually cannot acquire independently or
ﬁnds cost-prohibitive to acquire. “We are translating this program into
French-Canadian. Find someone who knows the particular idioms and
cultural norms and who can put it into conversational language that
doesn’t appear to be an insensitive translation from English.”
6. Contacts. Basically, consultants who are called in to help because of their
contacts are lobbyists of one stripe or another. Whether they are truly
consultants is a question I don’t propose to debate here. I’ve included
the category primarily because a great many people entering consulting
do so on the basis of being able to introduce clients to key contacts in
public or private life. While consulting fees are paid for this work, it is
the role that is least able to fulﬁll the deﬁnition I provided earlier.
Those who enter the ﬁeld as so-called introducers are advised to
broaden their scope into other areas fairly rapidly if they are serious
about making it big as a consultant. Former presidents have always
struck me as a good example of someone in this capacity who never
chose to or could not leave it. They are hired for their name value only,
and appearances at events or memberships on boards have never been
dictated by any intrinsic expertise or ability other than having been the
president. Calling them consultants is courtesy, not accuracy.

Digression: What about Coaching?
Coaching has become an entity unto itself of late, which
leads me to ask, “Was there no coaching before the advent of
‘life coaches’ and ‘coaching universities’?” (I’m also curious
about those universities. Who certiﬁes the certiﬁers?)
Consultants have always had to coach their clients and
continue to do so. I believe that coaching is a subset of consulting. In fact, since you’ve already bought this book and
probably can’t return it, let me provoke you still more: a true
consultant who understands organizational dynamics and
change management will always be a better coach than someone who merely focuses on changing a client’s behavior in isolation. Don’t be lured by what’s become the coaching
“industry,” which has tried to create qualiﬁcations for entry
that are, in my opinion, completely arbitrary.

WHAT IS A CONSULTANT?

9

Consultants bring one or more (and in more cases than you would suspect,
all) of these competencies to bear to help a client move from the status quo to
an improved position. If I were moving an operation to South America for the
ﬁrst time, I might need content to understand the nature of the competition for
my goods and services in the new locale, expertise to provide the requisite language skills to my transferring managers, knowledge to gain the proper licenses
and tax permits, behavior to help with the advance work in preparation for our
arrival and in dealing with the local press, skills to assist in the acculturation process (what we should do to assimilate as rapidly as possible), and contacts to build
relationships with local governmental and business leaders.
I’ve previously suggested that there are several hundred thousand independent consultants in the United States. In addition, there are thousands of consulting organizations, from tiny practices to the Deloittes and McKinseys of the
world. It is folly to attempt to make sense of that panoply in any conventional
manner, because huge organizations such as International Business Machines
(IBM) and General Electric (GE) often prefer to use the lone wolf for one assignment and Deloitte for another just down the hall. (Over the past couple of years,
IBM and Hewlett-Packard also have established their own quite successful
consulting operations; in the former’s case, it has become the top contributor to
corporate proﬁts.) Consequently, it’s probably more useful to view the market
in terms of the values the consultant brings to the client rather than in terms of
an arbitrary category or size.
There’s one more point to be made from the perspective of the consultant,
which I’ve found over the years (and through more than 1,000 participants in
my private mentoring program) to be true of all entrepreneurs. Three paths must
converge for you to be successful:
Market need. You must have an existing need or be able to create one.
Akia Morita created one for the Walkman. Now the iPod and the
iPhone, two of the most successful new products ever launched, have
exploited that previously created need. But needs such as sales ability
and strategy formulation will always exist.
Competency. You must have the skills to meet that need or be able to
develop them, and the buyer must perceive that you possess them.
Fortunately, we can all become lifelong learners, although I’m not about
to learn quantum mechanics no matter what market need may develop.
Passion. You have to love what you do and be perceptibly enthusiastic.
Note that two of the three are not enough. The greatest competency and
passion will fail if the market need isn’t there, and the most compelling need and
highest passion will succumb to poor skills. You must develop in all three areas,
but be aware that you can’t learn passion—you have to feel it.

10

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

One Percent Solution: Where those three paths converge, you
have branding opportunities that draw people to you and
make high fee levels acceptable to the buyer because of your
perceived value.

HOW ORGANIZATIONS CHOOSE CONSULTING
HELP—HOW TO BE “DISCOVERED”
There is more logic in the Internal Revenue Service tax code, or in the myriad
pieces of billing information you get from the phone company, or in any Rube
Goldberg invention for catching a mouse than there is in the selection process for
consulting help.4 (My estimation is that approximately 50 percent of consultants
don’t really know what they’re doing, but that about 90 percent of potential buyers don’t know that until it’s too late.) Consequently, it is difﬁcult and even foolhardy to try to market against a consistent buying habit unless you are in a highly
specialized area such as government, in which requests for proposals (RFPs) are
uniform and the only way in which the customer will do business.5
These are the major ways in which organizations go about securing the
services of outside consultants:
1. Word of mouth. This is probably the most comfortable method for
many buyers, particularly at middle- to upper-management levels. If a
trusted colleague can endorse someone who’s done the job for her,
the client saves a great deal of time and minimizes the risk. If the
colleague is in the same industry—even as a competitor—so much
the better. (I’ve received hundreds of calls from potential buyers who
have been referred to me by satisﬁed clients.) This technique is what
I call passive marketing because it is out of your hands. However,
deliberately gathering the names of a client’s colleagues and obtaining
permission to use the client as a reference can help you respond
much more effectively to some of the other selection methods used
by prospective buyers. My concept of marketing gravity relies heavily
4 We are dealing with new business, not the continuation of existing business or the expansion of current business within existing clients. The notion of repeat business will be dealt with in
Chapter 4.
5 And even here there are exceptions. For example, if you can qualify as a “sole source” for a
particular service, you can circumvent the entire ponderous competitive bidding process.

WHAT IS A CONSULTANT?

11

on creating a brand and a buzz that will bring people to you.
[See How to Establish a Brand in the Consulting Profession (San
Francisco: Jossey-Bass/Pfeiffer, 2001) and How to Market, Establish
a Brand, and Sell Professional Services (Fitzwilliam, N.H.: Kennedy
Information, 2000).]
After successful engagements, million dollar consultants always
ask the client two things. First: What other people do you know
who can use these same services and approaches? Second: May
I use you personally as a reference? Greatest catalyst: Peer-to-peer
recommendation from one buyer to another. That is the platinum
level of marketing.
2. Repute. This is slightly different from the ﬁrst method, in that the
potential buyer may not have actually spoken to anyone who is
familiar with your work but may have heard of you through a third
party, from publicity, or as a result of casual conversation. This
method is often—and unfortunately—popular with top executives,
who feel safer acquiring the services of a “name” ﬁrm or individual
so as to justify the investment (and not have to think too analytically
about the actual intervention). Reputation in the consulting business
is like reputation in the entertainment business: sometimes the
biggest stars are the ﬂops, living on repute and little else, and
sometimes the unknowns are powerful surprises, living on talent and
little else.
Greatest catalyst: A commercially published book. This is the gold
standard.
3. An outstanding and manifest body of work. A track record of success,
intellectual property, visibility in key areas of interest to clients—this
is the art of blowing your own horn. And if you don’t blow your own
horn, there is no music. The Internet has wonderfully accelerated the
ability of consultants to make their work known. The combination of
newsletters, blogs (and some other, but not all, “social media”), Web
sites, hard-copy publishing, speaking, interviews, product sales, and
so forth creates avenues to race down with news of your value and
your successes. In a world where people are searching for 15 minutes
of fame by slogging through deserted islands on television reality
shows, you can certainly build a career by riding in triumph down
Main Street. Success breeds success, if it’s manifest. This is the
silver standard.

12

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Digression
All-star gaffes, or the “lead standards”:
• No answer at the consultant’s phone number
• An answering machine with a stupid message
• E-mail that is not a private domain, such as AOL or Yahoo6
• Lack of letterhead, envelopes, and/or business cards
• No brochure, company descriptive material, and/or
press kit
• No Web site, or one that is always “under construction”
• Proposals with typos, poor grammar, and misused words
• Being late and/or unprepared for initial meetings
• Talking instead of listening
• Poor attire, battered briefcase, cheap pen, etc.

We’ll discuss what a consultant requires to present a professional image and
the conﬁdence of a solid, successful ﬁrm for clients in later chapters. For now,
however, bear in mind that it is extremely difﬁcult to acquire clients, extremely
lucrative to maintain long-standing client relationships, and extremely difﬁcult
to lose a happy client. Since most readers are probably not CEOs of the largest
consulting ﬁrms, it’s useful to remember that the acquisition of clients is the
bedrock of success and that such acquisition probably will originate in the areas
listed earlier 90 percent of the time.
Always, however, stack the deck in your favor, and be prepared to deal with
any lead (I’ve received scraps of paper written in haste) in an assertive, timely,
and professional manner.
Here are typical examples of how I’ve obtained contracts:
• An ongoing pharmaceutical client of seven years’ standing requested
an extension of one project and the beginning of another. Originally,
this client had come onboard when an internal buyer, having
remembered me as a contact in a training ﬁrm I was once with, began
hunting for me after I had moved out of state. The old ﬁrm passed on
my new address, and I was asked if I’d be interested in what became a
$14,000 project that the client believed I was suited for. I worked with

6 To me, AOL as a domain for receiving professional correspondence should stand for
“amateur on line.”

WHAT IS A CONSULTANT?

13

this client for 12 consecutive years (still my personal longevity record)
and obtained direct revenues of $2 million and indirect revenues
(referrals, repute) of at least three times that.

Every interaction with a prospect should be seen as a
personal moment of truth, and the consultant should always
be thinking about the fourth sale, not the immediate one.

• A buyer at one organization moved to three more and brought me in
each time. This is a relationship business. Keep in touch with
everyone frequently.
• A buyer at a banking client departed to become CEO of another
organization. He promptly requested my assistance. The original
client, for whom I had completed three projects over the past several
years, was generated by a 56-cent mailing to an individual
recommended by a mutual professional acquaintance. The mailing
was handed down two levels and ﬁnally came to rest on the desk of
someone with a particular need (itch) that my literature addressed
(scratched).
• An executive with an insurance client who had used my services on a
very small contract left to become CEO of another ﬁrm. I updated
my mailing list and sent him a series of items. About a year later, he
contacted me for a major strategy project and asked that I serve on
his informal kitchen cabinet of consultants. The original client had
come onboard as the result of a recommendation by the president of
another consulting ﬁrm who chose not to undertake such a small
project within his organization. (This client will surface again on a
ﬁshing boat in Chapter 18.)
• A midlevel manager at an aerospace client for whom I did a small
amount of work was laid off. I remained in touch and provided
contacts and career advice as best I could. She obtained a
management position with a large health-care ﬁrm and recommended
me for a succession-planning project, which led to a concurrent
project for the president. She has since been promoted. My original
association with her dates back to a collaboration with a training ﬁrm
for which I designed and helped to implement workshops. She was
not successful in implementing the workshops but was impressed by
my approach and participation.

14

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

• A CEO read one of my books and asked if I could provide a
workshop on the content. Once I did that, the CEO asked if I could
consult with and coach her senior people. The CEO went on to
purchase over 100 copies of the book she originally read.
• I had done a small amount of business with a major
telecommunications ﬁrm years ago, but a job change for the original
recommender resulted in my abrupt dismissal—the new man wanted
his own consultants on the job. I remained in contact with his boss
through periodic mailings and was asked to stop in on two occasions
simply to discuss what I was doing in the ﬁeld. About six months
after the second such meeting, a new recommender selected me for a
series of assignments.
There have been times when those contacts that have seemed most
solid and well intentioned have gone absolutely nowhere despite my visits to the
prospect and guarantees of my suitability. There have been many more times
when a call out of the blue has resulted in a long-term, dramatic engagement.
However, even those occasions weren’t as random as I once believed. They were
the result of my having sown the seeds for my work in the three areas mentioned
earlier, and having successfully avoided shooting myself in either foot.
During the buying sequence, however, we begin with shared values, not
in the spiritual sense, but in the realm of business philosophy. For example,
I don’t believe in downsizing as a remedy to corporate sins, so I won’t take on
such business.
If our values are congruent, we can establish a relationship, which means
that I trust you and you trust me. We are honest with each other both in sharing
information and in our candor. Only then can we establish conceptual agreement
(objectives, measures, and value to the client). Buyers aren’t likely to provide such
information without a relationship that is comfortable.
Conceptual agreement is sufﬁcient to provide a proposal (most consultants spend too much time on unnecessary information gathering prior to
submitting a proposal when conceptual agreement with the buyer is all that’s
needed). An accepted proposal leads to implementation and, ultimately,
results, which reinforces the relationship because you’ve accomplished what
was agreed upon.
This is a simple yet powerful business-acquisition model. Always know
where you are in the model because each step builds on the prior one.
This also demonstrates that the sales sequence is really a series of
small “yeses,” not one grand onslaught carried out against the buyer’s defenses.
From initial contact to ﬁnal acceptance, the sequence might look like a series of
small yeses.

WHAT IS A CONSULTANT?

15

You can’t obtain a yes on conceptual agreement without a relationship, nor
can you obtain acceptance of a project without a proposal. It’s far easier to pursue
and obtain a series of small yeses than it is to achieve a contract in a single stroke. This
also enables you to understand what your next goal is and to orient your conversation and your supporting materials accordingly.

EMPHASIZING RESULTS, NOT TASKS—WHY A
“DELIVERABLE” SHOULDN’T BE DELIVERED
We’ve already differentiated between a contractor and a consultant. The former is
hired to implement speciﬁc work and to perform designated tasks. The latter is
hired to provide unique abilities and talents that will improve the client’s condition
and constitutes a value-added component that the client doesn’t already possess.
The average consultant, however, tends to categorize his involvement by
describing the tasks to be performed. Million dollar consultants, by contrast, tend to
describe results. The difference is between input and output, task and results, activity and outcome. In assessing the value added (which we’ll be discussing in relation to fees in Chapter 9), which of the following is a client likely to perceive as
being most valuable and unique in contribution and most worthy of a larger fee?

Task

Result

Survey all employees
Visit ﬁeld service units
Design training program
Observe meetings
Reorganize the division

Provide recommendations to improve morale
Identify and resolve speciﬁc service gaps
Improve delegation skills
Enhance meeting productivity and time use
Optimize use of employee skills and talents

Interventions should be based on results and outcomes, not on activities and tasks.
The more a consultant emphasizes the latter, the more she becomes a doer whose
progress and worth are assessed in terms of how much is done. Moreover, the
consultant’s time used becomes scrutinized (How long will it take you to conduct the survey? How many meetings do you have to observe?), and the alternatives become subject to debate (Why can’t we have a two-day training program
instead of a three-day approach? Let us determine which ﬁeld sites you should
visit). The more the results are emphasized, the more the consultant is free to
pick and choose alternatives and to be ﬂexible in abandoning certain approaches
and beginning more fruitful ones.

16

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Any intervention should be based on objectives so that both consultant and
client are in agreement on the end results of the engagement and the consultant
is free to employ a variety of techniques and use his time to best advantage. The
more the engagement is based on alternatives, the more the consultant becomes
just another hired hand.

My approach to beginning any new project is to gain
“conceptual agreement,” which is agreement on the
objectives to be met, measures to gauge progress, and the
value of doing so for the client organization.

There are a number of ways to view interventions, or contracts, as they are
often called (i.e., the contract with the client regarding responsibilities, not the
legal contract that one signs). However, virtually all of them take a fairly limited
view. For example, the consultant may be a backstage counselor who never
appears to the organization in general, but rather concentrates on helping a single individual who interacts with others. Or the consultant may be a coach who
is regularly seen on the sidelines sending in advice to the players. Or the consultant may be the front person who actually takes the lead role in running the
meeting or leading the project.
However, these types of categories can be self-limiting and are too often
dictated more by what the consultant feels comfortable with than by what the
client needs. In other words, superb consultants tailor their roles—and vary
them—according to the precise client needs that have engendered the presence
of the consultant. The mere act of helping the client determine the appropriate
range of pragmatic interventions is the initial consulting contribution. This
determination should be collaborative, explicit, comfortable, and in conformance
with the end results required.
At one end of the range of potential interventions shown in Figure 1-1 are
those that resolve a client’s need and/or improve a client’s position. In other
words, the client is hungry, and the consultant must catch a ﬁsh for dinner lest
the client starve. At the other end of the range are interventions that educate the
client so that such needs can be met self-sufﬁciently in the future. In other words,
the client learns how to catch a ﬁsh without help.
In some extreme and valid cases, the client has no need to master the consultant’s skills and approaches, but simply requires situational, one-time expertise. This is an occasion for the “consultant as expert,” in which the consultant
brings the ﬁshing gear, determines the best spot in the stream, catches the ﬁsh,

WHAT IS A CONSULTANT?

17

Exemplar

Collaborator

Counselor

Instructor

Proactive Advisor

Low

Resolution of Issue
(catch a fish)

High

Independent Expert

Analyst

Commentator

Interventionist

Low

Transfer of Skills
(teach to fish)

High

Figure 1-1 The range of potential consultant interventions as deﬁned by client need.

cooks it, packs the tent, and departs. The client is responsible only for consumption and cleanup. The evaluation of the consultant is based on the quantity
and quality of the ﬁsh caught and whether or not they have sated the client’s
hunger at the moment. A consultant helping with an acquisition might well serve
in this capacity. I’ve run employee help lines for organizations in this capacity.
At the other extreme, the client needs skills transferred as the end result
itself. There is no larger issue that requires reconciliation, or if there is, it is also
useful as the means to help transfer the skills. The interventionist shows the client
how to hold the rod, how to cast, where to stand, and so on, and demands practice and performance improvements before any ﬁsh are even caught. The client
is then responsible for using the skills on an ongoing basis, although the consultant may be called on for further comment, feedback, and analysis of progress.
The evaluation of the consultant in this case is based on the client’s decreasing need for outside help to sate her hunger at any given moment. A consultant
helping to design and educate managers in creative problem solving might serve
in this capacity. Playing this role, I’ve worked with managers on processes to
empower subordinates.

18

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

There’s nothing sacrosanct about the terms provided in Figure 1-1. The
importance of this type of breakdown, however, is that it is based on the client’s
needs for consulting help and should be used as a template to decide collaboratively what the consultant’s role should be.
Unfortunately, many consultants picture themselves as experts, instructors, or facilitators and never depart from that role. However, as Abraham
Maslow observed, “When the only tool you have is a hammer, you tend to see
every problem as a nail.” Such categorization severely limits the value of a consultant to prospective (and current) clients.
I have a friend who is perceived as an instructor in telemarketing. He is
excellent at what he does, but he ﬁnds it extraordinarily difﬁcult to enlarge client
engagements beyond telemarketing. Yet, when he works with me as an associate,
he is involved in a wide variety of roles and areas. Unfortunately, he has restricted
his considerable talents, not only by focusing on one content area—telemarketing—but even more so by concentrating on one type of intervention—running
training programs. I pointed out that his preparation work for the training
involved lengthy observation on the client’s sites and evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses, which constitute the core of an excellent needs analysis. That in itself
is an analyst role on my chart and one that he should consider as a separate value
for the client, irrespective of whether he ever runs a training program.

One Percent Solution: Unbundle what you do, don’t bundle
it. Your plumber doesn’t offer to redesign your bathroom for
free when the problem is a leaky sink. Don’t try to justify
your fee by throwing in more and more services. That’s a
sign of low self-esteem.

In other words, my friend is already using other interventions and is adept
at them, but he subordinates them to his preconceived role as an instructor.
When I introduce him to my clients, as an associate, his role is determined by
the client’s need, not his own standard one, broadening the value he brings to
the situation. He has since embarked on a plan to create an identical dynamic
within his own client base. (This is very difﬁcult once the client has typecast
you. The key is to avoid a predeﬁned role with prospects so that new clients never
identify you with a single type of intervention.)
Then there’s what I call the pragmatic range of interventions because they
are based on the client’s need and the combination of doing for the client and
helping the client to become self-sufﬁcient—both legitimate goals. The
remainder of this book will assume that the consultant is willing to embrace

WHAT IS A CONSULTANT?

19

a variety of practical interventions. This willingness is the ﬁrst major step
toward exponential growth in business.

TRENDS AND LIKELIHOODS FOR THE COMING
DECADE—LOOKING AROUND THE CORNER
Consulting is a growing profession, both for good reasons and for spurious ones.
The good reasons include these:
• Reduced stafﬁng results in the need for outside specialized help.
• Increasing technological complexity also results in the need for
outside specialized help.
• Growing diversity in the workforce demands new approaches.
• Globalization, including opportunities and security concerns, also
results in the need for outside specialized help.
• Managers who never saw bad times but are now experiencing tough
economies also need specialized help.
• Increasing scrutiny by an educated public and the media also results
in the need for outside specialized help.
• Other national economies need dynamic management modernization.
• Increasing emphasis on quality of life and family obligations also
results in the need for outside specialized help.
• Demographic shifts radically change markets.
• Threats of terrorism and increased vulnerability demand heightened
security.
• Decreasing public conﬁdence in “big business” and government
require the shoring up of both quality and perception of quality.
• Instantaneous communications have created customer-to-customer
dialogues.
The spurious reasons include these:
• There continue to be no licensing or certiﬁcation requirements.
• Consulting is seen as a refuge for people who have been downsized
or are unhappy with corporate insecurities.
• Consulting skills can be appropriated from books, courses, and tapes,
many of which are deﬁcient.
• Fads (such as “open meetings” and “outdooring”) intrigue company
trainers.

20

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

• Management prefers to use outsiders rather than face
unpleasant jobs.
• There is continued overemphasis on personality proﬁling and
behavior predictions instead of focusing on true development.
Unfortunately, consulting will continue to be a profession that readily
grows in quantity but not as readily in quality. The good news, of course, is that
those of us who are providing professional, high-quality services will continue
to grow rich. However, just as the average attorney earns far less than the members of the vaunted, headline-making defense teams (in fact, I was told by an
acquaintance at the American Bar Association that the average attorney in general practice earns less than $90,000 a year), the average consultant will neither
achieve great wealth nor establish a sound enough business to survive tough
times.7 Many consultants are retired people who are seeking to use their speciﬁc
expertise or contacts to remain active, and many more are people holding down
full-time jobs who consult on the side to earn extra income. (All too often, that
work on the side is at the expense of the regular employer’s expertise, time,
and/or materials. I call it white-collar moonlighting, and it is a problem in all organizations that do not fully absorb the professional talents and interests of their
managers. Ironically, the fabulously wealthy creator of the cartoon Dilbert began
drawing it on his former employer’s time.)

One Percent Solution: Economic conditions will demand
that people work longer and perhaps never completely
retire in the traditional manner. Consulting will be a prime
alternative enabling that new dimension of work.

Overall, consulting work has tended to be reactive rather than proactive,
responding to the trends, fads, and whims of the marketplace. Sometimes
those who merely respond fastest are seen as innovators, but in reality, there are
very few who provide new approaches proactively. For example, once In Search

7 The late consulting guru Howard Shenson claimed in his advertisements that there are over

450,000 people engaged in the profession, of whom only 11 percent earn over $50,000 per year.
He cited IRS ﬁgures as his source. A number in the “hundreds of thousands” is also supported by a
prepublication reviewer of one of my manuscripts, John Young, director of the University of
Colorado Executive Programs.

WHAT IS A CONSULTANT?

21

of Excellence8 became a hit over a quarter century ago, there followed a plethora
of consultants, trainers, and preachers who espoused “management by wandering around” and “sticking to the knitting” as though these were mantras whose
very intonation would improve the operation. Today, any momentary “guru’s”
new book spawns a crowd of lemminglike (ratlike?) consultants. I’m weary of
both clients and consultants who chant, like monks at vespers, “I want to go from
good to great.”
When I ask them what that would mean, they say they don’t know and
merely go on chanting.
In actuality, most managers I observed wandering around under such guidance only managed to get in the way and generally had no idea about what to do
while they were wandering. And sometimes it doesn’t matter whether the cheese
is there or not. “Great” isn’t always good. (Do you really need “great” accountants?) In what might be the apotheosis of consulting as a bizarre activity, there
are those today who counsel organizations on how to apply for and try to win
quality awards such as the Baldrige, Deming, or Nikkei prizes. Funny, I thought
those awards recognized quality in products, services, and customer relations.
However, sometimes the pursuit of such recognition is at the cost of tending to
business.9 Fortunately, these activities have faded severely in the face of far more
pragmatic business requirements than award-winning.
Excellent consultants will explore with clients those results that actually
constitute improvements in performance, service, and quality and how well business goals are being met. That is, they will help establish the objectives to be
attained, not merely the alternatives for measuring progress.
For the foreseeable future, we will have to deal with an increasingly sophisticated consumer in an increasingly complex and volatile international economy.
(This does not apply only to large organizations. Local jewelry distributors in
Rhode Island, for example, purchase goods in the Philippines and Korea and
then use immigrant help from Portugal to assemble and ship the merchandise,
which is ultimately sold in New York to Japanese tourists.) The need for consulting help will indeed grow because the marketplace will require it.

8 Thomas J. Peters and Robert H. Waterman, Jr.: In Search of Excellence: Lessons from
America’s Best-Run Companies (New York: Harper & Row, 1982).
9 Florida Power and Light disbanded its quality teams after winning the Baldrige Award
because a new CEO felt that the focus was more on compliance with the team regulations than on
results for the customer. And Cadillac won the award in 1990 even though its quality was below
competitors’ because it had made such dramatic improvements in quality. In other words, if you let
things slip long enough, you look good when you ﬁnally do something about it, and if you’re attentive every day, you don’t have room for dramatic improvement.

22

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

The good reasons for growth listed earlier are largely market-driven,
whereas the spurious reasons are largely consultant-driven.
My belief is that those consultants who are able to deal with high degrees
of ambiguity and who can offer a variety of the intervention roles (often shifting roles within the context of a single assignment) will best be able to provide
the unique, value-added talents that meet client’s needs. The tolerance for
ambiguity is necessary because fewer of these needs will be cut-and-dried and
simple to embrace.
One of my clients asked me to work with a newly appointed division president to enhance his ability to delegate. The parent-group president had identiﬁed this lack as a potentially severe problem because the individual would now
be leading former peers. It would have been easy to have listed the various alternatives for improving delegation skills and to provide the client with options
for implementing them. However, I’ve long since learned that few things in
this business are as they ﬁrst appear and that three things always jointly inﬂuence behavior: individual predispositions, the environment, and interactions
with others. (Hence, my earlier aversion to consulting by personality proﬁling
and testing.)
When I met with the president to explore whether we would work together,
I didn’t approach the conversation as one that would help me to understand a
delegation problem. Instead, I spent the morning learning about the president’s
predispositions, his environment, and his interactions with others. I began to
realize that the president’s ability to delegate was not only a function of his personal skills, but was also related to his team’s willingness to accept delegation,
that there were environmental factors—turf battles, outmoded procedures, and
confusion over mission—that had to be reconciled; and that there were doubts
about whether all the current players were appropriate for their current positions. We spent the morning determining at what level the organization should
be
performing if it were ideally successful and what role the president would be playing in that performance.
What had appeared on the surface to be a counselor’s role in actuality
demanded skills ranging from analyst to collaborator. This became one of my
most successful client interventions ever. The client retained me for ﬁve years at
$100,000 per year, with other projects bringing the total to over $600,000. I’m
convinced that the key to my ability to help that client demonstrably lay in refusing to allow myself to fall into a single preconceived role based on what I’d been
told. Rather, I listened, validated, and joined the client in establishing results that

WHAT IS A CONSULTANT?

23

were to be achieved by any number of activities. By moving among a variety of
roles, I was able to
• Provide facilitation sessions to top management to enhance execution.
• Work one-on-one with senior managers on accepting delegation.
• Visit customers to determine their perceptions of the client’s services.
• Analyze the business and contribute to strategic mission statements.
• Develop the CEO’s personal skills and interpersonal abilities.
• Develop, staff, and administer employee “hot lines.”
• Earn more than a half-million dollars.
The best, longest-lived, and most rewarding client relationships are those
that are based on conceptual agreement of what is to be accomplished. The
“how” is subordinated to the “what”—the end result.
Consulting through the ﬁrst quarter of this new millennium will be most
proﬁtably based on helping the client to establish need and providing the ﬂexibility in intervention roles to meet a wide variety of needs. This is as proactive
as one can reasonably expect to be and avoids the twin pitfalls of attempting to
be a seer of issues over the horizon and being the knee-jerk responder to every
capricious walk-over-hot-coals-while-surviving-in-the-wilderness fad that comes
down the pike.
This has been a general view of the lay of the land. Let’s move on to what’s
between the ears?

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. I’ve been continually asked by human resource people and trainers to cite costs, days,
and deliverables. That is contrary to what you claim is what’s desired: results. What
am I doing wrong?
A. You’re dealing with the wrong people. There are virtually never true economic buyers in human resources, training, or organizational development
departments. Find the real buyers who have proﬁt-and-loss responsibility,
head departments, and so forth. Never deal with gatekeepers or those who
are paid to conserve preexisting budgets.
Q. I’m told that listings on the Internet, using brokers, and optimizing my place on
search engines will gain me more traction. Is this a good investment?

24

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

A. No. Buyers do not troll the Internet looking for consultants. Focus on my
“big three”: buyer-to-buyer referral, commercially published books and
other material, and outstanding performance that you make public.
Q. Won’t we need economies of scale in tough times and be better off joining large organizations? Isn’t the solo consultant going to be being phased out?
A. Au contraire, my friend. The agile and smart independent consultant will be
able to ﬁnd work by providing value on a faster, more nimble basis than those
huge monstrosities (which once were the Big Eight and are now down to
about three). But you can’t be afraid, and you have to have faith—in yourself.

Final Thought: The good news is that anyone can become a
consultant. The bad news is that you had better be able to
establish a market need, develop the competency to ﬁll it, and
have the passion to do so. Two out of three aren’t good enough.

CHAPTER
2

PROPULSION AND
VOLITION
RUDDERLESS SHIPS ARE
ONLY GOOD AT DRIFTING

HOW JOBS GET IN THE WAY OF CAREERS
In the midst of a consulting assignment at Marine Midland Bank in Buffalo
(now part of HSBC), my client was attempting to explain why my help was
needed in trying to align human resources strategies with the organization’s
business strategies.
“Throughout the bank,” she reported, “there are talented people who are
spinning their wheels too frequently, working hard to get things done that make
sense at the moment, but aren’t bona ﬁde contributors to the bank’s goals. We’re
no different within human resources, and we’ve got to be the ones to serve as an
example to others in our consulting work and course offerings.”
“Well,” I responded (always a tremendously safe reply from a consultant),
“if people are too focused on the details of the job at hand, what do we want them
to shift their focus to? It’s easy to say ‘strategic goals,’ but that’s notoriously
hard to do when you’re a middle manager whose phone is ringing every three
minutes.”
“We all should realize that the current job is just one aspect of a full career
within the organization. We need to take a longer-term view of our work. In
fact,” she concluded, “we criticize senior management when they focus only on
short-term issues, allowing quarterly results to interfere with longer-term developmental needs. We should be equally tough on ourselves when we allow our
jobs to get in the way of our careers.”
And so a new concept was born—at least so far as I knew—and a fundamental goal was established for our project. People had to stop allowing their jobs to
interfere with their careers. It was catchy, succinct, and increasingly clear as we
demonstrated the difference between working hard and working smart, between
aiming for short-term, temporary respite and going for long-term enduring
achievement.
25

26

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

I’ve never forgotten that lesson and how well it applies to consulting work.
It is very simple for a consultant to allow the daily travails of the job to become
the entire raison d’etre for the practice, and once that happens—consciously or
subconsciously—time becomes scarce because of the need for establishing work
schedules, arranging for ﬂights, grinding out reports, attending meetings, generating publicity, and so on. The conventional wisdom has us believe that the
major impediment to exceeding a particular sales ﬁgure as a consultant (usually
stated as an average of $300,000) is the impossibility of being in two places at
once: if you are marketing, then you can’t be delivering; if you are at client A,
you can’t be at client B; if you are perceived as a counselor, you can’t be perceived
as a collaborator.
But that particular paradigm is easily shattered once you view your work
as a career that is fulﬁlled by generating a series of client results, not as a succession of jobs or assignments that usurp time until their completion.

One Percent Solution: It is critical that you continually
reduce labor intensity if you intend to create a seven-ﬁgure
practice. Do the math: you don’t have the time to do four or
ﬁve times what you’re doing today. You have to do things
differently.

Here’s a speciﬁc example of such lofty notions. Bob Janson is a good friend
of mine who once was the president of Roy Walters & Associates in New Jersey.
His ﬁrm focused on self-directed work teams and on empowering workers
throughout the organization (hence its value added was expertise, using the
parameters of Chapter 1). Bob consistently referred work to my ﬁrm, and we
collaborated on several projects over the years. During one such collaboration,
I innocently asked him whose responsibility the ﬁnal report would be. I, of
course, was thinking it would be his ﬁrm or mine, and I was ardently hoping that
it would be his because generating reports takes up time.
His response ﬂoored me.
“It’s the client’s responsibility, naturally. Don’t tell me that you usually generate the reports!”
Oh, oh. What had I been missing. . . .
“Don’t you see,” he continued, “this client hasn’t asked for any written
report. He wants a system to improve communications, he needs help in implementing it, and he’ll want us to keep him fully briefed on our progress and plans.
However, he never asked for a report. If he wants one, then we’ll give the basic
information to whomever he designates, and the report can be created by his own
people, in whatever style and format he prefers.”

PROPULSION AND VOLITION

27

This was a very existential moment, one that I categorize as conceptual breakthrough time (CBT). I had always done reports because I regarded reports as a
job that had to be undertaken to demonstrate tangible comletion of certain
aspects of the assignment. If the client didn’t request one, I made sure that I volunteered one. Bob, on the other hand, never did reports because he was focused
on the end results that he had agreed on with the client, and a report is, with rare
exception, never an end result in and of itself. If the client wanted one, Bob had
no objection, so long as it was clear that generating it was the client’s responsibility. Bob isn’t in the business of creating reports—he is in the business of
enhancing client results.
That’s when I began to scrutinize my interactions with clients to determine the extent to which may job was interfering with my career. All of us can
use more time, and that’s understandable. What isn’t understandable is the wasting of already scarce time on jobs that we make for ourselves that have no real,
enduring impact on the results being sought for the client. My list of jobs that
can get in the way of careers is compiled in Figure 2-1. It’s amazing how much
of our time can be dictated by conventional wisdom!1

Regularly scheduled meetings to “keep in touch”
Periodic written reports and updates
Physical trips to the client site when phone calls would sufﬁce
Needs analyses—when what’s wrong is as obvious as a ham sandwich
Presentations of interim results to various groups
Extensive research when the issue is situational and unique
Meals and entertaining—the world’s most abused consulting habit
Sophisticated computer applications that bring no additional value to
the project
Seeking ego strokes
Responses to irrelevant issues and peripheral interests
Telephone calls to “keep in touch,” with no other agenda
Paperwork and record keeping that contribute nothing to performance
Overinvestigating without deciding: “analaysis paralysis”
Figure 2-1 Thirteen ways to let a job get in the way of a career.

1Conventional wisdom, as far as I’ve ever been able to determine, isn’t conventional and isn’t

really wisdom. It is actually a description of tired clichés intended to explain away failure before it occurs.

28

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

One of my consulting colleagues once told me that he was weary of being
on 12 airplanes a month just to attend meetings with a single client organization.
“The meetings really are unimportant in terms of the quality of the project,” he
conﬁded, “but the client has come to expect them.”
Ah, but who set those expectations?

Educating the Client
One of the most important areas to master is that of
educating the client. The client’s expectations will be
formed from your ﬁrst meeting and will be calciﬁed by the
time the proposal is signed. Your conversations, materials,
demeanor, resistance, and other dynamics will subliminally
educate the client about the relationship.
For example, prospects often ask very early, “How long will
this take?” or, “How many days will you be here each week?”
I quickly disabuse them of such notions. “You might see
me several days at a time or not at all for long stretches,
depending on the project’s needs. But you will talk to me
weekly about progress and ﬁne-tuning, that’s for certain,” is
my standard reply.
I don’t want the prospect/client to be counting the days and
dividing them into my fee or to get the idea that my physical
presence equals my value. We control these “learning factors,”
and we must manage them from the outset.

Consulting is one of the very few professions I know of in which the practitioner learns from virtually every assignment, with that learning being carried
to the next assignment and the next client to enhance the value added still further. In other words, each client is paying you to learn, and while the client’s
check is a nonrenewable resource that you cash and spend, the learning is inﬁnitely renewable and applicable. Imagine—a professional calling in which each
client interaction makes you more valuable to prospective clients! I don’t believe
that a surgeon necessarily learns a great deal from each appendectomy, or that a
classroom teacher learns a great deal more from the fortieth explication of the
causes of the French Revolution, or that a soccer goalkeeper learns new techniques after several years on the job.
Now, don’t misunderstand me; all these people can and do learn a
great deal through private study, practice, talks with colleagues, and so on.

PROPULSION AND VOLITION

29

However, very few people have the opportunity to learn continually on the job as a condition of their employment. In fact, all too often we hear of seasoned pros in
various ﬁelds whose claim to fame is that “he’s seen it all before” or that “nothing surprises her.” These are hardly indications of having reached the heights,
however. Usually, they’re indications of the depth of the ruts in which these people are
wallowing.
The learning I’m talking about isn’t merely content learning. It’s mainly
process learning, in terms of the what, why, and how of my craft and my clients’
needs. That’s why I promised in the prior chapter that you’d hear more about
process vs. content. (It’s true that at this point in the game, I can accurately
describe a paper machine’s workings, credibly discuss the role of my enzyme
blockers in pharmaceutical research, and pontiﬁcate on the marketplace for
online advertising in streaming banners or click-through impressions. However,
I hardly consider such abilities to be of great worth in what I’m able to bring to
the next client.)
Early in my career, I was across the desk from the vice president of worldwide personnel for Merck & Co., Steve Darien. It appeared that I was well on
my way to nailing down a key project when Steve asked how I would go about
gathering some of the data required. Thinking that I had the perfect response,
I coolly intoned, “Well, there are three options for doing that.” These I proceeded to describe. Then I asked, “Which do you prefer?” (You’ll read later how
important options are in moving both sales and implementation along.)
To my amazement, and as a fundamental contribution toward my lifelong
learning curve, Steve said, “That’s what you should be telling us. That’s why
you’re here.” Steve didn’t need collaboration on the technique; he wanted an
expert who could recommend precise courses of action and clarify exactly what
would occur. To this day, whenever a client asks how something should be accomplished, I always provide options, together with the pros and cons of each, and
my recommendation as to which makes the most sense from my perspective.
I learned this from a 30-second exchange with Steve in 1986, and I’ve used it to
excellent advantage hundreds of times since.

One Percent Solution: There may be nothing new under the
sun, but there’s a lot out there that you probably haven’t
found yet.

No successful consultant will ever have the same year of experience twice.
In fact, no successful consultant will ever have the same experience twice.

30

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

The Choice of Yeses
Providing a client with a selection from which to choose—
from when to have an initial meeting to how to implement
the project—enhances your ability to move forward by a
factor of 10. You subtly move the thought process from
“Should I use Jane?” to “How should I use Jane?” and from
“Should we move forward?” to “How should we move
forward?” Always provide options—a choice of yeses.

The surest route to maximizing learning and enhancing your value-added
potential is to focus on the results the client requires and prevent jobs and tasks
from receiving undue attention and time. Every project requires a certain degree
of “small picture” attention: follow-through, coordination, checks for accuracy,
validation, and more. However, these are truly ancillary chores.
Similarly, your career as a consultant should not revolve around number of
client engagements (in fact, sometimes quantity is the poorest measure you can
apply), number of prospects contacted, or—worst of all, and more about this in
later chapters—number of billable days. These are activities and tasks. You
should be focusing on the broadening nature of the client work you are able to
undertake, the reputation you are building, the longer-term results you are helping clients to attain, and the widening application of your expertise and experience. These are results that build your career, stimulate you as a professional,
and signiﬁcantly grow your business along the way. Increased numbers of jobs
do not necessarily grow a business, although they can make a business more complex, complicated, and frustrating.
However, an enhanced career is synonymous with an enhanced business.
This is what my friend at Marine Midland was driving at when she wanted to
prevent jobs from interfering with careers. And this is what will account for
ﬁnancial growth as well.

WILL GROWTH CUT YOU DOWN TO
SIZE?—FIRING CLIENTS
The vast majority of consultants fail to grow their businesses because they refuse
to abandon business. A consulting ﬁrm is not like an automobile manufacturer,
which tries to sell as many cars as possible and adjusts production to meet
demand. If its business continues to grow, more assembly-line workers are hired,
new plants are opened, more dealerships are established, and additional middle

PROPULSION AND VOLITION

31

managers are promoted to administer the operations. Conversely, in down times,
top management closes plants, furloughs blue-collar workers, ﬁres white-collar
workers, and stores unsold cars as inventory.
Consultants are vastly different. Growth depends on abandoning some lines
and types of business in the pursuit and acquisition of other, more productive
lines of business. (Remember, growth is not just ﬁnancial. It includes broadening experiences, higher-level contacts, more sophisticated work, and an enhanced
reputation. The real wealth is discretionary time.) For the consultant whose very
lifeblood was sustained originally by $7,500 one-shot contracts and $3,500 speaking engagements, the attitude is usually, “All business is good business, and I’ll
never turn down a paying engagement.”
There are just a few things wrong with this attitude, but they are all deadly:
1. The paint-yourself-in-a-corner syndrome. Reputation works in all
directions. If you are known as an “inexpensive alternative,” a
“very reasonable speaker,” or “desperate to accept any job,” this is
the way prospects will approach you. If word of mouth stipulates
that your fee is $1,000 on a per-diem basis, a prospect will estimate
that your services are required for a week and be conﬁdent that
you will cost him less than $6,000. The fact that the project is
worth $175,000 in productivity enhancements to the client won’t
matter, nor will the fact that it would cost $25,000 for the client
to accomplish the job with internal resources, even if that were
possible.
2. Quality, not quantity, is the sole measure of success. A friend of mine,
Mike Robert, has established a worldwide training ﬁrm from scratch.
In fact, from less than scratch—he resigned from a former employer,
struck out on his own, and never looked back. In 1988 we
collaborated on a book,2 during the writing of which he commented
that approaches to direct mail were off base. “People are looking for
a response of 11/2 to 2 percent to represent success,” he pointed out,
“which is simply an arbitrary number. If you mail out 10,000 pieces,
all you need is one very high-quality response.” Mike has based his
business on this premise—ﬁnd one client and do a great deal of work
there rather than ﬁnd 10 clients and do a little work with each. As a
consultant, you are far better served doing $50,000 in business with a
single client than doing $5,000 with each of 10 clients. Accepting all
business as quantitatively equal, no matter what the quality, dilutes
2
Michel Robert and Alan Weiss, The Innovation Formula: How Organizations Turn Change into
Opportunity (New York: Harper & Row, 1988).

32

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

effort and confuses perceptions. (And $50,000 from one client is far
more proﬁtable than $10,000 from each of ﬁve clients. It’s not what
you make in this business; it’s what you keep.)
3. Effort applies to tasks, whereas payoff applies to results. While managing a
national ﬁeld force for a training company, I discovered that it
requires as much time to sell a $10,000 project as to sell a $100,000
project. The number of calls, the nature of the proposals, the types
of competitive threats, and the overall time required are amazingly
consistent. Thus, if each of my salespeople had x hours in a day, and
both sales required the same amount of time investment, which kind
did I want them pursuing? This was real rocket science, right? The
only difference is in the attitude of the salesperson, and a similar
attitude is necessary for the consultant. The efforts required to
attract, administer, and deliver small assignments are virtually the
same as those for larger assignments, so you are not making up in
volume what you lose in size. By accepting any business that comes
along, the consultant is doomed to poor investments of time, and she
will ﬁnd it increasingly difﬁcult to break out of the box.
Every time you raise your fees and/or refuse to make concessions to gain
business, you will lose the bottom 15 percent of your market. Million dollar consultants regularly abandon the bottom 15 percent of their market as a growth
strategy because it frees them to expand the upper reaches of their market.
Every two years or so, you should be able to look back and identify assignments that
you would not bid on or accept today. If you are accepting the same types of assignments at the same fees today as you were two years ago, you have not abandoned
the bottom 15 percent of your market, and therefore you probably haven’t
expanded the top 5 percent of your market (which is far, far more proﬁtable).
You cannot retain all types of business and expect to grow. Continuing to take
on everything means that your growth in expertise and repute aren’t advancing.

Digression
I’m writing this in 2009, a record year for me, while
traveling less than 15 percent of the time and working
perhaps 20 hours a week. And 75 percent of my income
originates with services and clients that were not in
existence for me ﬁve years ago. That is the continual
reinvention that is possible if you choose not to waste time
and energy holding onto poor business.

PROPULSION AND VOLITION

33

I’ve been speaking rather harshly of abandoning business. But that’s
because you must not equivocate on this issue. You must stop accepting the business. However, there are alternatives to simply dumping the client, and there are
ways to attend to clients who, while they may not represent your future, were
certainly instrumental in paying the rent in the past.
• Establish alliances with consultants who are where you were two
years ago. There is always a wealth of such talent eager to align itself
with more established practitioners in order to learn, obtain business,
and network. Refer your bottom-end work to talented protégés who
will do an excellent job, bring credit to you for the reference, and
provide continuity and support for a valued client.3 (It is generally not
a good idea to have such people on your own staff to perform this
work because your ﬁrm will still be associated with it, which is no
different from you being associated with it. Talent agents who handle
regional theater actors are not called by major stars.)
• Explain to the client personally that you can’t handle such
assignments cost-effectively anymore, that you are not using that fact
as an excuse to raise fees, and that you will refer some people to the
client for consideration as a replacement. In this case, the client
knows that you are helping her make the transition at no charge and
that the people you are referring may not be well known by you. The
responsibility for choosing someone appropriate and compatible is
then clearly the client’s.
• If it is a regularly scheduled series of assignments, appearances, or
workshops, let the client know that the next one, next month’s, or
this year’s will be the last you can do. Provide the client with this
kind of leeway and advance notice, and continue to demonstrate that
you are doing the exact same high-quality job you’ve always done.
• Offer to transfer the skills to the client, if appropriate. Suggest some
internal alternatives, and work with the client to replace your
expertise. Demonstrate the value of the catch-ﬁsh-for-yourself
approach in Chapter 1. It is fair and reasonable to charge a fee for
such a transition, and it’s generally easy to justify it in terms of the
3Although it’s not the topic of this chapter, a word on ﬁnder’s fees, or commissions: whether
you take a percentage of the fee for the referral is a matter of individual strategy. If you do, I feel
that you have a heightened ethical responsibility for the quality of the results. Moreover, you are
exacting a relatively small amount of money for yourself and a relatively large amount of money for
your colleague. My preference is to create a “win/win/win” situation by expecting no consideration
yourself other than your colleague’s inclination to ask you to participate in projects too large for
him to handle in the future.

34

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

cost savings of having the skills present internally, whenever required.
Offer to support the internal person by phone and mail whenever
help is needed.
• If the client is a local site of a larger organization, explain that it’s
time to move up to the parent. You’ve gone as far as you can go with
the excellent support of local management, but you have assessed
that the time is right to try to inﬂuence changes of policy at the
corporate level. You are not abandoning your local client, but there
is little more you can effectively do without intercession from
higher authority. In this manner, you are moving to a higher level in
your market by moving to a higher level within your client’s
organization. If you have a good relationship locally, management
should be willing to make introductions at a higher level. If
management refuses, you are in a business relationship that you
should abandon anyway.

TWELVE TRIP WIRES THAT INDICATE
IT’S TIME TO LEAVE
Whether you are a one-person, entrepreneurial consulting practice or the leader
of a growing ﬁrm of professional and administrative people, you must consciously and consistently abandon business that is
1. Beneath your growing fee structure
2. Unchallenging (“I can do this with my eyes closed.”)
3. Providing a reputation that does not ﬁt your growth strategy
(“They train secretaries.”)
4. Overly specialized (“They know everything about
packaging.”)
5. Unable to attract the kind of talent you want in your ﬁrm
(uninteresting assignments)
6. Unable to attract the kind of references you need
7. In areas and industries that are not themselves growing
8. Unpleasant and/or has rude and offensive people
9. Unethical in its actions and/or borderline illegal
10. Harsh in its demands for travel, support, and other
logistics

PROPULSION AND VOLITION

35

11. Not within your strategic intent (strictly domestic when you are
trying to grow internationally)
12. Detracting from your discretionary time
Finally, there is a clarion-clear call that demands that you carefully examine your markets and clients to make hard, steely decisions about leaving some
of them. No matter how easy it is to accept a small assignment that comes
over the phone without effort or how relieving it is to make a concession for a
lower fee when business is hurting, these bottom-end pieces of business are
simply not that proﬁtable. They bring in revenue, not proﬁt. I’ve seen consultants spend $4,500 of their time, materials, and overhead to deliver a $5,000
assignment.
“Oh, it’s OK,” they assure me, “because the business comes in at $5,000
like clockwork ﬁve or six times a year.” Yeah, and they spend $4,500 like clockwork each time (or worse, $5,500).
You don’t make this up on volume.

Digression
While sitting at the pool at a major professional convention,
I met a woman who said that she was there merely to be
able to spend time with her husband, who spent 220 days on
the road each year ﬁlling 110 daily assignments.
“Why doesn’t he double his fee, halve his clients, and spend
twice as much time with you?” I asked, providing rare free
advice.
“Oh, he could never demand that!” she laughed.
If she (and he) believe that, then he can’t.

It doesn’t matter at all—not at all—what your billings are or how much you
make. The only thing that matters is how much you keep.
Ninety percent of all my billings go to the bottom line. That’s right, I lose
only 10 percent of revenues to nonreimbursed expenses and overhead. If you
generate $100,000 in revenue, an overhead of 35 percent means that you will
have $65,000 of pretax income, whereas an overhead of 10 percent means that
you will have $90,000 in pretax income. The trick, of course, is to increase
revenue while decreasing overhead, and this is exactly what million dollar consultants do.

36

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

One of the most important elements of that strategy is to abandon the
bottom 15 percent of your market on a regular basis. Another is to be crystal
clear about your business goals.

TRUE NORTH (THE ROAD NOT TRAVELED)
Every consulting business—large or small, local or international, specialized or
general—has a motive force. This force is its raison d’etre, its self-concept. The
problem is that while this should be a conscious force, it’s often an unconscious
one, created by default, by the market, by the clients, or—worst of all—by the
competition.
Financial results are only one indicator of success. In fact, it’s the ability to
meet longer-term, predetermined goals that is the true measure of ultimate
ﬁnancial success. Without such nonﬁnancial goals, your ship is rudderless,
depending on the winds and tides of the marketplace.
Strategic goals are intended to provide not just the direction but also the
propulsion that enables you to navigate despite the treachery of the currents. In
our marketplace, “currents” are better known as fads, “winds” as perceptions, and
“tides” as economic conditions.
What goals do you have for your business? When I ask most consultants/principals this question, they say something like
• “We want to be the biggest ﬁrm of our kind.”
• “We want to continually grow our business.”
• “We want to help clients achieve the best results possible.”
• “We want to be on the leading edge of developments in our ﬁeld.”
• “We want to reward the people in the business commensurate with
their contribution.”
This is hardly the stuff on which to plan your future. Oh, these are all
noble enough sentiments, but they could apply to dry cleaning, driveway paving,
or accounting, not to mention mufﬂer repair and tractor maintenance.
During one stage of my life, I traveled over an hour to Boston just to have
my hair cut by a woman who did a superb job. I don’t have great hair, but she had
great scissors. She was in constant demand. I asked her one day why she thought
she was so successful. (Consultants have a way of always trying to ﬁnd the common denominator. It isn’t poetry, but it’s good consulting.)
Her response was a revelation: she thought she was in a unique business.
“Hairdressers have the consent to touch the customer,” she explained. “This

PROPULSION AND VOLITION

37

creates a very close bond, although it doesn’t seem so. That’s why I ﬁnd out so
much about my customers and why they share things with me that they would
never share in any other business relationship.”
“Isn’t that a rather glorious view?” I pontiﬁcated. “After all, most people
simply would say that you cut and style hair, wouldn’t they?”
“Name me another professional in your life who physically touches you and
moves your position around like this.”
“Ahhhh . . . a doctor.”
“Right! And that’s who most people pick. But a doctor is threatening. You
see, I’m as close to people as their doctor gets, but I’m nonthreatening. People
come to me not just because I do their hair well, but also because they enjoy the
relationship. So do I.”
I thought about that conversation long and hard and came to realize that
her success was largely based on her personal, clearly deﬁned image of her business and her place in it. It was irrelevant whether you agreed with her or not.
(After all, I ﬁnally concluded, manicurists touch you, and so do tailors, and people seem very willing to talk to strange bartenders who never touch them.)
Her vision of her business and her goals was unique, clear, and tangible enough
for her to act on. In other words, she encouraged people to talk (the few who
didn’t like to would go elsewhere), was an excellent listener, remembered details
about customers from month to month, and was acutely aware of her role in the
relationship. She often asked about my kids and would tell me stories of her own
kids, but she didn’t offer advice and was never judgmental except about what
looked good on top of my head.
Here are some of the best goals I’ve heard from consultants—best because
they are clear, unique to the profession, and tangible enough to base tactics on,
day in and day out:
• “We will undertake consulting assignments that result in direct
contributions to the client’s proﬁtability as measured by quarterly
results.”
• “We will assist in the outplacement of people in a cost-effective
manner, while always respecting the dignity and needs of those
leaving the organization.”
• “We will design and implement workshops that result in demonstrable
behavior changes on the job, as determined by customer feedback.”
• “We will enter into collaborative relationships in which responsibility
is shared with the client, skills are transferred to the client, and
dependence on us is gradually diminished to the point of
disengagement.”

38

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

• “We will assist clients in enhancing the productivity of their people
through needs analyses, enhanced communication, and joint decision
making.”
• “We will accept only short-term, value-added consulting assignments
with speciﬁc result objectives and measurements that will be
fee-based. We will unconditionally guarantee our work.”
You don’t need pages of goals. In fact, they should be brief enough for you
and your colleagues to keep in mind at all times, particularly when you’re in front
of a prospect or during an engagement, because operating decisions should be
dictated by those goals. I have found that sound goals are not hooked to any particular ﬁnancial ﬁgure, do assume personal responsibility, are unequivocal (I will
or we will), and include some form of outcome. They are often based on the speciﬁc kind of expertise or talent you bring to bear (outplacement), philosophy
(collaboration), process skills (needs analyses, decision making), and/or timing
(quarterly results, short-term assignments).
Speciﬁc goals are extraordinarily useful in explaining to prospects why they should
hire you. Your goals should appear brieﬂy in your literature and should serve to
set your ﬁrm apart. You should be able to explain them in 60 seconds to anyone
who asks. (Any consultant who can’t explain precisely and speciﬁcally what he
does in less than a minute needs to go sit in the corner. How many cocktail
parties have you been to at which someone is asked what they do and takes the
next 30 minutes rambling on without giving a clue? You can bet 5 to 2 that the
person is a consultant and 10 to 1 that she is not good at it. Would it take any of
your clients over a minute to tell you what kind of business they are in?

Goals provide a rudder for you to steer with and enable
clients and prospects to understand what you can provide.
How can a client clearly understand what you provide, and
distinguish you from others, if you can’t do that yourself?

Figure 2–2 provides a basis for establishing goals. If you can’t articulate
what it is you stand for and what you are trying to accomplish in a client engagement, then don’t even walk out your door. If you do, you’re likely to accept
assignments for monetary reasons alone, which means that you’ll often be over
your head in expertise or up to your rear in alligators. Your goals will be set, if
not by you consciously, then by the marketplace, or the situation, or the client.
And those goals will be impossible to live with because they will change each day.
Your business won’t be growing; it will be circling.

PROPULSION AND VOLITION

39

Expertise and talent

Types of client interaction

Contribution to proﬁt
Enhanced communication
Market share
Quality and service
Strategy formulation
Employee assistance
Motivation and morale
Community service

Productivity of employees
Employee participation
Customer satisfaction
Innovation and creativity
Problem solving
Research and development
Priorities/time management
Safety and regulatory matters

Design-to-market timing

Adult learning

Figure 2-2 A basis for establishing goals. Goals can be based on personal talent, client
need, or both.

One ﬁnal thought: Goals can change as your business grows and matures.
They should be reexamined regularly (particularly if you are successfully abandoning the bottom 15 percent of your market) for modiﬁcations. You don’t want
to be known to prospects as something that you used to be, and you don’t want
to invest in actions dictated by your own outmoded perception of who you are.
A ﬁrm whose call was “to provide the best objective and rational decision-making skills” for clients may now see itself as “providing the best thinking skills,
combining rational and intuitive approaches” as it has found and adopted additional technologies and disciplines.
If your consulting business is to grow, your goals have to grow and expand.
The more frequently this occurs, the better you’re doing.

AS IN SHOW BUSINESS, TIMING IS EVERYTHING
I recall watching Johnny Carson’s Tonight Show one evening during his
prime when his guests were Richard Pryor and Milton Berle, the former seated
on the couch and the latter holding court in the guest’s chair. Berle and Carson
had established some nice shtick when Pryor attempted to interject something,
which had the result of throwing cold water over the proceedings.
In the ensuing awkward silence, Berle leaned over to Pryor and hissed, loud
enough for the mike to pick up, “I told ya, kid, pay attention to the timing. Timing is everything.” He was saying this to someone who went on to be one of the
most iconic comics of his generation.

40

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

There is neither a good time nor a bad time to enter the consulting profession or to attempt to enlarge an existing practice. Good economies or bad don’t really
matter. I began my practice in the mid–1980s, not a great economy, and many of
us are having great years in the midst of the market catastrophes of 2008.
Many people assume that poor market and economic conditions augur well
for consulting, since ﬁrms are in trouble then and need more help. Fortunately
or unfortunately, this axiom has never applied to my ﬁrm, since we tend to work
with excellent companies that don’t use hard times as a trigger for consulting
assistance.

One Percent Solution: Don’t suddenly become a “downturn
specialist” when things are tough. Stick with your core
strength. Companies need value, strength, and competitive
advantage in down times, as in all times.

Similarly, good times don’t automatically generate business, because during good times, few ﬁrms are enlightened enough to look beyond the short term
and focus on the fundamental needs and challenges.
The timing I’m most concerned with is that of being in the right place at
the right time, and this means being in front of the buyer with a back scratcher
when the buyer has an itch. You don’t have to be physically present, of course, but
you must be present in spirit. Now, many marketers who are experts at their work
will tell you that it’s your responsibility to create the need (or at least to help the
client to express it in such a way that you are the likely candidate to meet it).
I don’t “sell,” and I don’t associate selling with the consulting business I like
to generate—especially if selling means anything other than convincing the prospect that he has a need and that I’m the one to ﬁll it.
You see, such marketing and selling depend on what I call the one person,
one situation approach. That is, you must personally visit, convince, follow up,
and attend to the various leaks that occur when you’re trying to ﬂoat a proposal.
Thus, you’re limited to the number of people in front of whom you can reasonably appear, and you’re limited by their lack of initial agreement on the exact
need you’re trying to convince them exists.
I prefer a timing approach to increasing business. That timing is based on
the prospective client (or current client) feeling an itch at any given moment and
immediately thinking of you as having the back scratcher.
Note that this isn’t dependent on your being someplace, or on your convincing the client of the need, or on carefully constructed proposals.

PROPULSION AND VOLITION

41

The client is calling you. This approach is not mutually exclusive with other
approaches, but it does make life a whole lot easier.
As you read this paragraph, potential buyers of your services all over the
country (and the world) are reaching decisions that they need help with. And
over the ensuing day, week, month, or quarter, they will go about securing that
help. Some of them will choose consultants with whom they already work; others will rely on recommendations; still others, probably the majority, will engage
in some type of hunt, from the informality of making phone calls to the formality of requesting bids and proposals. I talked about the ways in which organizations choose consultants in Chapter 1, and in later chapters I’ll talk about
how to maintain contact with clients and prospects over the long haul.
What I want to address here is the combination of these two elements: the
merging of the prospect’s need (occurring at some unanticipated time) with the
awareness of your potential to ﬁll that need (from repeated contacts and visibility). This is the essence of the timing approach.
This is a state of mind that you must buy into philosophically and strategically before you can make it work tactically. That is, you must be convinced
that it is far more powerful to have the buyer call you than it is for you to call
the buyer.
The traditional response to growing personal service businesses has been
the atavistic feet-on-the-street approach. Hire more people to make more calls
to close more business. However, this is a quantitative approach to selling, not a
qualitative one, and the obituaries of failed companies are ﬁlled with overly optimistic sales forecasts based on the number of people seen and the likelihood that
they would buy simply because someone managed to get into their ofﬁce.
When you’re invited into someone’s ofﬁce, the equation changes considerably. Instead of justifying your presence and your demands on the buyer’s time,
you are working together to collaborate on a problem that the buyer feels comfortable addressing with you.
Thus, your marketing thrust should not be the number of people you see,
promoting your approaches to likely buyers, or—heaven forbid—making cold
sales calls. (Do you buy from the person who calls you at 8:30 at night offering
rare Turkestan oil futures?) You should be endeavoring to make your name, ﬁrm,
and talents known to as wide a variety of prospects as possible.
We’ll examine speciﬁc options later, but it’s important that you acknowledge and embrace this fundamental position here. During a typical week, my
ﬁrm has historically received 2 requests for proposals, 4 inquiries about speaking engagements, 50 orders for books, and 12 or more inquiries for literature
about our consulting activities from organizations for which we have never done
any work. These are leads exclusive of current client work and extensions of current work.

42

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Conservatively, this is about 100 leads per month, or 1,000 per year. If
10 percent of these leads result in short-term business (within 12 months) and
the average contract is $50,000, that’s half a million dollars generated from prospects developing a need and knowing that they should contact me.
In actuality, 10 percent is a fairly low ﬁgure, and over the longer term—
12 to 36 months—we (and you) are likely to do business with 20 percent or more
of these leads.
Figure 2–3 shows how to stimulate people contacting you at any stage of
your career, from neophyte to veteran. I call this market gravity because its intent
is to draw people to you. When people approach you (“I’ve heard about your
work and would like to see if you may be in a position to assist us”), the dynamic
is substantially changed from cold calling (“Who are you, and why should I
listen to you?”).
Here’s what to do:
• Pro bono work. By aiding organizations for free, your work and
relationships will grow in their repute and numbers. Suggestion:
Never do pro bono work for a proﬁt-making entity, no matter how
good the exposure. Make sure you are working with potential
recommenders and buyers from prospective clients with whom you
will be a peer by dint of your common pro bono work.

Pro bono work
Networking

Commercial publishing

Products

Position papers

Alliances

Radio interviews

Teaching

TV appearances

Print interviews
Referrals

Your services
and
relationships

Print newsletters

Passive listings
Speaking

Third-party endorsements

Web site, Blog

Trade association leadership

Electronic newsletters
Word of mouth

Figure 2-3 Creating market gravity.

Advertising

PROPULSION AND VOLITION

43

• Commercial publishing. Books are golden; articles and op-ed pieces
are great.
• Position papers. Create articles for your press kit and Web site that
position you as an authority in your ﬁeld. They should be
nonpromotional and packed with speciﬁc techniques and high value.
Establish your expertise and your position as a “go to” person.
• Radio interviews. These are relatively easy to obtain. Take out a listing
on Expertclick.com and/or in the Directory of the National Press
Association. Suggestion: Never pay a radio station to let you host a show.
That’s a scam. The talent is supposed to be the payee, not the payer.
• TV appearances. These are also easier than suspected through the
sources mentioned previously, especially on cable and local afﬁliates.
Again, do not pay money to be on a “former big name’s” show. These
make money only for the producers and the semicelebrities.
• Advertising. From the local Yellow Pages to national directories, some
feasibility buyers search such listings to generate alternatives.
• Passive listings. These are listings in buyers’ guides and various
industry sources; they are akin to advertising, but are simply entries.
They are also quite common on the Internet.
• Speaking. This is one of the best sources of generating attraction.
Speak for free if you must, as long as you are in front of buyers or at
least recommenders.
• Web site. Picture this as a much more ﬂexible media kit than your
hard-copy presentation folder. Load it with articles, techniques, and
value to compel people to return (e.g., a new article every month)
and to tell others. (This is also an excellent place to sell products.)
• Blog. This is related to a Web site. Use a blog to regularly (very
important) post text, audio, and even video that promote your expertise
and “go to” status. (See my blog, http://www.contrarianconsulting.com,
to see how conducive these are to multimedia use.)
• Electronic newsletters. Send them out for free. Keep them brief and
nonpromotional. Encourage people to forward them to others. One
page a month should take you all of 30 minutes.
• Word of mouth. Do you have a clever tagline (e.g., “The Telephone
Doctor”); is your business card in people’s hands; do you have
interesting handouts?
• Trade association leadership. Take the ugliest, hardest positions, such as
treasurer or head of volunteers. Become president. You’ll be
interviewed, referred to, and highly visible in the community,
profession, and/or industry.

44

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

• Third-party endorsements. Ask every single client, every single time, for
a testimonial letter, reference, referral, or blurb for a publication.
(Have you recognized the choice of yeses I just provided?)
• Print newsletters. Although they’re more time-consuming and
expensive, print newsletters are more impressive than electronic ones
and tend to stay around longer. You can use a common format every
month with a local printer. Use guest articles to save you work.
• Referrals. Ask everyone you know for leads. Don’t you recommend
people to your dentist and your lawyer? Why shouldn’t they be
referring people to you? Ask them every three months.
• Print interviews. Provide human interest or business angles to the
local media to secure interviews for you.
• Teaching. Apply to be an adjunct professor at the local university,
community college, or trade school one night a week. It looks great
on your biographic data and will generate visibility.
• Alliances. Find someone who has the marketing clout that you don’t,
and for whom you have the competencies they lack, and create a
synergy wherein 1 ⫹ 1 ⫽ 186.
• Products. Create tapes, pamphlets, booklets, checklists, manuals,
books, and other high-value learning tools both for income and
for visibility.
• Networking. Provide value to people who can, in turn, provide value to
you. Attend a function where this is possible at least one night a week.
How many of these things are you currently engaged in? How many are
you capable of? I can guarantee that you’re not doing enough.
Implement new aspects of my “gravity” every month until the attraction
is overwhelming. It’s cost-effective and relatively simple. If you want to make
money, you have to draw people to you, not beat their doors down.

Digression
Let me bring up what some call “social media” at this point.
I’ve researched and experimented with these alternatives
ever since my blog posts questioning their efﬁcacy in
marketing brought down the wrath of the cultists.

PROPULSION AND VOLITION

45

I’ve found alternatives such as LinkedIn to be fairly effective mechanisms for keeping in touch with people and ﬁnding
traditional jobs, but they’re pretty hopeless as a marketing
device for consultants who want to reach corporate, economic
buyers.
Limit your time on Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, and whatever else is invented between the time I write this and you read
it, because this is not where true buyers hang out or look for
resources. As marketing tools, these are very low priority and
often painfully stupid. (“Albert is working late tonight.” Now
there’s a piece of news that makes my time on the Internet
worthwhile!)

Up to this point, I’ve tried to establish what the lay of the land looks like
and why it’s important to clarify what’s in your head. Your growth— personally,
professionally, and ﬁnancially—is predominantly a function of your view of the
marketplace and your role within it.
If your mind focuses on making phone calls from the moment you awaken,
for example, then you will take pains to ensure that you are uninterrupted in
making phone calls while you are in the ofﬁce. Your behaviors and actions will
adjust accordingly, and you will tend to view your success in terms of your ability to make phone calls. However, if your philosophy of the business calls for a
more strategic focus, then your behaviors and actions are likely to be much
broader and more innovative in scope, organized to establish that reputation
through a variety of means (within which the telephone will play a proper,
minor role).
Only you determine how you act toward your business; the market
doesn’t, the prospect doesn’t, and the competition shouldn’t.
The opening to Part 1 of this book cites Matsuo Basho, and his philosophy
is as applicable now as it was three centuries ago. Don’t look around at other consultants and decide how to do what they do, only better. Look at the marketplace,
evaluate what you have to offer and to which buyers, and decide how best to get
those buyers to come to you while continually abandoning the bottom slice of
your market to expand the top slice.
If you can maintain this state of mind, you’re ready to grow.

46

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. Shouldn’t I wait until I’m absolutely consumed by business before I start abandoning or ﬁring clients?
A. You will never be consumed that way, nor do you want to be. Do you want
to make a million dollars by working 60 hours a week or by working 40 hours
a week (or even 20 hours a week)? Besides, if you don’t abandon the small
stuff, you’ll have no room to handle the big stuff.
Q. What is the ﬁne line between following up with prospects and hounding them?
A. It doesn’t matter; trample the line, rub it out, obscure it. This is a business.
If you feel you have value for someone, you’re not hounding him if you’re
trying to help him. Is your dentist “hounding” you by helping to prevent
gum disease (which can cause heart problems)?
Q. Isn’t it tough to educate clients who have been educated incorrectly by countless
consultants before me?
A. Yes, but what’s your point? You don’t want to follow in the footsteps of fools
of old.

Final Thought: Your state of mind should be that you don’t
have to “prove yourself “ to anyone or knock people’s door
down. Create sufﬁcient attraction so that people approach
you interested in how you might be of help. In this dynamic,
fees are academic.

CHAPTER
3

BREAKAWAY SPEED
ACHIEVING ESCAPE V ELOCITY

THE SUCCESS TRAP
Success may be responsible for the death of more consulting endeavors than
failure is. When a strong person fails, she is likely to examine the causes of her
defeat, determine what must be done to prevail in the future, and take steps to
try again. Strong people learn from their setbacks and emerge all the stronger.
Success, after all, is never ﬁnal, and defeat is seldom fatal; it’s perseverance that
counts, to paraphrase Winston Churchill. (Woody Allen once said that 80 percent of success is “just showing up.”)
When a proposal I’ve submitted is not accepted or I ﬁnd that a competitor
has been chosen for an assignment that wasn’t offered to me, I always investigate
the reasons. I’m relieved on those occasions when I learn that I didn’t get the
business because someone else had an “in” with the client or because a competitor offered to provide something that was completely beyond my capabilities or
motivation or fee structure. I call this kind of situation an uncontrollable rejection
because it’s unlikely that anything I could have done would have changed the
outcome.
However, when I discover that the competition provided for an intervention I just hadn’t thought about, met a client’s need in a more innovative way, or
simply outﬂanked or outthought me, I strive to ﬁnd out how I can prevent a
recurrence. This is a controllable rejection, which is business lost because I failed
to do something that I could have done and would have been willing to do and
that might have changed the outcome in my favor.
The good thing about studying controllable rejection is that you learn a
great deal about how to improve your business.
For example, I can’t learn or improve much by determining that I lost a
contract because the client preferred someone who happened to be located a mile
from the site while I was an airplane trip away. However, I can learn a great deal
47

48

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

by determining that the competition attended preliminary discussions using
three people who, acting as a team, provided the client with a feeling of depth
and competent support that I, acting alone, couldn’t provide.
I once lost a survey project at USA Today for which I was a ﬁnalist (and was
told that I had the inside track) because the ultimate winner offered in his proposal to train management in how to convey to employees both the survey results
and the actions that management intended to take as a result of those ﬁndings.
I had never thought to do this because every prior survey project I had obtained
had involved long-distance data gathering only, with one-on-one meetings with
the top executive to discuss results. However, I would have been quite willing to
do this, I had the capacity to do it, and I could have done it in a cost-effective
manner.
As a result of this particular controllable rejection, I now provide the option
of management education in every survey proposal. Quite a few clients and prospects have complimented me on this follow-through and have been willing to
pay slightly more to use it. As an extension of this tactic, I’ve since added sixmonth and one-year follow-up days to all my strategy work. The extra days cost
me virtually nothing, yet they provide the client with a sense of continuation and
long-term interest and enable me to remain visible on a scheduled basis.

One Percent Solution: If success is a plateau, it will erode
eventually, right under your feet. But if it’s a steady climb,
you’re always looking up.

Although I was very disciplined about ﬁnding out why I’d been rejected,
I found that I had seldom asked for the reasons that led to my being selected by
a client. Success will do that to you. After all, you were trying to get the business, you did a ﬁne job in your preparation and proposal, and the client demonstrated superb judgment in selecting you. What else is there to know?
Enough of these successes, however, can lead you into a trap because you’re
so busy scheduling implementation and cashing checks that you aren’t growing
in any other dimensions. Million dollar consultants don’t get that way by doing
one thing well over and over. They succeed to the extent that they do because
they evolve with the times and grow with increasing challenges.
Consequently, you should always try to stretch your applications and abilities until you are rejected so that you can ﬁnd out why. We hear about test pilots
“pushing the envelope.” They don’t know what a plane can do until they discover
what it can’t do. Then the designers can try to improve on that.

BREAKAWAY SPEED

49

The only way to improve on success is to experience rejection.
Successful consultants do not experience uninterrupted
success. Instead, they ensure that they stretch their abilities
until they are rejected so that they know what additional
growth is required. Uninterrupted success leads to
inevitable failure—the success trap.

If you’re not failing, then you’re not trying!
A couple of years ago I received a request for a bid from the New York City
Housing Authority. It was for design and implementation of comprehensive
middle-management programs, something I don’t normally do, particularly on
the scale requested. After determining that I could provide (or acquire) the
expertise and resources needed, I bid on the project, the bid alone required about
25 hours of work.
The award day came and went, and I heard nothing, so I followed up, facing that particularly perverse bureaucratic delay that public agencies have such
expertise in. However, I persevered and found out three months later that the
project had been awarded to Booz Allen. I also found that Booz Allen
• Had provided much more detail than I had.
• Had provided for more participant materials than I had.
• Had attended the preliminary conferences (I did not).
• Had provided more biographical information than I had.
• Had bid, successfully, over $100,000 more than I had!
My follow-up on this rejection had become quite a learning opportunity.
When I am requested to bid on large public projects now, I make careful calculations about such factors, determine ﬁrst whether to bid, and then determine
how. Now I bid on only a tenth of such requests and am quite careful about
how I do so. However, bidding on that project and ﬁnding out why I was rejected
made a signiﬁcant contribution to my learning curve. As a result, I have had
very productive relationships with dozens of public organizations such as the
Federal Bureau of Prisons, the New York Ofﬁce of Business Permits and Regulatory Affairs, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and the City University
of New York.
It was in this process that I learned that my books, experience, and intellectual
property can often qualify me as a “sole source” resource, meaning that the client and
I can circumvent the cumbersome competitive bidding process.

50

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

When I meet consultants who claim to have experienced unfettered success (and by the way, I never meet consultants who are doing poorly; it’s as rare
as meeting a losing politician who isn’t proud that “we got our message across”),
I ﬁnd that such success is usually lateral. They continue to apply their expertise
in a repetitive manner. While they may enjoy modest ﬁnancial growth, the other
measures of growth (reputation, experience, expertise, learning, self-actualization) remain stagnant.
Most important, however, their ﬁnancial growth will be arithmetic and will
never lead to geometric increases. These are the consultants to whom conventional wisdom does apply—they are “capped” by the logical extensions of their
particular content and personal time.
Richard Foster has presented an “S-curve theory” that explains why
organizations do not become more innovative than they are.1 I’ve modiﬁed it
somewhat to demonstrate how million dollar consultants become innovative
through constant expansion of their potential clients and projects.
In Foster’s S-curve, a product, process, or performance begins a steep
growth pattern after its buyers accept it. This growth continues until it
plateaus—usually because of competitive offerings, changes in perception,
changing conditions, or buyers simply tiring of the offering. Then a new S-curve
begins. I’ve modiﬁed this for consulting ﬁrms’ growth.
The magic number for a new consulting ﬁrm is about three years. After
that, the original contracts probably have been exhausted, contracts from a former employer have expired, and start-up momentum has been spent. In other
words, it’s time to determine whether you are a going concern or simply a person who had good contacts. All ﬁrms plateau periodically. For start-up operations,
this is due to the factors I’ve just mentioned. For well-established ﬁrms, it is due
to one’s technology and expertise becoming dated (i.e., left brain–right brain
thinking has been authoritatively debunked, the star-cow-dog strategy approach
is now a yawn, and people realize that perspiration and not motivation is responsible for the ability to tread on hot coals), expanded competition entering the
picture (to offer “managing total quality,” “total quality management,” “total management quality,” etc.), and/or client and market conditions undergoing basic
change (economic uncertainty doesn’t favor placement ﬁrms, and economic
upturns don’t favor outplacement ﬁrms).
Unexamined, repetitive success in limited ﬁelds will lead to a perpetuation
of the plateau, which ultimately results in the success trap. By the time the lack
of growth begins to take its toll in the form of a diminished client base, declining visibility, weariness from lack of stimulation, and inability to attract talent,

1

Richard N. Foster, Innovation: The Attacker’s Advantage (New York: Summit Books, 1986).

BREAKAWAY SPEED

51

it is often too late to try to expand the envelope. This exploration must come
from a position of strength, not one of desperation.
Therefore, beware of the success trap and the false security of lateral
growth. Ironically, to grow, you must fail periodically so that you are continually aware of opportunities for improvement and for expanding your envelope.
This discipline will not only provide for internal stimulation, but also inﬁuence
how the external world views you.
Note particularly that to move from about the midpoint of the ﬁrst
S-curve to the bottom of the next S-curve is relatively simple, but attempting
to go from the right of the success trap to the midpoint or above of the next
S-curve requires extraordinary thrust and escape velocity. This is the insidious
nature of the success trap—the longer you stroll down it, the harder it is to reach
the next level.
Million dollar consultants often fail. In fact, their conﬁdence emanates
from their lack of fear of failing. As I said, if you’re not failing, you’re not trying.

Digression
In the history of predation and hunting, scientists estimate
that predators are successful only about 10 percent of the
time. Tyrannosaurus rex required 10 hunts to feed itself
and its family, as does the modern cheetah on the savannah
of Africa or those pelicans you see diving while you lounge
on a Caribbean beach.
Think about that. Failure is a prerequisite to success. The
key is to learn from it so that your average improves to one in
eight, or one in ﬁve.

THE BRAND IS YOU
If you think that people don’t judge books by their covers, just take a gander at
the cars around you on the freeway. People buy cars to say something about themselves, whether the object of their affection is a staid Volvo, a rakish Corvette,
a middle-American Toyota, an aloof Mercedes, an exotic Aston Martin, or a
master-of-the-universe Bentley.
In fact, an automobile is the most expensive lifestyle statement that most
people ever make. Yet this extension of one’s personality into the acquisitions one
makes—a sort of anthropomorphism gone wild—embraces ballpoint pens as well
as works of art, and jogging suits as well as cultural events.

52

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Organizations make the same types of statements about the vendors with
whom they choose to do business. My belief is that a consulting ﬁrm’s image—
or lack of one—will play a key role in inﬂuencing a buyer one way or the other
as to whether that ﬁrm is right for the buyer’s organization.
The consulting ﬁrm’s image will be conveyed most dramatically and
clearly when the buyer interacts with the ﬁrm’s principals. Prior to this interaction, however, there is opportunity for the buyer to taste the consulting ﬁrm’s
ﬂavor, and it is these ﬁrst impressions that this section will address. While there
are no perfect images to convey, there are some to avoid.

Name
The ﬁrst corporation I ever set up was called AJW Associates. Perhaps the
main reason for adopting such names is that they are easy to use in incorporation and are seldom the trademark of anyone else. The trouble, of course,
is that to a buyer such names shout “one-man band” from a great distance—
to the consultant! The buyer seldom cares, and a name doesn’t make or break
business.
The name you choose also should convey something about who you are.
My ﬁrm is Summit Consulting Group, Inc. The name simply says that we are
consultants and that we are an incorporated business, and this is all I want to convey in our name. The Center for Creative Leadership gives you a good idea of
what they’re up to, as does The Executive Edge. Names such as Sage, Quest, or
Tracom leave you a bit in the dark, but this is not a cardinal sin. At least they
clearly convey company and not individual. Don’t agonize over the name of your
practice. McKinsey & Co. has worked out just ﬁne, after all.

Logo
This is so obvious that I have to grimace as I write it, but too many people
ignore the obvious. Create a logo or look that is used consistently on your stationery, business cards, brochures, labels, and any other document that might
appear in public (i.e., course materials and presentation folders). These simple
pieces of paper are the ﬁrst and primary conveyers of your image, and they are
not the place to economize. A good graphic artist can create, design, and execute the work for you for less than $1,000, and these days all your print materials can be produced at one of the local storefront printing franchises (with
the exception of multicolored, sophisticated brochures, which ought to be done
at a conventional printer).
Don’t use “stock” logos from the Internet or from catalogs. And don’t think
you can do this yourself. You don’t want the client to improve teamwork on her

BREAKAWAY SPEED

53

own; you want the client to use you. Similarly, don’t try to do things yourself
that experts can do better.
You don’t need to be fancy, but you do need to be consistent on all your print
media, and you want to convey an image of professionalism and responsibility.
If you don’t care about the look, who’s to know if you’ll care about the client?

Legal Entity
My overwhelming bias is that you should use one of these three conﬁgurations:
a conventional C corporation, which is how most major businesses operate; a
subchapter S corporation, which ﬂows through your individual tax return; or a
limited liability company (LLC), which uses members instead of stockholders
and also ﬂows through your individual return. Check with your ﬁnancial expert
for what’s best for you. After 20 years as a C entity, changes in the law made it
advantageous for me to switch to a subchapter S, for example.
If you are not incorporated, then your legal affairs probably will appear in
print as “Harvey Jones, d/b/a (doing business as) Global Consulting Group.”
Moreover, you will have to receive 1099s from clients who are paying you anything more than a low threshold of fees because there is no legal entity to pay
taxes except for you personally. And this means that the client will require a social
security number (rather than a federal ID number), and such matters can come
to the attention of your buyer.
Would this make a difference? Sometimes it will, so why take the chance?
(Basically, if you’re not incorporated, you’re an amateur.)
In the unlikely but horrible possibility of a lawsuit, it’s helpful for the company to be a legal entity because, as such, it can be sued as a company instead
of you being sued as an individual. A full-ﬂedged corporation can take in partners, provide equity for them, establish credit lines, obtain insurance, maintain
bank accounts, and, in general, act in a manner that the accountants like to refer
to as “a going concern.”
On occasion, I’ve had to write out a check to a client to return an overpayment, provide a discount, or reimburse the client for expenses when my wife
has traveled with me to a client event. I’ve always felt better seeing a company
check—no different from the client’s own—going into the envelope. (There will
be more about incorporation later.)

One Percent Solution: Do not use an attorney or accountant
who does your mortgage or who is a relative. Find someone
who is expert in solo-practice professional services ﬁrms.

54

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

The differences and specialties required are signiﬁcant.
Don’t scrimp on this, either. Incorporation, depending on
your state, will cost several hundred dollars. And do not
heed someone’s spouse who practices law who tells you that
incorporation is unnecessary. Run for the hills.

Visibility
At a minimum, you should have your business listed in the local Yellow Pages,
in trade publications catering to your ﬁeld, in the listings of personal professional
organizations you join, and in the listings of those trade associations that apply
to any specialties you offer.
At a later stage, you should consider a toll-free number for clients (they are
remarkably inexpensive), regular mailings or newsletters to clients and prospects,
a blog (a Web site2 is de rigueur), advertisements (for visibility purposes only,
i.e., as a supporter of a trade association’s convention), and specialty mailings
tailored to particular clients (a client that you know is undergoing a reduction in
force receives copies of articles on helping displaced workers, whether or not you
are being used in a consulting capacity). I will discuss the tactics for client contacts of this type more as we proceed.

Office Requirements
I knew I was in the posttechnological economy when an automobile dealer with
whom I was discussing a purchase asked me for my e-mail address so that he
could send me the newest ﬁnancial data as soon as he received them. Then there
was the deli that accepted fax orders for its luncheon takeout business.
If automobile dealers and deli owners were into this level of technical
sophistication, then where should your consulting ﬁrm be?
These are the basic requirements for a professional ofﬁce, irrespective of
whether it’s in an ofﬁce complex, a suite that is subleased, or your home (I run a
seven-ﬁgure practice from my home and have never had a separate ofﬁce):
• A dedicated business phone with at least a call-waiting feature, and
preferably several lines. The phone should have both a hold button and
2 Here is a key area where I differ from the “conventional wisdom” you’ll get elsewhere: your
Web site is a credibility site, not a sales site. That is, true economic buyers don’t troll the Web for
consulting resources, but they well might go to your site to check on your expertise and accomplishments
once they are familiar with you.

BREAKAWAY SPEED

55

a conference feature. (Estimated cost: $150.3 There are many
excellent models.)
• If you don’t have full-time ofﬁce help, an excellent voice-mail system.
The local phone company sometimes provides such a service, as do
private services. (Mine costs $150 per month, plus a small charge
when I want the professionals to record a new message.) I was once
in favor of “live” answering services, but I ﬁnd that the employees
are often rude and always uncaring about your business. Voice mail
is never rude. The key isn’t who answers, but rather how rapidly
you, personally, return the call. Most people actually expect to
get voice mail today, so the distinguishing feature is the
responsiveness.
• A dedicated fax phone line, with a plain-paper fax machine that can be left on
automatic at all times to receive at the sender’s convenience. The fax machine
should have the capability of automatically feeding multiple sheets.
(Estimated cost: under $200 for a basic but perfectly ﬁne model.)
Important: a memory feature that allows incoming messages to be
saved when there is a paper jam, the cartridge is out of ink, or other
nasty things occur in your absence. Many people use their computers for
fax work and don’t use a separate machine, so suit yourself.
• A high-speed copier that can enlarge and reduce ﬂexibly, handle various
sizes of paper, and, ideally, automatically feed multiple sheets. (Estimated
cost: under $500.)
• A ﬁrst-rate computer laser printer. There is simply no other way to
create the kinds of proposals you must produce. (Estimated cost:
$800 and declining steadily.) An important addition is a laptop with a
minimum battery time of four hours. A color printer in addition to
the laser makes sense if your budget permits. You can ﬁnd excellent
examples for less than $300, particularly from Hewlett-Packard. The
best laptops are Macs, and the top of the line is available with a huge
screen for under $3,000 as of this writing.4

3 All costs are retail prices. You can do far better at one of the giant discount houses that
handles name brands. However, the advantage of dealing with a local merchant is the proximity of
service and personal attention. I ﬁnd that for smaller, less complex items, such as a fax machine or
a phone, discount houses are ﬁne. But I deal locally and pay a bit more for computer hardware and
copiers.
4 Note for the excessively detail-oriented readers: neither I nor the publisher can update this

book every two weeks, so cut us some slack with newer technological offerings and prices. My examples are meant as a guide using contemporary information. I can’t read the future the way you read
this book.

56

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

• A postage meter and minimum 15-pound scale. Your correspondence
needs a meter for professionalism, and this combination will also
save you a lot of time in the post ofﬁce having your packages
weighed. The meters can even include your logo or message in
the indicia. (Estimated cost: a wide variety of leases and purchase
plans are available. Pitney Bowes pretty much has a monopoly,
although you can acquire other brands if you search. I pay a $500
quarterly lease. The scales can be set to automatically trigger the
meters.)
Other equipment, such as projectors and document binders, is a matter of
individual preference and frequency of need. A basic, professional ofﬁce—apart
from rent and utilities—such as the one described here, will probably require
$5,000 to $10,000 in initial investment, depending on your tastes, computer
capability, and so on. It’s a small price to pay to be perceived as a professional
ﬁrm. Additional equipment can include a paper shredder, television, audiocassette player, minicassette recorder, CD and DVD capability, wireless headset,
label maker, and so on.
I’ve found that you can’t go wrong by erring on the side of too much
investment in your ﬁrm’s image. A corporate brochure that folds three ways
and ﬁts nicely in a number 10 envelope is like a neon sign proclaiming, “We
are small-time because this is what I can afford and what I am happy to have
represent my ﬁrm.” A multicolored brochure of 16 pages with testimonials,
examples of work performed, summary of corporate philosophy, and other
matters that represent your approaches might not be read cover to cover by the
prospect, but the material is there if it’s needed, and it certainly says, “I care
about my image and how you perceive me, so a lot of thought has gone into
this representation of my ﬁrm. Money was not the object.” (And it’s paid for
with one sale.)
Note: Don’t order thousands of copies of anything, no matter what the
economies of scale. Even though you saved $500, 2,000 extra brochures in the
closet or garage that are rapidly becoming outdated (or have an error) is much
too high a price to pay for volume discounts.
I talked earlier about “all-star gaffes.” No one is as knowledgeable about
what you’ve done in the past or what your potential is for the future as you are.
Others can only look about them and receive images. For better or worse, those
images are the keys to the early acceptance of your participation in their enterprise. The good news is that the image is manageable and can convey exactly
what you want it to. That image should represent what you can do for your clients
in the future, not what you’ve accomplished in the past.

BREAKAWAY SPEED

57

Digression
In 1985, my wife convinced me not to rent an ofﬁce, because
I could always get one if I needed one, but why make the
investment when it wasn’t certain?
My kids graduated from college in 1996 and 1997. They had
gone to private schools from kindergarten through undergraduate, and their combined tuitions, paid for from cash ﬂow
throughout, came to an aggregate of $450,000.
That is approximately what my ofﬁce would have cost from
1985 to 1995 with part-time help, rent, utilities, insurance, and
so on. Think about it.

The ultimate brand is your name. There is only one you. The image you
create, physically and perceptually, around your image and name will determine
your ultimate brand recognition and appreciation. Tread carefully, and don’t be
miserly about your persona.

THE VIEW IS ALWAYS BETTER
FROM THE FRONT
The moment you decide to become a consultant, you automatically have a particular approach to client interventions and relationships that has been formed and
honed by your experience. If you’ve been a member of a large business organization, your view has been inﬂuenced by the internal and external consultants with
whom you’ve dealt, the difﬁculty of pushing change through the bureaucracy, the
difﬁculty of implementation versus the ease of relying on others’ advice, and the
comfort of comprehensive resources supporting you.
If you’ve been a member of a consulting ﬁrm, you’ve been inﬂuenced by
the difﬁculties of reaching the key buyer, the discomforts of travel to undesirable
sites, the pressures of meeting business quotas and demands, and the importance
of retaining business.
If your background is in academia, the inﬂuences have included ﬁnding the
time to pursue private interests, scarcity of resources, lack of pragmatic application to the business world, the credibility that comes with a Ph.D., and so on.
Breaking out of the experiential boxes in which we ﬁnd ourselves is
tough. But breaking out is important because the past is a woefully inadequate

58

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

base on which to build a successful consulting ﬁrm. Its major drawback is the
delimiting model you possess with which to shape client interventions. The
more ﬂexible that model (or set of models), the better you’ll be at developing
interventions that can meet the needs of speciﬁc buyers at speciﬁc points in
time. The more you can adjust and still get the job done, the less the client has
to adjust.5
In Chapter 1 I spoke about the pragmatic range of client interventions.
Those were the roles the consultant plays in working with the client: facilitator,
coach, or interventionist.
When I speak of models, I’m referring to the processes that the consultant
uses while operating in any of those roles.

The one thing consultants should be certain about is that
there is no one way to help a client. You should know twice
as many ways to help a client this year as you did last year,
and twice as many next year as you do today.

Models are largely determined by the recent past and the route you’ve taken
to establish your consulting ﬁrm. Although they may have worked ﬁne for the
ﬁrm you used to be with and they may work well for you at the outset, no ﬁrm
grows dramatically with just one stock in trade. The best example I know of this
phenomenon is the personality assessment.
There are scores of personality tests and assessment instruments on the
market today, many of which are available to consultants for use in their work.
They range from such commodities as Disc, which is a forced-choice, selfscoring word selection that provides astrologylike proﬁles, to the Meyers Briggs
Type Indicator, a well-respected and fairly well-validated instrument (although
it is frequently distorted to merely “label” people instead of trying to understand them), to the social styles quadrant using peer input, popularized by Wilson Learning but appearing under a wide variety of names and applications.
These instruments, and others like them, can, and often do, provide useful feedback on behavioral predispositions when they are interpreted within
the context of the environments and interactions that people experience. However, rather than being a means to an end, these instruments often become an
end in themselves because they constitute the only technology, or model, that
5 I’m not referring to massive organizational transformation efforts here, in which near-traumatic change is exactly what the client must endure. I am referring to the vast majority of consulting assignments, in which the consultant intervenes to improve a speciﬁc client condition.

BREAKAWAY SPEED

59

the practitioner has available. They become a revenue source instead of a legitimate
client intervention methodology.6
For example, a consultant hired by the former Providence Energy to
facilitate interpersonal communications came up with the idea of proﬁling all the
managers and having their proﬁles printed on their coffee cups. This (so the idea
went) would enable colleagues to “read” one another’s salient characteristics and
respond accordingly. (One can only wonder what happened when a manager borrowed a colleague’s cup!) Similarly, efforts to improve communication or create
a higher level of customer service often wind up in the hands of label-happy, selflimiting consultants as exercises in telling people that they’re “introverts” or
“INTJs” or “driver expressive” without any regard for what the client really needs
(or what really helps improve performance).
When consultants overly rely on instruments and other devices that they
purchase or license, they are really admitting that they don’t have the smarts
needed to provide value by themselves. This is a sad admission because it
means that the consultant has voluntarily abandoned self-learning and taken
the path of trying to capitalize on the abilities of others. This isn’t worth all
that much.
I once observed a consulting team trying to convince top executives to set
corporate strategy based solely on a calculation of future shareholder value.
Rationally, one might ask why considerations such as values, technology, future
markets, and the like were not included, but I realized instantly that the ﬁrm’s
sole model—for doing anything—was its formula for calculating shareholder
value under the conditions it stipulated. The apotheosis of this self-limiting
dilemma occurred during a meeting in which the consultants showed their
latest calculation and asked the president if that shareholder value would be
acceptable in ﬁve years.
“Probably not,” he said. “Investors could do better elsewhere.”
“Right,” replied the team leader. “So what can you do now to change the
strategy that is leading you there?”
“That’s an impossible question to answer,” said the executive. “I’m not
comfortable sitting here and speculating on alternatives that might or might not
affect value ﬁve years from now. It seems as though there must be a more orderly
and systematic way to generate alternatives.”
He was right, of course, except that the consulting ﬁrm didn’t have such
an orderly and systematic way because it was a one-horse wagon even though it
had four people holding the reins. These four had never taken the time to break

6 For a good critique of personality testing and assessments, see Steve Salerno’s SHAM

(New York: Crown, 2005).

60

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

out of their particular box, although they had taken the time to dress up the box
and make it as appealing as possible.
“Why was I so uncomfortable in there,” the president asked me later,
“when their formulas appear to be accurate, and there’s no question that we’d
want to improve on the value they calculate?”
“I think,” I replied, “it was because you know, viscerally and intellectually,
that your ﬁrm is not in business merely to enhance shareholder value. Your acquisitions, personnel policies, product development, and even ﬁnancial decisions have
never been made solely on that criterion. Your own annual report talks about
contribution to the environment, respect for employees, customer orientation,
and so forth. Investor return is obviously important, but it’s never been your sole
focus, and it probably won’t account for your future success if you allow it to be
the sole focus.”
The ﬁrm did not pursue that consulting team’s help in strategic planning,
and I found that the consultants had invested quite a bit of money and time in
the work and calculations that led up to those preliminary sessions. They were
good people, with signiﬁcant and valuable expertise—but all within their selfdelimiting box.
As a dynamically growing consulting ﬁrm, you must continually investigate, evaluate, and decide on the applicability of additional models to use in helping clients. Some may be compatible with others; some may be mutually
exclusive. In this business, however, past success is virtually never an indicator
of future performance. The issues, situations, personalities, external forces, and
legitimate trends change too frequently to depend on past success, no matter
how substantial, as the sole basis for future interventions.

Digression
At a major banking client, I stumbled upon an internal
human resources specialist asking an executive vice
president questions for the Myers-Briggs-Type Indicator
assessment, with the executive responding as he believed his
deceased mother would have replied.
When I asked later what on earth was going on, the HR
person told me that he was trying to help reconcile the poor
relationship between the vice president and his mother.
This sounds bizarre, but I ﬁnd it all too frequently—a complete bastardization of tools that were never meant (or validated) for the applications for which they are being used. You
can’t make this stuff up.

BREAKAWAY SPEED

61

In the 1920s, Frederick Winslow Taylor introduced the application of
rigorous time and measurement techniques to human performance and demonstrated signiﬁcant improvements in productivity. Taylorism was the beginning
of the consultant as “efﬁciency expert.” (This was generously called “scientiﬁc
management,” although Taylor notoriously used a “fudge factor” to compensate
for worker fatigue, which undermined virtually all of his conclusions.)
In the 1950s, the humanists appeared, and the need for more concern for
people led to personnel experts and personnel departments. Theory X and Theory Y typiﬁed the poles of management (centered on task or people), and Blake
and Mouton’s “management grid” speciﬁed an ideal manager who considered
tasks and people in beautiful harmony.
In the 1960s and 1970s, participation became the hot topic, personnel gave
way to human resources, and we heard about T-groups, management retreats, and
suggestion boxes, along with individual and corporate EST (Earhart Seminar
Training, thankfully long dead, Werner Earhart actually being Jack Rosenberg).
The 1980s gave us customer-driven emphasis, just-in-time manufacturing (Taylor redux), employee involvement through quality circles, the search
(and passion) for excellence, treading hot coals, and “people issues.” And the
1990s presented downsizing, rightsizing, quality awards as an end in themselves,
empowerment, benchmarking, and reengineering.
The new millennium has featured globilization and “ﬂat earth” dynamics,
management “scorecards,” diversity focus, lean thinking, kaizen, and Six Sigma
customer-driven organizations. The fads and buzzwords never end.
In business, the past is seldom an accurate indicator of the future, and
those who are prone to forget history are sometimes the least burdened. Million
dollar consulting is not about embracing the latest (or anticipated) fads, nor
about predicting what will happen to a client’s business. It is about growing as
a consulting ﬁrm so that you can help your clients grow. If you are using the
same technologies, approaches, and models next year that you are using this
year, you aren’t growing, and you may well be in the success trap.
You can’t help an expanding number of clients in a growing number of ways
if you continue to use the same old tools and knowledge. The way to grow your
business is to grow your approaches, and that requires that you take some risks.

RISK AND REWARD: NO CROSS, NO CROWN
If you never accept an assignment that calls for your doing
something you haven’t done before, you will never earn
signiﬁcant money.

62

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

“No cross, no crown” was an observation of William Penn.
There is a piece of conventional wisdom that admonishes the consultant to
underpromise and overdeliver. The reasoning here is that the client’s expectations should be kept well within your delivery capacity. Your actual delivery will
then exceed those expectations, creating great joy in the heart of the client.
There are only two things wrong with this approach. First, it presumes
that the client is at best too stupid to divine the manipulation and at worst an
adversary who must be duped—a win/lose dynamic. Second, my observations of
the most successful consultants I’ve known reveal that they simply don’t abide
by such bromides. While they never promise results they can’t achieve, they are
always willing to test the envelope.
Under promising and overdelivering is just another of those empty bromides that average consultants like to pontiﬁcate about. It’s easy to remember, it
sounds great when you’re giving advice, and it imparts an aura of lofty notions
and uncompromising behavior. In actuality, however, if consultants underpromised on a regular basis, clients would begin to question the degree of valueadded assistance being provided. They also would critique the nature of the fee
structure (the corollary for the client would be to overdemand and underpay).
And ﬁnally, consultants would never grow because they would forever remain
within the safe conﬁnes created by underpromising.

One Percent Solution: Under promising and over delivering
is a victimization and poverty mentality. It presupposes that
you are not really good enough to be a peer and an honest
equal of the buyer, so you must “surprise” the superior buyer
with your results. If you think this way, you will certainly be
a victim—of your own poor self-esteem.

In the end, all such pat advice and conventional wisdom—particularly the
kind that is accompanied by ﬁnger wagging and the phrase, “When I began in
this business . . .”—should be ignored. In fact, you can afford to ignore any and
all advice on how to expand your business except this: there are times when the
whole future direction of your career may hinge on your willingness to take a
prudent risk. Should you or shouldn’t you?
I spoke earlier about two aspects of consulting that are key prerequisites
for growth. One was the talents and expertise you gain as you acquire and learn
from a wide variety of assignments. Growth is not just a matter of increasing
revenues, but equally—for the longer term—a question of expanding your
expertise, talent, reputation, and experience.

BREAKAWAY SPEED

63

I also spoke about the goals for the business—your vision of what you stand
for, what you believe in, and what your image should convey to prospects and clients.
My own vision and goals are clear to me and to my clients. To accomplish
those goals, it is imperative that I continually broaden my talents, expertise,
reputation, and experience. (This is why underpromising is anathema.)
One of the ﬁelds my ﬁrm is fairly well known in is that of surveys and market analysis. However, I began that type of work only several years after I began
my practice, and I did not deliberately acquire such expertise, nor did I have experience in the ﬁeld. A client for whom I had done a variety of projects wanted to
discuss a sampling of management opinion on the proliferation of technology
within the organization, including its impact on productivity, interpersonal communications, and personal comfort. The client didn’t ask about my vast survey
experience (I had exactly none), nor did we ourselves focus on the particular
instruments to be used.
Instead, I discussed the results the client wanted to achieve, how the feedback was to be used, and the collaborative responsibility each of us would have
in the endeavor. For example, I suggested that we create the instrument and
questions, but that the client be responsible for reviewing the entire package
for cultural acceptability, clarity, the accuracy of the data being requested, and
its conformity with corporate legal policies. I committed to revise and reﬁne
the package until the client was completely satisﬁed.
We both agreed on what would constitute an acceptable rate of return
(50 percent of 2,500 managers). We also agreed that the client would distribute
the survey internally with a prepaid mailer addressed to my ﬁrm or a direct
e-mail link. Finally, I recommended that the survey be supported by focus groups
and one-on-one interviews (which I did have signiﬁcant experience in), and the
client concurred.
The factors I considered in undertaking survey work that I had never done
before included:
• Were the client’s expectations reasonable?
• Did I have, or could we develop, the expertise, talent, and capacity to
implement the project?
• Did the client have signiﬁcant accountability so that success would be
shared jointly and problems would be resolved jointly?
My knowledge of surveys and of the organization supported the 50 percent
return as reasonable. Knowing the organization and questioning techniques that
I frequently employed, I believed that the creation of the survey was within my
capabilities, especially since the client had joint responsibility in several key areas
(cultural ﬁt, legal compliance, etc.).

64

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

My ﬁrm had the capacity to administer the project; I chose two psychology
professors who frequently worked with me to assist in the software programming
and scoring, and they, in turn, used students on an hourly basis for computer
input. Finally, my ﬁrm and the client entered into still another collaborative
venture, in which the results represented a shared effort.
As always when venturing into new territory, I was careful to oversee every
step of the process. The result was an 80 percent return rate, which shocked the
organization’s executives (and me, although I feigned lack of surprise), and a
wealth of data.
Henceforth, survey work was added to that client’s expectations from my
ﬁrm. It added to my ﬁrm’s image in the marketplace because I proceeded to
offer surveys as an option in a variety of other projects, wrote some articles
about procedures for high response rates, and listed the ﬁrm in several guides
under “Survey: employee and customer.”
When you undertake assignments as collaborative ventures with a client,
you are able to expand the nature of your activities with prudent risk. The
difference between prudent risk and imprudent risk can be stated clearly:
imprudent risk would occur if you represented yourself as a survey (or outplacement or strategy) expert to a prospect, who hired you on the grounds that
you were responsible for total implementation and results. You actually might
have the capability to deliver such a project, but the fact that this was your ﬁrst,
the lack of client involvement and accountability, and the lack of a prior relationship with the client would create a high-risk situation. You might well have
overpromised, and there would be a signiﬁcant chance of underdelivering
because the client’s expectations might be very high.
Prudent risk would occur if you did not represent yourself as an expert in
a ﬁeld that was new to you; if there were a collaborative partnership in which you
and the client were jointly accountable for design, implementation, and outcome;
and if you were working with a client with whom you had a strong history.
Now you may well ask, regarding the situation involving heavy client participation: would there even be enough value-added beneﬁts to the client to merit
your outside assistance? The answer provides a fail-safe system for moving into
new areas of expertise. If the client does not perceive sufﬁcient value-added beneﬁts (“If I’m doing all of this, why do I need you?”), then you won’t be retained
for the project, and you shouldn’t pursue it further.
However, if the client agrees to retain you, understanding the joint
accountabilities required (“We can achieve these results only by working as a
team”), then the client’s own decision regarding your contribution validates your
approach.
Figure 3-1 provides an evaluation aid that may be useful in determining
when you are taking a prudent risk in attempting to grow in new expertise and

BREAKAWAY SPEED

65

YES

NO

You now possess or can quickly/develop the expertise
required.
You are motivated to accept the project for reasons
beyond revenue.
There is the clear potential to apply these skills
to other clients/projects.
The client is willing to participate actively and accept
accountability.
The client’s expectations are reasonable and achievable.
You possess the capacity to administer and implement
the project.
You are willing and able to be involved in each step
personally.
Figure 3-1 How to determine prudent risks for growth assignments. All these question must
be answered yes without qualiﬁcation.

application. All the questions must be answered yes for you to undertake a new
project. If you can answer all seven with a conﬁdent “absolutely,” you have minimized the risk to yourself and the client and have established a strong basis for
growing your expertise. If you answer no or ﬁnd yourself equivocating about
any of them, then you are embarking on the project for the wrong reasons
(money, ego) and/or with insufﬁcient resources, and/or with inadequate growth
application for your ﬁrm.
You are reading this book, presumably, to help achieve growth. To grow,
you must accept prudent risk by entering new areas of expertise and application. To
enter new areas, you have to disregard the rubrics and bromides. It is time to
begin breaking paradigms.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. If you’re constantly climbing and never content with the plateau, then don’t you
continually increase your labor intensity and work?
A. Good point, but fortunately, as you climb, you need to constantly change your
business and delivery models. Growth isn’t just about amount of business; it’s
about how you conduct business.

66

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Q. Is it better to brand yourself or your company?
A. If your intent is to build a business that you will sell some day, then brand
your business so that the brand’s worth is part of the equity of the business.
But if you’re following my business model, which this book is about—solo
practice consulting—then you ultimately want to brand your name so that
buyers say, “Get me Alan Weiss.”
Q. Don’t you have to look backward to learn from your failures and successes?
A. Yes, just as a driver glances at the rear-and side-view mirrors. But no one
can drive successfully or even safely without carefully watching the road
ahead for opportunity, obstacles, and options.

Final Thought: Whether you think you can do it or you
think you can’t do it, you’re correct. Mark Twain pointed
out that even if you’re on the right track, if you stand still,
someone will pass you by. The route to million dollar
consulting is along a constant path going upward.

CHAPTER
4

BREAKING PAR ADIGMS
WHY THE SKI INSTRUCTOR
SHOULD ALWAYS BE
IN FRONT OF YOU

TOP STRATEGIES FOR GROWTH
Let’s get down to cases. The ﬁrst step necessary for most of us if we are to learn
how to grow a consulting business is to unlearn. We’ve all been conditioned to
automatically believe certain tenets and take certain axioms on faith.
I’ve been calling these deceptive pieces of advice rubrics and bromides and
lumping them all together as conventional wisdom. You may well feel that I’m simply being contrarian: trying to be different by being unconventional.
Well, you’re absolutely right. If the conventional wisdom about consulting
were accurate, virtually everyone could make it as a consultant, and most consultants would be wealthy. This is not what actually happens, and the reason is
that the conventional beliefs about our profession are wrong.
One of the original paradigm busters, a fellow by the name of Joel Barker,
attracted great interest in this pursuit. Paradigms are thought patterns that we
take for granted and let limit us.
For example, Barker cited the discomfort of most bicycle seats, which have
survived for a century in their current form. He invented a radically different
seat, consisting of two separate padded supports, that is much more comfortable
under one’s derriere.
Barker maintains that this was hardly a conceptual breakthrough in design,
but it was a paradigm breakthrough. You see, bicycle seats are still called saddles
because they take their form and function from horse saddles. (Similarly, you’ve
all heard the old story that current railroad gauges—the distance between the
rails—originated with the old Roman chariot wheel ruts, which, in turn, were
derived by the width of the rear ends of the two horses that had to pull the thing.
Apparently, this is absolutely true, and we’ve been guided by horses’ backsides.)
Barker claims that such a genesis restricts innovation in design until someone consciously breaks the paradigm, which in this case means that there’s no
67

68

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

earthly reason today to continue to pattern bike seats after horse saddles. (However, it’s too late and too expensive to attempt to change the railroads.)
I call these self-limiting mental restrictions thinking blinders. For example,
what is the reason for the logical sequence of these numbers? Anyone looking at
them should be able to tell. In other words, they do not represent someone’s
phone number or tax code. The answer is amazingly simple.

8

5

4

9

7

6

3

2

0

I have run this particular exercise with thousands of managers over the past 20
years, and only 1 in 20 identiﬁes the correct reason within ﬁve minutes. Most
give up (including my son’s eleventh-grade math teacher, who surrendered after
two days because he couldn’t break out of his math paradigm).1
Find your unique niche, then narrowly market within it. Otherwise,
the competition will eat you for breakfast. Differentiating your
services is the key to success for consultants.
I received this advice before I started my ﬁrm, while I was growing it, and
after I had become a major success. I’m still getting it. And this advice couldn’t
be more wrong.

Digression
Be careful who you listen to. Make sure you solicit the
advice (unsolicited advice is meant to beneﬁt the sender, not
the recipient, and the person you’re asking had better be
able to demonstrate that he has been successful at what you
need coaching in.
You don’t want a ski instructor who sits in the chalet sipping brandy and giving you advice for the next morning. You
want one who is on the slopes immediately ahead of you, successfully demonstrating what you should be doing.

The growth strategies that are available hinge on the relationships you are
able to forge, nurture, and expand. Average consultants attempt to market a
repeatable product, which may take the form of a training program, a canned
speech or workshop, a survey instrument, or something similar. Such predeﬁned
1

The numbers are in alphabetical order; i.e., eight begins with e and zero begins with z.

BREAKING PARADIGMS

69

products seeking their niche are nothing more than commodities, and buyers
view commodities almost exclusively from a cost-sensitive position, as well
they should.

If you learn nothing else from this book, heed only this:
consulting is a relationship business. A special product may
make you competitive. Differentiated services may make you
distinct. But only carefully crafted relationships will create
a breakthrough ﬁrm.

A pound of nails is a pound of nails, and I’ll buy them wherever they are
cheapest (which includes price, cost of transportation to get there, and so on).
The difﬁculty with such commodity consulting approaches is that the greater
the consulting resources, the greater the economies of scale. Seminar factories,
using mass marketing and razor-thin margins, are turning out $49-per-person
one-day seminars all over the country.
Independent consultants may be successful in implementing workshops in
limited locales or for clients, but high costs and low margins prohibit geometric
expansion. You don’t make a million dollars doing this kind of work.
Better-than-average consultants differentiate their services so that they convey some distinction to the buyer. For example, providing a needs analysis prior
to the actual proposal, offering computerized comparisons against national norms
with survey work, and providing free follow-ups at periodic intervals are all methods that tend to set one consultant apart from the others. These techniques provide for more of a value-added appreciation by the client, but they are still
self-limiting in terms of the speciﬁc nature of the services involved. Many consultants are successful with this approach, but they are probably also the ones who
say, “Three hundred thousand is the most you can generate as an individual.”

One Percent Solution: What you believe informs how you
behave. If you believe you can’t make more than $300,000,
then don’t create a $400,000 lifestyle. But if you believe you
can make a million or more . . .

The best consultants strive to establish special relationships with clients,
irrespective of their products, services, techniques, and other offerings. Relationships differ from products and services in many ways, but the most fundamental difference lies in the simple matter of payment. Clients perceive products

70

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

(such as manuals, reports, newsletters, artwork, and job aids) as commodities for
which they pay a fee. Clients also perceive services (such as employee hotlines,
team facilitation, and audits) as commodities for which they pay a fee.
However, clients perceive relationships as intangibles, the value of which
transcends commodity calculations. Relationships represent an incalculable,
intrinsic worth that clients don’t even try to put a price on.
I once used a Mercedes dealer located 45 minutes from my home. I took
my business there, rather than to a dealer of the same marque ﬁve minutes away
because of the relationship I had with him. My dealer’s products were comparable with those of other dealers; after all, they are selling the same cars and parts.
His services were comparable and standard with his manufacturer, namely, roadside assistance, a hotline for questions, state inspection on-site, and so on, but
my dealer’s relationship with his customers was special.
He thought nothing, for instance, of personally picking up and delivering
cars to customers’ homes, leaving a loaner vehicle for their use in the interim.
His staff embraced the same principles of helpfulness. The salesperson who sold
me my car kept in touch periodically, provided the names of new restaurants she
had discovered that she thought my wife and I would enjoy, and occasionally sent
my wife a ﬂower with a note about local cultural events in her town. The dealer
took me to lunch and made a point of coming over and saying hello when he
knew I was at the dealership.
When the owner semiretired, that level of service disappeared, and there
was absolutely no differentiation any longer. I now patronize—and have purchased two or three Mercedes from—the people ﬁve minutes away.
The strategies available for growth are legion so long as they focus on developing unique relationships with clients. Let’s examine a method for selecting them.

MIDCOURSE CORRECTIONS
We’ve established that there are three basic interactions you can engage in with
clients. You may sell them a product, which is a paid-for tangible. You may provide them with a service, which is a paid-for intangible. And you may establish
a relationship with them, which is a free intangible.
In any of these areas you may be competitive, distinct, or perceived as special—which I like to call breakthrough positioning. The combination of these
interactions and dimensions is expressed in Figure 4-1.
You may not sell any products at all, or they may be peripheral to your
major business. For example, we provide books and MP3 downloads on a request
basis, and we often design interactive and self-paced learning programs for
clients, but these tangible products are not our leading edge; they are the results

BREAKING PARADIGMS

Competitive

Unique

71

Breakthrough

Product

Service

Relation

Figure 4-1 A systematic way to establish strategy. [Adapted from a model ﬁrst published by
Alan Weiss. Making It Work: Turning Strategy into Action throughout Your Organization (New
York: Harper & Row, 1990).]

of our relationships and services, not the primary factor in our selection by a
client. As a rule, products are viewed as commodities and are very price-sensitive. You can be competitive by providing professional, high-quality materials
when requested, but to be unique or breakthrough in this dimension requires a
substantial investment to compete in a margin-thin business (or exceptional
branding, which itself is a form of special relationship).
My advice: If you must provide products as a component of your consulting work, keep them to a minimum, keep them high quality, but do not use them
as the distinguishing feature of your work unless they accentuate your unique
brand. (There was a highly memorable “It’s Miller Time” beer campaign years
ago. The problem—and this is why consultants are important—is that testing
found that people were saying the following, “It’s Miller time—let’s have a
Bud[weiser]!”)
All of us in this profession provide services—the paid-for intangibles— to
the client. The service may be formal and contractually speciﬁed, such as a needs
analysis or a series of focus groups, or it may be informal and ad hoc, such as a
review of the client’s sudden personnel problems or recommendations for a meeting agenda. This advice and counsel needs to be better than competitive, or else
the client will see no differentiation and will select consulting help based
on logistical and objective factors. (“All the consultants ask me for my watch and
tell me the time, so I might as well carry the cheapest watch and ask the nearest
consultant.”)
However, it is difﬁcult to be in the breakthrough category in service
because there is a limit to what you can do in terms of resources and availability, especially when compared with larger ﬁrms. A high-quality personal report
to the executive board with handouts, graphics, and relevant data from the competition is enough to be special. Flashing lights and dancing animals probably

72

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

aren’t required because consistently special service is very powerful in the eyes
of the client.
Breakthrough service can be seen as cloying, self-aggrandizing, and
“overkill.” Thus—if you haven’t already guessed—my contention is that the
breakthrough category for you should be your relationship with the client.
Ideally, your strategic mix should look like the one shown in Figure 4-2.
The reason for this is that your competition probably either is trying to emphasize breakthrough characteristics across the board (something that is virtually
impossible and extremely expensive) or is sidetracked by a particular strength or
weakness in any one of the areas on the grid. There is no need to be more than
competitive in products, and you are positioned ideally—and cost-effectively—
if you are deemed distinctive in service. If you can then achieve breakthrough
relationships, you are on the way to a long-lived, growth-oriented, highly lucrative clientele.

One Percent Solution: Strong relationships and service
lead clients to give you enduring loyalty and the beneﬁt of
the doubt in tough times. A breakthrough product alone
seldom does that.

Products and services tend to be based on objective assessments of what you
are providing and how you are providing it. You can be compared readily with
others. However, relationships represent the why of your involvement; you are
Competitive

Unique

Breakthrough

High-quality
Minimum amounts
Product Support, not leading
edge

Service

Relation

Polished, professional
Anticipate need
Client-centered, not
consultant-centered
Anticipatory
Helps in “unrelated”
areas Personal bonds
Visceral and trusting
Based on judgment

Figure 4-2 The ideal strategic mix, emphasizing relationships, for dynamic growth.

BREAKING PARADIGMS

73

assessed in terms of the client’s comfort in dealing with you, and these are subjective determinations. While it can be much harder to establish these connections and it is always time-consuming to do so, they are the most important
connections because they are qualitative instead of quantitative.
And herein lies the art of consultant selection and acceptance.

The ideal client relationship is one in which the client trusts
the consultant to make determinations about capabilities,
meaning that the client approaches the consultant with a
fundamental assumption that the consultant will act
responsibly to improve the client’s condition.

Ideal relationships with clients are based on total trust and candor. As
opposed to the traditional client-consultant dynamic, in which the client asks the
consultant to prove that the latter can meet the former’s needs (“Perform for me
so that I can evaluate you”), the breakthrough relationship is one in which the
client asks the consultant to collaborate to meet a need (“Work with me so that
we can be successful”).
The client trusts that the consultant will make the assessment of whether
achieving the goals is within the consultant’s capabilities. In this act of trust, the
critical judgment passes from client to consultant because the client knows that
the consultant is the far better judge of her own capabilities and has no reason
to believe that the consultant will do anything other than act in the client’s best
interests.
This, indeed, is breakthrough stuff.
Over the past decades (until recent scandals and the resultant proscriptions), we’ve seen virtually all the major accounting ﬁrms launch consulting divisions. This has happened because there is an unyielding cap on growth in the
accounting business; after all, how many times can you audit the books? These
ﬁrms realized that they had established, by the very nature of their conﬁdential
work, a special, trusting relationship with clients. By laterally transferring that
trusting relationship to related areas (most of these ﬁrms began their consulting
work by heavily basing it on ﬁnancial and information systems issues), these organizations have dramatically expanded their business base with existing clients,
even though their products and services were not known in any area other than
ﬁnancial work. (And they are still severely limited by an ingrained audit mentality, but this is a subject for another book.)
There is simply no growth mechanism in our profession as dramatic as a
trusting client who wants to use your services, believing that you will provide a

74

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

reason not to if you can’t accommodate the request. In effect, the selection
responsibility moves from the client to the consultant. This is not a responsibility to be abused or taken lightly, of course.
Taking on a project you can’t handle can, in two weeks, sour a relationship
that it took you two years to establish.
A ﬁnal thought about ﬁne-tuning strategy: Don’t wait until you’re absolutely prepared and ready. When you’re about 80 percent sure/ready/comfortable, move! You see, the ﬁnal 20 percent preparedness is dysfunctional:
1. The client usually doesn’t appreciate the difference.
2. The ﬁnal 20 percent will cost you more than the prior 80 percent.
3. It’s an excuse not to move.
4. You can never be 100 percent prepared, nor should you be.
5. Remember Zeno’s paradox: if you make 50 percent progress toward
your goal every single day, you’ll never reach it.
Move when you’re 80 percent ready, and you can easily ﬁne-tune the rest
as you go. (And this applies to writing, speaking, networking, new products, and
most of your personal life, as well. When you’re 80 percent convinced that you
should leave the play at intermission, do so, or you’ll regret it every time.)

TEN WAYS TO DEVELOP BREAKTHROUGH
RELATIONSHIPS
How do you create powerful breakthrough relationships? With patience, insight,
legwork, and speciﬁc techniques like these.

1. Provide Valuable Information
You cannot overcommunicate with clients if you are providing information that
enhances performance and improves the working environment. Keep a set of
ﬁles on all important issues facing your clients and key prospects, irrespective of
whether you are personally working on those topics or even being considered
for them. My ﬁles have titles that include “Ethics,” “Customer Satisfaction Measures,” “Interviewing Techniques,” “CEO Development,” “Board Governance,”
and the like. I clip articles, note ideas I’ve heard, and collect competitive product and service literature and ﬁle it all away under appropriate headings. Once a
quarter, I review the ﬁles, eliminate duplication, create a unifying theme or
sequence within each topic area, and send the contents to every client and prospect listed for that category.

BREAKING PARADIGMS

75

I have never had recipients request that they be removed from the mailing
list. I scrupulously avoid any self-promotion other than the inclusion of articles
I’ve published in the ﬁeld and reviews of my relevant books.

2. Provide Essential Phone Numbers
Make the following numbers available to every client (and client means every key
individual within the client organization): regular ofﬁce number, toll-free number (if you don’t have one, get one), fax number (ditto), and cell phone number.
(With superb clients, I often provide my home phone number in case they need
to talk on a weekend.)
About three times a year, a client will call me at home in the evening or
during a weekend with a critical request or question that simply can’t wait. Three
at-home calls a year is a small price to pay to cement relationships. This privilege is never abused, is a sign of great trust, and goes beyond mere service. One
sign that I’ve established the relationships I seek occurs when clients offer me
their cell phone numbers.

Case Study
The chief executive ofﬁcer of a $300 million division called
me on an occasional Monday evening prior to important
executive committee meetings on Tuesday mornings when he
needed an outside view on a troubling issue. He always
called at the same time, about 10:30 p.m. eastern time.
I ﬁnally ﬁgured out that he timed his calls to coincide
with half-time on Monday Night Football. But he didn’t
watch football. He knew that I did!

3. Raise Crucial Issues
In as responsible and professional a way as possible, raise issues that demand the
client’s attention, even if they are not part of the project on which you are working. Make it clear—and live by the pledge—that you are not raising the issues
because you want to expand your project to include them. (If the client insists
that you take them on, request that the client consider other alternatives before
making a decision. This sounds crazy to short-term thinkers, but nine times out
of ten the client will ask you to help anyway, and fee is no issue at all. See the
fee/commitment equation later in this chapter.)

76

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

While undertaking a survey of customer satisfaction for a client, I found a
severe morale problem among ﬁeld employees that centered on two middle managers. I informed my client in a private meeting on the principle that he ought
to know and that I would not be acting professionally and in his best interests
if I didn’t inform him. He took independent action after consulting with his
staff members and told me that the situation could have gotten out of hand if
I hadn’t raised it with him.

4. Recommend Other Resources
Don’t hesitate to suggest other service or product suppliers. I keep lists of
resources I can call on to fulﬁll assignments that I cannot handle because I lack
the competency or the time. Some of them possess highly specialized skills, such
as outplacement counseling, and some are adept at routine needs, such as workshop facilitation. When a client asks me to take on a project that I cannot handle (the client is trusting me to make that decision), I call on these resources as
alternatives. The client is pleased that I can offer this help (because my recommendations carry my credibility), the person selected is appreciative of the business, and my long-term standing is enhanced.
Although I request periodic summaries of the work in progress, I seldom
accept a ﬁnder’s fee or commission on such referral business for two reasons. First,
I don’t want to convey the impression that I proﬁt from such referrals. Second, I
am then able to inﬂuence the person chosen to my best advantage (i.e., “If you learn
anything about my former sales project results, let me know”; “Please provide your
best rates”; “Keep me informed of anything I should convey to the buyer”).

5. Go the Extra Mile
Fulﬁll even tangential requests with grace and timeliness. As I originally wrote
this chapter, I received a call from an excellent client with a friend who needed
a job. The client felt that his friend could proﬁt greatly from spending an hour
with me discussing opportunities in my ﬁeld and my experience with clients.
I could have simply agreed to speak with the friend by phone when I had the
chance, and the client would have been happy with such service. However, I don’t
want to provide service, I want to build relationships, so I immediately called the
client’s friend and invited him to my ofﬁce and to lunch as my guest at a mutually convenient time. I dropped a line to my client to close the loop and gave him
a summary of our discussion when I saw him again.

6. Facilitate Client Publicity
Recommend clients for publicity opportunities that may have nothing to do with
your work for the organization. Since I’m very active in the media, I am often

BREAKING PARADIGMS

77

asked for interview subjects, examples of excellent performance proﬁles, people
to serve as judges and on panels, and so on. I not only recommend certain clients,
but I also provide a synopsis of why they would be appropriate or qualiﬁed and
some background on their organization.
I tell the interviewers or selectors to be sure to mention my name so that
the client gives them priority in her busy schedule.

7. Make a Charitable Contribution
Each year I contribute to an inner-city charter school “in the name of our
clients.” Such generosity is appreciated and doesn’t tread on sensitive ethical concerns about gifts. I’ve been doing this now for a decade.

8. Help Subordinates Unstintingly
Go out of your way to help lower-level people, whether or not they are directly
involved in your project and irrespective of whether they have any direct inﬂuence on future business. They always have an indirect inﬂuence.
While conducting focus groups with ﬁeld managers, a manager asked if I
would be willing to do something similar for his representatives, even though it
wasn’t part of my charter and was “only” for his personal assistance in managing his people. I told him that if his boss agreed, I’d gladly do it for expenses
only. We had a wonderful time, he was able to provide something special for his
people, and his feedback to senior management on my help was something that
only my mother could write.
On another occasion, I agreed to see a staff person after hours when she
couldn’t be scheduled into a focus group but wanted to make her views known.
I received information from her that I hadn’t heard before and that I was able to
raise with future groups, enabling me to provide additional insight in my evaluation for the client.

9. Don’t Be Afraid to Take a Stand
Never back away from controversy, and don’t hesitate to tell the client that he is
wrong. Being a sycophant is not being a consultant, and the chances are that the
client has more “yes” people than any organization needs. Your worth, your
integrity, and your value added to the organization will be illuminated by your
stand on important matters. Jefferson said, “In matters of taste, swim with the
current; in matters of principle, stand like a rock.”
A few years ago I delivered the results of a survey on ethics to a division
vice president and his top reports. Three minutes into the presentation, the subordinates—obviously feeling threatened—raised every conceivable objection,

78

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

from the nature of the questions in the survey to the legitimacy of the responses.
I told them that they could agree or disagree with the data, but that in my opinion the results were rock solid. After the meeting, I took the vice president aside
so as not to embarrass anyone and told him that I thought the kind of resistance
and defensiveness we had just witnessed was no doubt responsible for a great deal
of the survey results from subordinates.
I also offered to cancel the remainder of the project, which called for workshops to disseminate the results, if he were the least uncomfortable, even though
I had a noncancelable contract. The result was that he chose to conﬁde in me
about sensitive people issues, asked for advice in his presenting of the results to
subordinates, and has enlarged the earlier scope of our work together.

10. Treat Clients as Partners
Always view the client as an equal partner. The client is not just a buyer whose
decision puts bread on your table, and you are by no means the almighty experts,
without whom the client cannot even open the mail. The two (or three or seven)
of you are a team, each reliant on the other to provide talent and resources to
meet mutually agreed-upon goals. I do nothing for you, and you do nothing for
me; we do things jointly for a common purpose. We don’t seek blame; we seek
cause. We don’t relish activities; we rejoice in outcomes.
After a highly successful year with a client, during which his organization
beat its plan for the ﬁrst time in six years, I met with his boss, the group president, to review the past year and prepare for the next. The president said,
“You must be ecstatic about the results we had. You were an essential part of the
process.” I can think of no greater accolade.
Every year for a stretch of seven years, Merck & Co. was named “America’s
Most Admired Company” in Fortune magazine’s annual poll of executives. Every
year Merck sent all employees a gift, thanking them for their contribution. And
every year I got a gift from the vice president of worldwide personnel, personally
thanking me for my contribution to Merck’s success.
This is the ne plus ultra of client relationships. We’ll continue to discuss
throughout the book how a succession of such relationships turns into a million
dollar business.

WHY NO ONE CARES ABOUT YOUR ETHICS
OR YOUR TOUGH CHILDHOOD
I’ve gone to some lengths to explain that the core of your ﬁrm’s success is the
relationships you form with clients. The yardstick of the success of those
relationships will be the growth you enjoy, and I’ve stipulated that such

BREAKING PARADIGMS

79

growth must go beyond short-term economics and embrace your learning, reputation, expertise, and experience. The sum total of this broadening is multidimensional growth.
Such comprehensive, across-the-board growth establishes a clear, targeted
position for the ﬁrm. You should not let yourself be lulled by growth in one area.
For example, an increase in your expertise alone is insufﬁcient if your reputation in the market does not reﬂect it, if you are unable to apply it to new projects, and if you make no money from it. Yet many consultants continually add
expertise—in the form of new people, the licensed approaches of others, and
personal research—without regard for the total growth picture.
Similarly, consultants often evaluate growth in terms of numbers of new
clients—a single quantitative measure that can ignore the qualitative consideration that all the new clients require the exact same treatment, providing no
growth in expertise or diverse experience. Financial growth must accompany the
other growth factors; it is not independent of them.
Obviously, this ﬁnancial growth is essential for our businesses and our lives.
My intent is not to downplay it—far from it, as the name of this book should
make clear—but to dramatize the fact that real wealth in this business is a function of longer-term thinking and avoidance of complacency in shorter-term revenues. Here’s a very simple equation to try to prove the point.
Establishing high-level, high-quality relationships takes more time than
does a quick sale to a lower-level buyer based on such single factors as fee, deliverables, timing, and so on. In fact, it often means passing up some short-term
business. However, the patience this requires is always worth it in the long run
because of the fee dynamic.

One Percent Solution: Paradoxically, the longer you take to
establish a solid, trusting relationship with a buyer, the
faster you will obtain high-quality business.

The higher the commitment of the buyer, the less resistance there is to
fees. And the higher the level of the buyer, the less resistance there also is to fees.
(Low-level buyers are notoriously budget-bound, and consulting services are
usually not in the budget. Higher-level buyers are results-oriented and can
approve budget exceptions or change existing ones.)
Quite simply, the time it takes to develop solid, high-level relationships will
always be rewarded with higher fees. Of course, you still have to ask for them,
and tactics for doing that will be covered later.

80

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Financial growth is not the beginning of strategic planning
for your business. It is the result of planning for growth in
all dimensions through high-level, high-quality client
relationships.

When I help other consultants to evaluate their fee structure, I never do
so without evaluating the dynamic of their relationships with clients and prospects. This chapter began with a discussion of strategies for growth and ends
with a discussion of fees based on relationships that are intrinsic to such growth.
Your approach to your business must do the same.
If you care to evaluate your existing sales potential, you can do so with the
chart in Figure 4-3.
Low buyer commitment faced with a high fee is no sale, period. However,
when buyer commitment is low, a low fee isn’t the answer to create the sale you
need because the result is indifference. On the one hand, the buyer feels that the
outcome isn’t very important because not too much has been invested; on the
other, you don’t feel that the outcome is very important because you aren’t earning the type of fee you think you deserve.

Fees should never be established at a level designed merely
to acquire the business to compensate for low buyer
commitment. No one will be pleased with the outcome.

High

Self-defeating sale

Ideal sale

Indifferent sale

No sale

Low

High

Buyer
commitment

Low

Fee
Figure 4-3 Evaluating the outcome of fee-commitment relationships.

BREAKING PARADIGMS

81

When buyer commitment is high and the fee is low, you have placed yourself in a self-defeating position. No matter how pleased the buyer is or will be,
you are working “cheap” (and perhaps losing money). Your alternative is forced:
you feel you must use this sale is a springboard to a larger, more lucrative one.
This can be dangerous because once you have placed yourself in the position
of using a current project to justify another, you are likely to skew the results
to justify further work; begin thinking of the next project at the expense of the
current one; work uphill, since the client now has a mindset concerning your
fee structure; and view the client relationship as one-dimensional, based
on ﬁnances.
These are the very reasons why I advocate never undertaking a job at a
reduced fee (or, run for the exits, as a “loss leader!”) just to get in the door. That
door can lead you straight into a relationship you’ll soon need a window to escape
from. The whole point of establishing relationships that result in high buyer
commitment is to be able to establish a high fee structure.
The only desirable, win/win dynamic on the board is high commitment
and high fees from the client. This sounds mercenary when stated boldly, but it’s
the logical outcome of forging the relationships I’ve been expounding. It’s amazing how frequently consultants ignore these very simple dynamics through ignorance of the process, undue focus on short-term goals, lack of appreciation for
the relationship aspects of our business, and/or the success trap.
I’ve explained in this chapter the need to escape traditional thought patterns and eschew traditional wisdom—how to break the paradigms. If you can
embrace the notion of relationship building as the core value of your consulting
success, you’ve gone a long way toward getting ahead of the pack. Before I turn
to the speciﬁc tactics of million dollar consulting, I need you to take a look at
the strategies required to transform a ﬁrm into the type of consulting business
I’ve described. It’s time to turn the corner.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. What if the client doesn’t perceive the relationship you’ve established as important?
A. The only criterion for importance is that of the client; it’s in the eye of the
beholder. Never judge your actions in a vacuum. What the client thinks is
the only thing that matters, so you’ve probably misjudged what the client
would see as a special relationship.
Q. Are you saying that ethics aren’t important to clients?
A. No, I’m saying that high ethics, integrity, and appropriate behavior are
givens that demand no special respect or mention. (“You have high ethics?
Too bad; I wanted a consultant with low ethics.”)

82

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Q. If I’m in a good position on your grid, can I rely on that to use my time in other pursuits?
A. Not really, because the “gravity” on the grid is right to left. Even if you’re
in the position you want to be in, you have to keep innovating and improving, or you’ll slide to the left as the competition gets better or customers
get bored.

Final Thought: Never mindlessly accept conventional
wisdom. I’ve seldom seen advice givers in this profession
who are also exceptionally successful consultants. In this
business, you’ve got to walk the talk. Or to put it another
way, “Don’t believe everything you hear, even if I tell you!”
(H. L. Mencken)

CHAPTER
5

R ACING THROUGH
THE TURNS
DON’T SKID, BUT DON’T STOP

SHIFTING GEARS EVER HIGHER
The most important transition period for any consulting (or entrepreneurial)
business is not setting up shop as your own boss. It is not obtaining your ﬁrst
client. It is not even having a year that pays the bills and then some.
The most important transition period is escaping the thinking that conﬁnes you to small successes. Over the past 13 years, my Private Roster Mentor
Program has included an attorney who has branched out into consulting areas
that include the sale of small- to medium-sized businesses. After years of struggle, he ﬁnally has a staff, nice ofﬁces, and a modest practice that brings him about
$300,000 a year. He came to me for formalized help because he felt “stuck.”
“I’m happier making $300,000 than I was breaking even all those years,”
he acknowledged, “but I’m not very happy with my inability to go beyond that.”
There is a consultant’s “wall,” it seems. Just like the distance runner, one
either breaks through it or is never able to improve one’s performance. The wall
in this case, however, isn’t caused by physiologic needs, dehydration, muscle tone,
or breathing difﬁculties. It is caused by lack of conﬁdence, an inability to let go
of small successes, and a sudden conservatism caused by having money in the bank for
the ﬁrst time.
I’ve had to differentiate my offerings to the consulting and professional services communities as follows:
• Gaining Traction: Workshops on how to go from zero income to
$300,000.
• Six Figures to Seven: How to escape the success trap and move into
strong income.

83

84

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

• The Million Dollar Club: Seven-ﬁgure earners who convene in resort
locations to discuss further growth, life balance concerns,
contributions to others, and innovative ideas.
I’ve differentiated these offerings because there are hidden “bumps in the
road” and squeamish turns that tend to cause people to slow down and keep
checking the tire pressure.
Your continued growth is essential if you are to help your current and
future clients in better and more sophisticated ways. It is also essential to
• Keep you vital and involved.
• Attract and retain top employees, partners, and/or alliances.
• Improve your visibility and marketing ability.
• Avoid the plateau of the “success trap.”
• Maximize discretionary time, which is the real wealth.
• Prevent yourself from sitting still while other pass you.1
Make no mistake: if you see success as the level ground you’ve ﬁnally
reached, it’s only a matter of time before that ground erodes into a declivity.
Such is the law of entropy. The only way to prosper is to continue to climb.
Plateaus are meant for brief breathers, nothing more.
You must have a strategy for growth. I’m often asked if I create monetary
goals each year that I strive to reach. I don’t do this because such tactical goals
are extremely limiting. For example, if your goal is to make $500,000 and you
work hard, take some risks, and hit it, is that good? Maybe you should have made
$700,000, but you were so ﬁxated on the half-million that it became a self-fulﬁlling prophecy that actually limited your growth. (The same applies for number of new clients, additional geographies, publicity sources, and other such
measures.)
I’ve seen this happen repeatedly in businesses of all sizes. When the sales
vice president reports that “we’ll be lucky to have a 5 percent increase in the
Northeast,” that’s exactly what they have a hard time achieving.
The worst thing about having a plan is that you hit it. Don’t make hardand-fast tactical plans. You just might wind up achieving them—and little else.
Focus on the strategic and the open-ended.
Figure 5-1 provides some examples of goals on the strategic level. The
more focused you are on results for your clients, the more results will accrue to
1
“Even if you’re on the right track,” said Mark Twain, “if you’re just sitting there, someone
will pass you.”

RACING THROUGH THE TURNS

Category
Marketing

Relationships

Finances

Resources

Personal

85

Strategic Results Desired
Regular interviews on radio as a monthly norm.
Agents obtained for book, article, and seminar deals.
Recognized and hired by bureaus as a keynote speaker.
All business is established on value-based project fees.
Workshop and training business is subcontracted.
Repeat business from existing clients grows each year over
prior.
Major credit lines acquired at banks.
Can operate without revenues during protracted dry spells.
No receivables over 60 days’ duration.
All research and interviewing performed by subcontrators.
No projects refused because of lack of resources.
New capabilities developed in survey work and testing.
Able to take vacations whenever they are desired.
Net worth increases by larger percentage each
succeeding year.
Family time is increasing.

Figure 5-1 Examples of strategic goals.

your ﬁrm. And the less you create self-limiting goals with artiﬁcial “ﬁnish lines,”
the more you’ll be able to run a long-distance race without heavy breathing.
One year I decided to raise my speaking fees. Most speakers and consultants would have chosen a ﬁxed amount of increase, such as $2,000, or a ﬁxed
percentage, such as 10 percent. I decided to raise every fee, but situationally,
depending on what was asked of me. I found, to my surprise, that I was able to
dramatically raise the fees for 30-minute after-dinner speeches by much higher
amounts because there aren’t that many good business speakers who can tackle
that tough time frame, and clients are willing to pay a premium to obtain top talent.2 I assigned other fees based on the amount of preliminary work (participant

2 After-dinner speaking is tough because it usually follows an open bar, a big meal served with
unlimited wine, an awards ceremony, and droning talks by the senior managers. It is not for the
timid. One night at Nissan, I followed three consecutive toasts in which everyone was asked by the
visiting Japanese executives to down an entire cup of sake. Needless to say, everyone did so with
gusto seldom seen in obeying orders from the top.

86

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

interviewing, on-site visits) or follow-up work (providing copies of slides, sending material for study) requested.
Over the year, these efforts produced much more than an across-the-board
increase would have garnered.
To escape self-limiting behavior, you have to stop doing what you’ve been
doing for ages. As one mentoree pointed out, “I’ve been doing this seminar on time
management forever simply because I’ve always done it and can do it in my sleep—
which is sometimes not far from the truth. I don’t make that much, it narrows my
repute, and it focuses me on clients who are too small for my growth needs.”
As the doctor says, then stop doing it!

TRIAGE
There are three kinds of existing or repeat business that you will be faced with
over your transition period:
1. Business that is not consistent with a growth strategy but that you
want to retain because it can be developed into better business
2. Business that already represents your new, growth-oriented strategy
that you want to retain
3. Business that is strictly the “old” image and should be abandoned
because it cannot lead to new heights
Triage, of course, is generally applied to the medical system employed during a catastrophe, when casualties are high and resources scarce. Victims are separated into those who will survive if given immediate attention, those who will
survive even without immediate attention, and those who probably won’t survive
in any case. Resources are allocated generally in that priority order.
Category 1 in the list deserves priority treatment. This has been sound,
historically valuable business that you want to retain and further develop, but not
in the current relationship. It may take a prolonged period, but you want to educate your buyer about the beneﬁts of evolving the nature of your relationship.
The basis for accomplishing this transition—the trust and history of results—is
in place.
Category 2 is business that is already where you want it to be. It requires
nurturing and the relationship building we’ve discussed elsewhere, but it’s not as
sensitive as the preceding business, which must be changed in form. Category 2
business will “survive” without extra intervention.
Category 3 business is not salvageable. It may be work that you simply don’t
want to do anymore or business that creates an image or association that is

RACING THROUGH THE TURNS

87

undesirable. This is excellent business to refer to others, a technique we’ve discussed in previous chapters. Retaining this business can be more damaging than
not obtaining new business because it will “cement” you to wherever you are
today, no matter how willing the client is to continue to send checks.

One Percent Solution: You cannot reach out until you let go.
The ﬁrst step is to release minimally proﬁtable work that
you retain simply out of inertia. Drop the baggage.

Here are examples of each condition:
1. I increased average project fees by a multiple of 5 over a two-year period by
exchanging a policy of “get the business through the lowest proposal” to one
of “I want only business that results in a minimum proﬁt margin of X.” I did
this by formally specifying services that I had to perform anyway (i.e., on-site
observations, comparisons with industry norms) and developing relationships
with buyers that helped me determine what other needs could legitimately be
built into the project, although unstated by the client.
Then I did an interesting thing: I substantially increased my project fees
from what I would have charged had I not had a tangible transition plan for
growth. This is not noticeable as long as you don’t charge on a per-diem basis
and you do demonstrate high-value-added outcomes. (See Chapter 9 for techniques.) I can still remember the very ﬁrst $55,000 proposal I submitted, with
my heart racing madly as the client reviewed it in front of me. When he
accepted it with a simple, “Okay, it reﬂects everything we’ve agreed on, so
let’s do it,” I knew that I had turned a corner in my career and my life.

Digression
Try to “unbundle” your services. Instead of throwing
everything but the kitchen sink into your work—because
you’re trying to justify a fee that your self-esteem is having
trouble supporting—separate out your services and provide
the client with value options.
Although people talk about “scope creep” (clients asking
for more work than was agreed upon), “scope seep” is worse,
in that the consultant provides more work than was agreed
upon at no extra fee.

88

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

2. I had “accidentally” developed a high proﬁle as a keynote speaker in he newspaper industry. I maintained that proﬁle through mailings and ongoing
appearances at the American Press Institute and used it as a model for the
types of speaking I wanted to do across industries. This was a business
approach that didn’t require modiﬁcation, and I invested my time and energy
elsewhere. I successfully developed relationships with the New York Times, Los
Angeles Times, Hartford Courant, BusinessWeek, and others by allowing the
momentum to continue unimpeded.
3. I had done individual behavioral assessments for clients by providing a written or audio description of predispositions based on an instrument I used at
the time. I didn’t want to be known as a “testing” ﬁrm, however, and the
clients using this service tended to be small, one-site operations, a market I
did not see as important to my future or my repute. Consequently, I offered
this business to a woman who frequently worked on projects for me and provided her with free rights to use my instrumentation. I also provided the
clients (and future inquiries) with alternative sources of such testing. Finally,
I placed the entire test and its interpretation in a book3 that was available from
a major publisher (and now directly from me) so that the approach could be
accessed and attributed to me.
To summarize the keys to successfully making the transition from where
you are—no matter how successful—to becoming a million dollar consultant:
1. Set up a speciﬁc strategic plan for the major categories of your
business, use the plan as a management tool to inﬂuence your
decisions in running the business, and assess your success periodically.
2. Establish a triage system to protect attractive business, nurture
evolutionary business, and abandon inappropriate business.
3. Assess your progress monthly using an independent sounding board
as necessary to ensure that you are not blinded by temporary
victories or the “resting place” of a short-term plateau.
4. Do not waver.
By engaging in this strategy, you will be developing “brands” that are essential for any successful consultant. Branding brings customers to you at a low cost
of acquisition and reverses the buying dynamic. (Instead of “prove yourself to
me,” the prospect says, “I’ve heard of your work. . . .”) However, brands must be
3 Alan Weiss, Managing for Peak Performance (and Pitfalls) of Personal Style (New York: Harper
& Row, 1989; Las Brisas Research Press, 1995).

RACING THROUGH THE TURNS

89

speciﬁc and unique, so you must focus on your core competencies and how they
appeal to market needs. [For greater detail, see my book How to Develop a Unique
Brand in the Consulting Profession (San Francisco: Jossey-Bass/Pfeiffer, 2001).]

A fundamental conﬁdence builder during times of
transition is the sound client base that you already have
and that you will be retaining in the future.

FIFTEEN SECRETS OF SOUND GROWTH
In successfully making the transition from “lone wolf “ to “thundering herd,”
you will want to safeguard key personal business and relationships.

There is no external force that will compel you to change
the way you secure and deliver business. You must have a
constant urge to examine the status quo and ﬁnd out how it
can be improved. This is what the best corporations in the
world do—they examine their top units and then improve
them. They don’t shore up weak areas. You grow based on
exploiting strengths, not by acclimating to weaknesses.

These are the relationships represented by categories 1 and 2 in the list at
the beginning of the previous section. No matter which of these categories the
business relationship falls into, there are some techniques available to protect it
while your business changes its image and the manner in which it operates. I’ve
found that the following 15 methods apply regardless of your size, location, type
of client, or consulting role.

1. Involve the Client in the Change and Seek Feedback
The worst thing you can do with an established client who has a clear image and
understanding of what you’ve represented to the organization is to present an
abrupt change in that image and understanding. Rather than present the client
with a fait accompli and hope for the best, invite key people within the organization to comment on your proposed changes. Share your reasons with them;
for example, you are moving away from conducting three-day seminars and

90

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

toward on-site observations and one-on-one coaching because your experience
indicates that such a role produces higher-quality and longer-term client results.
Ask client personnel for feedback and suggestions. Keep them apprised of your
progress. Ask them directly if there are aspects of your relationship with them
that might be endangered or enhanced by your new strategy.

2. Present the Changes as Opportunities,
Not as Threats
Determine how your new positioning will help your client, and prepare a cogent
explanation of the advantages. The client will tend to view change as a threat; you
must provide the counterpoints. Demonstrate that it has been the very nature of
your relationship with this client and others that has provided for your evolving
view of your work and its emphasis. Be upbeat and positive about the anticipated
changes, and place them in perspective—they are natural evolutions of your
growing business, which you wanted to explain to the client because of your
unique and ongoing relationship. They are not watershed events that will permanently alter the relationship. (Compare them to similar changes that the client
has made to evolve and change.)

3. Don’t Explain the Changes and Raise Your
Fees Simultaneously
Remember, these are clients in categories that are either already suited to your
new strategy or capable of developing into that role. Even if you’ve embarked on
a survey technique that the client is now obtaining elsewhere or if you are providing customer surveys at a lower fee here than you’ve begun charging elsewhere, don’t propose or implement such changes too early. First allow the client
to understand, react to, and acclimate to the changes in your business approach.
Then you can introduce new services or fee structures. This could take six
months to a year, depending on the original nature of your business and the
client’s identiﬁcation with it.

4. Request Ongoing Feedback
Especially when there is a new company name, logo, materials, letterhead, and
other print material, send advance copies or rough concepts to the client and
request feedback. Whether or not you agree with and use the feedback, by soliciting it and listening to it, you will create “ownership” of your changes with the
client. This will lessen the perceived sense of change and make the client a partner in that change rather than a perceived victim of it. Most important, since
your image depends not on how you see it but on how others see it, client

RACING THROUGH THE TURNS

91

feedback is very useful in alerting you and your designers to whether the
proposed “look” is effective in conveying the image you seek in the marketplace.

5. Introduce the Changes to Clients as a Group
Convene one or more small, informal meetings in a hotel conference room that
is convenient for a group of clients, offer a continental breakfast or lunch, lay out
your intent, and elicit their feedback as a group. This is an excellent investment
because (a) groups are self-sanctioning and generally adopt a middle-of-the-road
attitude toward change, (b) the clients will see themselves as advisors to you,
which will enhance the two-way nature of the relationship, (c) the clients will
have the opportunity to speak to each other, which can only enhance your perceived value in helping diverse organizations, and (d) better ideas emerge from
a group setting, and the feedback should be quite valuable. I’ve concluded such
sessions by presenting everyone with a bestselling business book or reference
work as a token of appreciation for their participation.

6. Offer to “Grandfather” or Otherwise Safeguard
the Services that Are Being Phased Out
For example, if you are no longer marketing the three-day effective-listening
workshops that a particular client has requested once a quarter for three years,
offer to continue those workshops for one ﬁnal year. During that time, introduce
a colleague or another consultant who will provide the “overlap” and continuity
to continue them beyond the year. These offers are effective only if (a) you establish a deﬁnitive cutoff point, after which you will cease offering the product or
service, and (b) you make an offer (whether or not it’s accepted) of a qualiﬁed
replacement who can smoothly continue as you bow out. Offer a sufﬁciently long
phaseout so that the client has time to consider options and the change does not
seem imminent. Do not offer these phaseouts unless you are certain that the client
will consider them integral to a continued, effective relationship. They are timeconsuming and deﬂect you from your future emphases, and they are too
frequently offered because the consultant, not the client, doesn’t want to end
the service.

7. Time Your Explanation with a Client to Coincide
with a Successfully Completed Assignment
After reviewing a consulting project that the client is pleased about, survey
results that the client has found enlightening, workshop feedback that praises
your techniques, or some similar event, use the moment to explain the changes
that will be occurring within your ﬁrm. Tie in the changes to your personal

92

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

development and evolution that has already been employed in the highly successful assignment just completed. Demonstrate that you are merely formalizing the effective techniques that you’ve been applying informally within the
client’s organization for some time. Hence this isn’t an abrupt change, but an
acknowledgment of the changes that have already been incorporated into your
work and you’re your approaches. Conversely, do not introduce a proposed
change in the way you will conduct business in the middle of a client project or
after one that has produced ambiguous or unacceptable results.

8. Reach Out Laterally to New Buyers within
Existing Clients
Provide yourself with the opportunity to sell to more people within your current environment. While implementing, establish relationships with additional
buyers. Ask your current buyer to introduce you. If you really believe that you
have value to add, you’re not “selling,” but rather ﬁnding new people whom you
can help in their parts of the business. If your current buyer balks at a change in
your business or becomes distracted (or disappears), you will still have the “new”
buyers to work with.

9. Provide Additional Value
If you really want to retain business that might be vulnerable as you change the
nature of your operation, then make yourself so valuable that you can’t be
replaced. Provide a new electronic newsletter; offer an industry comparison; suggest that you benchmark survey results; provide some advice on a new initiative
“on the house.” This is simply spending money to make money, and the return
on this modest investment will be substantial.

10. Focus on Growth Clients
You can grow and move most easily—retaining key clients—by focusing on the
clients who are growing along with you. Identify those clients whose growth
curves are increasing, and match them to your plans. This has the salutary effect
of preventing a growth client from leaving you because you’re no longer appropriate for its new needs!

11. Offer a Pro Bono Opportunity
I don’t believe in doing pro bono work for for-proﬁt organizations, but to help
move a client over the speed bump, you may do something gratis that not only

RACING THROUGH THE TURNS

93

will create a positive reaction with the client, but may also provide a glimpse of your
new offerings that the client might avail himself of.

12. Paint the Client into the Normative Picture
That’s a grand way of saying that you should stress to the client that your new
clients are taking advantage of new relationships with you (including products,
services, access, fees, terms, and so forth), and that you would be remiss not to
offer this relationship to your existing, excellent clients.

13. Create Case Studies
As you grow and expand your practice, create case studies to demonstrate the
beneﬁts of your new work. Ideally, these are related in three brief paragraphs:
the situation you encountered, the intervention you provided, and the result that
was achieved. With or without actual client names (depending on permission),
these will make great cases on your Web site, in your press kit, and in your conversation about your new client paradigms.

14. Find the Early Adopters
“Partner” with those clients who tend to be innovative and early adopters to
implement your new relationships. “Seed” these clients into meetings, Web site
articles, blog posts, and other communications so that you create a certain critical mass and momentum.

15. Be Prepared to Move a Client Who Simply Will Not
Accommodate Your Evolving Business Approach
This is easy for me to say, yet no one easily forsakes today’s certain income for
tomorrow’s uncertain prospects, no matter how attractive those prospects may
be. But here’s the reality. First, very few clients, if any, will be this intractable if
the relationship was solid to begin with. After all, you’ve had to accommodate
client changes, and most clients do not ﬁnd it unreasonable to accommodate
yours, especially if your changes are presented and articulated in terms of the
client’s best interests. Second, if several of your clients react poorly, your proposed changes may well be too radical for a great deal of your existing business.
This means that either you are making a large-scale change that is necessary if
you are to achieve dramatic growth, or you are making too ambitious a change
given your relationship with those clients. In either case, the feedback is essential to allow you to reevaluate your course of action.

94

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Third, however, as we’ve discussed earlier and will address again, you must
abandon certain no-growth business relationships if you are to establish high-growth business relationships. You just can’t have it both ways. If you make your best efforts
to retain key personal business relationships during a transition period and those
efforts fail anyway, then those relationships would not have contributed to the
high-growth business you are seeking to create.
Deliberately forsaking current business and current prospects seems alien
to everything we’re taught about marketing. Why should you lose business at
all? Can’t a smart marketer both retain the past and develop the future? In my
experience, this attempt only results in your being a captive of the past and a passive viewer of the future.

EXPLOITING YOUR RESOURCES AND
THOSE OF OTHERS
In a later chapter, we’ll deal speciﬁcally with managing and exploiting capital once
it’s rolling in. However, the primary fuel you’ll need for escape velocity from the
lower atmosphere in the growth stages of your business consists of leveraged
resources. This is not a gallimaufry of an uncle’s loan, surrendered government
bonds, and secondhand equipment. A fundamental reason for most new business
failures is not lack of energy, poor services, or unwanted products. It is undercapitalization, and I use this term to represent more than just moola. (The greatest single problem is low self-esteem.)
Entrepreneurs can be killed more quickly by lack of resources than by any
other cause. If you intend to build a legitimate, thriving, visible, growth-oriented business in professional consulting, at a minimum, you’ll need access to
and/or support from
• Top-ﬂight ofﬁce equipment, including a desktop computer, a laptop
computer (some people use only the latter), a laser printer, a copier, a
postage meter, a postage scale, a two-line phone, ﬁles, a calculator, a
fax machine, and label makers. I also advise a credit card terminal and
a merchant account through your bank. You can use a “virtual
terminal” on your computer.
• Attractive stationery, labels, brochures, media kits, business cards,
and other printed materials.
• Excellent legal help for incorporation, bylaws, contracts,
and so on.
• Aggressive ﬁnancial planning expertise for credit lines, taxes,
retirement plans, and so on.

RACING THROUGH THE TURNS

95

• A ﬁrst-rate bookkeeper for monthly balance sheets, general ledgers,
check reconciliation, and other such tasks.4
• Insurance professionals for disability, general liability, malpractice,
and other needs.5
• A personal travel agent for airfare savings, economies of scale,
maximizing travel awards, and minimizing your own scheduling time.
(You can ﬁnd bargains by making reservations over the Web, but the
bargains are frequently illusory, and the time investment offsets the
savings.)
• Audiovisual resources for slides, overheads, CDs, downloads,
duplication, and so on.
• An online service provider, a Web site and administrator, and any
related e-mail needs resources.
• A small but growing reference library on varied media (e.g., state-ofthe-art books in your discipline, CD-ROMs with research aids, and
recordings of conferences and speeches).
• Access to a graphic designer and production house for slides,
materials design, and sophisticated presentations.
• A local print shop that can duplicate, create simple manuals, produce
reprints, and supply other marketing needs.
These resources can’t be sacriﬁced in tough times. In particular, don’t scrimp
on the legal and ﬁnancial assistance. The attorney who closed on your house or did
your will and the accountant who has done your personal taxes are unlikely to have
the expertise required for your entrepreneurial challenges. Find yourself some specialists, using references, networking at association meetings, and industry listings.
Are you aware, for example, that you can build certain expense categories,
such as medical reimbursements, into your corporate bylaws? Or that there are
some national organizations that provide various insurance services to one-person operations at group rates? Why shop around if there are people who know
the ropes? There are issues, including board meetings, travel expenses, obtaining credit, and retirement plans, that can be addressed early and comprehensively
4 In all my suggestions throughout this book, I am placing a premium on your time. For example, while there is computer software that will calculate your taxes or reconcile your accounts, the
cost to you in taking the time to use them is prohibitive because that time is not being spent on marketing, professional development, delivery, and the other vital actions your software can’t do. For
this same reason, you should outsource all but the most basic of audiovisual and printing needs.
5
Disability insurance is universally overlooked, but you have a far graver risk of being
incapacitated than of dying. Similarly, malpractice insurance—commonly known as “errors and
omissions” (E&O)—is sometimes required by clients before you can sign a contract.

96

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

through these professionals. They also can serve as objective sounding boards
when you need advice if you haven’t yet formed a regular advisory body.
For example, never invest in anyone’s offer to “guarantee” you leads or prospects, and never invest money to represent someone else’s product or service as
a franchisee. The best of these make money only for the other party, and the
worst are outright scams and pyramid ploys.
Your resource plans should address three critical areas:
1. Acquisition of the products and services noted earlier, irrespective of whether
your ofﬁce is at home or rented. The former is perfectly acceptable. No
one will care. The deciding factor is where you will be able to work
effectively, not your ego needs. I’ve had only a home ofﬁce for more
than 23 years, right through a seven-ﬁgure practice. (In fact, the
$450,000 I estimate I saved on an sofﬁce, part-time help, insurance,
utilities, and so forth over that time frame almost exactly equals the
tuition of my two kids in private school from kindergarten through
college. Think about that for a few minutes.)
2. One year of your minimum personal expenses, including recurring bills
(utilities and mortgage) and one-time needs (tuition and annual insurance
premiums). I recommend paring down your needs to a realistic
minimum and then adding 10 percent for unexpected contingencies
or miscalculations. If you’re just starting out but you follow my
overall approaches, you should be able to secure business within six
months and be self-supporting in about twelve.
3. Six months of nonreimbursable business expenses (e.g., postage and
phone), but not projected travel, which the client would pay for.
At any given point, a combination of cash on hand, accounts receivable,
unbilled contracts, securities, and guaranteed access to credit lines should exceed
the sum of these three areas. The last factor, in my opinion, should represent no
more than 20 percent of your total needs.
Therefore, if your ofﬁce start-up requires $10,000, a year’s expenses require
$75,000, and your business expenses are $15,000, you’ll need at least $100,000,
of which no more than $20,000 should be available from credit sources. The more
working capital you amass (current assets minus current liabilities), the more latitude you have for growth, which generates still more working capital. Remember, growth is a function of growth, not of reduction. You cannot cut your way
to success. Figure 5-2 provides a basic outline for ﬁguring your working capital.
The most important factor is to increase the top line—revenues. The second
most important factor is to maximize the bottom line—proﬁts—by keeping as much
of the top line as you possibly can.

RACING THROUGH THE TURNS

97

Worksheet to Calculate Resource Funding
Basis Capital Requirements
One year of living
$_____
expenses
Living expenses plus
_____
10% contingency
Six months of business _____
expenses
Start-up expenses for
_____
ofﬁce
Total needs

$_____

Sources of Capital
Cash and securities
on hand
Accounts receivable

$_____

Contracts (unbilled
business)
Credit line access

_____

Total assets

$_____

_____

_____

Working capital: current assets minus current needs $_____
Figure 5-2 Working capital equation.

I keep over 90 percent.
If you are concerned about raising capital and either a home equity loan is
unavailable or you do not own a home, there are two primary sources for raising money: debt sources and equity sources. Equity sources are troublesome.
1. Equity investment means that you surrender partial control of your business,
however small, in return for someone else’s money. Venture capitalists provide money in this way for a living. However, high-risk investors expect very
high returns to justify that risk and will require that your focus be on a return
on that investment in the relatively short term. They also will require that you
invest virtually everything you have as a show of good faith. (Investors get
fussy when they’ve loaned you six ﬁgures or so and your top priority is a vacation in Lower Tula Tula.)
You will not be able to take much more than a subsistence salary for yourself. To put it bluntly, outside investors own more than your business. They
own your soul. Is this really why you went into business for yourself—to have
someone else oversee your actions and your income?
Outside investors are like the basilisk, an ancient lizardlike monster, sitting
on your doorstep. They frighten you and anyone else in the neighborhood.
2. Friends, family, and silent partners are less monsterlike in their loan potential, but not by much. First, there may be considerable personal pressure to
make repayments before you actually can afford to do so. Second, the amount

98

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

of amount of money gained from this source is usually relatively small (except
in the case of the really rich uncle).
3. You can invite colleagues in for a piece of your action. In fact, once you’re
ﬂamingly successful, you can use the allure of equity to attract excellent people. At the outset, however, the value of such equity is highly problematic. For
example, for a $25,000 investment, does a colleague receive 5 percent or
20 percent of the equity? If you’ve been too generous, the transaction will
return to haunt you once the large contracts roll in. If you’ve been too parsimonious, your colleague will resent the arrangement.
Collegial equity can create highly motivated stakeholders. But this inclusion will almost always limit your personal freedom severely. Decisions to
abandon business, raise fees, experiment with new approaches, and the like
become committee debates rather than bold actions. I’ve found equity participation to be a fairly effective tool for long-term commitment and reward
later on, but not for gaining resources at the beginning.
4. Some consultants have raised money by providing their products, services,
and expertise to others on a licensing or fee arrangement. These “purchasers”
are certainly not clients because they have unrestricted use of your proprietary intellectual capital, be it tangible or intangible. The advantage of raising some cash is more than undercut by the surrender of control and receiving
only a percentage of the revenue from your contribution rather than all of it.
This is a Faustian bargain. Too often you get entangled for life.
In contrast to equity funding, debt funding, however forbidding the term,
leaves you in control of your destiny.6 The best alternatives are local banks that
provide credit lines but demand that only the interest be paid monthly, meaning
that the capital can be repaid at a time when it is most comfortable for you. These
lines are invaluable to the thriving consultant, who probably will have to take a
huge year-end bonus out of the business for tax purposes. All the interest payments are legitimate business deductions, and since the company borrowed the
capital, the company funds pay it back whenever feasible.
Many banks also underwrite loans from the Small Business Administration
that are highly favorable, require modest fees for acquisition, and have generous
repayment terms. Make sure you inquire about them.
Even when I reached the $300,000 and $400,000 marks in revenue, my
business was highly uneven, and cash ﬂow varied tremendously. (One year I made
6 The ability to borrow money varies with the economic cycles, and since this book was ﬁrst
written in 1992, the markets have varied enormously. However, a good ﬁnancial advisor can help
you secure funds in virtually any economic circumstances, as long as your prospects, business plan,
and personal repute are all sound.

RACING THROUGH THE TURNS

99

over $75,000 in January, and in February made exactly $250 from book sales.)
Some months I was scrambling for cash, and others I was investing in moneymarket funds to absorb the excess. My ﬁnancial advisor saved the day by arranging meetings with three different banks. I chose one that offered me a credit line
based on home equity for $150,000 personal use and $100,000 business use.
Since then, the success of my business has enabled me to obtain an unsecured
credit line of $125,000 for my business alone. If I didn’t use these lines, I owed
nothing, and if I borrowed, I owed only the interest, which was provided at a
favorable rate.
Do you see what I mean by investing in excellent ﬁnancial advice? Your
advisors should be able to deliver, not just pontiﬁcate. (I have switched my primary bank because another offered me an even better deal. When you’ve made
it in business, the banks will come to ﬁnd you.)
Is there a danger in using home equity—if available—as a funding source?
It depends. Are you serious about your career and your abilities? If so, there’s a
lot less danger in betting on you than in betting on the stock market. If you use
that credit for vacations, furs, and fancy ofﬁces, you’re in trouble. However, you
don’t need me to tell you this. The reason you’re reading this book, I presume,
is that you intend to be focused and resolute in your success in this ﬁeld. If this
is not true, then don’t pursue debt ﬁnancing, because the collateral is suspect.
If you can’t use a home for such purposes, there are other alternatives.
Consult with a good ﬁnancial resource, but also make sure that you consider the
following:
• Receivables can be used as collateral. At the nascent stage of your
business, there may not be many. Banks and other lenders generally
will provide about 80 percent of the value of receivables if they are
contractual and payable periodically. A different version of this
approach, in which the lender assumes the risk of collecting in return
for a percentage of the collectible, is called factoring. I think that this
is ill advised. Moreover, the banks may inform your clients that their
receivables are the basis of a loan granted to you.
• Inventory often can provide ﬁnancing for up to 50 percent or so of its worth.
If you have a large product inventory, this could be an option.
Choose a bank that understands your type of business. John
Humphrey, when president of the Forum Corporation, a Boston
training ﬁrm, once told me that he actually took his bankers into the
vault and had them touch the master copies of his company’s
materials. He explained the copyrights and the revenues and helped
them to make the conceptual breakthrough that this was a valuable
piece of collateral. He wanted them to “handle the assets.”

100

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

• Other personal or corporate assets can be used for collateral, from vehicles to
equipment to ofﬁce space. Your ﬁnancial advisor can help package you in
the most attractive way possible to obtain further resources to
support your growth needs.
Having said all this, the less indebtedness you have, the better. However,
don’t be afraid of it. The only way to make money is to invest money. I’ve done
it repeatedly to grow my business and will continue to do so no matter what level
I’m at. You need to develop a mindset that reassures you that the use of debt
ﬁnancing is a legitimate business tool. After all, you couldn’t be any more
certain of the worth of the collateral.

THE 16 BASIC PRINCIPLES OF MILLION
DOLLAR CONSULTING
Million dollar consulting can be embodied in these 16 premises:
1. The consultant will improve the client’s condition.
2. The consultant has a trusting relationship with the buyer.
3. Client interactions will be based on competitive products,
distinctive service, and breakthrough relationships.
4. Those relationships will be developed as collaborative, long-term,
mutually reinforcing, and mutually rewarding ones.
5. Results are tracked by metrics that clearly indicate the consultant’s
contributions.
6. As a result of the relationship, the consultant can achieve conceptual
agreement with the client on project outcomes (as opposed to
tasks), measures of success, and value to the client of achieving
those outcomes.
7. Fees are based on the value of those outcomes as perceived by the
client. (The discussion should never be about fee, only about value.)
8. The client is always presented with options so that the choices are
how to go forward, not whether to go forward.
9. The client trusts the consultant to make decisions as to whether the
latter can achieve the former’s objectives.
10. The consultant and the client share in the diagnosis, but the
consultant provides the prescription.
11. The consultant must achieve multidimensional growth in repute,
expertise, experience, and income if high earnings are to be a

RACING THROUGH THE TURNS

101

long-lived phenomenon. (The philosophy is not “specialize or die”;
it’s “generalize and thrive.”)
12. To establish growth at the high end of the business, the consultant
must abandon the low end of the business.
13. The consultant must invest money to make money, and adequate
capital is required for growth.
14. No one becomes “rich” solely as a function of the revenues she
generates. It’s not what you make. It’s what you keep.
15. Wealth is really discretionary use of time, and money is only
the fuel.
16. The consultant’s self-esteem dictates the success of all the
previous points.
We’ve discussed most of these tenets in prior chapters and have sometimes
crossed the line into the tactics for achieving them, that is, retaining key personal business, obtaining ﬁnancing, and so on. However, the goal so far has been
to set the stage and allow you to take a strategic view. We tend to dive into tactics without an appreciation for the gestalt. The tactics that follow in Part 2,
while effective and vital no matter what your business content, will create the
dynamic growth we’ve discussed only if they are embraced within a framework
that exploits their potential.
The reason the ﬁrst third of this book has been dedicated to understanding and selecting strategic options is that your philosophy and your basic beliefs
about your business unequivocally will determine how you actually act under the
heat and light of client contact. My experience has been that most consultants
are too busy trying to deliver current business, send out proposals, service key
clients, market their services, network with colleagues, and occasionally spend
an evening at home to afford themselves the luxury of thinking about strategy
and its repercussions. Strategy isn’t “long term.” This is more conventional wisdom run amok. Strategy, intrinsically, is neither long term nor short term.
Strategy has to do with who you are and what you want to become, so the tactics you employ—how you get there—must be consistent with your chosen destination. If you have no intended port of call because you have no time to think
about one, then no wind is a good wind. You might hustle and pant, growl and
spit, and in general create a lot of whirling action, but you’ll never reach the top
of this profession. Goals are what excite people and generate emotion. And while
logic makes people think, emotion makes them act.
Clearly, the top of this profession is worth reaching, and the million
dollar moniker I use means more than merely money in the bank. At the top are
client opportunities, learning, collaborative offers to your advantage, publishing
invitations, speaking options, and rareﬁed travel. Together, these opportunities

102

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

can enhance your personal and professional growth in a manner that few other
alternatives can match.
This isn’t just about getting rich, although that alone is not an unattractive
aspect. It’s about excellence.

Strategy is a framework within which you make the decisions
that determine the nature and direction of your business.7

When consultants tell me that they are happy with their current size and
capacity or that they really don’t want to grow because they couldn’t handle the
business or make some other excuse justifying their plateau, I shrug it off. After
all, it’s their life. But I do feel sorry for their clients because, ultimately, consultants who refuse to grow are shortchanging the clients who depend on them
no less than an automobile company that refuses to use the latest safety technology undermines its customers or a bookkeeper who resists the newest computer technology creates more expense for clients.
Clients cannot survive, let alone thrive and dominate their markets, by sitting on a plateau, no matter how lofty. The consultants they seek and deserve
should be just as committed to the dynamics of strategy, tactics, growth, and
achievement.
Million dollar consulting uses a belief system and strategy that prevent
mere jobs from getting in the way of important careers. This is difﬁcult in that
it requires the worst kind of hard work—focused self-discipline. However, this
is nothing less than you’d require of your clients. It is this long-term and strategic approach that ensures that the light at the end of the tunnel is new territory,
not an onrushing train.
Let’s turn now to the ways to thrive in this new territory.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. How do you keep the client from thinking that your changes are about extracting
more revenue?
A. First, you need that trusting relationship I talked about. Second, you need
to offer more value, for example, greater access, proactive help, monthly
brieﬁngs, a common chat room for peers, and so on. Create the perception
of much more value as well as the reality.
7 From Benjamin B. Tregoe and John W. Zimmerman, Top Management Strategy: What It Is
and How It Works (New York: Simon & Schuster, 1980).

RACING THROUGH THE TURNS

103

Q. How frequently should I review the growth criteria? Can I become obsessed with this?
A. Twice a year makes sense to me, especially if your income is not matching
your aspirations and desired lifestyle.
Q. What if I can’t get to the buyer to form that trusting relationship?
A. See the sections on getting through and past the gatekeepers. Intermediaries, HR people, trainers, and assorted blockers will kill you. Never content yourself with anyone who can’t sign a check.

Final Thought: Your philosophy or view of your business
may seem like an abstraction, but it’s the rudder that keeps
you on course. Don’t get carried away by a particular sale
or success. I’ve seen too many consultants become trainers
or facilitators or something else they had no intention of
becoming merely because they followed the path of easiest
money and/or least resistance. Follow your own path, no
matter what the competing allure.

This page intentionally left blank

PA R T
TWO

TACTICS:
IMPLEMENTING
MILLION DOLLAR
CONSULTING

This page intentionally left blank

CHAPTER
6

IF YOU DON’T BLOW
YOUR OWN HORN,
THERE IS NO MUSIC
SQUIDLIKE MARKETING
NETWORKING IS NOT WORKING A ROOM
No matter how you begin in this profession—as a neophyte or as one blessed
with a backlog of business—you will need tentacles that reach into areas of prospective business. Call it the “octopus condition,” which may sound like a
Robert Ludlum novel, but it’s a real need nonetheless. (In fact, a squid might be
a better analogy because squids have 10 arms and you’re going to need all the
arms you can get.)
I can trace about 90 percent of my current business to just four sources,
and even they are interrelated. One is a consulting ﬁrm I worked with for many
years (Kepner-Tregoe, in Princeton, New Jersey), where I gained wonderful
contacts throughout the business community. A second is one of those contacts (a great guy named Art Strohmer, now retired) in one of the most prestigious companies in the world, Merck, who provided some of my ﬁrst
independent consulting work. A third is the transience of top executives at that
company, who were actively sought by other ﬁrms and who later asked me to
work with them. A fourth is the repute of my books, which has gained me entry
into ﬁrms such as Hewlett-Packard (a woman by the name of Marilyn Martiny
read the original Million Dollar Consulting in 1992 and began a wonderful
decade-long relationship for me—I had also worked for Hewlett-Packard in
the 1970s while working with Kepner-Tregoe, so you can see how these things
all interrelate).
When you work with those kinds of ﬁrms, word travels. (I know an excellent speaker, Glenna Salsbury, who simply states that all her business has resulted
from a single marketing event a decade or so ago.) The “tentacles” are about
quality, not quantity.

107

108

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

In 1986 I joined the National Speakers Association (NSA). I’ve since served
as the president of my local chapter. I speak several times a year at chapters
around the country or at national events for that organization.
Three or four times a year, I learn something that can help me immediately. Is this too small a return on too great an investment? You be the judge.
You don’t have to learn something every time.
In fact, I’ve created an entire approach around this pursuit of gradual
learning. I call it “The 1% Solution: Tools for Change.” I’ve learned that if my
client improves by just 1 percent per day, in 70 days the client is twice as good.
The same applies to you and me. The secret of improvement is not inventing the
new atomic-powered cell phone or some other great fell swoop. It is having the
discipline—and the tentacles—to improve by 1 percent per day consistently. This
is how you become a million dollar consultant on the fast track.
At one meeting I heard one of NSA’s “name” speakers who I thought was
dreadful and who would quickly sour a relationship if I ever introduced him to
a client as a resource. However, halfway through a condescending presentation,
he mentioned that he always provided a client with the option of paying the full
speaking fee in advance in return for a discount.
I immediately came to life. In this business, control of receivables and
management of cash ﬂow are essential. I’d gladly provide a discount if I received
payment at booking rather than after the delivery of a speech. (I require a
deposit to hold the date anyway, so the client has to send a check for some
amount.) I knew I had my 1 percent.
I began offering a 10 percent savings to clients for speaking dates, and to
my amazement, 80 percent of all such clients took advantage of it. Then I came
upon the next 1 percent. If this option was so attractive to speaking clients
investing $10,000 to $25,000 for an appearance, wouldn’t it also be attractive
to consulting clients, who were investing 10 or 20 times as much? Absolutely,
to the degree that today, 75 percent of my consulting proposals are accepted on
the basis of full fee in advance for a discount of 10 percent.
In fact, when the economy gets shaky, clients prefer this option. (Several
of my best clients, making excellent proﬁts and at the top of their industries,
operate internally as if they’re losing money. When a buyer sends an invoice to
purchasing that stipulates a dramatic savings if payment is made immediately,
the check arrives in my ofﬁce with the ink barely dry.1
And what do you think the impact is on my bankers when they see that
I collect a high proportion of my fees in advance, and the money is on deposit?
1 No, I do not inﬂate my fees so that the discount is a “phantom” reduction. My discounts
are legitimate and come out of my margin. The worth to me of money in hand, with no receivables or periodic billing, and the client’s “full attention” to someone who has already been paid is
monumental.

IF YOU DON’T BLOW YOUR OWN HORN, THERE IS NO MUSIC

109

Digression
Some clients have policies that make it mandatory for them
to accept any terms that provide a reduction in fees. That’s
right—mandatory. You never know.
Payment in advance is in the best interests of the buyer. The
project can’t be cancelled as a result of changed conditions or
shifting priorities. There is less administrative work.
You will not receive payment in advance unless you ask for
it. When you do ask, you may obtain it 50 percent of the time.
Therefore, ask!

They can’t do enough for me. I’ll expound on how to use such techniques to manage your bankers in Chapter 14. It’s not unusual for me to sell out a workshop at
$5,000 per participant six months in advance, because people are drawn to it and
because my policy is full payment. I never refund money, although I will grant
credits.
When I asked a buyer at Merck who was spending about $250,000 per
year with my ﬁrm why he always paid me in advance, he told me that it wasn’t
the discount, although that helped to justify his actions. “If I pay you in
advance,” he said, “no one can cancel my project!” There is an advantage to the
buyer in paying you in full at the outset. It’s up to you to make this manifest.
I learned another 1 percent that day.
Thus, from an otherwise horrible meeting and an unpleasant speaker,
I learned of a technique that would dramatically improve my cash ﬂow and ﬁnancial options. In all candor, I don’t think I would have come up with this myself
because I thought that asking for 50 percent on commencement of a project was
“state of the art.” In any case, I wouldn’t have implemented the technique as soon
as I did, even if I had eventually had the brainstorm.
I’ve also learned at association meetings how to order my own books
through discounters at larger savings than through my own publishers, how to
obtain radio interviews on a regular basis, and how to appear to be effective on
the Internet with a minimum of technological investment .
I always seek to identify what I call “keepers” at association and networking
events. These are small, one-sentence ideas that can have that 1 percent exponential impact on your business. Here are some examples:
• Courier express all proposals and conﬁrmations; don’t mail them.
• Contact every client and prospect once a quarter with something.
• Provide your own written introduction when making a speech.

110

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

• Create a blue-chip reference list to automatically include for prospects.
• “Seed” meetings with prospects with current clients who sing your
praises.
• Don’t provide written reports unless the client has a need for them.
• Create and continually update a standard press kit; don’t rely solely
on a Web site.
• Create a business and personal e-mail location.
• Always have your own e-mail domain; don’t use services such as AOL
(“amateur on line”).
• Call the event planner when you arrive on site.
• Know the prospect’s stock price before you enter the meeting.
• Shop the customer’s business before visiting the buyer.
• Create products that both provide revenue and market you well.
• Keep the buyer talking as much as possible.
• Don’t worry about answers; have the right questions.
These and similar techniques are discussed throughout this book. All of
them were generated by networking and through memberships, and all of them
are “keepers”: they are single sentences that one can remember and, at least in
my case, immediately and continually apply to improve business.
This is not the place to attempt to provide a comprehensive listing of
organizations, periodicals, and networking activities. You must be selective;
because there are so many options, you can invest all your time pursuing the
full range, leaving no time for your own business. Some will apply more than
others, depending on your specialties, preferences, stage of growth, and so
forth. Instead, I’ll “prime the pump” by suggesting speciﬁc activities of varying types for your consideration. If you were to adhere to this list, I suspect
you’d be in excellent company, and your list of “keepers” would grow considerably.2
1. Join at least three organizations that offer regular meetings and the
opportunity to interact with your peers in the industry.3 The American Management Association is decent, though not as good as it used to be, because it
2 Annotations and locations of various resources are in the Annotated Resources at the back
of this book.
3 Run like crazy from outﬁts that grant you “initials” representing such things as “Certiﬁed
Management Consulting Professional” or the like for a $250 “membership fee.” These are bogus,
and everyone knows it. Similarly, don’t pay for “services” that will “provide 50 leads a month” or
“provide all the materials you need to set up a consulting operation.” You’re better off investing your
money at the tables in Vegas.

IF YOU DON’T BLOW YOUR OWN HORN, THERE IS NO MUSIC

111

provides seminars and workshops, breakfast meetings with inﬂuential authorities, books, videos, cassettes, and a ﬁne reference library that you can access
online. The dues are reasonable (about $300 a year for regular membership at
this writing), and the beneﬁts are genuine for a newer consultant.
Other organizations for consideration include the National Speakers Association, if speaking is a large part of your practice; the American Society for
Training and Development, which is oriented toward a broad variety of workplace issues and has heav y training and human resources representation; the
Society of Human Resource Management if your practice is primarily in the
human resource area; the primary consultant’s association, the Institute of
Management Consultants, and the Society for Advancement of Consulting®4 and
trade associations that represent your present or targeted client base, such as the
American Bankers Association. Three of these may be all you can handle, and
you may choose to change memberships until you ﬁnd the combination that provides the best networking and the most “keepers.”
As a rule, if you’re contributing but not learning, then you’re engaged
in pro bono work, which is laudable, but don’t confuse it with networking.
If you’re not taking notes that you later use and you’re not making contacts
whom you later call, you’re not beneﬁting. If you ﬁnd that memberships are
a “chore” that falls to the bottom of your priorit y list, either you haven’t
understood the marketing value of this investment or you’ve joined the wrong
organizations.
If you’re not getting the 1 percent a day, then either the organization isn’t
offering anything, or you’re not working hard enough to ﬁnd it.
2. Create a reference library that includes marketing resources such as
National Trade and Professional Associations of the United States5 I subscribe to the
Ofﬁcial Airline Guide pocket edition because I’m often forced to make changes in
my schedule en route. I also keep a wide variety of atlases and travel planners
near the phone, though these days you can keep them on your phone if you’re
using the iPhone or similar technology.
There are myriad sources on the Internet that are covered in later chapters
and in the Annotated Resources at the back of this book. Several of them will
create maps that will—literally—lead you right to the prospect’s door.

4
IMC is the Institute of Management Consultants, which offers membership for individuals. It is the only body that credibly certiﬁes consultants, demanding evidence of client work, passage of an examination on professional ethics, etc. The trouble is, it has been totally unsuccessful
inbranding the designation, so buyers don’t know of it. SAC® is the organization I founded, Society for Advancement of Consulting® which is for successful consultants and offers “board approvals”
in specialties when the consultants’ clients so testify.
5 Published by Columbia Books, 1350 New York Avenue, N.W., Suite 207, Washington, D.C.,
or online at Columbiabooks.com.

112

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Joining organizations and taking the time to network is an
investment, no different from buying ofﬁce equipment or
creating a marketing piece. You are negligent if you don’t
focus on achieving the maximum return from that
investment.

3. Establish a circle of informal advisors, and make it a point to contact
them once a month. Put them on your mailing list, and treat them as you would
a prospect. That is, send them items that may be of help in their pursuits, offer
assistance whenever needed, and keep them abreast of your plans. Then seek
their feedback and counsel. Are your mailings effective? What image are you
conveying? Does your ﬁrm stand out from the crowd? How can you improve
your approaches?
Your “inner circle” should include other consultants, clients, vendors
(e.g., your printer or graphic artist), professionals (your ﬁnancial advisor, but
probably not your attorney because attorneys are usually terrible businesspeople), and others whose judgment you respect, including friends, business associates, and community leaders.
You can’t get too much feedback because you can always ignore irrelevancies, but you can be in a position to get too little, which is an occupational
hazard of our profession (and a menacing shadow for “lone wolves”). Networking doesn’t mean “selling”; it means establishing quid pro quo relationships with others that result in their improving your condition and you
improving theirs. You’re serving as consultants to each other. This reciprocity is important.
4. Establish collaborations with other consultants. Early in my career, I
often was asked to subcontract in a project by another ﬁrm, and I’ve often asked
others to perform in that role for me. This is a high-margin approach to business because no direct marketing is required, only a relationship with a kindred ﬁrm that contacts you at the right moment. Some ﬁrms called me every
two years, but they called, at the “cost” to me of a quarterly contact or offer
of help.
I invited the principal of another consulting ﬁrm to bid on a project
at Merck at one point. A division of Merck required a training program that
I didn’t provide, and designing one for the client was inappropriate because
excellent packages were available on the market. I asked for no fee or commission, and the client evaluated my recommendation along with several others.
When the ﬁrm I recommended was chosen, the client decided that the program

IF YOU DON’T BLOW YOUR OWN HORN, THERE IS NO MUSIC

113

was to be placed in a conﬁguration (competency-based, self-paced learning)
in which it had never before existed. As a consequence, the buyer and the
consulting ﬁrm both approached me with the request to adapt the material
because my ﬁrm was ideal for that type of design work, and no such conﬁguration currently existed.
Merck got exactly what it needed, my counterpart obtained a key business
relationship with a superb organization, and I proﬁted with another project.
This win/win/win afﬁliation is an enduring and highly proﬁtable way to conduct
business. Note how much more substantive this approach is than the empty
“alliances” that result from merely exchanging business cards.
People are forever giving me a business card and suggesting that should
I ever need a specialist in economic development consulting (or whatever),
I should give them a call. On what basis would I ever invite them into a client
or even a prospect? Because they had a card and spoke to me for 30 minutes?
That isn’t networking. It’s wasting business cards. Memberships, networking,
and afﬁliations are aggressive, proactive marketing tools if you use them in that
capacity.

One Percent Solution: A business card is a medium for
enabling contact information to be retained. It shouldn’t be
used as a billboard of services, be clever and cute, or have
your photo. When was the last time one of your buyers gave
you a card with an advertisement on the back, a photo on
the front, and a fold-out portion?

Assuming a leadership position in an association not only enhances your
ability to market yourself, but also creates excellent visibility for your ﬁrm and
enhances your repute, a key growth element. Prospects believe what they see and
hear, and the more people there are talking about you and representing you, formally and informally, the more your phone will ring.
In the 1990s, a decade into my career, as mentioned earlier, I served as
president of the New England Speakers Association, a highly visible and active
organization. I was prepared to invest the required time and tacitly accepted
that my business might suffer slightly from the diversion, which was perfectly
acceptable to me. In fact, I can trace $250,000 of business that resulted directly
from that position while I was in it. In this business, few good deeds go unrewarded.

114

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

ALLURING MUSIC
Figure 6-1 provides a checklist for publicizing your ﬁrm and its work.6 How do
you rate at the moment as your chief publicist?

Publicity and Promotional Alternatives
Pursued
Options

Always

Sometimes Never

Mailings to clients with items of interest
Mailings to prospects with items of
interest
Published articles in relevant periodicals
Pro bono work for community,
government, and nonproﬁts
Speeches at trade associations and
conferences
Presence on the Internet
Exhibiting at trade shows
Requests from satisﬁed clients for referrals
Interviews in newspapers and magazines
Book publishing
Listings in directories and trade
publications
Advertising for visibility and/or leads
Business listing in phone book yellow
pages
Audio series or recordings of speeches
Networking with other consulting ﬁrms
Membership in client industry trade
associations
Professional publicists and agents
Figure 6-1 Options for publicity and promotion
6
I’m working on the assumption that you’ve heeded the admonitions from Chapter 3 about
brochures and letterhead and that your mailings would include these “standard” items.

IF YOU DON’T BLOW YOUR OWN HORN, THERE IS NO MUSIC

115

There’s no need to pursue all the areas. In fact, it would be dysfunctional
for you to do so. At any given moment, you should be actively involved in at least
a third of them, however, and those should change as your ﬁrm and its clients
evolve. Here is a brief rundown on each of the options and my assessment of
their value. These are speciﬁc tactics as applied to the “market gravity” strategy
we discussed in Chapter 2.

Mailings to Clients with Items of Interest7
This one is a must. Some of my colleagues in direct mail and marketing tell me
that you can’t contact clients too often. My own bias is that once a quarter is
sufﬁcient for current clients8 because you’re interacting with them on an assignment anyway, but that nonactive clients could probably be communicated with
monthly via an electronic newsletter, mailed “brieﬁngs,” or some other kind of
consistent device. I’ve already discussed the clippings ﬁles and similar techniques
to gather relevant and/or provocative information, distill it, and send it to appropriate clients. I send out an occasional audio or print download. E-mail is also a
highly useful option.

Mailings to Prospects with Items of Interest
This, too, is mandatory because it is a cost-effective way to keep your name in
front of potential clients. If your resources and time permit, a quarterly or
monthly mailing is appropriate. You also will learn from these mailings when
key people leave their positions because of a promotion, reassignment, or departure for a new ﬁrm. This allows you to update your mailing list. I mail situationally during the year based on the information I’ve distilled and its application
to those on my lists.

Published Articles in Relevant Periodicals
It is easier to be published than you might believe, and once you’ve been published the ﬁrst time, it gets easier and easier thereafter. I once submitted
an article to a training industry monthly publication for no fee. Once it was
printed, I suggested a column, again for no fee. Once the column was running,
I used it to (1) send to my mailing list and (2) gain credibility with larger publications to write for them. Eventually, the publication began paying for my
columns, and, more important, I generated more than 70 articles, with reprint

7 Periodic client/prospect communications, publishing, speaking, and pro bono work will all

be discussed in detail later because they are the most dramatic marketing vehicles available for
growth, and some readers may desire step-by-step techniques.
8 By current client I mean an organization for which you have conducted assignments within
the past 12 months. The term client without that qualiﬁcation refers to any organization for which
you’ve done work, irrespective of the time frame.

116

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

rights, on topics that were extremely productive for my business before I moved
on to other marketing pursuits. If you have no writing experience, begin
modestly by offering free submissions to publications that need pieces—local
newspapers, industry newsletters, and trade magazines, for example.
Use these to gain credibility at the next level, and be patient. My ﬁrst article was for no fee for Supervisory Management in 1969. By 1975, I was in Management Review, and by 1979, I was in the New York Times. As of 2009, I’ve since
published more than 600 articles and 30 books in 9 languages. Publishing of virtually any type provides tremendous credibility, and this effort should be an
ongoing one. I’ve never stopped pursuing it.

Pro Bono Work for Community, Government, and Nonproﬁts
Is your town establishing a search committee to choose a new police chief? Does
your school board need help with its human resources planning? Are the Girl
Scouts looking for local board members? Does the chamber of commerce need
consultants to work with small businesses? This work provides the opportunity
for you to gain visibility, meet potential contacts, and demonstrate how you can
successfully apply your craft.
Chapter 11 will address pro bono work as a professional ethic, but for now
I’ll simply recommend it as a pragmatic method for gaining publicity and contacts. You will be interacting with other community leaders, many of whom are
executives in local and national businesses. There are usually minimal expenses
attendant to this work, and your time is well invested.

Speeches at Trade Associations and Conferences
Even if speaking is not an income source for your ﬁrm, it should be a publicity
technique. There are bewildering assortments of local, state, regional, and
national conventions for nearly every industry you can think of. I’ve spoken in
front of the Eastern Region Nurserymen’s Association, the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers of Canada, the Inland Press Association, the Executive Round Table
of Jacksonville, the Central Illinois Employer’s Association, the International
Association of Professional Women, the National Fisheries Institute, and more
than 500 other groups.
As in publishing, you can begin for no fee, addressing local groups (Rotary
chapters are always seeking business speakers for weekly meetings) and then
move on to larger groups. My current (domestic) fee is $15,000 and up for a
keynote speech, during which I have the opportunity to address several hundred
to several thousand people and after which I’m besieged with requests for more
information.9 Usually, you receive bookings for more speeches from people in
9 Don’t be bashful about charging for your speaking with the same aggressiveness you should
use in your consulting fees. Psychologically, buyers believe they get what they pay for.

IF YOU DON’T BLOW YOUR OWN HORN, THERE IS NO MUSIC

117

the audience. (This is when it pays to have reprints of articles and a ﬁrst-class
brochure available for distribution.) Every time I think of the opportunity to
address hundreds of potential clients at one time, with the credibility provided
by being a featured speaker, I wonder if I’ve died and gone to heaven.

Presence on the Internet
A home page is a wonderful passive marketing effort (people can come to you
at their convenience). Your Internet site (more about this later) should feature
user-friendliness, meaning a minimum of boring text about how good you are,
graphics that are relevant and helpful (they take forever to download under some
conditions), easy linking and, most of all, an interactive nature (see Chapter 13).
Provide a free “article of the month” for downloading, an order form for your
books, a request option for more information about a timely topic, or an e-mail
link to contact you. The biggest drawback of most Web sites is that they are
little more than static ads. Create a dynamic presence that impels visitors to
return on a regular basis.10

One Percent Solution: Your Web site is not a sales vehicle; it
is a credibility vehicle. Corporate buyers don’t troll the Web
looking for consultants, but they will go to your site once
they’ve met you or heard of you. Hence, emphasize expertise,
testimonials, and how your clients are better off (not
credentials, methodology, or company history—no one cares).

Exhibiting at Trade Shows
This is an option that many of my colleagues pursue, although I generally don’t.
Virtually all trade shows have exhibitors’ areas within which participants can
learn about your services, pick up free literature, and ask questions. For my
money, this is too much of a commodity undertaking—most ﬁrms that are successful at it are selling products of some type, be they course materials, books,
or equipment. Exhibiting costs are fairly high. The space rental, display creation
or rental, and local drayage costs can easily reach $5,000 or more. It is difﬁcult
to interest people in abstract services in such an environment, and the leads you
do get are apt to be from all over the country, making it very expensive to engage
in any type of personal follow-up.
10

Visit my Web site (http://www.summitconsulting.com) and you can download hundreds of
free articles, audio, and video; request a catalog; or order hundreds of books and CDs. You’ll ﬁnd
similar opportunity at my blog: http://www.contrarianconsulting.com.

118

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

The one exception I’ve found is this: if you’re a featured speaker at the conference, you may do well at attracting people to your booth. Of course, you’re
still faced with the problem of qualiﬁcation and follow-up, and you’ll need help
to staff it. It’s often a good idea to collaborate with a few other speakers/consultants to create more “critical mass” in exhibits.

Requests from Satisﬁed Clients for Referrals
I once had an insurance agent whose name I still remember more than 30 years
later, Hap Mapes, who saw me twice a year, every year, whether I needed additional insurance or not. And he ended every meeting the same way: “Alan, give
me two or three names you think might be able to use my help with their insurance needs.” He was relentless, and I know he did this every day with every client
he saw. If you don’t request such information, you might never receive it. And if
you’ve established the types of client relationships I’ve been discussing, it’s easy
to ask the question.
“John, you know a great many people in this industry and in the business
community in general. Given the kinds of results we’ve achieved together here,
do you know of anyone in need of similar assistance whom I should call on?”
When you get those names, whether or not the people will see you immediately,
they should go directly onto your prospect mailing list. By doing this, with discipline, you should be able to increase that list by at least 100 names a year, which
represents, with a quarterly mailing, 400 contacts annually. [If Hap Mapes saw
200 clients twice a year, obtained 3 referrals at each meeting (1,200 leads), and
closed only 5 percent of those leads (60 pieces of new business) for an average
commission of $5,000, that’s $300,000 of ﬁrst-year business just based on referrals, not counting further business and further referrals from that group. Are
you asking for referrals every time?]

Interviews in Newspapers and Magazines
“Human interest” stories often are written about a local consultant who assists
major organizations, has written a book, or has designed a technique to aid in
performance improvement. Keep local and national editors on your mailing list.
I’ve been interviewed by a local newspaper twice for my consulting and writing,
and then by national media such as USA Today, and the New York Times for my
views on behavior in light of Wall Street venality. I’ve lost track of the number
of times I’ve been cited in major media outlets.
Editors are always looking for a new slant or a sidebar on an existing
debate. They will never know you’re a source if you don’t keep your material
and ideas in front of them. This is particularly true of in-house organs. Client
publications are always looking for articles and interviews. You can reprint
these with impact equal to an article appearing in the trade press. Despite my
30 books and continuing mention in national media, one of my most inﬂuential

IF YOU DON’T BLOW YOUR OWN HORN, THERE IS NO MUSIC

119

reprints is a full-color, four-page interview run in an internal Merck magazine
on the subject of ethics and values. In return for the interview, the client provided me with 2,500 copies and the right to reprint. Consumers Power, a utility client, provided a splendid layout—with illustrations—for an article on risk
assessment that has turned out to be one of my most popular publicity pieces.
You never know.

Book Publishing
This is simply an extension of article publishing, with one or two distinctions.
First, an agent helps, and you can get one if you put together a professional presentation of your articles, your consulting clients and results, your credentials,
and a couple of sample book chapters. Video tapes and recordings of any speeches
you’ve done will help because they will indicate marketing potential and the fact
that you’re a professional. My ﬁrst three books, however, were published without an agent, working directly with several major publishers before reaching
agreement with HarperCollins.
Second, don’t publish a book merely for publicity. You must have something worthwhile to say to your audience, or you will be wasting your time and
money. This is where a literary agent earns her keep. The agent will tell you
whether you have a marketable book, and if not, why not. The chances are that
if you can sell an agent on representing you, the agent can sell a publisher on
publishing you. Do not self-publish or vanity-publish, at least not to help your promotion as a consultant. These efforts are completely transparent, and executives
(just like reviewers) are not impressed. However, a book from a major publisher
is worth tens of thousands of dollars in promotional “punch.”11 I completed over
$300,000 in project work for a Times Mirror division that contacted me because
one of its senior people suggested one of my books to the president. More than
$400,000 in project work at Hewlett-Packard is all attributable to one book
ordered by one person, who then gave me a call. This is exactly how it’s supposed to work.

Listings in Directories and Trade Publications
You can be listed for free in many publications and for a fee in others. An example of the former is the annual listing of consultants published by Consultants
11 I’m advocating here the effectiveness of using book publishing as a promotional alternative. The “how-to” technique for writing a book is a subject for a book in and of itself. The interested reader is referred to the monthly magazine Writer’s Digest and the annual reference book
Writer’s Market, both published by Writer’s Digest Books, 1507 Dana Ave., Cincinnati, OH 45207
(800/888–6880) for speciﬁc ideas, sources, and publishers. In addition, there is an ocean of tapes,
seminars, and guidebooks on book publishing offered through these sources, which is why membership in such groups was advocated in a prior section of this chapter. See Chapters 11 for more
on publishing options.

120

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

News;12 I receive frequent inquiries from the listings, but their use by ﬁrms sending out bids in certain subject areas is even more valuable.
With a minimum of legwork and a modest investment, you can easily be
listed in a dozen directories each year. (Recommendation: Eschew the “Who’s
Who” listings of various types, which require people to pay to receive the book.
These are nothing more than vanity listings, and everyone knows that they have
no signiﬁcance other than the fact that the checks of the ﬁrms included cleared
the bank.) Every month I receive interview requests from my listing in
Expertclick.com.13 The American Institute of Architects became a $156,000
client after ﬁnding my name in the ASTD Buyer’s Guide. It’s the only business
I’ve ever traced to that source, but that’s more than enough to justify it forever.

Advertising for Visibility and/or Leads
These are really two separate objectives. I rarely advertise for visibility and
never for leads. My experience has been that people are not inﬂuenced by ads
when choosing consultants. However, they may be somewhat more sympathetic
to a consultant whose name and/or ﬁrm is familiar. Generally, I’ve found that
placing ads for the purpose of generating leads is not a fruitful pursuit, and my
colleagues in the industry bear this out. Exception: a highly targeted ad in a special issue or theme publication when you also have an article appearing in that
issue can attract responses. If you do advertise, be as speciﬁc as possible: cite
client names, speciﬁc types of projects, and any results that you have permission to publicize. Offer a free article, tape, or book to dramatically improve
your response rates, and place a code in your return address so that you can
track which ads produce the best results. Some consultants do advocate an ad
in the local Yellow Pages when local work is available and desirable, so I’ve added
that next.

Business Listing in Phone Book Yellow Pages
You get such as ad for free if you have a business phone line, and for a modest
amount you can use bold print and some descriptive lines or, for a bit more
money, run a display ad. This is money well spent if your prospects and business
expansion are local. It is not money well spent if you simply live near an airport
and your business is primarily out of state. However, make sure that you always
have a business listing. Many organizations have called directory assistance to
locate my company after reading an article or hearing about me and being told

12 Published by Kennedy Publications, Templeton Road, Fitzwilliam, NH 03447.
13
Broadcast Interview Source, 2233 Wisconsin Ave., NW, Washington, DC, 20007
(202/333-4904). Visit the Web site at http://www.expertclick.com. A listing in the book also gets
you a listing on the Internet site.

IF YOU DON’T BLOW YOUR OWN HORN, THERE IS NO MUSIC

121

only the city in which I’m located. As stated elsewhere, I strongly recommend
an 800 line so that you are as user-friendly as possible. Someone tried to solicit
me recently for his promotional services and left a long-distance number to
return his call. I told him that if that was an example of his promotional prowess,
I’d pass.

Audio Series or Downloads of Speeches
Whenever I make a speech, I provide in the contract that the client may record
the session on audio- or videocassette with no additional fee due me and may
distribute those tapes to participants. However, the client must provide me with
two master copies of any such recordings for my own use. These are “free” marketing tools that I’ve used to great advantage. Many speakers charge for such
recordings, insist on royalties, or want to sell their own tapes. I simply want
to make copies, which I send to prospects. It costs about a dollar or two each
to duplicate an audiotape in volume, including a label and a box. (Videos are
more effective as “audition” tapes to acquire more speaking assignments, but
audio is wonderful for prospects to listen to in their cars to understand what
your approaches are about. And such tapes are far more credible when they
are recorded in front of a “live” audience, even if there are ﬂubs or minor
problems.)
I’ve taken several such tapes and had them packaged as a “series” on various topics, which lends the same kind of credibility that publishing does because
the production company’s name, not mine, is on the material. My major albums,
such as “Winning the Race to the Market,” are composed of three major presentations and a fourth interview, with supporting workbooks.

Networking with Other Consulting Firms
This was mentioned in the preceding section. It is an effective marketing tool
in that it is free and unlimited. Put other consultants on your mailing list, keep
them apprised of what you’re doing, and develop those relationships. If you
look at other consultants solely as competitors and “threats,” you will never
beneﬁt from them. However, if you see them as colleagues and the sources of
opportunities, sooner or later one of them will pass your name along for a project that he cannot handle. This is long-term marketing, and it’s a niche that
shouldn’t be ignored. I was recently booked to speak in Barcelona at the worldwide conference of one of the largest search ﬁrms in the world. I had maintained a twice-a-year communication with one of the principals, and he
decided that I’d be a perfect resource to address his colleagues. (In the deciding communication, I had included an interview recorded on cassette tape—
see the preceding category—demonstrating how these alternatives can be
readily combined.)

122

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Digression
The ﬁve keys to networking, as told to you by an introvert (me):
1. Distance power. Network with those who don’t know you so that there
are no perceptions to “undo” or overcome.
2. Unique multiplier. Try to ﬁnd the one person who has many contacts
with different buyers, for example, a board member.
3. Nexus person. Who is the one person who can immediately connect
you to a buyer? (“You must meet my boss”; “You must meet
my cousin.”)
4. Adhesion principle. You have to give to get. What are you offering
that will create a reciprocity and obligation? (To a search executive:
“May I give your name to a client seeking to obtain new talent?”)
5. Contextual connection: You are both there for a given cause (awards,
politics, charity, etc.), so make the best of it.
Remember: networking is a process, not an event!

Memberships in Client Industry Trade Associations
If permitted, join the trade associations that the preponderance of your clients
and prospects belong to. You probably couldn’t get into the American Dental
Association (unless you’re already in the ﬁeld, of course), but I’m not sure that
there are prohibitions against becoming a member of the National Retail
Merchants Association or the International Association of Tourism. Sometimes
associate memberships are available. These afﬁliations will keep you abreast of
what’s happening in industries that are important to your business, afford you
the opportunity to meet key people in the industry regularly, and provide you
with the inside track on speaking at conferences or publishing in industry newsletters and house organs.
A key accelerator for these memberships: try to accept a leadership or other
high-visibility position.

Professional Publicists and Agents
There is a plethora of agencies that will publicize you. I pursued several to see
if they would undertake a “pay for performance” option—that is, they would
get a commission on business generated through their efforts. As you might
expect, there were no takers. Most such ﬁrms will charge a monthly retainer to

IF YOU DON’T BLOW YOUR OWN HORN, THERE IS NO MUSIC

123

“guarantee” that you will get articles in print, be interviewed by print and
broadcast media, and in general receive a heightened image. With the exception of a good literary agent, I’m skeptical. However, the option exists, and you
just might ﬁnd the right chemistry with someone.
Be aware, though, that this is probably the most expensive option on this
list and that most of these ﬁrms don’t really understand a solo consulting practice (or consulting at all).

One Percent Solution: If you agree with me at all that this
is a relationship business, then why would you put a third
party in the middle of the relationship?

THERE IS NO OBJECTION YOU HAVEN’T HEARD
As you proceed with your music, some people—who represent potential paying
customers—may object to the tunes. Don’t be too hasty in throwing out the
score.
To step down from my metaphor: there are no new objections. That’s
right, every one has been heard—and heard kazillions of times. If we hear something new, either we haven’t been listening previously or we haven’t done our
homework.
Although most objections will sound like
• I don’t know if we’re ready to do this.
• I’d like to look at some other people and get back to you.
• We’ve tried that, and it hasn’t worked.
• I need more details and references.
• We’ll have to have guarantees.
• We have other priorities at the moment.
The real objections come in only four ﬂavors:
1. I don’t trust you.
2. I don’t need what you have.
3. I don’t have the time to do this.
4. I don’t have the money to do this.

124

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

If you can master a reply to the major areas, you can deal with the multiple
variations with which they are expressed. So here is one rule and four responses.

The Rule
You must be talking to an economic buyer. That is, you must be dealing with the person who can write the check and make the ultimate decision. If you’re not, then
all bets are off. Don’t bother rebutting “gatekeepers’ ” objections, but instead
spend your time on trying to work through or around the gatekeeper to ﬁnd the
true buyer. Most of the consultants I work with who have problems acquiring
business are seldom talking to an economic buyer.

Response 1: No Money
There is actually never any money, in the sense of allocated funds. No one awakes
in the morning and says, “Let me budget $125,000 in case a consultant comes
into my ofﬁce with a bright idea I didn’t anticipate.” Oh, some projects come
with their own allocations, but most of the time the money has to be found. Economic buyers can ﬁnd money easily.
The “no money” response scares away most consultants. The key here is
never to focus on price, but rather to focus solely on value. Don’t quote a fee
until you have conceptual agreement about value. (See Chapter 10 on writing
proposals.) If you’re discussing fees early in the discussions, you’ve lost control
of the discussions.
The rebuttal here is: “Let’s not even worry about budget for the moment.
Let’s focus on what you need and how much an improved condition might mean
to you and the organization.”

One Percent Solution: Money and budget are never resource
issues with economic buyers. They are priority issues. The
money is available and the buyer can get it, but does the
buyer want to give it to you?

Response 2: No Urgency
Many buyers legitimately will feel that the timing may be better later and/or that
the issue isn’t important enough to invest in now or suffer disruption for now.
Inertia is always a factor: objects at rest tend to stay at rest.

IF YOU DON’T BLOW YOUR OWN HORN, THERE IS NO MUSIC

125

Therefore, you have to create urgency.
Ask the buyer, “What happens if you do nothing?” Point out that the condition isn’t stable but worsening, that a brief window of opportunity will be lost,
or that a competitive leap will be impossible. When someone tells you that the
timing isn’t right, this means that he doesn’t feel a sufﬁcient sense of value from
your proposition to overcome his inertia.
The rebuttal here is: “You can’t afford not to act quickly, and I want to show
you exactly what this means to you and the organization.”

One Percent Solution: Time, like money, is not a resource
issue; it’s a priority issue. There is time, but will the buyer
provide it for you?

Response 3: No Need
The buyer here simply doesn’t see the applicability or the return on investment
for your solution or initiative. There may well be issues, but the prospect doesn’t
sense them. There is a lack of awareness (“We have a highly diverse organization,
and we receive virtually no complaints about unfair treatment”).
The essence of marketing is to create need, not merely respond to it (or else
why would anyone have ever purchased a Walkman audio system years ago or
an iPhone today?). Every buyer knows what she wants, but few know what they
need, and the difference between what they think they want and what they
actually need is your value added.
The rebuttal here is: “Let me provide you with some evidence of where
you’re falling behind the competition because you’re looking through a microscope instead of a telescope. It’s not about increasing sales, it’s about reaching
brand new markets.”

One Percent Solution: There are three kinds of need: (1) a
preexisting need (strategy, teamwork), (2) a created need
(e-commerce), and (3) an anticipated need (managing
virtual teams that are globally dispersed and speak
different languages). If you can’t produce need from those
three dimensions, you’re in the wrong business.

126

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Response 4: No Trust
This is the most serious and basic of the objection areas because the prior
three are often specious and are ruses used to camouﬂage the fact that the buyer
doesn’t trust you. This doesn’t mean that you may steal the silverware, but it does
mean that your credentials, experience, demeanor, collateral materials, explanations, or any of a host of other dynamics is suspect.
The best way to overcome no trust is to build a solid relationship prior to
trying to make a sale. Provide honest and candid feedback. Don’t become a “yes
man.” Find out what the buyer’s hot buttons are. Never attempt to sell a prepackaged solution or to “solve” the prospect’s problem during your initial 20-minute
meeting. Relationship building may take an hour or a year. Ironically, the more
patient you are in making a sale, the faster you make it.
The rebuttal here is: “I’d like to know something about your issues and
explain my background so that we can make a mutual decision as to whether we
should go to the next step together. My projects are partnerships and collaborations, so it’s important that we share our thinking with each other.” Remember
that you must appear as a peer of the economic buyer—a potential partner—not
as a salesperson or a sycophant.

One Percent Solution: Trust is based on the honest belief
that the other party has your best interests in mind.
If that’s demonstrated and manifest, even negative feedback
will be greatly appreciated.

PRODUCTS BUILD BRANDS
One of my (many) early mistakes was to advise people not to produce products
too early. (I’m constantly amazed by how stupid I was two weeks ago.) I have
since come to change my mind, radically.
Products are a great way to brand. In fact, they
• Create early revenue streams.
• Create “buzz” about you.
• Create marketing materials.
• Force you to create intellectual property and the equity therein.
• Form the bases for new services.
• Are a cheap way to gain international recognition.

IF YOU DON’T BLOW YOUR OWN HORN, THERE IS NO MUSIC

127

• Are eminently suited to the Internet.
• Can be readily updated and kept current (or abandoned and replaced).
The key to a product is to have something to say. That is, what’s in it for
the consumers or customers? What value are they receiving? If this is satisﬁed,
price is no object. (One of my most popular books is a little over 100 pages and
sells for $149, but its title is How to Write a Proposal That’s Accepted Every Time.)
Here are some simple ways to begin formulating and selling products:
Booklets. Create a 50-page work, including any illustrations, charts, and
graphs, on a core competency of your practice. Get someone to write
the foreword, and interview some of your peers. Provide checklists and
guides. This booklet could be on recruiting, selling, service, focus
groups, expert witness positions, technology use—virtually anything.
Plan to have four or ﬁve of these, optimally related to a common theme.
CDs and downloads. Record your speeches, and use an additional mike
for the audience. Have the recording professionally edited. Keep the
intention in mind so that you don’t use dated examples or mention the
client’s name (which can cause legal obstacles). Make sure that you
include speciﬁc techniques and practical approaches. Don’t be reliant on
visual aids that the listeners can’t see.
Albums. Combine textual material with the audio. Now the listener
does have the visual aids and job aids. Incorporate a workbook or
manual. These are best in combinations of two to four cassettes and one
or two workbooks.
Manuals. Document your approach to call center service, interviewing,
performance evaluation, establishing intranets, and so on. These should
be “how to” manuals with indexes and step-by-step instructions. You can
turn these out in both beginner and advanced versions.
Newsletters. Hard-copy and electronic newsletters are attractive if they
are well done and consistent. Use outside contributors who are happy to
get the publicity. Charge for both one- and two-year subscriptions, with
a discount for the latter. These newsletters can appear monthly,
bimonthly, or quarterly, but no less frequently than that. You’ll need
professional help on design and printing and perhaps distribution. (You
can use a source such as databack.com for convenient and automated
subscriptions, publishing, and so on for very little money per issue.)
I’m not advocating bumper stickers and coffee mugs. But the preceding
product categories are relatively inexpensive to get into and can create superb
word-of-mouth marketing, aside from the cash ﬂow.

128

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Note that I haven’t mentioned self-published books because with rare
exceptions these are vanity efforts that consume the author, aren’t popularly
received, and don’t have credibility. I know you can cite me an exception, but I’m
citing you the rule.
You can use the Internet and your Web site to market these products and,
of course, take orders for them. This is why you should consider a secure Web
site and a credit card terminal for your ofﬁce (Https indicates a secure site, by
the way).
The length of time you have been consulting has no bearing on product
quality or pricing. The key factor is the value in the eye of the consumer. Think
product early.

INTEGRITY AND ETHICS
I’ve reprinted a business card that was given to me by a fellow consultant whom
I will call Marty Scott. The card is illustrated in Figure 6-2. If you think the
information looks crowded on this page, you can imagine how it looks on a
business card. And when was the last time you saw both “Dr.” and “Ph.D.” surrounding one person’s name like a pair of bookends? Then we must have the professor title and the university, of course.
I ﬁnd this kind of ego trip to be poor form, not just in terms of professionalism, but also in terms of endangering any chemistry that one is seeking to
build with the prospect. A card should state your name, position, and ﬁrm. It’s
a reference piece for the client, not an advertisement. Even sillier than Marty’s
card are those that say “Mary Jones, M.A.” I’m not familiar with a protocol that

Dr. Martin Scott, Ph.D.
Professor of Management
and
Human Resources
Global Human Resources
Strategies, Inc. (GHRS)
100 East West Drive
Arrogance, RM 10101
(555) 123–4567
Car phone: (555) 765–4321
Figure 6-2. A business card “billboard.”

Dumpster Hall
School of Management
Famous University
Big City, SS 01010
(010) 111–0000
e-mail: bigshot@wired.com

IF YOU DON’T BLOW YOUR OWN HORN, THERE IS NO MUSIC

129

shows graduate degrees listed after one’s name. (I ﬁrst thought these people were
all from Massachusetts.)
What’s next—“Alan Weiss, B.A., licensed driver, registered voter”?
I happen to have a Ph.D., but as one of my college professors explained,
I choose to use my “maiden name” in most instances, particularly in business documents. (And “I’m not the kind of doctor who helps people.”) I will use the honoriﬁc when such credibility is needed or requested by clients or prospects, but not
simply as window dressing. (It’s most helpful in getting restaurant reservations.)
Using any other initials at all, whether graduate degrees, certiﬁcation of
courses completed, or professional recognition, is unnecessary at best and amateurish at worst. Many organizations hand out self-congratulatory honoriﬁcs every
hour. The point, of course, is that such designations help to establish a pecking
order within the association but mean next to nothing outside it. I’ve never met a
buyer who made decisions based on such “insider” recognition.14 (I can actually
claim the “right” to put after my name Ph.D., CMC, CSP, CPAE. That’s 14
letters, of which only three are recognizable, and even that designation has no
special marketing credibility. In fact, you can be at a distinct disadvantage by being
pinned as an academic.)
Your personal conduct is your primary marketing device. It’s the fundamental “look” of the business and what prospects put most credence in. Consequently, the way you comport yourself will determine not just whether you obtain
the client, but also on what grounds you obtain the client.
This is often the essential element in the type of relationship that ensues.
The key relationship aspect of our business is often established prior to the actual
“sale,” inﬂuenced by the buyer’s comfort in dealing with you.
Personal conduct is not “dress for success,” whatever that means. It is,
rather, about the integrity of your positions and the candor with which you
express them.

Whether you have an ongoing relationship with the chief
executive ofﬁcer or are relegated to lower-level managers is
often determined before the initial meeting is even 10
minutes old. First impressions will inﬂuence whether an
executive feels that the relationship should exist at her level
or at a lower one.

14
I recently called the president of a speaker’s association chapter. Her answering machine produced this unbelievable message: “You have reached Sarah Smith, author, speaker, consultant, and president of Global Beliefs. . . .” I assume that she consults, writes, and speaks on modesty. The larger your
operation, the less you have to hype it. No answering machine, to my knowledge, has ever made a sale.

130

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

I once ﬁred a salesperson who had simultaneously sold two pieces of
business in the casino industry. His sales were based on using each organization
as a reference for the other, even though, at the time, he was simply meeting with
each and had made no sales. Although he got lucky and neither buyer contacted
the “reference” prior to signing a contract, I knew that we would be compromised if the two clients eventually compared notes and that such practices were
a recipe for long-term disaster.
Before I could even approach the clients, they did ﬁnd out about the subterfuge, and though they honored the existing contracts, they neither sought nor
accepted any additional proposals from me. You will often be in a position in
which the prospect requests an industry reference, examples of work performed,
resumes of other professionals in your ﬁrm, and similar information that you literally may not have. The answer is not to dazzle the prospect with footwork or
to scramble for the exits.

PRESSURE YOU CAN FEEL AND BREATHE
The answer is to treat the request as an opportunity, not a threat. You see, you
are the best possible person to anticipate requests that you will have difﬁculty
fulﬁlling. For example, if you are a “lone wolf ” and your ﬁrm is called “Multitudes of Pros, Inc.,” you know that you might be asked for background on the
multitudes. If you’re meeting with a prospect in the airline industry and you’ve
never done business in the transportation ﬁeld before, you probably know that
industry references may be a sticking point.
Or if you’re being considered for an employee survey and you’ve never conducted one (you’re “testing the envelope”), then you can reasonably expect to be
asked about it.
By anticipating such awkward questions and requests, you can prepare for
them. And by preparing for them, you can steer the discussion in the direction
of how you can improve the client’s condition without being ﬂustered by the
question, without trying to come up with lame examples, and without having to
sit there like a lump dropped from the skies. The keys are candor, clear preparation for the question, and crisp examples of what you can do for the client.

One Percent Solution: Anticipate the likely tough questions
(“Isn’t it dangerous for us to rely on someone with no
colleagues or staff?”) and prepare six to ten conversational
responses (“You will always be talking to the principal”).

IF YOU DON’T BLOW YOUR OWN HORN, THERE IS NO MUSIC

131

Let’s examine some common dilemmas that anyone trying to grow his
business might face.

Dilemma 1: You’ve Never Worked in
the Industry
This is one of the most common challenges for consultants who are seeking to
expand. There has to be a ﬁrst time in every industry. My advice is to develop
examples from similar industries and demonstrate the relationship. If you are
facing an airline executive, explain your work with rental car ﬁrms, highlighting
the similarities in scheduling, catering to both business and recreational travelers, administering frequent-driver awards, and the like. If you’re approaching
health-care organizations for the ﬁrst time, emphasize your work with pharmaceutical companies and their interactions with doctors, pharmacists, regulatory
agencies, consumer action groups, and so on.
You also can describe work you’ve done for vendors and peripheral suppliers. Perhaps you’ve never worked for an automobile company, but you have
worked with General Electric sites that provide electrical components to automobile makers.
Finally, demonstrate that you’ve studied this industry, regardless of all else.
If you can identify the key issues facing the industry, indicate how your work
relates to them, and let the prospect know what the outcome of their resolution
might be for the organization, you will help to overcome the “never worked in
the industry” dilemma.15
Most of all, however, remember this: the last thing that Mercedes-Benz
needs is another automobile expert. Presumably, the company has those people
falling from the rafters. What the company does need are people who are adept
at conﬂict resolution, performance evaluation, coaching and counseling skills,
and similar process expertise. A health maintenance organization president said
to me once, “You’ve never worked in health care, so how do I know you can be
of any help to us?” I replied, “Yes, and I never worked with automobile manufacturers before Mercedes, nor with pharmaceutical companies before Merck,
and it didn’t seem to bother them. What’s your point?” (It’s one of those situations in which the prospect either hires you or throws you out, but it does cut to
the chase. In this case, I got the job.)

15 These tactics are remarkably effective if you do your homework. For example, while
trying to convince a computer manufacturer to do business with me, I found that General Motors
was the country’s leading manufacturer of computers because so many of them go into every car
produced. I had worked with GM, and I used this as support for my familiarity with computer
manufacturing.

132

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Dilemma 2: The Client Wants a Cast of Thousands
Early in the process of embarking on growth, identify at least six people whom
you would be proud to use in implementing projects. (For many of you, this may
be old hat, or you might have full-time staffs. But bear with me for a moment.)
These people often come from the ranks of
• Freelance consultants
• Retired professionals
• School faculty with available time
• Self-employed professionals who can invest the time
• Graduate students with specialized skills
• Full-time professional people with situational time available
• Unemployed professionals seeking temporary assignments
As you can see, this is a diverse group. You can best locate good people
by networking in the manner described earlier in this chapter. My ﬁnancial
advisor is a source of people who are seeking to enter the consulting ﬁeld or
have been abruptly terminated from their positions. A colleague who serves on
a bank board with me has helped with professors. Several other consultants
provide me with freelancers whom they use. The beauty of such references is
that the people involved tend to be highly qualiﬁed. (This is why it’s always
a good idea to be kind to people who approach you when they need help,
even if you can’t provide anything at the time. You never know when you may
need them.)
The next step is to have the individuals provide a detailed résumé of their
work experience in return for being considered for future assignments with you.
These résumés are the documents you will provide to prospects on your letterhead—along with other salient company information and brochures—when
you’re asked for a description of your staff member and their qualiﬁcations. Tell
prospects the truth if they ask—these aren’t all full-time staffers but are people
used situationally, which allows you to cover a wide range of assignments with
the least overhead, which is of tremendous value to your clients.
Finally, have a business card created for every such person whom you actually may employ. You can get a couple of hundred cards for less than $25 at any
local storefront printer. Put your logo, business address, and number on the cards
(and alert your ofﬁce staff, if you have one, to take messages for these individuals). Provide each contract person with your letterhead and literature as required,
but try to have all communications go through your ofﬁce. For example, put your
ﬁrm’s central e-mail site on all the cards.

IF YOU DON’T BLOW YOUR OWN HORN, THERE IS NO MUSIC

133

Over the years, My staff has included college professors who specialize in
psychometric testing and surveys, a woman who specializes in testing and assessment, a man who is expert in telemarketing and sales techniques, a woman who
is an excellent researcher, a woman who does the legwork for strategy data gathering, several local housewives who are available while their children are in
school, and a dozen others who have provided value-added services for me and
my clients while receiving signiﬁcant fees and their own multidimensional
growth in return.

Dilemma 3: You’ve Never Worked on This
Particular Type of Assignment
This is a fairly easy one as long as you don’t get drawn into a ridiculous exercise in trying to “force-ﬁt” projects you have worked on into the prospect’s
category. (“No, I’ve never worked on succession planning, but we did design
a retirement program that is remarkably similar.”) Once again, stress the
opportunity.
Provide the prospect with a clear plan and proposal for improving his condition. You might mention that the very fact that you haven’t worked on an identical project motivated you to study it carefully, research the background, and
create the existing options. Provide several options for undertaking the project,
with the pros and cons of each and your preference.
The focus on the various alternatives available for tackling the project,
coupled with the evidence of the careful thought that went into them, will deﬂect
and subordinate the issue of whether you’ve done the exact same work before.
You also want to emphasize that you are adept at the process of improving the
client’s condition, not the content of the client’s organization or of this particular issue.16
Always, always, always provide the prospect with a choice of yeses, not the
single choice of “do it or don’t do it.” Once the prospect is trying to select which
option seems best, the eventual contract is just a formality.

Dilemma 4: The Prospect Has Never Heard of You
This will mean more to some prospects than to others, but it’s the easiest
dilemma to deal with. Have a list of references in your briefcase at all times.
Make sure that they are current and that they specify exact titles, addresses, and
phone numbers. Explain that your ﬁrm is in the category of “best-kept secret”
16
Which is why the role of “content expert” as described in Chapter 1 is not the most lucrative or promising in terms of growing your business.

134

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

(I refer to mine as a “boutique consulting ﬁrm” with such strong word-of-mouth
references that we do not need to advertise), provide your “blue chip” client list,
provide the publications you’ve written for or been interviewed by (see the earlier section on promotion), and explain that your strategy is to succeed through
dramatic client results, not competitive advertising.
The key here, too, is being prepared for the question or challenge.
Acknowledging that you’ve heard the issue raised before and that you’re accustomed to the question helps relax the atmosphere and adds to your stature. I’ve
often turned the tables and asked, “How do you succeed when your competitors
have better-known proﬁles?” I’m almost always told, “Because we work harder,”
or, “Our service is better,” or, “We establish excellent client relationships.”
“Really?” I respond. “Then it looks like we have a great deal in common.”
I’m not going to insult you by telling you to shine your shoes, comb your
hair, and dress well. However, I am going to tell you that “presence” is more than
just physical appearance. It is the manner in which you handle yourself, which I
believe must always be with conﬁdence, honesty, and integrity. You needn’t compromise these traits because you have no reason to.
You are trying to help the prospect understand how you can help improve
her condition in a client relationship. If you anticipate the dilemmas and prepare
to deal with them, they are not dilemmas at all, but opportunities to show the
prospect how well you conduct yourself and how able you are to meet client needs.
The look of the business is your look. Clients will believe only what they
see in you and hear from you. However, the people working for you also represent you, and it is important that they embrace your ideals and convey your image
as effectively as you do.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. How do I know with whom I should network? Don’t I have to “work the room” to
ﬁnd that out?
A. Try to get a guest list in advance. Ask the organizers whom they are expecting. Watch who tends to draw and attract others. Look for people who are
smartly attired and well groomed.
Q. How many brands can I have?
A. The ultimate brand is your name. But you can have a multiplicity of brands
if that suits your business. I use Million Dollar Consulting, Balancing Act,
and Architect of Professional Communities among others, and so on. But I
want people to say in the end, “Get me Alan Weiss.”

IF YOU DON’T BLOW YOUR OWN HORN, THERE IS NO MUSIC

135

Q. How do I really withstand the pressure of needing business and being in a powerful
person’s ofﬁce and presence? Don’t I have to please him?
A. Here are some points to consider:
1. You’re evaluating whether you want to do business with him, as well.
2. He needs your value in order to improve.
3. You are not trying to “sell” anything, but to start a partnership.
4. Never be afraid of failure. If you’re not failing, you’re not trying.

Final Thought: You’re not in the consulting business, you’re
in the marketing business. I know this sounds harsh, but
here’s an even more frightening thought: your consulting
skills may be good enough right now to implement the
business you acquire, but I’ll almost guarantee that your
marketing skills aren’t good enough to continually acquire
business. Need I say more about where you ought to focus
your ongoing 1 percent improvement?

CHAPTER
7

EXPANDING RESOURCES
GROWTH FOR PROFIT’S,
NOT GROWTH’S, SAKE

OPTIONS AND FORMULAS
If your ﬁrm is to grow dramatically, you occasionally will need people to assist
you. These people may be in the form of employees, partners, or subcontractors, or they may come through alliances with other ﬁrms and/or other innovative arrangements. None of these relationships is mutually exclusive. There is
one consistent thread, however.
No matter what the relationship, you want people who
• Are highly competent and represent your ﬁrm well.
• Bring their own value-added to your needs.
• Adhere, strategically and tactically, to your objectives.
• Are ethical, honest, and law-abiding.
• Understand and accept their role.
• Ideally, can be used on a long-term basis.
• Are economical to protect your own margins.
• Are themselves successful, and parting will not be difﬁcult.
Hold onto your chairs: The worst option for attracting and using people
who meet these criteria is to hire them as full-time employees. There are four
basic reasons for this:
1. Full-time people are full-time overhead. They must be fed and housed
irrespective of business conditions, the government expects certain
tax and record-keeping protocols, and the employees expect certain
beneﬁt and perquisite arrangements. This detracts directly from the
bottom line—your personal bottom line.
136

EXPANDING RESOURCES

137

2. Managing employees is a tremendous drain on your time. You will have to
conduct and sit through meetings, deal with personnel problems,
complete performance evaluations, and attend to the various and
sundry needs of others. There is a growth-inhibiting tendency to
focus more on internal matters than on client matters.
3. Your personal actions will be subject to the dynamic of an employee-employer
relationship. For example, it is difﬁcult for many people to purchase
that new Mercedes in a year in which you have frozen salaries or
reduced bonuses. Despite what others do or do not contribute, your
personal decisions will be judged in light of their conditions.
4. You will be forced by law to share certain beneﬁts and perquisites that should
normally accrue only to you and your family. In many respects, you are
creating an entire “second family” when you hire employees. (And,
unfortunately, these family members sometimes sue.)
Hiring people is too often a matter of ego rather than business. I’ve
acknowledged that it is important to provide prospects with a feeling of depth
and to provide clients with an assortment of talents, but these objectives can be
met in a variety of innovative ways. In any business, people are the most expensive asset. Consequently, we need to use some imagination in obtaining and using
such assets. The only people I recommend hiring as full-time employees if absolutely necessary are those who provide secretarial or administrative support or who
have highly specialized skills that are required daily (for example, a researcher
or programmer who can be kept busy full time through the bulk of your contractual work when outside contracting is cost-ineffective).
I have been asked to come to the aid of too many
entrepreneurial consultants who set up a “corporate welfare
state” and mistakenly saw their obligation as helping their
employees rather than helping clients (and therefore,
themselves). The roadside is littered with failed practices
that crumbled under the weight of full-time staff.
Part-time hires can include
• Specialists needed for a particular long-term project that will use
them on a constant basis for the duration of the assignment
• Ofﬁce support staff to handle exceptionally busy periods of a known
duration

138

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

• College interns and temporary help who are doing legwork while
learning the business for a summer or project
There are three options that are far superior to any others for obtaining
the talent necessary to help develop your business.

1. Acquiring Partners
It is generally better to own 50 percent of a million dollar business (or one-ﬁfth
of a $3 million business, for that matter) than it is to own 100 percent of a
$100,000 business. If you can ﬁnd people who share your vision and discipline,
you may have a legitimate partnership.1 They also must bring in complementary
new talents, not a duplication of your talents.
I have never liked partnerships in which the investment or stake of the partners has been unequal, as in “I’ll put up the talent; you put up the money.” Partners should be just that, sharing risk and reward equally. (It’s ﬁne to allow a person
to buy into the partnership over time as long as the time is speciﬁed and full equality is the result.) Partner candidates should possess the characteristics shown in
Figure 7–1. These characteristics may seem self-evident, but they must all be met.

One Percent Solution: There are two ego indicators of
“success” that can actually undermine success: the
insistence on acquiring staff and the belief that you need a
formal ofﬁce to house them.

• They provide a business base or ﬁnancial investments equal to your own.
• They share your ideals, goals, and vision about the business.
• They have a track record of success.
• They are genuinely likable; the chemistry is positive and rewarding.
• They share your risk-taking quotient.
• They make the whole greater than the sum of its parts.
• They helps you to stretch and grow.
Figure 7-1 Essential qualiﬁcations for prospective partners.

1 I mean this in the ﬁgurative sense of an equal partner, not in the legal sense of the form of the
business. The ﬁrm can remain a corporation and needn’t be a legal partnership. Doctors, attorneys,
and accountants increasingly have abandoned partnerships for incorporation.

EXPANDING RESOURCES

139

Simply bringing in a needed talent, providing access to a new client base, or
being “a helluva person” is insufﬁcient for a partnership, which is really tougher
than any marriage (which is why many marriages have fallen apart when the individuals decide to work as partners in a business venture). In fact, it’s deadly.
For example, there’s no criterion in Figure 7-1 about being geographically
proximate. It may make sense for partners to be geographically dispersed or to
live next door. In either event, the partnership equation demands great trust, and
trust is based on common goals and beliefs, not on revenue division or on being
next door.
Diverse talents are required because you don’t want to get better at things
you’re already quite good at. Instead, you want to stretch. You’ll have to like each
other because each of you is going to make some errors that will affect the other.
At times you may be bringing in disproportional amounts of business. Also,
you’ll disagree on some approaches. These are legitimate business conﬂicts. They
shouldn’t be aggravated by personal conﬂicts.
Partnership is not about equal opportunity employment. It is about a
soul mate.
The result of joining forces must be to create a whole that is larger than
the parts creating it. If you and your partner each have a $250,000 business and
two years after joining you are 50 percent owners of a $500,000 business, you’ve
wasted your efforts. The nonﬁnancial gains you might have derived (for example, exchange of ideas, mutual critique, or companionship) could have been
accomplished through networking and alliances. Partnerships should increase
business geometrically, or they’re not worth it.
A partnership should create a combined business base that is at least 25
percent larger than the sum of the two ﬁrms. The collaboration of two $300,000
ﬁrms should result in combined annual billings of $750,000, for example.
Metaphorically, I call this “1 ⫹ 1 must equal 64.”
One ﬁnal caveat on partners: I have seen partnerships that were made in
heaven descend into hell in the blink of an eye. Partnerships are extraordinarily
difﬁcult to escape from and frequently result in the demise of the entire ﬁrm.
A good friend of mine ﬁnds himself in the position of being the controlling partner of his ﬁrm and the predominant business generator. His “minor” partners
will be seeking to retire by selling their equity to him, which means that he will
have to work harder than ever to provide funds for people who haven’t been
pulling their weight for quite some time. How does he raise the money to buy
them out—by remaining on airplanes for the next ﬁve years, selling a portion of
his ownership to investors, or some other odious solution?
Make sure of two things before you embark on a partnership. First, diligently ensure that the partnership will provide payback far in excess of the sum
of the parts. Second, create a “prenuptial agreement” so that you can disengage
with a minimum of chaos if the arrangement deteriorates.

140

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Digression
Charles had an $800,000 ﬁrm in which he was the sole
rainmaker. He supported six delivery people, full-time
employees who never ceased to remind him that delivery
was the heart of the ﬁrm’s success (it wasn’t, of course; new
client acquisition is the heart of any ﬁrm’s growth and
success).
He denied himself and his family to support these
employees in good times and bad, never taking a full bonus
for himself, never ﬁring anyone, never demanding that they
bring in any additional business themselves.
Charles, overweight and a chain smoker, died of cardiac
arrest at 44, alone in a hotel room far from home.

2. Forming Alliances
Alliance is one of the most bandied-about words in consulting (at least, as of this
morning), but it’s really an old method with continual practical application.2
Through networking, memberships, and other contacts, you can establish strategic alliances with other ﬁrms. This is a reciprocally beneﬁcial relationship in
which the smaller ﬁrm obtains access to larger markets and organizations and
the larger ﬁrm obtains specialized expertise and/or situational help in a costeffective manner.
The membership organizations cited in Chapter 6 are excellent sources for
meeting principals of other ﬁrms, often on a social and informal basis. I’ve noted
that a major source of business for me is referrals and requests from other
consulting ﬁrms. These alliances may result in occasional or frequent collaboration. If they are effective, they are highly lucrative because the marketing has
been done for you. Moreover, your visibility in delivery becomes an important
marketing tool. And generally, since your fee structure is known to your allied
partner, your inclusion is not fee-sensitive.
I encourage all consultants to pursue alliances at every opportunity. This
is an excellent technique for leveraging your marketing impact and visibility and
for engaging in multidimensional growth as you observe your allied partners
applying their techniques and talents. Alliances involve no conﬁning contractual
obligations, can be initiated and ended with relative ease, and often lead to still
2 Many sources include subcontractors as a form of alliance. I’ve separated them here because

I believe that they differ fundamentally in aspects of control, leverage, and access.

EXPANDING RESOURCES

141

more alliances. However, they don’t simply happen—they must be pursued
through networking and memberships.
Remember, placing other consulting principals on your mailing list is not
giving away the family jewels—it’s inviting in the appraisers.
Alliances and the related subcontracting that follows are superior to partnerships in most cases because, with these options, you retain absolute control
while achieving leverage for multidimensional growth.

Case Study
Some years ago I made the acquaintance of Wayne Cooper,
chief executive ofﬁcer (CEO) of Kennedy Information at the
time. (I had known Jim Kennedy, one of the great forces in
this profession, who sold his company to Wayne and his
brother.) We decided that we had complementary resources
to bring to the table.
Kennedy Information has widespread newsletter
distribution, marketing reach, and a reputation in research
and large-ﬁrm analysis. I was a known “brand” in
consulting, was published widely, had created some
consulting workshops, and had a strong reputation with
solo practitioners via my mentorsing program.
Kennedy and I created a new newsletter, “What’s
Working in Consulting,” replacing my homegrown one
(“The Consultant’s Craft”). We organized a series of highend seminars called “Rainmaking” that Kennedy promoted
and I delivered. And I’ve published three of my books under
the Kennedy imprimatur.
We had some disagreements, but we trusted each other,
and we both proﬁted handsomely from the alliance. These
synergistic relationships are the catalysts that propel your
business forward exponentially.
Although the Coopers later sold the business and the
newsletter ceased publication, I continue to publish and
market three books through the current owners of Kennedy
Information.

3. Subcontracting
Many of my colleagues hate this term. I guess it sounds too much like the general contractor calling in an electrical expert. If it pleases you, you may think

142

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

of these relationships as “short-term contractual,” “situationally dictated,” or
“nonemployee subordinates.” To me, however, it’s subcontracting, and you won’t
have power if you refuse to use good electricians.
In subcontracting, you obtain the services of other consultants for a speciﬁed fee arrangement or other participation under your direction. (If the other
consultant is on an equal basis with you in terms of decision making and initiative during the engagement, then you haven’t subcontracted for speciﬁc help;
you’re in an alliance or a partnership.) Subcontract work entails specialized skills
and/or speciﬁc tasks as directed by you. These may include interviews, workshop facilitation, creation of a questionnaire, establishing customer focus
groups, designing electronic and Web-based interventions, researching an
industry, and so on.
The client may or may not know that the extra help is not actually a part
of your ﬁrm. However, the client does know that the tasks are to be performed
under your auspices and that you, personally, will not be performing them,
although you are accountable for their quality.
When I obtain a project that requires subcontract help, I estimate the
amount of assistance I’ll need and build those fees into the project fee. Subcontractors are paid based on their contribution and the work they perform, not on
the size of the project I’ve obtained. I also will pay different fees to different subcontractors if they bring a specialized expertise or are simply better at what they
do. Each is a separate negotiation, and I am free to pay based on value, just as they
are free to refuse work. I never hire based on the lowest fee; I always hire based
on the most value—the degree to which my condition is improved by using their
help. (Ongoing inside joke: I tell them never to read my work on value-based fees.)
My main reasons for using subcontractors, even if my margin is decreased,
include the following:
1. I need the “legs” to deal with the volume of work.
2. I need specialized expertise that I don’t possess.
3. I need a break—I just don’t want to do the work.
4. I have better uses for my time.
Subcontractors are relatively easy to ﬁnd in the networking and membership process. I receive a résumé a week from someone who wants this type of
work. I also ask my colleagues in the business to recommend people, as I will for
them, thus creating a win/win/win situation for all concerned.
If I am ever uncertain whether I need subcontracting help, I err on the side
of not using it. I can always change my mind later, but I don’t want to start a project with an obligation or with a large cost load. True, I may take a large hit on
my proﬁt margin, but this is huge anyway, so the damage is minimal.

EXPANDING RESOURCES

143

(For those of you who have identiﬁed subcontractors as having established
a strategic alliance with you, I have no quibble, just as you might consider yourself a subcontractor to your larger, strategic partner. The categories are worth
separating, however, because you may be often in one and virtually never in the
other, depending on the nature of your business and your contacts.)

It is always better to grow and retain control than to grow
and surrender even partial control, unless the latter
provides extraordinary growth.

Of all the options for growth involving other people, I’ve found partnerships, alliances, and subcontracting to be the most effective in developing the
business while protecting my interests. The latter two are the safest. I recommend partnerships only when the synergy of the partners creates a substantially
larger business than the mere addition of those being partnered. Most consulting
partnerships eventually fail, often with grave repercussions for each individual’s
future business.
No matter what options you choose, there is a need to recognize good people when you trip over them. After all, you are no doubt preaching this to clients.
But how do you practice it yourself?

Digression
If you agree that wealth is discretionary time, then reducing
labor intensity is as important as building business. After
all, you can build business to the point where earning more
dollars actually decreases your wealth. We’ve all seen the
“workaholics.”
You can always make another dollar, but you can’t
create an additional minute.
Here are some quick techniques to reduce labor
intensity:
1. Shift all the work you can to the client. This is valuable to the
client, because you are transferring skills, enabling the client to
perpetuate change without you, and developing the client’s
people. Utilize the local talent.

144

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

2. Critically review mindless activities you perform for yourself
that have no bearing on the client. Don’t produce reports that
simply sit in dusty binders on remote shelves. Never base your
value on such deliverables. That’s what amateurs do.
3. Use subcontractors for anything that:
a. Bores you.
b. Requires bodies but not great expertise.
c. Requires specialized expertise that it’s not worthwhile for
you to acquire.
4. Never accept tasks from the client (number of days you must
be present, meetings you must attend, presentations you must
make). You’re the consultant, and you know what methodology
and approaches are appropriate. Your value isn’t in your physical
presence.
5. Charge a fortune if you must do everything. That enables you
to take on less work elsewhere. (“Fortune” can never be less
than six ﬁgures, by the way.)

HOW TO HIRE THE BEST AND AVOID THE REST
Invariably, the least expensive people you can ﬁnd to assist on a project are not the
best qualiﬁed. However, the most expensive are seldom the best qualiﬁed.
The ﬁrst step in ﬁnding excellent people (whether for subcontracting,
alliances, partners, referrals, or whatever) is to understand what kind of people
you’re seeking. Are you in need of people with speciﬁc talents, for example, people to run workshops, create learning materials, conduct interviews, design test
instruments, or counsel employees? Or are you in need of conceptual and strategic
thinkers who can work in ambiguous situations with a client and identify patterns
or suggest procedures? Do you require experts, exemplars, or collaborators?3 Are
you searching for a subcontractor, a sounding board, or a potential alliance? One
critical mistake that consultants make, one that makes the cobbler’s children seem
well shod by comparison, is choosing people on the basis of “chemistry” alone.
Interpersonal relationships are certainly essential. After all, you must trust
those with whom you are working. However, warm and cuddly feelings by themselves are insufﬁcient. The individual must be suited for the type of work or relationship you have in mind. I’ve seen people hire researchers who couldn’t
3

See Chapter 1 for the pragmatic range of interventions.

EXPANDING RESOURCES

145

understand computer databases. All too frequently I see content experts used in
workshop situations, although they don’t know a thing about adult learning and
have no facilitation skills. No matter how well you like and respect a person, if
he is ill suited for interviewing because of poor listening skills, then that person
is a square peg in that particular round hole.

Ergo, rule number 1: Identify the traits, performance
objectives, and skills required.

Next, use your networking, memberships, and afﬁliations to meet people.
Don’t simply try to ﬁnd people when you discover that you have a need. This
inevitably will create undue pressure to turn up a “warm body” and diminish the
quality of your selection decision. You should have an established pipeline of people that you can tap into whenever necessary.
I’ve often found that certain bid requests will demand a proﬁle of the
consultants who might work on the project. If experience in the health-care
industry is an evaluation criterion, I will include people from my pool with the
requisite skills who have that background. If experienced sales trainers are
considered important, I’ll select several of those.
I met an independent consultant at an industry conference who was a specialist in sales training. We became friendly and decided to share an occasional
working breakfast to compare notes. I discovered that he had skills that were applicable far beyond his chosen niche and soon invited him to participate as a ﬁeld interviewer on several projects. As he has learned my system, he has become even more
valuable in a wider range of projects and is now one of my prime subcontractors.

Selecting people who can provide value added to your
business is as important as identifying potential clients.

I maintain a special ﬁle for my pool of resources that is constantly being
modiﬁed and expanded. It’s as important as my prospect list, in that these are the
people who enable me to leverage my business.

Thus, rule number 2: Aggressively identify and establish
relationships with good people as a continuing pursuit.

146

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Finally, once you’ve recognized your needs and identiﬁed potential candidates, how do you know which ones are the right ones for a particular assignment, The client shouldn’t be the guinea pig. The answer here is that you must
spend time with the people you’ve identiﬁed, no matter what potential role you
envision their playing. Here are my recommendations:
• Alliance relationships. Visit their ofﬁces and get to know their staff.
Sit in on an internal meeting, if possible. Learn how they interact
with clients, and ask about other alliances they maintain so that you
can talk to those ﬁrms. Offer them the same courtesies. Determine
whether there is a philosophical ﬁt and a true complementary
connection rather than a duplicative one.
• Task subcontracting. Ask for samples of their work. Sit in on a
workshop they are conducting. Ask for references from their clients.4
Give them a sample situation, and ask for their resolution (that is, to
provide some questions they would ask in interviewing under these
conditions).
• Conceptual subcontracting. Ask for client references. Give them a
situation and ask them how they would react (for example, a client’s
employee approaches the consultant and discloses conﬁdential
ﬁnancial information). Describe the model you intend to use,
and ask them to support it and attack it. Ask what their favored
models are to see if there are conﬁicts (for example, the candidate
believes that right-brain thinkers can’t be organized in their work
habits, a position that you ﬁnd abhorrent).
• Potential partners. Spend an extended period of time together,
professionally and socially. Collaborate on several projects.
(I believe this is as important as a test drive prior to purchasing
an expensive car.) Share detailed ﬁnancial statements with each
other and with appropriate ﬁnancial advisors. Check client and
professional references extensively. Bring in a third party to play
devil’s advocate to the venture. Convince yourself that the combined
business will grow by at least 25 percent in the ﬁrst year. Clearly
delineate responsibilities and duties. Meet the other staffs and
subcontractors.
4 Here is an interesting and important dynamic: as useless as references are in standard hiring conditions, client references on consulting work are almost always highly useful. There are no
legal problems attendant, and clients will be quite candid if you ask the right questions; for example,
“Why is Joan better than other people you’ve hired for the same type of work?” If a candidate can’t
give you client references, she either has no experience or has not performed well.

EXPANDING RESOURCES

147

Note that these are detailed, time-consuming activities. A lunch is not good
enough for selecting a once-a-year survey designer, much less a future partner
in your business. If you’re not willing to invest this kind of time and energy, then
you will never develop your business effectively.
If you fail to do this, you’re leaving your own future to the trial-and-error
method of random people selection. Incredibly, most consultants I meet spend
more time choosing their electrician or their dentist than they do choosing the
people who can have a profound effect on their future. (And they preach quite
a different sermon to their clients!) By the way, this type of careful scrutiny
allows for candidate self-selection.
The candidate is often the one who says, “You know, I’m beginning to
realize that I’m not quite right for what you have in mind. But I think I know
someone who is.”

Hence, rule number 3: Invest all the time it takes for you
to be absolutely comfortable that the person is right for
the job.

A ﬁnal word about fees before moving on to the next section about rewarding people: I never offer a fee or a per-diem rate to subcontractors. In the ﬁrst
place, I want to wait until I’m convinced that the individual is appropriate for
my needs. (This is the “conceptual sale” I talked about earlier as pertaining to
clients.) In the second place, I want the subcontractor to cite a fee for me. I often
ﬁnd that such fees are extremely reasonable because the other consultant has not
pursued a comprehensive fee strategy (they have not read Chapter 9), and I might
have begun at too high a level. On the infrequent occasions when their fee is too
high, in my opinion, but the candidate is excellent, I am in a position to negotiate. In any case, if I’ve made the investment cited earlier to determine what my
needs are, established a candidate pool, and gotten to know each potential candidate, I’m on extremely solid ground about relative value added and commensurately appropriate fees.

Remember, never pay subcontractors based on the size of
your project or provide them with a “piece of the action.”
Only partners get a piece of your action—because they are
bringing you a piece of their action.

148

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

COLLABORATION: POTENTIAL HIGHS
AND DEEP, DEEP LOWS
Your business will grow substantially once your presence is no longer necessary
to establish contact with a prospect. There are two conditions that create this
salutary situation: (1) prospective clients call you (my “gravity” concept), and (2)
others bring prospective clients to you. In the ﬁrst instance, there is no reward
or remuneration due anyone. In the second instance, however, there are these
possibilities:
• You’ve received a referral from a client or other consultant with no
reward due.
• You’ve received a referral from another consultant with whom you
have a ﬁnder’s-fee arrangement.
• You’ve received an assignment within an alliance relationship, and no
reward is due because the other consultant has included your fee
within the overall fee structure.
• You’re contacted by another consultant who needs your collaborative
help in securing, designing, or delivering the business.
Let’s discuss the two situations in which you’ll need clear guidelines for
rewarding the people who deserve reward and are not otherwise covered: ﬁnder’s
fees and collaboration.

Finder’s Fees
I said earlier that I don’t usually demand ﬁnder’s fees when I refer work to others, being content with the ability to inﬁuence the implementation and gain
information from my colleague. However, there will be others who may request
ﬁnder’s fees from you when referring business (and you may wish to request such
fees of others at times, which is quite proper and ethical).
I’m going to deﬁne a ﬁnder’s-fee situation in this manner: ﬁnder’s fees are
paid on business that is referred and that would not otherwise reasonably have
been obtained. Thus it is appropriate to pay a ﬁnder’s fee for business that would
not otherwise have come your way.
My position on the amount of the fee is
1. Fifteen to 20 percent for business that the other party has closed and
that requires only your introduction to and acceptance by the client,
and all you have to do is be sure not to insult anyone present

EXPANDING RESOURCES

149

2. Ten to 15 percent for business for which your introduction has been
arranged but your skills are required to close the sale
3. Five percent for a name of a buyer, where you have to create your
own entry
4. A thank you and a small gift for cold leads that require your
skills to obtain entry and close the sale and that eventually result
in business
I don’t pay, nor do I expect to be paid, for cold leads, which are names and
background information that may constitute a marketing opportunity. These are
simply professional courtesies that result from active networking and similar
favors done for others. If a meeting with the buyer is arranged for you through
the auspices of the referring consultant, then ﬁnancial consideration is due if
business results because the marketing process has been considerably shortened
(velocity has been accelerated—see below).
Because your skills, repute, and decisions are instrumental in obtaining the
business, 10 percent is adequate recompense.
However, if the business is conceptually closed by the referring consultant
and that consultant’s repute, skills, and decisions also have been responsible for
convincing the client to consider your participation, the marketing process has
been virtually completed. All you need to do is not spill coffee on the carpet or
insult the buyer’s spouse.5 In such cases, a ﬁnder’s fee of up to 20 percent is
appropriate.
In both cases, I’m assuming that the referring consultant is not involved in
the actual design or delivery of the project. Naturally, these fees are always negotiable, but I ﬁnd these percentages to be equitable and commonly accepted. You
also must stipulate the duration of the ﬁnder’s-fee arrangement.
My position is that the arrangement is for the current assignment only
unless it is a pilot, in which case there is justiﬁcation for including the subsequent
project if the pilot is successful. In some cases, when I am introduced to a key
executive in a large organization, I will include a time period of up to a year for
any business that results. While nothing is cast in stone, my rule of thumb is to
ensure that the referring parties feel fairly treated so that they will refer additional business to me . One referral is merely a business event.

5 Do not take this lightly. I was once concluding such a “done deal” when the buyer asked me

if I’d like a cold drink. After cavalierly asking for a diet soda—which required a search—I took a
gulp that went down my windpipe, and I spewed soda all over his desk. My last recollection of him
is wiping soda off his leather-covered calendar and the graduation picture of his daughter. I no longer
accept refreshments from anyone whose check has not yet cleared my bank.

150

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Digression
For those of you who are professional speakers and pay
25 percent to a speaker’s bureau for business, you need to
reach an agreement on consulting business that ﬂows from
a speaking engagement. I’m unwilling to pay 25 percent of a
six-ﬁgure consulting fee to a bureau, although 10 percent is
reasonable. However, you must establish this before the fact.
[See my book Money Talks: How to Make a Million as a
Speaker (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1999).] Some bureaus now
ask for more than 25 percent and ask you to fund their
marketing or buy the bureau’s services, which is absurd.

Continuing referrals are a consulting career, period. Providing only 10
percent of a $100,000 contract may be a short-term device to maximize your
cash ﬂow, but granting 20 percent or more for a $1 million contract is a longterm investment that will develop your business dramatically.

Collaborations
I’ve been in some sticky situations involving revenue splitting when two or more
consultants collaborate. Otherwise amicable cooperation can be undermined
when a colleague feels shabbily treated or when you feel you have been taken
advantage of. Thus I’ve devised a formula, reﬂected in Figure 7-2, for rewarding
collaborations that I communicate to anyone even approaching me with an idea.
I want it clear from the outset. I’ve found that my colleagues are grateful for the
concept, and I’ve never had difﬁculty with a collaborator who has accepted it.
In this system, an assignment is separated into three component elements:
closing the sale, providing the technology, and implementing the project (you can
choose a fourth or ﬁfth if you like). Closing the sale involves getting the buyer’s

Sale (1⁄3)

Technology (1⁄3) Delivery (1/3)

Consultant A:
Consultant B:

X%
Y%

⫹X%
⫹Y%

⫹X%
⫹Y%

Combined:

1⁄

⫹1⁄3 project

⫹1⁄3 project ⫽full project

3 project

Figure 7-2 A formula for sharing revenue equitably.

⫽ share
⫽ share

EXPANDING RESOURCES

151

name on the contract, which may include onsite presentations, personal meetings,
providing materials and references, convincing the recommenders, and so on.
The technology involved may be formal and tangible, such as test instruments, classroom materials, computer programs, and proprietary intellectual
material. But technology also can be informal and intangible, such as skills in
running focus groups, observations of operations, assessment of communication
techniques, backstage counseling, and so forth. Technology encompasses the
wherewithal—the talents, materials, approaches, skills, and judgments—that is
necessary to improve the client’s condition.
Finally, delivery is the actual implementation6 of the technology. Tangible
technology may be implemented by persons other than the owner or creator.
Intangible technology is usually reliant on the personal skills of the possessor.
I can equip someone else to use my model for establishing strategy, but I can’t
equip someone else with the skills and traits I use to develop the relationship that
allows me to “shadow” and provide candid feedback to CEOs. Each consultant
provides a portion of each of these three components, from 0 to 100 percent.
Here’s an example:
A colleague approaches me with a request to use my technology in establishing succession-planning systems for a client of hers. She is about to submit a
proposal for $126,000.7 She wants me to help her with the model I use and to
spend some time overseeing her initial on-site implementation.
Using the model, we arrive at the formula shown in Figure 7-3.
I’ve reﬂected 100 percent credit to her for closing the business, 100
percent credit to me for providing the technology, and shared credit for implementation, reﬂecting her doing the preponderance of the work but my presence
for oversight. She receives 58 percent of the total fee, and I receive 42 percent.
I would not have had the business without her, and my implementation responsibilities are important but limited. She could not have closed the project

Sale
( ⁄3 ⫽ $42,000)

Technology
( ⁄3 ⫽ $42,000)

Delivery
( ⁄3 ⫽ $42,000)

Her: (100%) 42,000
Me: (0%)0

⫹(0%)0
⫹(100%) 42,000

⫹(75%) 31,500
⫹(25%) 10,500

⫽$73,500
⫽$52,500

Us:

⫹$42,000

⫹$42,000

⫽$126,000

1

$42,000

1

1

Figure 7-3. Equitable revenue sharing: Example 1.
6 Implementation, in my system, includes follow-up activities.
7 Where did this number come from? See the fee structures in Chapter 9.

152

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

without my approaches, and she has the main implementation responsibility.
I found this fair. So did she.
Let’s look at another case: I approach you with a request for help in convincing a prospect to proceed on a strategy-formulation project. He requires a
“show of force,” and your name is recognizable in the ﬁeld.
Your presence could be the deciding factor in the client’s choosing our collaboration over that of the competition. We will both need to be present for
implementation because the client will expect to see both of us regularly.
However, the technology is all mine, and you’ve used it in the past and are
comfortable with it. The ultimate proposal is worth $240,000.
In Figure 7-4 we see that I’m receiving 70 percent of the total fee, and you
are receiving 30 percent. The sale was set up primarily by me, but your presence
was required to help close the business. The technology is mine, and we share
equal implementation responsibilities. Is $72,000 fair compensation for you to
lend your name to the proceedings and share equally in the implementation using
my technology? Is your involvement worth $72,000 to me?
As you have probably observed, the serious discussions occur around the
contribution of the collaborators in each of the three areas.

One Percent Solution: Sales acquisition is more difﬁcult, by
far, than developing methodology or delivering and should
be rewarded accordingly.

Should you have received more than 40 percent credit for participating in the close
of the business? Can we shift the implementation responsibility one way or the
other, creating leeway in that area? These questions should be answered prior to
the agreement on collaboration; they also can be used to reconcile inequities if

Sale
( ⁄3 ⫽ $80,000)

Technology
( ⁄3 ⫽ $80,000)

Delivery
( ⁄3 ⫽ $80,000)

You: (40%) 32,000
Me: (60%) 48,000

⫹(0%)0
⫹(100%) 80,000

⫹(50%) 40,000
⫹(50%) 40,000

⫽$ 72,000
⫽$168,000

Us:

⫹$80,000

⫹$80,000

⫽$240,000

1

$80,000

1

Figure 7-4 Equitable revenue sharing: Example 2.

1

EXPANDING RESOURCES

153

conditions change during the collaboration. (I’ve been involved in projects in which
a colleague’s technology was required more than anticipated, or in which the client
requested one of us to play a more substantial role in implementation than the
other.) Unlike ﬁnder’s fees, this system is based on a “piece of the action” because
the relative contributions of the collaborators are responsible for the action occurring. And what if one party feels that $72,000 isn’t sufﬁcient compensation for the
time investment required for his half of the implementation? The answer is, either
increase the project fee or don’t enter into the collaboration.
However, don’t be lulled into sacriﬁcing the other party’s share to make a
colleague happy. This creates resentment, inequity, and, ultimately, unsuccessful collaborations. You cannot base collaborative fees on anything other than the
total project fee and the appropriate contributions of each party. Individual fee
structures or rates are beside the point.
(Note that you also can change the percentages; there is no reason that each
contribution must be worth a third. Acquisition can be 50 percent and each of
the other contributions 25 percent if you so choose. I recommend 50 percent for
acquisition, 30 percent for methodology, and 20 percent for delivery.

Maximizing short-term cash ﬂow is the act of a “lone wolf.”
Creating enduring relationships that provide referral
business and collaborations is the mark of an established
professional ﬁrm.

My credo is: “Always help the other person get rich.” This applies no matter what relationship or fee system you prefer. I don’t just want the project to be
successful; I want the relationship with my colleague to be enduring, whether it’s
small referral business, situational alliances, reliable subcontracting, or largescale collaborations. This is why you can use a reward system for others to help
your business grow dramatically.
However, the accent must be on using others to develop your business, not
using others to abandon your business.

LEVERAGE: DON’T GIVE UP THE SHIP
As you leverage your growth by working with and through other people, you
will ﬁnd yourself in various stages of disengagement from project details. This
is difﬁcult for those who feel that “I’m the only one who can do this correctly”
and easy for those who feel that “I’m the dealmaker.”

154

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Too many consultants fall in love with their own
methodology. Success in this business comes from marketing,
not from the depth of consulting expertise. I know that this
is heresy to many of you, but all the nonrainmaking
consulting gurus are working for somebody else and merely
earning a paycheck.

Someone else can do the legwork. The truth of the matter is that you are
the key link in the relationship with your clients. While such a relationship
should evolve to include others who work for you and your ﬁrm’s image in general, it nonetheless ultimately depends on you. If your relationship remains sound,
the client will always give you the beneﬁt of the doubt. A poorly conducted briefing session by one of your people or a misdirected document from your ofﬁce
will not be the match that lights the fuse that blows the relationship apart.
Instead, the client will call you with the attitude that the two of you have
a mutual problem or have both been the victim of a performance error.
No matter how many people you employ or subcontract with, focus on sustaining and evolving the personal relationship you’ve established with key buyers in each client. In some cases, this may mean that a signiﬁcant portion of the
project is delivered by you. For example, you may make the executive presentations and personally counsel the top ofﬁcers. In other instance, you may simply
have to visit the key people once a month or once a quarter to discuss the results
that your team is producing. There often will be ongoing clients that require
only a monthly phone call and a yearly visit.
The balance and perspective that you must constantly adjust apply to what
I call the velocity of the sales process. The velocity is the rate of change in motion
or position relative to time. The elapsed time of a sale in the consulting business
is usually lengthy. In obtaining a new client of any magnitude, it’s not unusual
for six months to a year to elapse between the ﬁrst meeting and the signing of a
major contract. Anything that can be done to increase the velocity—the movement toward agreement on a project in as short a time as possible—is highly
advantageous, whereas impediments to velocity can be deadly. There are few
things as proﬁtable as a project that closes within 30 days of your ﬁrst meeting
the buyer.
However, the elapsed time to secure repeat business is often quite brief. In
many cases the client will ask you to undertake a project as a follow-up to one
you are completing or to investigate issues raised that were tangential to the
current assignment. Or the client will call you because “itch” has developed,
and your prospect-based timing approach (see Chapter 2) makes you the right

EXPANDING RESOURCES

155

person at the right time, meaning that you make a sale instantaneously. Therefore, where is your investment better made, out on the street spending all your
time trying to sell new business, or working with existing clients trying to maximize repeat business? Where is the greatest potential to accelerate the velocity of the sale?

Employing others is not a tactic that frees you from a client
account. It is a strategy that allows you to further develop
your relationship with that client.

There are many more forces aligned against sales velocity within prospects
than there are within clients. In fact, many of the forces working in opposition
to velocity within prospective clients—for example, various internal agendas—
can be turned into forces enhancing velocity in client accounts (when you’re
familiar with the internal agendas, you can strive to help meet them). Million
dollar consulting means obtaining 80 percent of your business from existing
clients, which both increases revenue and decreases marketing expenses. Not
only is it more cost-effective to sell to existing clients and not only is it easier to
make that sale, but it is also a higher-velocity sale.

One Percent Solution: Resources are a tool allowing you to
move toward seven ﬁgures, not an anchor entangling you in
ﬁve ﬁgures.

Consequently, don’t make the error of using other people (whether
alliances, subcontractors, or employees) to free you up to pursue new business.
While new business should receive attention, your top priority should always be
to nurture and evolve existing client relationships. This is the pursuit that other
people free you up to accomplish.
The fact that you bring a crew onboard doesn’t mean that you give up the
ship. It means that you have the leverage and the time to understand the workings of the ship that much better. When you use additional resources, you have
the opportunity to do the following:
1. Arrange periodic meetings with the key buyer(s) to review the team’s
progress and discuss ongoing modiﬁcations to the project.

156

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

2. Use the team’s observations and insight to develop a list of critical issues
that should be presented to top management, separating those that are
within the purview of the existing project from those outside it.
3. While the team is fulﬁlling assignments, spend nonstructured time
with the client to observe and understand the essential aspects of the
client’s communications, operations, and interpersonal relationships.8
4. Invest time in getting to better know and establish relationships with
other key members of management who were not a party to the
decision to hire you. (This is one of the few occasions when a lunch
meeting may be an ideal alternative.)

Case Study
One of the most effective client retention/expansion
techniques I’ve ever seen was executed by the consultants
(ﬁeld engineers) of the Calgon Water Treatment Company
when it was owned by Merck in the early 1990s. The ﬁeld
consultants would actually become part of internal client
task forces, teams, and meetings. They were integral to the
success of those bodies.
The clients would no more have considered replacing them
(or looking for competitors when new projects arose) than
they would have considered cutting their own residual talent.
The former CEO at Merck/Medco, Per Lofberg, once cited me
to his staff as that “insidious kind of consultant who
becomes a germ we cannot get out of our system.”
I was quite proud.

5. Investigate practices within the client’s competitors and/or industry
practices in general to provide more insight into the client’s condition
and the kind of improvement possible.
6. As opportunities emerge, begin to formulate plans for addressing
other issues through further projects. (Don’t present these in a
transparent sales effort. Simply have them ready so that when the

8
Only a fee structure that is not based on per-diem rates will afford you this opportunity, which
is why I ﬁnd fees based on time so restrictive and why fee structure inﬂuences so much more than
merely the amount of money you are paid. See Chapter 9 for a detailed discussion of fee structures.

EXPANDING RESOURCES

157

client feels the “itch,” you are ready to respond, thereby enhancing
the velocity of the sale.)
7. Try to establish your team members as members of internal client
task forces and committees. This is one of the most effective
techniques I’ve ever observed in creating synergistic relationships,
and one that can’t be effective if you are a “lone wolf “ trying to do
everything. This is a prime example of using others to build your
relationship.

Using other people within a client relationship is a
technique to help you gain, not relinquish, control. Once
you’re onboard the vessel, you want to get to the bridge. And
once you’re on the bridge, you never want to give up the ship.

We’re about to enter the middle of this section on tactics, and it’s appropriate that we do so by discussing a central part of your business: fee structure.
Thus far, we’ve covered your personal conduct and promotion, the afﬁliations that
are possible with others, and the leveraging effect of using additional resources
with clients. Let’s move now to how that adds up to a million dollars.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. How do I protect myself when I have to hire people I don’t really know and can’t
afford to investigate thoroughly?
A. Use them on a brief assignment in a low-key manner. Never ever throw
untested, unvetted people into your major accounts. You’re better off in that
case working much harder yourself.
Q. What if I simply can’t ﬁnd anyone good on short notice?
A. Always investigate having the client’s personnel take on a large part of the
work, with the beneﬁt of transferring skills to them. This is one of my key
techniques for reducing labor intensity.
Q. Some delivery people insist on a commission for any repeat business they generate. Is
that a good deal?
A. It’s a good deal if you are sure it’s not business that would have automatically resulted from the quality and effectiveness of the work. Don’t forget,

158

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

delivery people are very, very common and easy to obtain. Sorry, but that’s
the fact. Reward only sales that could not be expected.
Q. What about collaborating with friends on a handshake or “gentlemen’s agreement,”
or just the honor system?
A. Don’t. Ever.
Q. How much money can I reasonably expect to generate working solely by myself out of
my home?
A. It depends on how smart you are, how non-labor-intensive your offerings
are, and how much clients trust you. There is no limit. But there is probably a limit to how much money you actually need to gain discretionary time,
the true wealth.

Final Thought: You are working mightily to build a
business, taking prudent risk and sacriﬁcing cherished
moments. Do not become a slave to the demands of others
who owe you their success. It may be excusable to accept
demands from a terriﬁc client, but it’s never acceptable to
bow to the demands of employees or subcontractors. It’s your
ship. Run it.

CHAPTER
8

MAKING MONEY WHEN
THEY HAV E “NONE”
HOW TO MAKE MONEY
WHERE MOST PEOPLE CAN’T

NONTRADITIONAL MARKETS
There are entire segments of the economy that are outside the traditional corporate markets, but that need help in strategy and tactics as much as anybody else.
At ﬁrst blush, consultants tend to ignore them, with the exception of specialists
in those areas, because they are too difﬁcult to access, have little apparent money,
or require an excess of attention.
The people who do specialize in the markets I’ll be discussing in this chapter often suffer from limited opportunities, excessive turbulence from minor
economic disruptions, and tight budgets. (I’ve worked with people who do outstanding work, yet starve—for example, in the educational market.) The answer,
I believe, is to be willing to enter these markets when sufﬁcient opportunity presents itself, but not to specialize in them. In fact, I’ve found that one of the most
effective marketing approaches you can take in these areas is that you’re bringing in a wider frame of reference, solutions, and experiences from much larger
and diverse organizations targeted on the speciﬁc concerns of the specialized
organization. In other words, it’s an advantage that you’re not a specialist.

Case Study
A medium-sized hospital not far from my home asked me to
meet with the executive committee to discuss a
reorganization project. The CEO explained that the
committee had heard of me and read my books and had
decided to talk to me, even though the members “realized
that a hospital expert” was probably needed.

159

160

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

My allotted 45 minutes turned into 90. We got along
famously. I could see that I had shaken their belief in the
hospital expert requirement. Nevertheless, a month later, I
was politely informed that the committee had chosen a
hospital consulting ﬁrm from Massachusetts. The committee
felt that the ﬁrm was “totally educated” in the ﬁeld.
Six months and several hundred thousand dollars later,
the hospital was teetering on insolvency, the CEO had been
ﬁred, and the consulting ﬁrm was gone. An executive
committee member whom I ran into at a play during
intermission told me, “We should have had the guts to choose
you. We would have avoided the incestuous advice and
obtained a truly fresh approach.”

One Percent Solution: If it pays for you to network with
people who do not know you, it also pays for ﬁrms to hire
consultants they do not know, with the goal being to inject
fresh air into stagnant rooms.

Trust me, you can’t overemphasize the need for a breath of fresh air.

TWELVE CRITERIA FOR CONSIDERING
NONTRADITIONAL PROSPECTS
Here are the criteria I would use in considering entrance into any of the following
nontraditional markets:
1. The prospect comes to you requesting help.
2. The prospect is close to home and represents terriﬁc economies for
you (and for him or her) because of this proximity.
3. You have a superb lead to a buyer whom you can meet expeditiously.
4. You have worked with key prospect people in a pro bono cause,
civically, in service clubs, or in a similar way.
5. You have, from experience or happenstance, learned a great deal
about the operation (for example, a good friend worked there, or you
once worked in such an operation).

MAKING MONEY WHEN THEY HAVE “NONE”

161

6. You have a diversity of business, and this project won’t consume your
time and energy.
7. The project will add to your credibility and/or provide excellent
referrals and testimonials.
8. The client clearly has a budget (for example, the organization is
spending on marketing, travel, staff, and so on).
9. Your competencies (not necessarily your content knowledge) are a
good match for the prospect’s needs.
10. You have a passion for the cause or the goals.
11. You’ve worked successfully for the prospect’s customers or suppliers.
12. You’ve spoken at one of the prospect’s major trade associations.
If these criteria largely apply (that is, 7 of the 12), then you’re probably
wise to at least consider the business.

FAMILY-OWNED BUSINESSES
Family-owned businesses can be huge. Cargill and the Carlson Companies, for
example, are multibillion dollar operations. They should be treated like any
large corporate client that is publicly traded. I’ve done strategy work for a
billion dollar construction ﬁrm that was privately held and paid taxes as a
Subchapter S!
I’m talking here about the approximately $200 million and below operation that is closely held. These companies range from franchise operations to
small manufacturers and from independent insurance companies to Internet
experts.
The buyer here is almost always the owner. Assorted executives have very
little buying power and are, in any case, loath to make major recommendations
on expenditures. You must meet with the owner. Then bear these distinctions in
mind:
• This is a highly emotional sale, even more so than in the corporate world.
The owner generally considers herself an expert in everything
because the company has been built successfully on her energy.
• You are competing with mortgage payments, kids’ braces, tuition,
and vacation funds. This is not an abstract “corporate purchase,” but
a direct competition with personal lifestyle and dedicated funds in
many cases. You won’t ﬁnd that with the vice president of
manufacturing for Toyota.

162

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

• If there are other family members in the business, there can be hidden
veto powers. A trusted brother or aunt who is in charge of sales or
ﬁnance can exert tremendous inﬂuence.
• Money will almost always be cited as an issue, but if you look around,
you’ll see that it’s being amply spent on other things. True, there will
be no budget for consultants, but the key to this sale is to focus on
value and advantage to the owner so that a personal beneﬁt is clearly
deﬁned. For example, there may be long-term goals of expanding,
making an acquisition, taking more money out of the business,
reducing travel, gaining wider recognition, and so forth that you can
use as your leverage in the sale.
• There are new opportunities to promote. For example, spending for
travel for a consultant will not be very acceptable, and your being
local will be a signiﬁcant advantage. Also, you can use local (and
more easily gained) references—such as a lawyer or an accountant—
that would be irrelevant for a large corporate entity.
If you see some advantages in this market (for example, the opportunity
to travel far less in dealing with local people and the ability to gain referrals in
a closely knit community), here are some marketing and sales techniques that
work well:
1. Join local service groups, such as Rotary, Kiwanis, and chambers of
commerce, and seek visible positions. These small business sales are
often based on friendships within the general community.
2. Speak and conduct workshops at local business meetings. You can
ﬁnd these in the local paper at least once a week.
3. Write for the local business publications or business sections of
newspapers.
4. Ask your lawyer, dentist, doctor, accountant, graphic designer, and
other professional contacts for referrals. (You refer people as a
courtesy to them, but they don’t refer people to you because they
seldom have an accurate idea of what on earth you do.)
5. Network among your neighbors and at social events.
Small business owners operate on two fundamental “buying signals.” First,
they absolutely must trust you because they are literally giving you money out
of their own pocket. (I’ve had business owners literally take out a checkbook and
handwrite a deposit check for me.) Second, they love to have local referrals, and
references assure them that you’re high quality.

MAKING MONEY WHEN THEY HAVE “NONE”

163

When you actually obtain business (or are in the process of obtaining the
business), here are some fail-safe techniques:
• Always get at least a 50 percent deposit, and try to get paid entirely in
advance by offering a discount. Discounts are attractive in this market.
However, the market is so sensitive to a myriad of personal and
professional factors that a project can be canceled abruptly and a
handshake rescinded. Always get at least 50 percent of your fee on
commencement.
• Include or ignore expenses. The business is probably local, so don’t
“nickel and dime” by charging for mileage or duplication. Absorb all
small expenses. Send a minimum number of invoices.
• Document carefully. There will tend to be misinterpreted conversations.
(Owners are notorious for selective listening.) Summarize meetings in
writing, and send hard-copy support. Create reports for this type of
business. Make sure that you get a signed proposal or contract, no
matter how ﬁrm the handshake. Explain that it is required by your
attorney and your ﬁnancial advisor.
• Do get testimonials and referrals as the project evolves successfully. Don’t
wait until the end. This community is rife for networking on referrals
and endorsements.
• If this is agreeable to the owner, consider local newspaper coverage for mutual
publicity. You also may want to play to ego and cowrite an article
based on the project’s success.
• Never take sides in family disputes. Don’t allow yourself to become the
“excuse” as to why one family member’s ideas are better than another’s.
• Refrain from too much high tech. You don’t need PowerPoint
presentations and intranets. Make these assignments as personal as
possible (even if the client is a dot-com).
• Don’t accept bartered work, trades, “exposure,” or referrals as your principal
mode of payment.
• Don’t befriend your client. It will compromise your effectiveness and also
lessen your ability to demand payment, support, and other resources.

One Percent Solution: Small businesses represent over 75
percent of all employment in the United States. Remember,
you’re providing value to a similar entity—you are also a
small business!

164

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

• At the ﬁrst sign of trouble, stop. If you’re not paid on schedule, stop work
until things are reconciled. If there is no access where access was
supposed to be provided, stop until you ﬁnd out what has changed.
Remember, this is a turbulent and often unpredictable environment.
The family-owned business can be lucrative when the preceding conditions
and techniques are considered and applied. I wouldn’t want to make a living
exclusively in this area, but you may be far smarter—or tougher—than I am!

THE PROFITABLE WORLD OF NONPROFITS
Peter Drucker, not exactly chopped liver on management standards, wrote that
the Girl Scouts may be the best-run organization in America. Nonproﬁt has
never been a synonym for noneffective.
Nonproﬁt organizations range from the United Way and the Red Cross,
which are huge organizations, to the local Little League and shelters for battered
women. They are ubiquitous across the land, and they represent huge infusions
of time and energy. Just like their for-proﬁt cousins, they are expected to meet
budgets, retain talent, create positive public relations, provide for employee
safety, and so on.
Nonproﬁt organizations have money. Management may regard it scrupulously and penuriously, but the money is there. The key is to convince the buyer
that an investment in your value will further the goals of the nonproﬁt within
budgetary constraints. Return on investment is the same in both worlds in terms
of being a compelling force to determine success.

Case Study
I was serving on the board of a woman’s shelter alongside
the chief of police of the town in which it was located.
During the second year of my term, the chief said to me, “We
have to earn accreditation from the state, and part of that
process is having a strategy for the department. I’ve been
impressed by your contribution here and think that you can
help us. Would you be willing?”
“Well, Chief,” I stammered, “my pro bono dance card is
rather full.”
“Oh, we have a grant to pay for the help.”

MAKING MONEY WHEN THEY HAVE “NONE”

165

“Sit down,” I yelled at the armed man “Let’s talk . . .”
I wound up doing a strategy retreat for the top-ranking
police brass (try doing that yourself when every participant is
packing heat), and later, after my board term expired, I was
invited back for pay by the shelter to do something similar
for it.
I’m constantly surprised at how stupid I was two
weeks ago. There are a lot of ways to make money in the
consulting profession.

The nonproﬁt buyer is almost always going to be the executive director,
unless you’re dealing with one of the giants. The executive director is usually a
full-time, decently paid professional who runs a staff composed of both employees and volunteers. However, there is usually also a board of directors to consider.
Board members of nonproﬁts are usually chosen for the wrong reasons—
that is, they are “rewarded” for their fund-raising and/or their ﬁnancial contributions with a seat on the board. In reality, board members should be skilled in
governance, but they seldom are. I mention this because your proposal will often
go to the board, which frequently must approve any major expenditure. At the
board level, you must not provide a “dog and pony show.” Instead, ﬁnd out from
the executive director who will be present at the board meeting, and create your
presentation around them.
Show the attorney, for example, the legal safeguards or minimum risk.
Show the accountant the great return on the investment. Show the state representative the terriﬁc public relations effect. Treat each of these people as your
customer, and demonstrate a beneﬁt face to face.
One of the best ways to do business with nonproﬁts is through that very
board. The chances are that right now you know people serving on the boards
who aren’t aware that you might have the answer to some of their challenges at
the nonproﬁt. Network among your friends and professional colleagues. Attend
fund-raisers and special events hosted by the prospect.
Some of these boards actually comprise more than 30 people! It’s hard not
to know at least a half-dozen of them if the nonproﬁt is local!

One Percent Solution: Nonproﬁts have a success motive
that’s equal to a proﬁt motive. Show the key players how you
will help them meet and surpass it.

166

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Here are the distinguishing characteristics of local nonproﬁts that may be
helpful in marketing to them:
• They almost always demand a discount or a deal. You should be prepared
to point out that you do not have a separate nonproﬁt fee schedule or
discount because you treat them with the same responsiveness and
energy as any private-sector client. (Believe me, their bank, their
cleaning service, and their legal representatives are not providing
discounts.)
• Much of the staff will be dedicated but essentially uncontrollable volunteers.
• The executive director will need the board’s support for any new initiatives.
• Publicity, fund-raising, additional volunteers, and enhanced constituency
services are the major “hot buttons.”
• Convoluted models and plans aren’t well accepted. The more
straightforward and simple your proposed intervention, the
better.
• Decision making is slow. Plan to make frequent contacts.
• State grants and other funding sources are often used. You may
have to qualify under the grant procedures or provide additional
documentation.
• It is often possible to arrange external sponsorship for your work. For
example, a huge local bank may be willing to subsidize your
complete fee in return for the public image of supporting a ﬁne
cause. Explore this—and suggest it to both the nonproﬁt (there
might be a precedent) and a local potential benefactor (there also
might be a precedent).
Use the board both ways. You can enter the nonproﬁt through the board
member contact, but you can also enter the board member’s organization via the
outstanding work you perform for the nonproﬁt. This is a wonderful revolving
door that’s right in your own backyard. You also may be able to parlay this into
publicity with the local media, both print and broadcast.
Some consultants make their livings entirely in the not-for-proﬁt world,
helping with grant writing, government regulations, volunteerism, solicitations,
governance, and so forth. This may seem like a tough way to market, but if you
add up the nonproﬁts that exist within a gas tank of your home base, you’ll ﬁnd
that it’s an exceptionally rich market in which not many consultants are actively
soliciting business.
Once again, if you can pick and choose and add this area to your repertoire, it may make a wonderful augmentation to your income stream.

MAKING MONEY WHEN THEY HAVE “NONE”

167

Digression
If you choose to do pro bono work (provide services for free,
which you should never do for a for-proﬁt), I suggest these
criteria:
• You believe passionately in the cause.
• You establish clear parameters, no different from those
for a paying client.
• You expect and demand full participation from the
nonproﬁt staff.
• In return, you request a platinum-plated testimonial.
• You have access to the board, so that it can choose to
avail itself of your services.
• You receive appropriate publicity for your work in the
media.1

B2B AND A TO Z
The so-called business-to-business (B2B) dynamics have been emphasized over
the past few years, but I ﬁnd this marketplace to be unpromising. I haven’t
changed my mind about this since the last edition of this book.
Essentially, I’m talking about businesses that simply cater to other businesses, such as an Internet ﬁrm doing Web design for other small businesses or
a graphic designer who creates brochures for professional ﬁrms.
There has been an even further narrowing of this category to electronic
B2B (the market which has never met the hype surrounding it, created by people who want to sell you ideas for mining it).

One Percent Solution: If the deal sounds too good to be true,
it’s probably illegal or unethical. Do you really seriously
consider the oil futures that are peddled over the phone to
you at 8 p.m.?
I believe that the key here is to treat these companies as if they were any
other small business (and they are almost always privately held). The B2B aspect
is immaterial. After all, they need to
1 Note that donated services are not tax-deductible.

168

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

• Find and attract new customers.
• Expand their product and service offerings.
• Gain competitive market share.
• Grow intelligently (most tend to overexpand early).
• Gain public awareness and repute among prospects.
• Lower their costs dramatically.
• Lessen the costs of acquisition.
• Create annuity business (customer retention, notoriously weak).
Do not get involved with the following:
• Taking on a project for a “piece of the action.”
• Becoming a franchisee yourself.
• Agreeing in the project to personally solicit business.
• What is now called “multilevel marketing,” in which money is
derived almost solely through membership fees paid by new
members. This was once called “network marketing” and even
earlier a Ponzi scheme.
Treat this as a typical client engagement, with normal understandings and
safeguards. These ﬁrms are almost always short of cash, so tread carefully.
Frankly, of all the markets I discuss here, this is the one with the least potential
and the greatest downsides.

Case Study
A member of my mentor program became passionate beyond
belief about B2B to the extent that he became a franchisee,
invested money, and allowed his own $250,000 consulting
business to take a backseat.
A year later, he had lost his investment, was spending an
inordinate amount of time trying to extricate himself, and
had a $75,000 consulting practice left.
This is not the road to million dollar consulting.

Unless you have an exceptional relationship and a wonderful (cash) deal,
eschew B2B work. You’ll be romanced and courted, but this segment can waste
tremendous amounts of your time and energy.

MAKING MONEY WHEN THEY HAVE “NONE”

169

STILL OTHER PEOPLE WITH MONEY
Where else can you work? More places than you think. Here are sources of consulting that I leaped on when I needed to put bread on the table and/or that
I continue to entertain when they come my way at no risk and with interest for me:
• Professional ﬁrms. There are dental, medical, accounting, design,
contracting, and other ﬁrms that need help with an acquisition, a
sale, acquiring talent, and so on. They are usually run by people who
are highly skilled in their craft (dentistry), but in little else because
they’ve had a specialized education and a highly focused business
experience. They require situational help. Speak for free at their
awards ceremonies or other events.
I’ve helped consultants become specialists in the sale of medical
practices. (One was an attorney who quintupled his income, moving
from a lawyer’s hourly billing to a consultant’s value-based fees.) Caveat:
Be careful with legal ﬁrms. I’ve found that it’s nearly impossible to
move them off their own ridiculous hourly billing practices in terms of
how they should pay consultants, and they are notorious nitpickers.
This has not changed since this book was ﬁrst published in 1992. The
only legal association or ﬁrm that has hired me to help it radically
rethink its business was an Australian legal association in 2008!
• Start-up companies. Regardless of the state of the economy, there are
always enterprises being born. The founders are usually adept at their
technology and methodology, but not much else. They need help
with marketing, public relations, cost control, and so forth. A great
way to make inroads inexpensively: establish relationships with
venture capitalists (who fund such start-ups), and convince them that
their huge investment in the company can proﬁt from an “insurance
policy” in the form of your work with management, ensuring
intelligent operational decisions.
These start-ups are commonly associated with dot-coms, but every
day there are new dry cleaners, coffee shops, contractors, small
manufacturers, retailers, and so forth.

Digression
The personal coach or “life coach” has become an acquisition
with great cachet of late. All good consultants have had to
coach. You don’t need a specialized certiﬁcate from some boot
camp on coaching. (Who certiﬁes the certiﬁers?)

170

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Entrepreneurs, executives, business owners, athletes,
entertainers, and myriad others whom you might not
traditionally reach are often in the market for a personal
coach.
If you have the skills and passion, pursue the
opportunity by adjusting your Web site, press kit,
publishing, and other marketing efforts accordingly.

• Entrepreneurial coaching. Associated with these start-ups are the
entrepreneurs who make them happen (either by founding or by
funding them). Many are thrust into positions that are new to them:
facing the media, managing staff, and working with banks. They need
a personalized and often private coach.
I’ve seen successful coaching done with political candidates, local
media personalities, recently promoted small business people, new
ﬁrm owners, and a host of others who are smart enough to realize
that their past skills and behaviors may not be adequate for their new
accountabilities. This is also a great market for referrals, meaning
that a few good backstage coaching assignments will turn you into a
local “celebrity”: “You really need to get Jane Thomas to help you in
your new position.”
• Franchises. The franchise marketplace is growing (especially as people
become disenchanted with corporate work), from auto body repair to
donuts. You can help here on either end. The franchiser will want local
outlets to hit the ground running, and beyond the corporate training
program (sometimes great, sometimes nonexistent), there is a good case
to be made for help “on the ground” as the new enterprise ramps up.
At the local level, the new franchisee may see the need to ensure
success with the temporary help of a nearby and accessible
consultant. In either case, it’s a great market for a process consultant
who can help with business acquisition, staff practices, and
advertising without regard to the nature of the business. (Remember,
no content expertise is needed.)

One Percent Solution: Look around as you go through your
day. With whom are you doing business locally? What ﬁrms
do they represent? What nontraditional sources can beneﬁt
from your expertise?

MAKING MONEY WHEN THEY HAVE “NONE”

171

• Local outsourcing. I’ve worked with several consultants who specialize
in human resources expertise for small ﬁrms that can’t afford their
own in-house capability (and probably shouldn’t). They come in as
needed and help with hiring interviews, terminations, training,
conﬂict resolution, reward systems, and so on.
You can do the same thing with safety (a member of my mentor
program does nothing but Occupational Safety and Health
Administration compliance and audit preparation and makes a great
living at it, and another who focuses on compliance with the
integrity and safety requirements for personal information stored in
corporate electronic records), purchasing, accounting, information
technology, and so on. Outsourcing is huge in major businesses, so
there is no reason why you can’t do it on a micro basis and make a
fortune without ever leaving town.

Case Study
I’ve been approached periodically in my career to help with
what are euphemistically called “multilevel marketing”
efforts. My value system does not embrace this market,
which essentially makes its money from recruiting new
members and distributors, not from selling products or
services. At some point, of course, the potential new recruit
pool dries up, and the last people in the programs—in other
words, most people—make virtually no money.
These recruitment efforts based on paying original
members with newer members’ fees began life as Ponzi
schemes (named after the original perpetrator). They
evolved with political correctness to pyramid marketing,
then to network marketing, and now to multilevel
marketing. I don’t buy it, despite the absurd claim that they
give everyone a chance to succeed.
Legitimate businesses must contribute value to the
environment in the form of products or services for
customers. I’ve proved in other books that by the time you
reach the sixth or tenth round of these schemes, you’d need
a population the size of Cincinnati to provide a proﬁt for
people who are just joining as distributors.
Thus you won’t read about this market in this book.
Million dollar consulting is about win/win, not win/lose.

172

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

• Local trade associations and professional groups. These are ideal not only for
income, but also for marketing. They may be local chapters of national
organizations or associations that are speciﬁcally focused on local
conditions. I’ve spoken, for example, at an awards ceremony for
independent insurance agents and run a strategy retreat for the Rhode
Island Junior League. I charged each far less than my normal rates, but
I made good money for brief work within 20 minutes of my home.
In addition to the paid gig, you’ll be in front of scores (and
sometimes hundreds) of people who fall into several of the preceding
categories, either as buyers or as recommenders. It’s relatively easy to
ﬁnd the local executive director or program director and discuss your
participation.
• Serendipity. You never know when someone might be appropriate for
your assistance. Keep your ears open at social and civic events. Read
the local newspapers assiduously. (I know a woman who says that she
never reads the local newspaper because the New York Times provides
everything she could possibly need. Sure, everything except local
business leads.)
I was referred to a one-week (actually, three-day), $18,000 local
project at a $20 million company because the owner was referred to
me by the president of the university where I once taught one
evening course a semester. I taught that course because I volunteered
to do pro bono work for the president when I read that he had been
appointed and moved from out of town to take the position. He and
the small business owner met at an awards ceremony.
On another occasion, my wife, a member of the League of Women
Voters, arranged for me to moderate the debate between candidates
for attorney general on the local public television station. That led to
business at a small business awards ceremony, which in turn produced
business with a dozen small businesses that I never would have
approached (and that never would have approached me). All of this
occurred without a penny being spent on marketing or business
acquisition. The total business exceeded $50,000. Keep your radar in
action, and keep watching the screen.
There is a plethora of diverse markets outside your door. I’ve added this
focus as a separate chapter in this edition of this book because it is more important than ever for consultants to fully recognize and exploit all the potential that’s
in front of them. Turbulent economies and uncertain world events make this a
prudent course of action.

MAKING MONEY WHEN THEY HAVE “NONE”

173

Don’t worry about this type of business detracting from your “brand” or
your repute. I’ve successfully worked with the largest companies on the planet
as well as with local entrepreneurs. Being competent at one doesn’t disqualify
you from working with the other as long as you manage your business and your
image effectively. You don’t want to lead with small and obscure markets in your
corporate marketing literature, for example, although the local market may be
impressed if you use national references and examples to demonstrate the “bargain” that the local ﬁrm is getting just by dint of your being resident in the same
neighborhood.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. What about the start-up entrepreneur who wants to give me a piece of the action
instead of a fee?
A. Over 95 percent of the time, these “ownership” options are worthless.
Accept the deal only if you also collect cash up front; you don’t need the
money for your cash ﬂow or bills, and the amount you are offered is signiﬁcantly higher than your fee would have been. These are almost always
bad deals.
Q. Small business owners often want to pay for “performance.” Is this reasonable?
A. No, because you don’t run the company, they do. You can’t possibly control
all the variables involved (What if two key people leave or a competitor
develops a new technology?), so it’s unfair for them to expect you to be
reliant on anything other than the quality of your own work.
Q. How do I approach a board of 15 people that the executive director claims will debate
and make the ﬁnal decision on my being hired?
A. Start with the chair and establish a relationship. Take the position that
you are evaluating the board as a potential client, just as it is seeking to
evaluate you, so you’d appreciate a chance to meet the chair and establish a
relationship.
Q. I’ve been approached by ﬁrms that claim they will provide me with consulting
research, leads, and tools, such as personality proﬁles, to use for a set fee. Isn’t this a
good example of business-to-business connections?
A. No, but it is a great example of your giving your money away. Find out
how many people in the ﬁrm were top, high-earning consultants themselves. You’ll ﬁnd that they were not, and that they are making their living
by selling to consultants, having never sold to clients!

174

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Q. Nonproﬁts are always crying poverty, and it does seem as though they are impoverished. Can’t I cut them a break?
A. You can cut them whatever you like, so long as they cut you a check. Not
long ago, the CEO of the United Way was making in excess of $400,000 per
year (he was later dismissed amidst a scandal). The managing directors and
executive directors of local arts groups with budgets of several million are
generally making six ﬁgures. You have to pay for talent, and that includes
consulting talent.

Final Thought: You may want to consider a second set of
marketing and collateral materials—and even a separate
Web site—for these smaller markets to keep them segregated
from your larger marketplaces. This eliminates any worry
about confusion over your focus or your brand and
simultaneously provides the image of concentration on each
market.

CHAPTER
9

STOP THINKING THAT
TIME IS MONEY
IF YOU’RE CHARGING A
PER DIEM, YOU’RE STILL
JUST PR ACTICING
DON’T BE AS DUMB AS THE LAWYERS
For those of you who have turned directly to this chapter, welcome to the book,
but let me apprise you that there is some material in the preceding chapters
that has a bearing on fee structure. By way of review, here are some instances
and conditions that might justiﬁably cause you to cite fees at levels below your
usual level.
• To gain access to an industry or client with large long-term potential
• As a subcontractor who is experiencing no marketing expense
• As a referral who is experiencing no marketing expense
• For a long-term client with major potential still ahead who is asking
you for special consideration
• For pro bono work or work for nonproﬁts and public agencies
• To gain other beneﬁts, such as instructions, referrals, testimonials,
travel, and so on
Note that none of these reasons includes “tough times” or “business is
slow.” Whatever your fee structure is—and we’ll examine several alternatives in
a moment—you must adhere to it. If you do, you’ll ﬁnd your business growing
steadily over the long haul. If you don’t, then your approach is “whatever the
market will bear,” and your short-term income will be at the expense of your
long-term wealth.
Fees are part and parcel of your overall strategic approach to your market.
They should never constitute your single driving force, nor should they be dictated

175

176

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

by the client or the competition.1 Moreover, there is nothing unprofessional about
saying, “I can answer that when I learn some more and have time to consider how
we might help you,” in response to, “How much?” However, once you say, “We
charge $1,500 a day plus expenses,” you’ve had it. From this point on, your fee
can only decline and your margins erode. (And you are shortchanging your own
value. Think about this: failing to get an additional 20 percent that you deserve
over two or three years can easily add up to seven ﬁgures of lost proﬁt.)
What I call the formulaic method of establishing fees is one that I don’t favor
but that requires explanation because it is so often advocated by individual consultants and principals of small ﬁrms. It’s actually a strictly arithmetic approach
that begins with your determining what level of income you require to support
your desired lifestyle. (Note how delimiting this is from the outset. By establishing what you’ll “need,” you are already capping your potential.) For our purposes, let’s say that Charles Consutant determines that $200,000 in after-tax
money will support his lifestyle, pay tuition, provide for a vacation, and afford
some savings after the pretax (company) money pays for medical and retirement
plans and assorted fringe beneﬁts. Thus Charles calculates that a gross income
from consulting of $280,000 will provide for company expenses, personal
expenses, and personal taxes.2
Now sharpen your pencils. Charles calculates that there are 220 working
days available to him during the year once he subtracts weekends, holidays,
and vacation time. Of these, he estimates that he will be booked 70 percent of
the time, meaning that he will allocate the remaining 30 percent to marketing,
promotion, and other non-revenue-generating activities. (If you have employees, these nonrevenue days multiply like libidinous rabbits, which is why
Chapter 7 discourages full-time employees.) This leaves 154 days available to
generate revenue. If we divide Charles’s $280,000 revenue needs by 154 billable
days, we arrive at $1,818 per day.

1 In my strategic consulting work with a wide array of organizations, I’ve found that very few
are driven by proﬁt. Almost all businesses are driven by their products, services, markets, technology, or related strategic areas, with proﬁt a derivative of success in that pursuit. Consulting ﬁrms
are no different. For an excellent discussion of these driving forces, see Benjamin B. Tregoe and John
W. Zimmerman, Top Management Strategy: What It Is and How to Make It Work (New York: Simon &
Schuster, 1980).
2 If you have a chapter C ﬁrm, it should always break even at year’s end or show a small proﬁt
or loss. The preponderance of the proﬁt should be taken out as salary; otherwise, you will pay a corporate tax on earnings and then an individual tax when you ultimately take these earnings out. Any
large loans to you will be interpreted as dividends, which also will subject you to double taxation.
Incorporated personal service ﬁrms of this type should not show large proﬁts. Your banker will be
sufﬁciently happy to see the sales ﬁgure that translates into personal income. However, Subchapter
S and LLC ﬁrms allow income to ﬂow through your personal tax return, so no such machinations
are necessary, another advantage of the latter two forms.

STOP THINKING THAT TIME IS MONEY

177

Thus, using this formula, Charles should establish a per-diem fee of $1,800
per day. Therefore, when he formulates a proposal for a project, he knows that
his time must be accounted for at the rate of $1,800 per day. Or if a client asks,
“What will it cost for you to spend two days with us?” Charles knows that $3,600
will cover it.
Candidly, this backward calculation of a daily rate is amateurish and, worse,
severely self-limiting. However, so many consultants inappropriately cite daily
rates that I want to take the time to explain why they are such a bad idea before
moving on to more fertile ground. For the newer people, avoid this miasma. For
the veterans, get out of your rut.
What happens if your lifestyle needs are $450,000 a year? Is this so ridiculous? It’s not even “half of million dollar” consulting. A couple of kids going to
good schools, a decent vacation or two, the luxury of a wonderful house to return
to after time on the road, intelligent retirement planning, elderly parents who
need support, philanthropic work—these are not uncommon events or desires.
Moreover, if you are undertaking the major risks of being on your own, you
should at least be in a position to enjoy commensurate rewards. It is silly to take
major risks when your return is less than it would have been staying in traditional organizational life.3
At $450,000, Charles’s per diem would have to be about $3,000 a day. This
is not all that uncommon for big names in the business, but it’s stretching it for
most people, no matter how talented and how endorsed they may be. And what
of a desire for $1 million? Well, that comes to $6,500 a day, or $4,500 if you
worked every one of those 220 days and did nothing else. Daily rates are limited
because they are based on a ﬁnite resource: time.

There are substantial risks in this profession—and
substantial rewards. It is ridiculous to assume the former
without capitalizing on the latter.

Why on earth would you want to work every potentially billable day?
Wouldn’t it make sense to spend more time on the other elements of growth
I’ve discussed, including personal expertise and repute? And why not take four
3 Ben Tregoe, an early mentor and member of Training magazine’s “Hall of Fame,” once told
his staff during a heated discussion of company beneﬁts, “We’re all refugees from large organizations—that’s why we love this profession.” I’m continually astounded by people who seem willing
to take signiﬁcant risk but are reticent about seizing proper reward. I once advised a strategy client
that if his goal was only a 5 percent return on the business he owned, he ought to liquidate the business, invest the equity in government securities, and sleep better at night.

178

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

vacations a year or spend time watching your kids play soccer to make up for the
nights you weren’t there to help with their homework? Billable days place
emphasis on activity, not on result. The measure of your success at year-end isn’t
the number of days you’ve worked but the amount of money you’re able to keep.
Period. Banks won’t give you credit lines based on billable days worked, and no
one will be impressed by the amount of time you spend on airplanes. A focus on
per-diem rates established by determining ﬁnancial needs will focus you on the
wrong activities and waste your precious time and energy.
You want to encourage a collaborative relationship with the client within
which the client feels free to call you at any time. This includes people other than
the buyer who signs the checks, so a multitude of people can call you without incurring an expense, thereby making you more valuable to more people. When clients
are on a daily rate system, they hesitate to call you for help when they may really
need you because they are forced to constantly evaluate their request in terms of
real-time, current expense. They must make an investment decision every time they
may need you! Consciously or unconsciously, they are calculating, “Is this problem
worth $2,500 to have Charles come over? What if we ﬁnd that he’ll need three
days—it’s not worth $7,500, is it? Even if it is, we’ll be better able to afford it next
quarter.” These conversations occur all the time in these circumstances.
Let’s face it, if days of your time are your fundamental device for making
money, you are going to try to maximize the days of your time that you use. This
is human nature and is often basically survival. Consequently, when you create a
proposal or respond to a request for help on a particular problem, your tendency
will be to maximize your involvement, although the consultant’s real value added
is in improving the client’s condition with minimum involvement. It is extremely
difﬁcult to establish the types of relationships I’ve been discussing when you are
citing a daily rate to a client and then describing the number of days you will be
needed. It’s that much more difﬁcult for the client to commit to the keystone of
the relationship—allowing the consultant to determine whether he can improve
the client’s condition—when the qualitative beneﬁt is viewed within the context
of the quantitative measure of days required and costs per day.

One Percent Solution: Fees are based on value, not on your
time, which has no intrinsic value to the client. You can
always make another dollar, but you can’t make another
minute.

If you are perceived as selling days, you will not be perceived as an equal
partner in the relationship. And the converse of the client’s hesitancy to call
you is your hesitancy to suggest legitimate additional investigations because such

STOP THINKING THAT TIME IS MONEY

179

pursuits, no matter how justiﬁed by the project, mean that you’re suggesting
more self-aggrandizing days.
Finally, your scheduling and energies will be hampered by the need to minimize time use. It’s grueling, for example, to conduct employee interviews or
customer focus groups. I limit myself to a half day of interviewing or two focus
groups a day, for example. However, if the client sees two half days of interviewing, there will be a normal question about why the interviewing couldn’t
have been combined into one day, saving the client one day’s per diem.4
Sometimes you can best schedule client work or combinations of client
work and your own marketing activities in portions of days. As long as the
client results are met within the deadlines agreed upon, the particular activities and timing you use shouldn’t be the focus. But they inevitably will be if
the client perceives that the way you spend your time is directly proportional
to your fees.

If you want to make a million dollars or more in this
profession, charging by time units isn’t the route for getting
there. Not only are the amounts self-limiting, but the
opportunity for multidimensional growth also can’t be
exploited if maximizing days at the client is the driving
force of your business.

When prospects request a day of my time for which they’ll pay a fee if our
discussions don’t lead to a project, I usually request that only my expenses be paid.
This pleases the prospect, gives me an opening edge in building the relationship,
and makes me very objective about the discussions that day. Personally, it’s an
essential component in my strategy to “think of the fourth sale ﬁrst,” not the
immediate one. You have to invest money to make money. Have prospects
demanded that I cite a per diem rate? Of course. And I’ve always declined, stating that I work on a project basis only and that our collaborative responsibility
for results dictates that the client’s people should never be hesitant to call me and
that I don’t ever want to be hesitant about spending additional time on site whenever I feel it’s necessary to achieve our goals. If the prospect can’t work that way,
then I’m never going to establish the relationship I need, and I’m not interested

4 Don’t even think about charging by the half day or by the hour. Assuming that you’re traveling, you can’t use the other half day for anything else, and your ﬁnancial calculations for the year
are based on a full per-diem rate for a day with a client. Besides, can you picture a top executive saying, “We need consulting help. Get me someone who has a reasonable hourly rate”? Technology
consultants in particular fall into the “hourly trap.”

180

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

in short-term income. (Remember, we’ve heard every objection under the sun,
and it’s simply negligent not to be utterly prepared for them.)
A ﬁnal word on formulas that result in daily rates: yes, I know that attorneys and kindred professionals scrupulously assess hourly fees. Most attorneys,
however, don’t do as well as Charles Consultant’s $280,000, much less $1 million. And attorneys don’t establish relationships; as a rule, they provide a
technical commodity—legal advice and representation.
How many individuals or corporations view attorneys as collaborative
partners, and how many view them as necessary evils? The attorneys who
make the most money are those who take contingency fees. If you win, they
win. If you lose, they lose. This is as close to collaboration as the legal profession gets.
Dick Butcher, a character in Henry VI, says, “The ﬁrst thing we do, let’s
kill all the lawyers.” I’m not certain, but I believe he was reacting to their
billing system. Besides, doesn’t it bother you that attorneys only “practice”
law?
In the United States, lawyers bill in 15-minute intervals, which is completely crazy until you consider the fact that Australian attorneys customarily bill
in 6-minute increments! How can they attend to their business? At this writing,
the average solo practice attorney in the United States. makes less than $100,000
per year.
I ask you again: who wants to be as dumb as a lawyer?

Since the original edition of this book in 1992, the premise
that has become most popular and that has most become
identiﬁed with me in the consulting profession is value-based
pricing. During that period, consulting ﬁrms of all sizes
around the globe have asked me to help them convert to this
approach. A decade later, this should tell you something. So
have architectural, design, and accounting ﬁrms. But not one
law ﬁrm.

DEMAND AND SUPPLY ARE NEITHER
One of the easiest methods to use in establishing fees is simply to emulate the
competition. If you are networking effectively and talking to clients regularly,
it’s relatively easy to discover what the average rates are. Then you can make a
determination as to where you want to position yourself within that range. For

STOP THINKING THAT TIME IS MONEY

Activity
Consulting day, on-site
Consulting day, off-site (in ofﬁce, research, etc.)
Keynote or other brief speech
Half-day workshop
Full-day seminar
Executive retreat, per day
Systems (i.e., succession planning) implementation
Employee or customer surveys
Strategy formulation
Organization or department diagnosis
Organization redesign and restructuring

181

Range
$750 to $2,500*
$500 to $2,500
$500 to $5,000
$1000 to $3,500†
$2500 to $10,000
$2500 to $7,500
$10,000 to $50,000
$15,000 to $100,000⫹
$50,000 to $150,000
$50,000 to $200,000
$100,000 to $500,000

* Many consultants will assess fees by the half day or even by the hour. I’ve found hourly fees
from as low as $35!
† These are sometimes billed “per participant,” ranging from 100 to 500 per person, especially when the consultant is providing formal, proprietary participant materials. Hence, a class
of 25 people might result in a total fee of $2,500 to $12,500, depending on the perceived value
of the takeaway materials.

Figure 9-1 Fee ranges for various activities. Market demand requires that a consultant take
a position within a range.

example, Figure 9-1 shows the average ranges I’ve found for the activities listed.5
These rates vary with experience, geography, and even the client’s urgency, but
the ranges encompass the predominant fees assessed at this writing.
If you determine that your client and prospect base is accustomed to paying $2,000 to $4,000 for a day’s consulting help and you have embarked on a
strategy of assessing per-diem rates, then you must decide where in that range
you wish to be positioned. Do you want to be seen as the most economical alternative? Will such a position help get you in the door and enable you to obtain
more lucrative contracts as a result of the quality of your work? Or do you prefer to establish at the outset that the client gets what the client pays for and that
your value-added help more than justiﬁes your position at the higher end of the

5
Since I’ve already discussed the weaknesses of being activity-oriented, it should come as no
surprise that I don’t favor the market-demand approach to fee structure. However, these comparisons should prove to be of help in comparing your current billing practices.

182

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

fee range? Do you intend to use the entire range as a negotiating technique and
attempt to get whatever the market will bear?
If you are going to use a market-demand system for establishing fees,
I think it should follow the sequence displayed in Figure 9-2 so that the underlying, consistent basis for your fee decisions also reﬂects your longer-term
strategy.
In the ﬁgure, the sequence calls for isolating the various activities you will
be undertaking for which you are assessing fees. You then evaluate the prevailing market ranges for each activity. Now comes a step that most consultants completely ignore: you should apply your strategy to the individual ranges. For
example, if your strategy is to enter new clients as an economical alternative with
the intention of building long-term relationships and increasing revenues as a
result of a multitude of assignments, you will tend to position yourself toward
the lower end of the ranges. The exception will occur in those activities for which
you may need outside expertise, licensed approaches, subcontracting help, and
so on. (This is why the activities should be evaluated separately; some will be
more cost-effective than others.) Having applied this strategy and considered
your resources, you can assess a fee for each activity, the sum of which adds up
to your overall project fee.

One Percent Solution: You have a “supply” of 365 days. But
wealth is discretionary time. Hence, you could easily
increase your income while decreasing your wealth.

The lack of a systematic method to arrive at fees in the market-demand
approach can result in one bad situation and one catastrophic one. The bad
situation occurs when you lose business because your fees are too high when
Market ranges :
Activity 1

Activity 1
fee

X..............................Y

+
Activity 3

X..............................Y

Your
positioning
strategy

Activity 2
fee
+

Activity 3

X..............................Y

Activity 3
fee
= Project fee

Figure 9-2 Establishing market-demand fees. Strategic planning takes precedence over
“what the market will bear.”

STOP THINKING THAT TIME IS MONEY

183

compared with the perceived value added. The catastrophe occurs when you
obtain business for which you’ve cited much too low a fee when compared with
the perceived value added.
The fee may reﬂect 1 activity or 20 activities. The total fee may be substantially different from someone else’s fee because of the strategic positioning factor.
By using this method, however, at least you are able to arrive at market-demand
fees that also reﬂect your image to the client and your longer-term market plans.
It is the absence of this systematic determination that creates a trial-and-error
method for the consultant and tremendous confusion for the client. Despite the
improvement in using a system to arrive at market-demand fees, the entire
approach suffers from some severe shortcomings that must be considered carefully
when establishing a fee structure:
1. There is a tendency to be constrained by the ranges, never approaching
the higher end and settling comfortably in the middle as a safe,
noncontroversial position. This will never lead to dramatic growth.
2. You are helping the prospect to make comparisons based on the
activity and opening the door to comparative shopping based on fee
rather than focusing on conceptual agreement on objectives and
consideration of value added.
3. There is a tendency to charge whatever the market will bear
irrespective of value added and longer-term strategy. When fees are
based solely on the client’s ability and willingness to pay, the basic
collaborative relationship (we will work together to improve your
condition) cannot be established because a win/lose relationship
(the more you can pay, the more I can make) preempts it.
4. It is very easy to be “positioned” by the market. That is, clients and
prospects frequently compare notes (particularly if you are
intelligently building referral and repute business). It is difﬁcult to
charge one client a higher rate than another for what the client
perceives as an identical assignment, regardless of legitimate
differences in preparation, tailoring, resource use, and other elements
that may apply to one and not to the other. “She implements a
performance-evaluation program for $25,000” is a far inferior
statement to “She is the best at implementing performance-evaluation
programs tailored to your particular needs and situation.”
5. A key long-term growth strategy calls for providing current clients
(who should be constituting about 80 percent of your yearly
business) with more favorable fee arrangements than new clients.
After all, current customers shouldn’t be subsidizing new ones.

184

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

A market-demand fee system inhibits this strategy because it’s
difﬁcult to decrease your position in the range continually without
creating excessive pressure on your own margins. Also, your
current clients will be citing your current—not your original—fees
when they refer you to prospects. This is a difﬁcult box from which
to escape.6
6. You are locking yourself in to rates, and a client will never say,
“Those were your rates when we began, but I think they should be
higher now.” With value-based fees, on the other hand, it’s easy to
raise fees by demonstrating more value and a higher ROI.
Market-demand approaches to fee structuring are somewhat superior to
formulaic methods based on income needs. However, I hope you’ll appreciate
that they are rather short term in their strategic orientation and can be highly
superﬁcial and transparent to clients and prospects alike.
I’ve been advocating the improvement of the client’s condition and the consultant’s value-added contribution to that improvement as the litmus test for
effectiveness in this business. Let’s see how this ethical starting point can also
form the basis for establishing fees based on perceived value. This, I’ve come to
realize, is one of the core elements of growth in our profession.

THE VALUE FORMULA
The quickest way to become wealthy in this profession is to do superb work and
to be paid high fees. I’ve tried to establish a foundation for the position that fees
will always be artiﬁcially depressed as long as they are correlated with arbitrary,
objective measures, such as days, hours, projects, numbers of people, and the
like. The secrets of receiving high fees are
• Create a great perception of value.
• Base fees on the client’s perceived value of your assistance.
• Ask for them.
Here are two examples of the role that value plays in establishing fees. In
the ﬁrst instance, one of my clients approached me with a request to design a
training program that his company would market through his ofﬁces around the
6 One of the surest signs of a consultant simply charging what the market will bear is that of
new clients actually paying lower fees than existing ones. When existing clients learn of these
inequities, relationships that took years to build can be destroyed in an instant. This is another reason why market-demand fees can be antithetical to long-term relationships.

STOP THINKING THAT TIME IS MONEY

185

world. However, he wanted me to accept a smaller fee in return for a percentage of the sales. I usually turn down contingency fees and was ready for a healthy
negotiation, but he hit me from behind. He opened with, “Alan, this has nothing to do, and everything to do, with your value. I couldn’t begin to pay you
fairly with a fee based on value. It’s strictly a matter of my ability to pay. Oh, I
could pay you $40,000 or $50,000, but your work here would be worth well into
six ﬁgures. That’s why I want to offer a royalty with no time limit.”
Well, he had me. I wasn’t prepared for that attack, with him conceding the
value issue and turning it into his argument! It was one of the few instances in
which I’ve done work for “a piece of the action.”
I used this same reasoning with my ﬁnancial advisors not long ago. I felt
that their bill was too high because of incorrect billing allocations. (They bill
by the hour and fraction, which is cumbersome and, I’m convinced, severely
limiting.) Their hours should be declining, even though their value to me is
increasing. However, they bill on the former, not the latter!
“David,” I explained to one of the partners, “don’t misunderstand, your
value to me is substantial, and I have no complaints about the quality of the work.
But over the past several years, as I’ve adhered to your reporting and detail
requirements, the hours needed to plow through my books should be steadily
decreasing. I think your people are applying incorrect measures.”
My ﬁnancial advisors are limited. They can audit my books and calculate my
taxes only so many times, and they can’t raise their hourly rates beyond certain competitive points. Further, my mundane work—the bulk of my ﬁnancial reporting—
increasingly requires junior, lower-billed partners. You see, it wasn’t a matter of
value, just one of numbers of hours—their loss, my gain. They reduced my fee, to
their credit (and to the bizarre nature of their utterly senseless billing system).

One Percent Solution: Tasks are repetitive when they are
repeated, and repetitive tasks, should cost less because of
economies of scale. Outcomes, however, are more and more
valuable as they are repeated and annualized.
Establishing fees based on value requires adherence to these conditions:
1. You never cite a fee before you’re prepared to do so, no matter how
much pressure the client exerts. “Just give me a ballpark estimate,” is
a request that will always land you in the bleachers, not the box seats.
Ballparks are surrounded by concrete walls and iron fences.
2. You must be willing to live with ambiguity. You have no
responsibility to provide the client with numbers of hours worked,

186

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

numbers of reports prepared, your payments to subcontractors, or
any expense other than travel documentation. In fact, if a client
focuses on these issues, you haven’t made a conceptual sale. You must
be willing to cite project fees that fairly represent your value to the
client plus your expenses in fulﬁlling the assignment.
3. You must spend time building the relationship to the point that the
sale is made conceptually and all important decision makers are
onboard. At this point, even if your value-based fee isn’t accepted
automatically, it will meet much less resistance, and any negotiations
can be handled much more easily.
4. If the client does want to negotiate the fee downward, do so by
explaining the kinds of value that will be lost with each decrement of
the fee. Never take a position in which you lower the fee but do not
remove services and value. The client has the choice as to how much
value justiﬁes what investment, but should never have the choice of
beneﬁting through your sacriﬁcing your margins. This is not
collaborative. This is a transfer of wealth from you to the client
(value provided for no investment).
5. Be prepared to walk away from business. Once you are perceived as
someone who will negotiate fees downward, you will always have
pressure on you to do so. I once worked for a training ﬁrm that was
so poorly managed that it always lowered its fees in the fourth
quarter in order to meet its plan. New fourth-quarter clients
beneﬁted, often at the expense of longtime clients who had ordered
earlier in the year. Consequently, everyone began to wait for what
our clients called “the ﬁre sale,” and 65 percent of the company’s
business occurred during December! You must be perceived as
someone who does superb work, requires a high investment, and will
not lower fees without the client commensurately sacriﬁcing value.7

One of the most fundamental distinctions of million dollar
consultants compared with the rest of the ﬁeld is their
willingness to turn down business. The vast majority of
consultants accept any assignment on the grounds that
something is better than nothing. They ultimately relegate
their professional lives to such trade-offs.

7 For over 70 ways to increase fees, see my book Value Based Fees, 2 nd ed., (San Francisco:
Jossey-Bass/Pfeiffer, 2008).

STOP THINKING THAT TIME IS MONEY

187

Once I had to ﬁnd a subcontractor to produce a video to accompany a
project I had designed for a client. I knew that more such collaborations would
be necessary, so I needed a ﬁrm that I’d be comfortable with for the long term.
I searched in Providence, Boston, New York, and Chicago. Video production
ﬁrms provide estimates based on commodities: editing time, number of crew
members, number of actors, background music, visual effects, and so on. The
estimates for my video work—the exact same speciﬁcations were provided for
all of the 12 ﬁrms I’d selected—ranged from $10,500 to $47,000! All the bells
and whistles were the same. However, the ﬁrm that established the best relationship with me (collaborated in choosing actors, invited me to lunch, showed
an interest in longer-term work, and actively listened to my editing ideas) cited
a fee of $11,400.
There are several lessons here, not all of them obvious. First, there is that
terrible box constructed by citing fees based on activities and tangible deliverables. The comparisons were odious at the high end. Second, it helps to shop
around with such ﬁrms, and your prospects will shop around just as I did if they
can make such clear comparisons. Third, if you are at the high end in such commodity offerings, you’d better be able to differentiate your services. (“Why are
you charging $40,000?” I asked a New York ﬁrm’s account representative.
“Because that’s what we all charge,” he replied vaguely.)
Fourth, however, is the fact that the company I chose could easily have
charged me three or four times as much, and I would have accepted the fee in
light of its excellent relationship building, had I not been placed in a limiting
fee structure of its own making! That ﬁrm could easily have cited a fee of
$30,000 without breaking it down by number of crew members or actors’ pay
and by emphasizing the way in which its team would work with me, the team’s
willingness to hold unlimited meetings and involve me in the editing.8 These
are valuable opportunities that I can’t easily put an individual price tag on. In
fact, I ultimately invited my client to the shooting, with the blessing of the
production company, and he was very impressed at the effort on his behalf. This
was worth a lot to me, and my value was enhanced in his eyes. (The production
ﬁrm has since gone out of business, which is a great regret but hardly a great
surprise.)
Believe it or not, a great deal of my advice to other consultants—as well as
to contractors who work on my house, local businesspeople, and entrepreneurs—
is that they are charging too little. But guess what? Except for a tiny fraction,
they are all afraid to raise their fees because they are unable to embrace the preceding ﬁve conditions.
8
“Unlimited meetings,” like “an open-door policy,” is an offer that is virtually never abused.
I’ve never experienced a client requesting unnecessary meetings because the client’s time is as
valuable as mine. Hence, this is always a good offer to make, and I always make it in writing.

188

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Basically, the value formula you should be using resembles this:
• Quantitative benefits times duration, plus
• Qualitative benefits times emotional impact, plus
• Peripheral benefits times perception
Fee

= Value

THE VALUE DISTANCE
When you boil it all down, how do you know how much to charge? Figure 9-3
contains the questions I ask. Now remember, these questions are asked in view
of the ﬁve conditions cited earlier being met. Many of them I ask the client, and

1. What is the outcome of this project worth to the client?
a. If quantitative, what is the amount?
b. If qualitative, what are the effects?
c. How does the client describe a successful outcome?
d. To what degree is the client’s condition improved?
2. What is your direct contribution to that outcome?
a. Are you accelerating what would have occurred anyway?
b. Is the outcome dependent on your unique talents?
c. Are you facilitating or also delivering?
d. Are you observing, diagnosing, or prescribing?
3. What is your current relationship with the client?
a. Is this a longtime client?
b. Does this assignment provide for professional growth?
c. Does the assignment present stressful conditions?
d. Are there difﬁcult deadlines?
4. What are your costs to complete the assignment?
a. Was there marketing cost or other costs of acquisition?
b. To what degree ate subcontractors required?
c. Are there extensive travel requirements?
d. Are there materials or other deliverables required?
Figure 9-3 Establishing the value of the client’s investment. These questions help to
determine value-based fees.

STOP THINKING THAT TIME IS MONEY

189

some of them I ask of myself. Note that none of them refers to the client’s budget. If this turns out to be a constraint in terms of the fee you arrive at, you can
then negotiate down by sacriﬁcing value.
In addition, the client must view the fee as an investment, no different from
an investment in education or new equipment or better security. The focus then
turns to the return on that investment, and the return is a far superior point of
negotiation than is your fee.

Practicum 1
Let’s say that you’ve been asked to design and implement a new performanceappraisal system for a client. You’ve done these before, and you have a model that
has been very effective. You’ve done a succession of projects for this client, and
you know the operation well. You estimate that you’ll need about 20 days of your
time and two subcontractors for 10 days each. There will be some administrative work and a few reports, plus the new forms you’ll design. You estimate the
following project fee:
Personal time
15 days onsite @ $1,500
5 days offsite @ $1,000
Subcontract time
20 days @ $750
Administrative time
40 hours @ $25
Materials and deliverables
Printing, collating, artwork
Total project fee

$22,500
$ 5,000
$15,000
$ 1,000
$ 1,000
$44,500

Assuming that the client pays all expenses, your gross margin is 62 percent,
out of which you’re paying for lights, rent, phone, and so on.

Practicum 2
Let’s apply the questions in Figure 9-3 to this scenario.
1. The client estimates that the performance-appraisal process requires
about $400,000 a year in management time, and feedback indicates
that about a quarter of all the time spent is redundant—correcting
errors on feedback sheets caused by poor directions; misunderstandings of the process, necessitating retraining; and ratings
overruled by superiors who don’t agree with subordinate assessments
because of earlier inability to reach agreed-upon performance goals.
A successful outcome also would vastly improve morale because the

190

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

current evaluation system is widely viewed as a paper-pushing
exercise, not as a legitimate assessment of contribution.
2. The client knows that the system must be changed and is particularly
impressed by your approach, which uses employee focus groups to
create “ownership” of the new system, and by the fact that you’ve
implemented it successfully in organizations that provide glowing
references. You are prescribing the solution and designing the system,
working with the client’s human resources group to implement and
assume responsibility.
3. This is a long-standing client who has been a pleasure to work with.
It will be a relatively easy project because you know the client and
possess the model. It should allow you to be considered for
increasingly sophisticated organizationwide assignments.
4. There was no marketing whatsoever on your part. Time demands on
you personally are reasonable. Other costs equal $17,000. The client
will pay all travel expenses.
Based on these considerations, the value to the client, and your contribution, the client’s investment will be $86,000. This is a gross margin of 80 percent.

One Percent Solution: Fee setting is both an art and a science.
The science is easy, because you have to accept some
ambiguity to assist in the art.

The worth to this client is a minimum of $100,000 in salary annually, plus
the morale factor. The conceptual sale is tight. On the other hand, this is a longterm client with signiﬁcant potential, and the model is already in existence.9 You
know that you have ﬁxed costs of about $17,000, and you should allow for
inevitable contingencies bringing this to $20,000. Thus the range for this project is probably from about $50,000 to $100,000. Given your positioning strategy, you decide that $86,000 represents an equitable investment given the return.
(The client agreed in real life.)
Could you have charged a fee of $79,500 or $91,750? Probably. Just as you
could have charged the $44,500. Now don’t go screaming down the hall. I said
that there would be ambiguity. You have to determine a comfortable fee—an
9
This is strictly a pragmatic consideration. You have every right to charge for proprietary
intellectual material and approaches every time you apply them, just as a royalty is paid on a song
every time it is played commercially or a book every time it is sold.

STOP THINKING THAT TIME IS MONEY

191

acceptable client investment, in light of the value that is the client’s return on
this investment. This is your responsibility. Excellent restaurants charge not merely
by the cost of the meal ingredients, but also by the ambiance and service—the
entire dining experience. First-class airfare is not based on the size of the seats
and certainly not on the caliber of the food alone.

The ultimate test of a value-based fee system is the client’s
acceptance of the investment in terms of the value perceived.

How much is a kidney transplant worth? How about a cast for a broken
leg? Almost any doctor can do a good job with a cast, but very few can transplant a kidney. And do most people choose their doctors based on their fee, their
bedside (well, ofﬁce) manner, or their quality? (When was the last time you heard
the demand: “Get me the cheapest brain surgeon you can ﬁnd!”?)
Value-based fees are not a technique for the faint-hearted, in the sense that
you have to make some bold decisions (albeit with input and cooperation from
the client) about the improvement in the client’s condition and the justiﬁable
investment in achieving it. This is why the conceptual sale is so important and
why value-based fees are utterly dependent on it.
Once the client agrees on the value, the investment becomes quite reasonable. No one gets something for nothing. And this brings me to the second point
raised at the beginning of this section. Once you’ve understood your own worth
and value to the client, you can establish fees that equitably reﬂect that contribution. Then you have to ask for them.
What I call the value distance (see Figure 9-4) is the perceptual movement
created by proceeding from what the client believes she wants (a training program)

Client Need

Your Value Distance

Client Want

Figure 9-4 The value distance.

192

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

to what is really needed (a new relationship with clients that creates less attrition
and more repeat business). That’s the movement that takes you from a $15,000
“event” to a $115,000 consulting project based on highly valuable outcomes.

HOW TO RAISE FEES AT ANY TIME,
WITHOUT RAISING CAIN
No matter what system you’re using to set fees, you should periodically evaluate
whether they should be raised. If you’re using formulas, then your basic needs
and aspirations may have increased. If you’re responding to market demand and
competition, you may ﬁnd yourself inadvertently lagging. And especially if you’re
using a value basis, you have to determine the current value for the client and
your current worth to the client.10

The absolute indicator of when to raise fees is when your
value increases in your client’s view.

You should review the appropriateness of your fee philosophy every year
because, with proposals in the pipeline and negotiations ongoing, it’s likely that
an increase won’t hit your books for 12 to 18 months. For this reason, proposals should always have effective dates speciﬁed; for example, “The terms and conditions of this proposal are effective through August 31 of this year. Acceptance
after that date may necessitate increased fees or altered conditions.” It’s not all
that unusual for a client to pull out an undated proposal a year after the fact and
announce, “Surprise! I just got the budget approval, and I sold the project to the
committee.” If that work now involves subcontractors because of your own
changed circumstances, your margins could suffer seriously.

Other Reasons for Raising Fees
You Are Not Perceived as a High-Powered Organization
because You Are So Inexpensive
Don’t laugh. Raising fees can increase business by forcing your proposals to be
approved by higher-level management, which has higher budgetary limits. This
10
As a rule, distinctions that are locked into products or strict discipline tend to diminish in
worth because conditions change, competitors move in, and approaches become passé. Distinctions
linked to talent and relationships tend to increase in worth because talent can adjust to changing
conditions and relationships are intrinsically valuable.

STOP THINKING THAT TIME IS MONEY

193

is a very effective strategy for the bold at heart. I decided to do it after becoming
disgusted with a General Motors training manager who told me he wanted “the
cheapest proposal possible” in order to save as much of his budget as possible.11
Who needs this guy? (And I don’t hesitate to point out that I’ve done much
better than General Motors over these ensuing years. Accident? I think not.)

You Are Asked to Do Important Work
That Is Personally Unattractive
Higher fees really do offset unpleasant assignments. My wife tells me this every
time I miss a social event for an assignment that sends us on another vacation, and
I tell myself every time I’m in a town where the restaurants all close at 9 p.m.

You Want to Distance Yourself from the Pack
If you ﬁnd that you are bidding on proposals with other ﬁrms among which there
is little differentiation, you already know that several of them will attempt to bid
low. Very few of them, if any, will deliberately bid high. By doing so, you will
force the buyer to examine the value-added dimension you bring to the table.
It’s your job to ensure that it is distinct from the others.

You Want to Test the Waters
I spoke in earlier chapters about expanding the envelope. Remember the second
rule of the preceding section: you have to ask for the business. How do you know
what you’re worth if you don’t use the market to try to ﬁnd out? If clients have
been accepting proposals for two years at $75,000, instead of ﬁnding new ways
to pat yourself on the back, maybe you should be investigating why you haven’t
been charging $125,000. It’s not worth it? Says who? Only the client can determine worth, and if you don’t give the client a chance, you’ll never really know.
To summarize, develop a strategy for fee increases no matter what system
you are using, and particularly if you are basing fees on perceived value.

One Percent Solution: You must abandon existing, lowmargin clients if you are to have the energy and capacity to
reach out to new, high-margin clients. You’re doing those
clients a favor even more than you’re doing yourself one.

11 Some years ago, I delivered an afternoon speech to Atlantic Electric for $7,500 and the exact
same speech that evening for free as a pro bono gesture to the Rhode Island Personnel Association.
The utility executives thought it was the greatest thing since cold beer; the personnel association sat
there like stumps. Go ﬁgure. I’m more convinced than ever that not only do people get what they
pay for, but they perceive that they get what they pay for.

194

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

When you do raise your fees, one thing almost always happens: you lose
the bottom 15 percent of your market, both current and potential. However, this
is okay. I talked in earlier chapters about growing at the top of your market by
abandoning the bottom end, and nothing will do this faster than a fee increase.
It is difﬁcult at ﬁrst to turn down business. “Gee,” the client will say, “we really
want to use you, but we can’t possibly afford that amount.” There is obviously
no conceptual sale here based on value, and there may never be. Some clients
aren’t interested in value; they are interested only in activity and budget. These
are the clients who will fall by the wayside as a result of fee increases, and this is
all well and good.

FORTY WAYS TO RAISE FEES
Let’s end this chapter with 40 pragmatic ways to increase your fees. You may
want to copy these and hang them on your ofﬁce wall (or the ceiling of your
bedroom):
1. Offer options of increasing value with commensurate increasing
investment.
2. Never discuss fee, only value. Allow the buyer to see the actual fees
only in the proposal itself.
3. Gain conceptual agreement on objectives, measures, and value to
the client and buyer prior to creating a proposal.
4. Link the buyer’s personal objectives with the goals of the project.
5. Respond to pressure to lower fees with the offer to remove value.
6. Never ever quote a time-based or time-and-materials fee.
7. Make comparisons with other client’s investments (for example,
equipment maintenance, errors, failure work, travel) that show the
project investment to be extremely reasonable in comparison.
8. Provide a discount for full fee paid in advance.
9. If you’re local, emphasize that expenses are included. If you’re not
local, consider calculating them and including them in the fee.
10. Talk about both the immediate annual return and the longer-term
annualized return.
11. Consider the nonquantitative beneﬁts, such as alleviated stress,
better repute, enhanced communication, and so on.
12. Cite the fee as an investment and focus on return on investment
rather than on costs.

STOP THINKING THAT TIME IS MONEY

195

13. When confronted with how “others” or “the last consultant” did it,
explain that your method is better for the client.
14. Point out the ethical conﬂicts in time-based billing.
15. Bear in mind that when you’re dealing with six-ﬁgure fees, a swing
of $10,000 one way or the other doesn’t matter at all (and with ﬁve
ﬁgure fees, a few thousand dollars doesn’t matter).
16. Provide so much value in the initial meetings that the buyer will
ask, “What would I get if I actually hired this person?”
17. Create very clear project objectives so as to avoid scope creep and
margin erosion.
18. Pay subcontractors by the time unit or other means, but not by a
percentage of the project.
19. Stick like glue to the economic buyer. Refuse—refuse—to deal with
purchasing managers, lawyers, or human resources directors for the
negotiations.
20. Abandon the bottom 15 percent of your business at least every
two years to allow yourself the capacity to accept higher-fee
business on a regular basis.
21. Practice stating high fees in the mirror without falling down
giggling. This destroys the effect in front of a CEO. (Yes, I’m
serious about this.)
22. Charge a premium if you do all the work yourself (without
subcontractors) to create a “single ﬁlter” or to maximize
conﬁdentiality.
23. Charge a premium for overseas work (for example, I add 50 percent
for Europe and Latin America and 100 percent for Asia and the
Paciﬁc Rim, since I live on the eastern seaboard of the United States).
24. Accelerate your payment schedule and follow up ruthlessly on
receivables over 30 days old.
25. Turn down bad business. It will cost you more than you’ll ever
make from it.
26. Collaborate with those who can secure large accounts and for whom
you can increase value.
27. Make sure anyone you hire as an employee can bring in signiﬁcant
new, value-based business.
28. Seek out economic buyers laterally during your implementation work.
29. Respond to scope creep requests by sending a new, amended, larger
proposal.

196

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

30. Don’t allow the dreaded scope seep, wherein you volunteer to do
more work.
31. Raise fees to create perceptions of higher value. Play to the
buyer’s ego.
32. Introduce new value to existing clients to raise fees for current
clients.
33. At year-end, emphasize early payment, since many organizations
have to use up any leftover budget money.
34. Practice saying, “We can do that together.” Don’t hesitate. Jump at
the opportunity.
35. If payments are late, pursue the buyer, never the accounts payable
people or intermediaries.
36. Have the client absorb all expenses, bill monthly, make your terms
“due on receipt of invoice,” and follow up in 30 days if you’re not paid.
37. Quote in U.S. dollars drawn on U.S. banks, which is a huge beneﬁt
when you’re doing business outside U.S. borders, even in Canada.
38. Build strong brands and nurture them, because people will come to
you asking how you can work together, meaning that fees are no
longer even an issue.
39. Never allow taxes to be deducted from your fees. It is never
warranted. Check with your attorney.
40. Keep “boilerplate” wording out of your proposals, or they will wind
up in the legal department. See the previous section about “who
wants to be as dumb as a lawyer?”

RETAINERS
Retainers represent access to your smarts. They are not projects—nothing that
you implement, nothing that you execute. They are methods of compensation
for the client’s being able to call upon you for advice and counsel.
There are three conditions to assess in a retainer relationship:
1. Who? How many people will have access to you? Only the buyer, his
team, or others?
2. Duration. Will this be for a month, a quarter, or a year?
3. Scope. Is this during eastern business hours if you live in New York,
or western business hours because the client is in San Francisco?

STOP THINKING THAT TIME IS MONEY

197

Would you make appearances on site, or only via e-mail and phone?
What about weekends?
Having assessed these criteria, create a retainer fee per month. My suggestion is that no retainer be for less than a quarter, and that it be payable at the
beginning of the period, so a $7,500 monthly retainer would be payable on the
ﬁrst of the ﬁrst month of the three-month period, with $22,500 due. If the client
opted for six months, then reduce the fee somewhat, e.g., to $40,000.
Allow both the client and yourself to make a decision about renewing early
in the last month of the period.
Beware: never allow a retainer to cover unrestricted client work in the form
of a succession of projects, or you will kill yourself. Retainers are strictly for
access to your advice (which is usually easily done remotely and even timeshifted), though occasional appearances may make sense. They would then be
“plus expenses.”
I’m using retainer differently from the way lawyers use it, as they are only
asking for a deposit against their hourly billing. I’m using it to refer to an amount
paid to guarantee access to you over some ﬁnite period. Go back to the “art and
science” aspect: never worry about “how much access,” because clients never
abuse it. I’ve had clients call me once a month and feel it was well worth the
money, because the timing and urgency were critical to them.
As you become a more seasoned consultant, more and more of your business should become retainer business, which not only dramatically increases
income on a non-labor-intensive basis, but also adds to your real wealth: discretionary time.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. What if my fee could have been lower after I get into the project?
A. So what? If the client is getting value and feels that there is a strong ROI,
that’s all that matters. You’re not a Realtor, who is allowed by convention to
make only 6 percent, before expenses, on a house sale!
Q. What about performance fees and contingent fees?
A. If you’re going to accept a piece of the action, make sure you receive some
cash up front, and make sure you don’t need the money for your living
expenses. My experience is that for every secretary who says she got rich
with Google stock, there are a million people who took a piece of the action
and wound up with pure air.

198

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Q. What if the client asks me the basis for my fee structure?
A. Anticipate that question, and say something like this: “My fee is based on
my contribution to the value you derive from this project, providing a dramatic ROI for you and equitable compensation for me.”
Q. What happens if other consultants are charging by the day and seem much less expensive than I am?
A. You have to demonstrate (1) that you are far more valuable, and (2) that it is
actually more cost-effective to pay a fee based on value (e.g., with no meter
running).
Q. If I’m not getting any business, isn’t that an indicator that my fees are too high?
A. No, it’s an indicator that you’re not establishing a trusting relationship with
the buyer, who would otherwise say, “We’d love to use you, but can you do
something about the fees?” (At which point you demonstrate the ROI on
your value, and offer options.)

Final Thought: You can never go back and recoup lost fees.
The earlier and more aggressively you establish high fees,
the richer you will become. Period.

MID-BOOK INTERLUDE
FOR BOOMERS,
SECOND CAREERS, RETIREES,
AND MATURE NEWCOMERS:
HOW TO TURBOCHARGE
YOUR START
WHAT’S THE SCORE?
It’s appropriate, here in the middle of the book, to talk directly to those of you
who are in midlife, personally and/or professionally. And the lessons reﬂected
herein will apply to those of you who may be younger and just starting a practice, as well as to those veterans who may be seeking a “fresh start.”
Test yourself on the following traits and strengths if you’re seeking to start
or reestablish a solo consulting practice, and score yourself on a scale of 10 (I have
this to the nth degree) to 0 (I don’t have a clue and would have to acquire this).
1. Business experience in any sector to the point where I can readily
discuss business issues, understand balance sheets, and generally
display business acumen in conversations. (Score):
2. A plethora of contacts from my prior and current business, social
circles, old school ties, civic activities, professional trade groups, and
extended family.
3. Some knowledge of counseling or coaching or consulting, gained
from participation, collaboration, observation, or some other
means.
4. Discretionary time that I can apply to creating the logistical support
and promotion needed to launch my new endeavor.
5. A support system of family, signiﬁcant others, friends,
and/or colleagues who will provide solicited feedback and
encouragement.
6. Sufﬁcient funds to maintain a conservative lifestyle for a minimum
of six months without any new business or funds emerging.
199

200

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

7. The resilience to accept rejection and learn from it, to bounce
back from disappointment, and to abandon ego so that I can
continually learn.
8. Business or community connections in areas such as graphic design,
computer help, printing, and technology that can be accessed
readily and with conﬁdence.
9. Technological and Internet familiarity to the extent that I can
easily research, ﬁnd contacts, move ﬁles, create spreadsheets, and
so forth.
10. Distinctive skill sets in processes, such as problem solving, conﬂict
resolution, strategy, ﬁnancial analysis, decision making, risk
assessment, and so on.
Tally ho. Here’s the analysis:
• 80–100: You are safe making a major commitment and investing
whatever you can to charge ahead.
• 60–79: You need to shore up some areas, which you can do
concurrently with your start-up, but make speciﬁc plans to acquire
what you’re lacking.
• 40–59: Make a plan to acquire what you’re lacking in both contacts,
skills, and behaviors before you make your full-time consulting
investment. Plan to take six months or more to do so.
• Below 40: You’re not ready, and the deck isn’t just stacked against
you, it’s missing the face cards. Spend at least a year preparing, and
then reassess.
Keys: You really need to score yourself at least a “7” in numbers 1, 2, 4, 5,
and 6. That’s 35 points right there.

WHAT’S THE ROUTE?
If you want to ramp up rapidly for million dollar consulting—say, hit $300,000
very quickly and grow from there—here is the best route.

Establish the Fundamentals
Set up an ofﬁce, at home or elsewhere. The key is privacy and insulation from
kids, deliveries, and random interruptions. Home ofﬁces are ﬁne provided that
anyone else living there knows the rules; for example, when the door is closed,

MID-BOOK INTERLUDE

201

consider it locked; never use the business line, even if it’s accessible on other
phones in the house.

Establish Your Conceptual Base
What is your value proposition (how will the client be better off once you leave)?
This should be expressed in a single sentence as a business outcome for the client
so that it informs both your behavior and the prospect’s questions.1
Who, by title, are the probable economic buyers who can authorize a check
for that value?

Create the Collateral
Begin with a physical press kit (media kit, presentation kit), which minimally
includes
• Typical client results (typical, not historical, so be creative).
• Array of your services.
• Biographical sketch.
• Client list (if you have one, or “organizations we’ve worked with” if
you did so under other auspices).
• Testimonials (if you have them).
• White papers (position papers) of two to ﬁve pages each,
nonpromotional, providing insights and pragmatic help around
your value proposition. (Have about six of these in there, with
your copyright and contact information, fold-overs, not stapled,
on good paper.)
Now, ﬁnd an outstanding Web designer and duplicate this electronically.
Remember, this is for credibility, not for sales, so adjust the message accordingly.
You want to come across as an expert, not a slickster.2
Create letterhead, business cards, and labels of high quality with professional design. Use four colors, not two. If you can’t afford a designer, hire a student in the art program at a local college; the result will suit you quite well until
you can afford to make a change down the road.
1 This is not the dreaded and ineffably stupid “elevator speech.” If you live in New York and
start talking to people on elevators, you’re very likely to ﬁnd yourself thrown off on a ﬂoor you hadn’t intended visiting.
2

The best guy in the country for this is Chad Barr at chadbarrgroup.com.

202

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Begin Marketing
The question here is how to reach your buyers (from above) and how to enable
them to reach you.
To reach the buyer, immediately do two things:
1. Call everyone you know. Contact everyone who is part of your
plethora of contacts (see question 2 in the self-test) and ask these two
questions once you’ve explained your value proposition:
a. Could this be of use to you?
b. Whom do you know who could use this, and would you be willing
to introduce me?
If you do this religiously with your 75, or 180, or 325 contacts,
you will receive leads. However, you must be comfortable and
shameless (see question 7 on the self-test).
2. Target 12 people. Choose a dozen (or 8 or 13) organizations within a
two-hour drive of your home that meet most of these criteria:
a. They are doing well (so they have money to invest).
b. They have a history of using external help (read the press, talk to
employees).
c. They appear to have a need for your kind of value (do some
research online or with people who know the company).
d. You have some premise or excuse for making contact (they were
featured in a local news article, you heard the president speak at a
meeting, you met a key manager at a social event).
Send the probable buyer a simple letter expressing your value,
enclose your press kit, and indicate that you will call to follow up
at 10 a.m. on Friday (or whenever).3 When you call on Friday, tell
the assistant or secretary that you’re “calling as promised.” (If you
can’t ﬁnd someone’s phone number or e-mail address, call the
switchboard and say you’d like to send the individual a letter of
compliments about something.)

Create Market Gravity
If you draw people to you, there is a reversal of the usual dynamic (“Prove how
good you are”) because of your brand or your repute (“I’ve heard you’re good;
how can we work together?”). The gravity chart is shown in Figure 2-3.
3 Key marketing mistake: suggesting that people get back to you or that you’ll follow up at
some vague future time.

MID-BOOK INTERLUDE

203

However, I’d suggest you begin with the big four of gravity:
1. Speak wherever you can where buyers and/or recommenders gather.
Do it for free if you must, but leverage it by recording it, getting
names, providing handouts, and mingling before and after.
2. Network like crazy. Networking is not “working a room” or spending
wasted hours on LinkedUp or Facebook. It means attending events
where you can meet critical buyers. Here are Alan’s ﬁve networking
secrets:
a. Distance power. People who know nothing about you have no
preconceptions or misconceptions to shed. You’re actually better
off networking with strangers!
b. The unique multiplier. Find people who, though they are not buyers
themselves, know a great many buyers because they are a supplier,
customer, mutual club member, advisor of some kind. That one
contact can lead to many solid introductions.
c. The nexus person. Find the person who can provide an immediate
introduction to an important buyer. This may be an assistant (“My
boss should meet you”), a relative (“My cousin needs this”), even
an ex-employee (“My boss at my last company is looking for
someone like you”).
d. The adhesion principle. Why should this person remember you? You
have to “give to get.” Always provide value immediately (an idea or
reference) and future value (“May I send you something?”), and
then follow up to see if it’s been of help.
e. The contextual connection. Remember that you’re usually together
for a common purpose—an awards ceremony, fund-raiser, political
event, community activity, and so forth—so make the most of
your common interest to create an immediate relationship.
3. Publish wherever you can, whether in newsletters, magazines, online,
on others’ blogs, or somewhere else. Get your message out.
Sometimes small, specialty publications will reach your potential
buyers far better than mass media. If possible, write a regular column.
4. Use the Internet. Add value to your Web site weekly. Start a highly
focused newsletter. (The reason there are so many electronic
newsletters is that people are reading them.) Begin a blog if you have
the time and energy and content (see questions 1 and 4 in the selftest). Find reporters’ queries and try to be interviewed (see the
Annotated Resources for some logical approaches and resources).

204

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Act as If You Mean It
Once your marketing is being introduced, don’t act as if you’re entering the business; act as if you’re an expert in the business.
• Dress well. Have a couple of great suits and appropriate accessories
to make a highly professional ﬁrst appearance.4
• Join the appropriate trade and professional groups and seek a visible,
leadership position.
• Write letters to the editor that are relevant to your value proposition
whenever and wherever you can.
• Send out press releases at least twice a month to announce new ideas,
speeches, client work, and so forth (see Associated Resources).
• Seek alliances with other solo practitioners or larger ﬁrms if there is
speciﬁc business that can draw you together and make the whole
greater than the parts. (“Conceptual” alliances are a waste of time.)
• Engage in continual self-development. Seek to raise every score to a
10. But be careful to whom you listen. Your avatars should have a
proven track record of success in areas that are important to you.
Ignore arbitrary “certiﬁcations” and diplomas. The key is: are you
learning from the best of the best?
• Blow your own horn, or there is no music. Let people know of any
and all successes.
What are you going to be doing to be perceived as a top consultant in
your ﬁeld?

One Percent Solution: We are here not to survive, but to thrive.

WHAT’S THE POINT?
You and I are not in this business to make money. We are in this business to add
value to clients, which will earn us equitable compensation (if we assess our fees
correctly).
4 Some things that do not cut it: men with dyed, chestnut brown hair—go grey or bald, it’s
okay; women with plastic shoes—buy good leather and wear hosiery; a cheap pen to take notes—
use a Cartier or Mont Blanc; looking like a pack animal—take notes during a meeting, don’t move
in with your own ofﬁce equipment.

MID-BOOK INTERLUDE

205

You and I are not in this life to run a business. We live to fall in love, to
help others, to contribute to the environment in which we ﬁnd ourselves, and to
apply our talents in as many ways as possible.
Hence, we don’t have “professional lives” and “private lives.” We have lives.
You have a life. The question is how to best enjoy and share it.
Here are some best practices and best learning that are exclusively
presented here. Having just conducted the eleventh Million Dollar Consulting®
College, and always learning more than anyone else, I’ll share some insights:
• If you don’t understand something, do two things. First, question it
immediately, because otherwise the ensuing structure will have a
weak foundation. Second, try to apply it in your circumstances to
integrate the learning.
• People learn in different ways, so notes, recordings, mind maps, and
holographic telepathy are all ﬁne with me. But if you don’t have three
things (or less) to move forward on at the end of the day, you may
have quantity but not quality.
• “The One Percent Solution: Tools for Change” says that if you
improve by 1 percent a day, in 70 days, you’ll be twice as good. But
if you don’t learn carefully and instead become confused, the
opposite can actually occur. People can get dumber.
• When creating pragmatic representations of conceptual images,
whether brands or graphics or process visuals, it is always better to
work with a small team that you trust for quicker and higher-quality
results.
• Failing, and learning as a result, among peers is better than
mindlessly succeeding among inferiors.
• Emotion is as important as intellect in integrating learning.
• The female advantage in learning: less ego investment and more
openness. The male advantage: less tendency to take disagreement
personally and more tendency to focus on the issue, not the person.
• Groups don’t bond through dumb icebreaking exercises. They bond
through sharing challenges, contributions, disagreements, and
socializing.
• All groups claim that they want to stay in touch and reconnect. The
ones that do so most successfully always have an organizer or
organizers who take on that responsibility.
• If the facilitator isn’t learning constantly, she should go into another
line of work. Simply doing something well and receiving plaudits for
it is like watching people applaud a movie you made years ago.

206

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

I’m asked why I left organizational consulting after such success, and my
reply is that I got bored, because there are primarily 11 things that are going on,
and to say to a CEO, “It’s numbers 3, 7, and 10; that will be $245,000,” was not
going to ﬂy. Here are my observations so that you can avoid getting bored:
1. Leadership is inept in that key people are not serving as avatars of
the behavior they are seeking in others.
2. Team building is sought when, in actuality, the organization has
committees and needs committees, not teams.
3. There are silos headed by powerful people who are defending
their turf.
4. Problem solving is prized over innovation, and “black belt nine
delta” nonsense takes over people’s minds like a bad science ﬁction
movie from the 1950s.
5. There is excessive staff interference instead of support, typically
from HR, ﬁnance, IT, and/or legal.
6. There are too many meetings that take too long and are
overwhelmingly focused on sharing information—the worst possible
reason to have a meeting. The organization’s talent and energy are
being squandered internally instead of being applied externally.
7. The customer’s perceptions of the organization’s products, services,
and relationships are different from the organization’s perceptions.
8. The reward and feedback systems are not aligned with strategy and
are not encouraging the appropriate behaviors and discouraging the
inappropriate.
9. Strategy and planning are mistaken for each other.
10. Career development and succession planning are not wedded.
11. The organization is bureaucratic, in that it focuses on means and
not ends.
I’m sending you to the second half of the book now. After the ﬁrst half,
you’re ready to understand my interlude. In the second half, plan to put this philosophy to work.

CHAPTER
10

BULLETPROOF
PROPOSALS
DON’T TRIP AS YOU’RE ABOUT
TO CROSS THE FINISH LINE

PREPARING THE BUYER
The most important aspect of creating proposals that are signed by buyers is the
preparation before you even type a word. Proposals are won or lost by what happens in the events leading up to them.
Let’s be clear about what a proposal is; it is
• A summation of the conceptual agreement between you and
the buyer
• A template that will govern the boundaries of the proposed project
• A formal contract (when signed) that protects both you and the client
• The reference point for details as the project unfolds (for example, it
can be shared with other key people in the project)
Let’s be clear about what a proposal is not; it is not
• An exploration of client interest
• A negotiating document
• Unilateral protection for either party
• A rough draft or changeable outline

A proposal is a summation, not an exploration. It conﬁrms
the conceptual agreement between consultant and buyer
and demonstrates options, with attendant return on
investment.

207

208

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Most proposals fail because the groundwork hasn’t been completed. Rather
than working hard to establish conceptual agreement with the buyer, the
consultant takes the easy way out and provides a proposal. This is the equivalent
of trying to teach a graduate course by mailing in notes for the students to read.
No one will think very much of the experience, and pretty soon, people will simply stop showing up.
Prior to submitting a proposal, here are the musts to maximize your
chances for its acceptance (I hit 80 percent of my proposals, although I submit
far fewer than most people).

The 10 Key Steps
1. Find the economic buyer. If you’re not dealing with the buyer, then
nothing else you do matters. Proposals to gatekeepers may as well
be thrown in the trash. Don’t waste printer ink. Determine who can
write a check for your particular value, even if this takes an
extended period of time.
2. Establish a trusting relationship with the buyer. Proceed to the point at
which you see evidence that you are candid with each other, you can
push back, and the buyer is willing to share his ideas and experiences.
Listen far more than you talk. These relationships can be instant, but
they usually require time to reach fruition. Ironically, the more
patient you are, the faster you can develop a superb proposal.
3. Establish objectives for the proposed project. These should be business
outcomes (not deliverables, tasks, or your methodology) determined
by asking such questions as
What would you like the end result to be?
How would things be different from now at the conclusion of
the project?
Ideally, what three things must be accomplished?
How would you like to be known as a result of this project?
What must be changed, ﬁxed, or improved the most?

One Percent Solution: A proposal is a summation of a
previously established conceptual agreement with an
economic buyer. If you understand that reality, then you
will take much more time and apply much more discipline
before creating one.

BULLETPROOF PROPOSALS

209

4. Establish measures of success for the project. These are the metrics that
will govern agreement on progress and your role in that progress.
Ask these types of questions:
How will you know that these outcomes have been
achieved?
What indexes will you use to tell you that we’re on the
right track?
What is the range of improvement you’d like to see, what is
minimally acceptable, and what represents overwhelming success?
What current measures are you using that we can apply?
What measures that are unique to this project should be created?
5. Establish the value to the client organization (and/or the buyer personally).
This is a critical nuance in focusing on value and not on fees and in
demonstrating later the tremendous ROI that you are providing.
Sample questions might be
What will the outcomes mean to you and the organization?
How much improvement, conservatively, do you expect from a
successful project?
What is this worth on an annualized basis and a longer-term basis?
What does this mean quantitatively (sales, market share, proﬁt,
retention, etc.)?
What does this mean qualitatively (repute, health, comfort,
convenience, ego, etc.)?
6. Explain the options available. By indicating that your proposal
will contain alternative ways to approach the project, you are
establishing the fact that there are differing value packages
available at differing investment levels. Most important, however,
you are subtly moving the client from “Should I use Alan?” to
“How should I use Alan?” This is a powerful tool that I call the
choice of yeses.

The choice of yeses psychologically moves the buyer from the
binary question of “should I?” to the pluralistic question of
“how should I?” This nuance, when used adroitly, will
increase the likelihood of your proposal’s being accepted—
and at higher fees—by at least 50 percent.

210

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

7. Do not focus on methodology or deliverables. The client is the expert in
automobile manufacture or pharmaceuticals. You wouldn’t presume
to tell the buyer how to install fuel injection systems or create
enzyme blockers. You are the expert in consulting. The client
should not presume to lecture you on focus groups, audits,
reorganizations, or evaluations. You may touch on it (“We will use
focus groups, interviews, and surveys”), but don’t go into detail
(“We’ll use 12 focus groups, survey administrative employees, and
interview 10 percent of your customers).
8. Never mention fees. Tell the curious client, if you’re asked, that all
details, including investments and options, will be in the proposal
and that you can have that on the buyer’s desk in 24 hours. No one
needs to know fees the same afternoon. Moreover, you want to
focus on value in discussions and in the proposal so that the fees
emerge at the proper time. Premature discussion will only lead to
false objections and blockages, such as, “We’ve never budgeted that
much,” or “This may have to wait until the next ﬁscal year.”
9. Establish that the proposal will be there by courier within your quickest
time frame. This must be an integrated process. I promise the
proposal overnight. If you are more comfortable with more time,
then use 48 hours. Remember, however, that the more time that
elapses, the more things can go wrong. No buyer I’ve ever met has
decided to increase my fee by stalling for time.
10. Establish a clear follow-up date. The conversational question is this:
“If I have this on your desk tomorrow, I’ll plan to follow up by
phone two days later. Or do you prefer that I follow up that same
day? I also can stop by if that makes more sense.” (Note the choice
of yeses.) Never allow yourself to be in a position of ambiguity,
where the buyer can inadvertently miss you or deliberately avoid
you because she wasn’t expecting your call.

Case Study
I was asked to work with a London-based consulting
ﬁrm that was having problems acquiring new business.
The ﬁrm’s proposals were lengthy and rambling, but even
worse, the ﬁrm measured the effectiveness of its people
based on how many proposals each of them created and
mailed.

BULLETPROOF PROPOSALS

211

Consequently, a chance meeting in a pastry shop would
generate a proposal. When I looked at rates of success,
I found that the rate was under 15 percent, yet the
proposals were soaking up valuable professional and
administrative time.
I changed the measure to accepted proposals and
introduced the preceding 10 steps. Expenses were reduced
immediately, and the hit rate eventually climbed to over
50 percent, all with no capital investment.
Proposals are won or lost in the planning.

CREATING THE PROPOSAL IN 2.5 PAGES
I’ve found that there are nine steps to an effective proposal. You may have six or
twelve, and this is ﬁne. However, my nine steps have worked for me and my mentoring participants wonderfully well. They result in about 21⁄2 pages, no matter how
large the project. Most consultants turn their proposals into tomes that could rival
Proust’s Remembrance of Things Past and that bore the reader just as readily.
Whether you are new to the business and can use an expeditious format for
creating proposals or are a veteran who realizes the need to unlearn bad habits,
I’m absolutely conﬁdent that these nine steps will work for you. [How conﬁdent?
Well, I’ve written an entire book on the subject, How to Write a Proposal That’s
Accepted Every Time (Fitzwilliam, NH: Kennedy Information, 2002). I can’t keep
it on the shelves, and it’s used by the “Big Five” as well as by solo practitioners
and everyone in between.]

THE NINE COMPONENTS OF A
DYNAMITE PROPOSAL
1. Situation Appraisal
This is two or three paragraphs on the client’s current condition and why the
proposal has been sought. It should reﬂect what you and the buyer have already
discussed and be focused on the problem or improvement and not on mere
restatement of the obvious.

Poor Example
FedEx is a highly innovative express delivery service headquarterd in Memphis,
Tennessee, that has become to a global carrier, offering differentiated services

212

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

and acquiring related businesses. (You see, the company already knows this, so
it fails the “so what” test.)

Good Example
FedEx has had labor problems, and lawsuits have been brought by so-called
independent contractors who are proving, legally, that they are and should be
treated as employees. The brand is no longer powerful enough to create an
unending ﬂow of top talent, competition is tougher than ever, and operating
expenses are expected to continue to climb as a result of fuel uncertainty and
aging aircraft. (FedEx may know this viscerally, but you’ve just make it explicit
and powerful.)
The situation appraisal begins the positive nodding in agreement as the
buyer reads your proposal.

2. Objectives
These should be bullet-point objectives emanating directly from the conceptual
agreement reached in the preliminary work. Typical examples might be:
“Our objectives for this project include
• Creating revenue in over 50 percent of new accounts through crossproduct selling
• A radical decline in the time invested by the chief executive ofﬁcer
(CEO) in playing referee among competing units
• A reduction to zero of clients complaining about too many visits by
differing people who have not coordinated their efforts
• And so on”

3. Measures of Success
These, too, originate in the earlier conceptual agreement.
“Our metrics will include
• Monthly reports of new business by product type
• A personal journal of time allocation for the CEO
• A quarterly report by the client service vice president on key
customer complaints
• And so on”

BULLETPROOF PROPOSALS

213

4. Value to the Organization
This completes the reiteration of the conceptual agreement.
“The value to State Street Bank will include
• A reduction in selling costs
• Larger average new business acquisition
• More positive customers willing to be proactive in inquiring about
additional services
• A freeing up of 25 percent of the CEO’s time
• And so on”
To emphasize, the conceptual agreement becomes points 2, 3, and 4 in the
proposal. Bullet points are ﬁne for both brevity and power.

5. Methodology and Options
This is the place where you brieﬂy discuss the options (choice of yeses) available
to the client. You want to give the buyer a sufﬁcient taste of the differing value—
the least of the options will more than satisfy the objectives, but additional
options will deliver still more value.

Example
Option 1: We will interview key personnel in the three business units,
observe operations, and monitor customer responses. We will
recommend the best and quickest means to eliminate duplication and
avoid contradiction. We will train key participants in the coordination
necessary and create and install measures and monitoring devices so that
management can quickly audit daily performance.
Option 2: This includes Option 1, but we also will interview key clients
prior to the internal changes to use their inputs for the most targeted
possible corrections. We will interview those same clients three months
after the changes to create further ﬁne-tuning and also to emphasize to
them how the organization has heeded their suggestions.
Option 3:

And so on.

Note that options are not just “more of the same” (for example, we’ll
interview 100 people rather than just 50), but are legitimately and clearly differing value packages. I favor three or four (two is too few, and ﬁve becomes
confusing and harder to differentiate) in an ascending order of value (there is no

214

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

mention of investment yet). Buyers tend to percolate upward when given
choices.

Every buyer loves to reduce price, but none wants to reduce
value. When you give buyers options of increasing value,
they tend to migrate up the value chain (and therefore
the investment chain). I call this rapid ascent “The
Mercedes Bends.”

6. Timing
State clearly when the project can begin and the likely range of its duration. Use
calendar dates, not relative dates. Don’t commit to a ﬁrm ending date. Educate
the buyer at this point that there’s a reasonable range, based on access, cooperation, unforeseen events, and so on.

7. Joint Accountabilities
This is another section that is overlooked by most consultants. Let the client
know that this is not something that “you do for the client,” but rather something that you and the client collaborate on as peers.

Examples
My accountability includes
• Adherence to agreed-upon deadlines
• All administrative and ofﬁce costs
• Monthly progress reports in person
• And so on
Your accountability includes
• Access to key individuals on mutually convenient dates
• Provision of all information having a bearing on the project
• Payment in conformance with the terms below
• And so on

BULLETPROOF PROPOSALS

215

Our joint accountabilities include the following:
• We will alert each other of anything we learn that may materially
affect the success of the project (for example, mergers, key people
leaving, etc.).
• We will respect each other’s conﬁdentiality and proprietary materials
and approaches.
• We will achieve reasonable accommodation for conﬂicts, unforeseen
events, and other priorities.
• And so on.”

8. Terms and Conditions
My favorite part: this should be the ﬁrst time the buyer sees the fees. The buyer
has been afﬁrmatively nodding through all the foregoing, and now, through
sheer momentum, he should continue the positive reaction right through
the fees.
Terms and conditions should state
• The fees, as in
The fee for Option 1 is $45,000.
The fee for Option 2 is $72,000.
And so on.
• Payment terms, as in
A 50 percent deposit is required to commence work, with the
balance due in 45 days. (See Chapter 14 on payments for
guidance here.)
• Discounts or special features, as in
A 10 percent discount can be obtained with a single full-fee
payment at commencement.
• Expense reimbursement terms, as in
Expenses will be billed monthly as actually accrued and are due
on presentation of our invoice. Expenses will include air, train,
rental car, taxi, lodging, food, and related expenses; they will not
include fax, copying, phone, courier, ofﬁce support, and related
expenses.
• Statements of any special features, as in

216

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

• We are fully covered by errors and omissions insurance and
liability insurance. Please make all checks payable to Summit
Consulting Group, Inc.
• Your deposit, in the absence of your signature below, also will
indicate acceptance of this project and the terms and conditions as
stated herein.

One Percent Solution: Some people can issue checks but not
sign legal documents. That’s better than vice versa! Enable
them to do what they do best: sign the check!

Someone asked me once if I did all my own administrative work. I said,
yes, most of it, because I can type 60 words a minute and try to keep it to a
minimum.
“But, surely,” she said, “you don’t bother with your own invoicing.”
“Are you kidding!” I yelled. “I live to invoice. To paraphrase Descartes,
‘I bill, therefore I am.’ I get that thing perfectly formatted on the screen, hit the
print button, then have a cigarette!” (I smoke only an occasional cigar, but you
get the idea. It’s a very Cartesian philosophy.)

9. Acceptance
I like the client to sign right there on that piece of paper while continuing to nod
positively. Thus, the last part of my proposal is the space for acceptance, which
I’ve already executed. I send two copies, one to keep and one to return (always
by courier). Always send hard copy. Faxes look terrible, and electronic stuff looks
worse and can easily be seen by the wrong people. Overnight, high-quality hard
copy is the key.

Example
Your signature below indicates acceptance of the terms of this proposal indicated
by the option you have checked.
___Option 1

___Option 2

___Option 3

We accept the proposal above and the option selected.
For Summit Consulting
Group, Inc.:
Alan Weiss, Ph.D.
President
Date:_________________

For Acme Company, Inc.:
Joan Martin
Executive Vice President
Date:_________________

BULLETPROOF PROPOSALS

217

Case Study
I had sent a $250,000 proposal to what was then GRE
Insurance in New York to help the company with merging
cultures after a merger. The executive vice president was the
buyer and clearly was positively disposed.
A week after I sent the proposal, I received a check for
$125,000 and began work. I did not receive the signed
proposal, but I ﬁgured it was in the mail. Sixty days later,
as scheduled, I received the second installment and had a
quarter of a million dollars in the bank for what would be a
six-month project.
I never did get the signed proposal! After successful
completion of the project, I ﬁgured out what had
happened—the buyer could readily approve two $125,000
payments, but he could not easily get the proposal past his
legal department without a great deal of wrangling,
obfuscation, and delay. Thus he opted simply to pay the bill!
This is why I now state in terms and conditions that, in
effect, your check is as good as your signature. Have I
mentioned that I’m constantly amazed at how stupid I was
two weeks ago?

HOW TO FOLLOW UP AND CLOSE 88.79
PERCENT OF THE TIME
The client may well call you immediately or return the proposal immediately and
give you the go-ahead. Barring this:
1. Call the buyer as promised on the assigned date and time, established
by you prior to submitting the proposal. (I ﬁnd that there is no
advantage to presenting a proposal in person because the buyer will
still ask for time to consider it, as she should. Similarly, there is no
need to follow up in person if all seems well.)
2. Don’t push, commit, or even talk. Just say that you’re calling as
promised, and let the buyer state his position.
3. If positive, establish a start date.
4. If clariﬁcation is needed and the buyer isn’t ready to commit,
establish a very quick follow-up date.

218

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

5. If the buyer has reservations, deal with them honestly. Accentuate
value. Do not lower fees (see below).
6. If the buyer says no, ﬁnd out why. If the objection is rebuttable, do
so. If not, learn your lesson. Never beg or rend your garments.
If the buyer says that Option 3 is desired at a lower price, point out
that this is why you have Option 1 and Option 2. If the buyer says that even
Option 1 is slightly too expensive, offer to lower it by also removing value
(“We won’t do the international aspect,” or, “We won’t provide individual
management feedback”). Remember, buyers love to reduce price but hate to
reduce value.

If you reduce price without reducing value, the buyer will
merely keep pushing, wondering how low you can go. And
you deserve it because you don’t believe in your own value.
If the discussion is about price and not value, you’ve lost
control of the discussion.

Some proposals won’t be accepted no matter how scrupulously you’ve
followed the process. If this weren’t the case, I’d be charging $1 million just
for this book. Most will, however, if you have the patience and discipline to follow
this process.
I want to reinforce my “The 1% Solution: Tools for Change.” You may
not ﬁnd this entire book worthwhile, but that’s not the point. The key is to
extract your 1 percent per day. I’ve found that this approach to proposal writing is one of the most signiﬁcant changes even veteran consultants and wellknown ﬁrms can make. For the new consultant, it can accelerate your growth
exponentially.
So remember: it’s preparation, conceptual agreement, a nine-step proposal,
and systematic follow-up. You don’t need your résumé, or pages of credibility
statements, or details (heaven forfend) about your methodology. Your relationship with the buyer should have taken care of your credibility, and the buyer
doesn’t really care about your methodology—only about results.
Maybe you can’t write a proposal that’s accepted every time. But you can
write one that’s accepted 80 percent of the time.
And that’s not bad if you want to be a million dollar consultant.

BULLETPROOF PROPOSALS

219

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. What if the buyer insists on a price range, at least, before discussing details with you
and allowing you to create a proposal?
A. Remember that no client needs an immediate number except to disqualify
you, that clients hate to lose value, and that they act in their own self-interest. Simply say, “It would be irresponsible for me to cite you a fee without
knowing exactly what’s needed. But if I can ask you a few questions, I can
have a proposal complete with fee in your hands by tomorrow.”
Q. What happens when the client volunteers that there is $50,000 (or whatever) in the
budget for the project?
A. Go through the same steps. Then determine whether you can provide value
for that amount of money. If so, provide options, If not, tell the buyer why
not. (Hint: If you can, always provide one option above the budgeted amount.
If the client likes your value and can ﬁnd $50,000, then he can probably ﬁnd
$65,000 just as easily.)
Q. If you’ll be using other people, shouldn’t you include their bios and details in the
proposal?
A. No. Why would you? If the client has a relationship with you, she won’t be
swayed further by arbitrary names and credentials. If you don’t have a relationship, this information still won’t help!
Q. How long should you wait before following up?
A. Make the follow-up date with the buyer before you submit: “I’ll get this to
you by FedEx on Wednesday and plan to call you on Friday at 10 to see how
you would like to proceed. Can we schedule that call right now?”
Q. What option will buyers choose most often?
A. My experience is that they choose Option 2 about 50 percent of the time,
and Option 3 about 35 percent of the time. Option 1 comes in last at 15 percent, which is pretty much what you want.

Final Thought: When you send your proposal, put it in your
presentation folder (two copies) and include a brief cover
letter conﬁrming that you’re sending the proposal as
promised. Offer to start on a “telephone handshake” if the
client is ready to begin immediately. Once you show up,
you’ve poured cement on the agreement.

CHAPTER
11

OMNIPRESENCE
ABSENCE DOESN’T MAKE THE
HEART GROW FONDER; IT
MAKES PEOPLE FORGET

COMMUNICATE CONSTANTLY
There is an apocryphal story in the sales business about a salesman who outsold
his colleagues by 200 percent every year. Yet, according to all the tests administered to the sales force, he scored the lowest in sales aptitude and selling skills.
His own district manager had thought that the salesman was just lucky and
recorded on his evaluation that his potential was limited. After the third year
of record-breaking sales, however, the home ofﬁce decided that it had better
discover the secret behind this guy’s success, so a corporate psychologist was
dispatched.
“Show me exactly what you do in front of a client,” instructed the psychologist.
“I place the product manual between us,” said the salesman.
“Yes, yes, and then what?”
“Well, I ask the client if he would like to buy the product on page one,”
said the salesman, as if speaking to an innocent child.
“And what if the client says no to you?”
“I turn to the second page, and ask if he would like to buy that product.”
“And if he again says no?”
“I turn to the third page . . . ”
“All right,” yelled the Ph.D., “I get the idea. But what if you go through
all 147 pages of products and the client has said no to every single one?”
“I turn the book over,” said the salesman, clearly explaining the obvious,
“open it again to page one, and ask the client if he would like to buy that product.”
It’s amazing what can happen if you just keep talking to the client and asking for the business.
I am now going to share one of the most elemental secrets underlying
growth and wealth in this business. It is inexpensive, simple, and both tactically
and strategically effective, and yet most consultants ignore it completely.
220

OMNIPRESENCE

221

In fact, by my estimation, at least half the readers of this book will say, “Of
course!” and then proceed to ignore it completely.
Do I have your attention?
You don’t get business that you don’t ask for. You don’t even get remembered if you don’t do things that are memorable. If we agree that 80 percent of
your business should come from existing clients and that the long-term relationships you are seeking—within which the client trusts the consultant to make key
decisions about accepting projects—are dependent on ongoing communications,
then you must devise a strategy to remain effectively within your clients’ ﬁeld of
vision. This is the essence of the timing strategy I discussed in Chapter 2.

It is actually difﬁcult to contact clients too much. It is easy
to fail to contact them frequently enough. If there is anyone
anywhere who has ever sent you a check for your services
and with whom you haven’t communicated in the past six
months, then you will never reach your growth potential.
The secret is simple: establish an ongoing dialogue with
clients. In the worst case, a monologue will do.

There are several options available for continuous client communications:
1. Print
Letters
Brochures
Newsletters
Article reprints
Job aids and checklists
Posters and sayings
Cartoons
Testimonials and examples of assignments completed
Published articles
Interview transcripts
Survey results and reports
2. Phone
Calls to “stay in touch”
An 800 number and hotline help to encourage use
Information relayed on meetings or events of interest

222

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Reminders of long-term follow-up responsibilities and dates
Introductions to third parties, that is, customers for your client
Messages reminding of follow-up activities the client should
undertake
3. Events
Interviews with the client for industry journals
Attendance at industry and professional meetings that the client
attends
Hosting periodic conferences on topics of interest
Acting as intermediary with other clients for mutual learning
Hosting breakfasts or lunches with a small group of peers
Pro bono activities
4. Internet
Web page updates and additions
“Password” Web site reserved for clients
Regular e-mail contact
Branding in your e-mail signature ﬁle
E-mail with ideas and suggestions
References and/or hyperlinks to relevant sites
A chat room on your Web site
Interaction on your blog
Involvement in various “social media” channels
Teleconferences and Webinars
5. Personal
Visits to the client without any particular agenda
Entertaining key buyers
Sending holiday cards or gifts (as permitted)
Participating in mutual charity events and fund-raisers1
Seeking out common community and social events
Sending “I’ll be in the neighborhood” cards
If practical, involvement in the client’s products and services
6. Other
Coauthoring articles with the client
Sending fax messages and information
Advertising in industry publications that the client reads
1 See the ﬁnal section in this chapter, on pro bono work.

OMNIPRESENCE

223

Exhibiting at trade shows that key clients will attend
Asking the client to help you as a critiquer, advisor, editor, or some
other role.
Inviting the client to be on your advisory board
Breakfast or lunch meetings that you sponsor on relevant topics
for the industry
Seeking a quote or a case study for a book you’re writing
Some of these might be better suited to your client base than others, but all
of them could be applicable. Are you reviewing a list like this and devising a strategy for ongoing communications objectives for each individual client? Once you’ve
done this, you can work on the tactics. Here are some examples from each category.
Every so often I’ll send along a cartoon with my name on it. A lighter touch
is important in communications. As a result of this, one of my clients sent me a
cartoon about consultants that I then shared with everyone else on my list, with
credit to the sender. This creates a community of clients who feel that they
belong to a common interest, represented by your ﬁrm.
A phone call is entirely justiﬁed by your intent to inform a client that an
event of interest is approaching. This might be a guest speaker, sponsored by a
management association at a breakfast meeting (which is why these memberships
can pay such dividends for you). You may choose simply to inform your client
that a subject that you know is of interest to the client is being discussed, or you
may choose to invite the client to be your guest.
Using what I call events, you might bring two or more noncompetitive
clients together to discuss the problems inherent in managing a diverse workforce, discuss the rewards of going global, compare succession-planning
approaches, or investigate the efﬁcacy of part-time workers. As the intermediary, you may or may not actively participate in the meeting. However, the
simple act of creating the opportunity is signiﬁcant.
One Percent Solution: There is an inverse proportion
between the distance you travel and the resistance to seeing
you. The greater the distance, the less resistance.

Whenever I’m going to be traveling, I review my lists so that I can send
cards or make phone calls letting clients (and prospects) know that “I’ll be in the
neighborhood.” It’s very common for these people to invite you to see them
because they know that your expenses are paid and that it’s a no-obligation
opportunity to get together. Generally, the farther you’re traveling, the easier it
is to set up the meetings. I’m based in Rhode Island, so when I travel to nearby

224

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

New York, the “in the neighborhood” approach isn’t very powerful because I’m
there often, and it’s only an hour’s trip if a client needed a special visit.
However, when I’m in Chicago, people will usually see me, and when
I’m in California, I can always get an appointment if people are in town. When
I go to London or Hong Kong, people will usually change their schedules to
accommodate mine.
Finally, the “other” category includes asking clients to help you. This may
take the form of an unpublished article you’d like them to critique before you
submit it for publication. Or you may request feedback on a new brochure you’re
developing. Many ﬁrms establish client advisory panels that convene regularly to
discuss trends in business and ﬁnance.2
These are some of the tactics that apply within the communications strategies. They’re really not much different from the salesman who opened the product manual to page one and asked, “Would you like to buy this?” Since this is a
relationship business, we have to keep turning the pages to alternative communication methods to maintain and develop the relationship, but just like the salesman, we have to be persistent in continuing.
Some clients will never respond. However, no one will respond if you don’t
initiate and maintain these avenues of contact. When the client feels the itch to
do something, you want your ﬁrm to be in that client’s mind. If the client needs
something, you want the client to be dependent on you to provide it. When the
client thinks of unsolicited support and valuable information, you want your
name to be associated with the solution.
Ongoing communications are a modest investment. More than anything
else, periodic client contacts require the volition to want to engage in them and
the innovation required to make them unique and targeted to the client’s needs.
This volition (to create the strategy and allocate the time) and this innovation
(to develop personalized tactics) constitute one of the elemental secrets underlying million dollar consulting.

PUBLISHING COMMERCIALLY
The greatest single solo marketing device I’ve encountered is publishing.3
Putting your ideas and approaches into print immediately does three things:
1. Your own thinking is solidiﬁed and your approaches are systematized
as you work to communicate them. You discover elements of your
work that weren’t as obvious before you wrote about them.
2 This is an ideal way to obtain testimonials from your clients to be used on the dust jackets
of your books; it is also an opportunity to cite their assistance in the acknowledgments.
3 Publishing is the gold standard. But the platinum standard is a buyer-to-buyer direct referral.

OMNIPRESENCE

225

2. The value of your ideas is validated, in that “selling” an editor requires
that you present original and worthwhile ideas for the editor’s readers.
Editors are besieged with material, so working through that obstacle
course can be accomplished only with valuable material.
3. Your credibility skyrockets. I conduct workshops on how to get
published for people who have never written for publication before.
The best method is a sequential one that I call the staircase approach,
beginning with local publications and working up to broader impact
and, if you are so inclined, a book. The idea behind publishing is not
to be blatantly self-aggrandizing but to let the value of your work
speak for you.
As I discussed earlier, my progression included writing articles for no fee
for publications (some of them no longer with us) such as Supervisory Management, Manage, Training News, and a dozen others like them. I moved on to do a
column (for a modest fee) for Training News, wrote for the New York Times, and
was interviewed by such publications as USA Today and Success magazine.
I then began writing for Success, HR Magazine, Training magazine, and others, and contributed chapters to two business books. When I approached publishers with my ﬁrst book, I received three offers and accepted one from Harper
& Row (now HarperCollins), which published my next two books after informal discussions, the third with an advance.
The book you are reading, from the preeminent business publisher in the
world, I was asked to write, and this is the fourth edition, spanning more than
16 years. And I’ve now graduated to a regular business column and op-ed pieces.
I published my ﬁrst article in 1969. I entered the consulting business in
1972, founded my own ﬁrm in 1985, and published my ﬁrst book in 1988.
The period from 1969 to 1988 is irrelevant; the period from 1985 to 1988 is
the important one because only after beginning my own ﬁrm did I experience the
growth necessary to provide something that was worthwhile saying in a book! Thus,
in three years I was able to gather the material and experiences that allowed me to
approach 18 publishers and garner three offers, and I’ve since published books in
1989, 1990, 1992, 1995, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2007, 2008,
and 2009—30 in all, with three more under contract, appearing in nine languages.
The experiences that make for interesting books—when you are oriented
toward multidimensional growth—never stop. Throughout this period, I’ve continued writing articles and columns, doing interviews, and contributing to a wide
variety of publications. This is why my phone rings. And although, for expediency, I now have an agent, you don’t need one.4
4 I recommend the book by Jeff Herman titled The Insider’s Guide to Book Editors and
Literary Agents, 2009 (www.jeffherman.com/guide), which comes out every year. Disclaimer: Jeff is
my agent, but I have no ﬁnancial interest in this work.

226

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Vanity publishing (where you pay someone to print your book) and selfpublishing (where you print it yourself, often with publicity and distribution
assistance) are terrible ideas if market credibility is your objective. These
attempts to “have a book” are as obvious as a ham sandwich. Reviewers throw
them out, bookstores won’t carry them, and executives are smart enough to know
the difference.
Remember, if you can’t convince an editor to publish you, you probably
haven’t yet developed anything worthwhile to say. (Self-publishing is ﬁne if you
want to create Web site and “back of the room” sales, but it is better done after
you’ve achieved some kind of commercial success.)
If you write a book for publicity, it will go nowhere but to your head. If
you write a book intending to help your readers, it will generate tremendous publicity. Write a book when you have something important to say, not before.

Digression
At professional speakers’ conferences and some consulting
groups, you will hear about some author who self-published
and sold 200,000 copies of What I Learned While Recovering
from a Cold. These are almost always exaggerations, and the
one in one-hundred-thousand self-published books that
actually succeeds doesn’t make it viable for everyone else.

Here is my brief formula for getting an article into print. This applies to
any of the early steps in the staircase. You may be able to jump two or more of
the steps at one leap, or you may ﬁnd yourself on several at once. I continue to
write monthly columns at no fee while writing books for considerable advances.
These are not mutually exclusive activities. However, you have to start somewhere, and if you want to start from scratch and still stand an excellent chance
of getting published, here’s how to do it.

How to Get an Article into Print
1. Determine what subject you want to write about.
a. Why are you the person to comment on the topic?
b. How will this subject enhance your business, repute, or standing?
c. Why is the subject relevant at this time (and for the next
several months)?

OMNIPRESENCE

227

d. What “angle” or “slant” do you have to make it compelling?
Don’t be afraid to be contrarian. The world doesn’t need another
piece on reengineering.5
2. Determine where you want to publish the article.
a. Who is your audience, and what do they read?
b. Don’t be afraid to ask your audience.6
c. Where is it most reasonable for you to be successful?
d. Research publications and study their style.
e. Sometimes very small but highly targeted publications (e.g.,
industry newsletters) can be most effective for you. I was never
published in the Times until I sent them an article that I realized
was just what they needed!
3. Prepare a professional inquiry.
a. Send it to a speciﬁc editor’s attention.7
b. Specify what, why, examples, uniqueness, length, and delivery date.
c. Request speciﬁcations.
d. Always enclose a SASE8 if you send hard copy; include your full
signature ﬁle in electronic submission.
e. Cite credentials—yours and the article’s.
f. You may send multiple queries for the same article to various
publications. Don’t bother following up, editors respond only if
they like something.
This step must be more carefully executed than the actual article!
4. Write it like a pro.
a. Use speciﬁc examples, names, and places.
b. Write it yourself, but solicit critique.
c. Write it to the speciﬁcations.
d. Make sure that you include your own biographical data at the end.
e. Request free reprints or reprint permission or discounted reprints.
f. Don’t self-promote; let the substance do it for you.
5

See “Contrarian Consulting” in Chapter 12.

6

This is the opportunity to involve your clients, as suggested in the section opening this

chapter.
7

The Herman book and Writer’s Market, both cited earlier, are excellent sources.

8

A common abbreviation in the trade, standing for “self-addressed stamped envelope.”

228

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

g. If rejected: resubmit, resubmit, resubmit.
h. Don’t overwrite; write what’s on your mind without worrying
about the “great American novel.” (When you edit, you’ll ﬁnd that
the piece is amazingly good.)
i. Attribute things you borrow, but don’t try to dazzle with
superﬂuous references.
j. Be critical and analytical; readers respond best to provocation and
the opportunity to look at things in a new way.
k. When in doubt, start a new paragraph.
l. Use graphics when appropriate, and try to load in the metaphors
and similes.
m. Use modern formatting and style (e.g., skip only one space
between sentences, not two, and put commas and periods inside
quotation marks, not outside), or you’ll look like an amateur.
Use prior articles as credentials to write newer ones.
Here’s my route for getting a book published once you’ve ascended the
staircase. Book publishing is slightly easier when you have a long track record of
articles and columns to support it, but these are not prerequisites.
The most important aspect is convincing a publisher that your book will
sell, and the way to achieve that is to do your own homework, because the editor hasn’t the time or the inclination to do it for you. It is difﬁcult to get your
ﬁrst book published, but with a targeted, systematic approach, it’s much easier
than most people think.

How to Get a Book Published
1. Determine what it is you have to say.
a. Your particular expertise from education, experience, training, or
circumstances.
b. Your ability to pull together disparate things that others haven’t.
c. Your ideas, concepts, theories, and innovations. If you’ve nothing
constructive to contribute, don’t write a word.
2. Determine which publishers are most likely to agree with you.
a. Examine their current books in print.
b. Request their speciﬁcations.
c. Ask people in the business.
If business credibility (and not pure ego) is your objective, do
not vanity publish or self-publish—it’s a waste of time, and no one
is impressed.

OMNIPRESENCE

229

3. Prepare a treatment (proposal) for the publisher’s review.
a. Why you?
b. Why this topic?
c. Why is this topic handled in this manner?
d. What competitive works exist, and why is yours needed?
e. Who is the audience?
f. When would it be ready?
g. What are the special features (that is, endorsements, self-tests, etc.)?
h. Provide at least the introduction and one chapter, a table of
contents, and summaries of the other chapters.
If you can’t sell it to the publisher, you’ll never sell it to the reader.
4. Write it like a pro.
a. Invite clients and/or respected authorities to contribute.
b. Use a sophisticated computer and software.
c. Don’t use a ghostwriter. If someone else writes your book, why
does anyone need you?
d. Always take the reader’s viewpoint.
e. Schedule your writing sessions just as you would your other
responsibilities.
f. Use trusted others to review, critique, and suggest.
g. Always attribute anything that’s not yours.
h. Keep it “future-current.” Remember, it will be published eight
months to a year from your submission.
What is published represents your values: Are you proud of
what you’ve written?

One Percent Solution: No one writes “a book.” People write
chapters, composed of pages, composed of words. Start with
the words, and it’s a lot easier.

5. Market it like a pro.
a. Don’t waste undue amounts of time looking for an agent because
most of them tend to listen only to previously published authors.
But do see if you can get an introduction to one from another
author.

230

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

b. Don’t get discouraged. Keep submitting, and ﬁnd out why you’ve
been rejected.
c. Read contracts carefully because they will specify author’s
discount, planned promotion, expenses you may incur, and so on.
Run it by your attorney.
Remember, a successful business book sells about 7,500 copies.
Don’t expect to be on Oprah or Imus the following Monday.

How to Exploit Your Published Book
1. Send it out to every reviewer you can ﬁnd.
2. Establish an account with a wholesaler, such as Ingram, so that you
can buy the book at a steep discount and earn royalties when the
wholesaler buys it from the publisher. This is almost always better
than a publisher’s direct discount to an author.
3. Have extra copies made of the jacket cover and include it in your
press kit. You can print promotional information on the reverse.
4. Post it in color on your Web site with descriptive and ordering
information.
5. Have colleagues write glowing reviews for you on Amazon.com.
6. When you speak, occasionally hold it up and cite some research you
did in writing it.
7. Send free copies to your best clients.
8. Include it in your press kit for high-potential prospects.
9. Use excerpts as position papers.
10. Send it to all local broadcast media outlets and suggest an interview
that would be relevant to their viewers and listeners.
11. Extend the event. For several months you are the author of
the “soon to be released,” then the “just released,” then the
“recently released.” That can extend your publicity and promotion
over a year!
Publishing will, at ﬁrst, require a substantial investment of time. However,
you can usually ﬁnd that time on airplanes and in distant hotel rooms. Once
you’ve broken into the ﬁeld, you’ll ﬁnd it easier and easier to publish, both
because your skills are developing and because your credibility is growing. The
staircase method is useful to ensure that you also grow as an author and avoid
the “success trap” of publishing repeatedly for a limited audience.

OMNIPRESENCE

231

When executives read your books, they may not immediately ask you to
consult. However, they often will ask you to speak.9

PUBLISHING YOURSELF
Having reached this point, let’s place self-publishing in some context. Creating
your own books, booklets, tapes, manuals, and so on makes sense under certain
conditions.

Ten Good Reasons to Self-Publish
1. You are already established in commercial publications. If you’ve published
with a known publisher, then your self-published works gain
credibility through association. At the moment, about 20 percent of
my product line is self-published.
2. You’ve claimed reversion of rights. When a commercial book goes out
of print, the author usually has the option to claim further printing
rights (rights “revert” to the author). You can publish a virtually
identical book, but with your imprimatur instead of the original
publisher’s. Usually, the publisher is obligated to sell you the ﬁlms
and other printing materials at a reasonable cost.
3. You want to create “back of the room” sales. If you speak frequently,
people will buy an average of 10 times as many products if they are
physically available than if they are available only by catalog or
single sample. Once people have heard a good speaker, they are
highly inclined to purchase products.
4. Your market is highly specialized. If you are consulting in the merger
and acquisition of small, privately owned physical therapy practices,
for example, there may not be sufﬁcient audience to attract a
publisher, but your audience may well welcome a book directed at
its needs, however it’s published.
5. You have a client who will underwrite it. A major client may agree to
pay for the publication of your book and 1,000 copies for every one
of its salespeople. The book may be tailored to the ﬁrm’s
speciﬁcations, but in underwriting the cost, the client enables you to
produce a book.
9 See my book Money Talks New York: (McGraw-Hill, 1998) for a view of the speaking profession analogous to this book’s analysis of the consulting profession.

232

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

6. You are combining disparate elements. Albums of printed material,
audiocassettes, CDs, and/or videocassettes are often popular
with buyers and not amenable to publishers’ standard formats.
The uniqueness of the diverse content may make the product
popular.
7. You’re providing electronic access. Publishing on the Internet is
regarded in widely different perspectives. Major novelists as well as
business authors have placed their work on the Web, either for free
download or for download on the honor system (usually with
dreadful results—many have ceased doing it).
8. You’re guaranteed distribution. Amazon.com and others have
programs for self-published authors (Amazon Advantage
Program).
9. You’re so conﬁdent of sales that you know a distributor will be impressed.
A wide variety of books, from The Celestine Prophecy to Chicken Soup
for the Soul, were originally self-published and, when a cult following
boosted sales, were quickly picked up by major distributors and,
eventually, publishers. It’s not common, but it happens.
10. Your ego demands that you have “a book.” This is the worst reason
of all, but if you’re staying up nights over it, get it out of your
system.
Be aware that the great preponderance of self-published books are simply
dreadful. However, I wanted to give you a balanced view because there may be
occasions that justify your creating your own products in this manner.

Case Study
I had claimed reversion of rights to my book on strategy,
Making It Work. I had republished it as Best Laid Plans.
A midlevel manager at the Times Mirror Company ordered
it from my Web site. She was in the training group, and she
noticed that I had a chapter about strategy speciﬁcally for
training ﬁrms.
She passed it on to her group vice president, who asked
me to visit her in San Jose. The ultimate result was a
$350,000 contract over three years. I’m not sure anyone in
the entire place ever read the complete book.
I’m not offended.

OMNIPRESENCE

233

SPEAKING OUT
The perfect synergy for a consultant works something like this:
• An executive reads your book or article and asks you to speak to his
management staff.
• As a result of the speech, you’re asked to consult on pertinent issues.
and/or
• As a result of a speech you deliver, executives in the audience ask for
more information, and you send them articles and/or books.
• After reading the material, they ask you to consider several
consulting projects.
• During a consulting project, you provide copies of articles and/or
books to key client managers.
• Having read your material and worked with you on your project, they
request you to address one of the trade or professional association
conferences.
These sequences can occur all the time if you are in a position to exploit
them. If you have written nothing, or if you don’t “do” speeches, then such
potential synergy is academic. In such a case, your marketing will also be anemic and academic.
Making speeches before in-house management conferences (that is, the
New York Times Regional Newspaper Group), industry trade associations (the
American Bankers Association), business associations (American Management
Association conferences), professional specialty groups (annual conference of
the American Society for Training and Development), personal development
groups (the Business Roundtable), and university management extensions (Case
Western Reserve University’s Weatherhead School of Management) provides
high-impact marketing.
The visibility is excellent, the opportunity to promote your approaches is
ideal, and you earn immediate credibility merely by dint of having been invited
to speak.
Here’s some valuable information: the Credit Union National Association has
52 state credit union leagues as members and an annual budget in excess of $5 million, and it publishes seven different periodicals and holds meetings once a year.10

10 All citations in this section about associations are from National Trade and Professional
Associations of the United States (Washington, D.C.: Columbia Books, annual). You can also access it
on the Internet.

234

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

The American Chemical Society has 150,000 members, also a $5 million
budget, costs $99 a year to join, publishes 27 periodicals, and holds two meetings
a year.
I could tell you similar things about the Broadcast Promotion and Marketing Executives, the National Association of Jai Alai Frontons, or the Shoe
Service Industry Council. I can do this because the appropriate source books are
available each year for about $300, and they also contain the names of the executive directors, addresses, phone numbers, and information about the history of
the association.
Once you break into these groups, you have the opportunity to capitalize
on word-of-mouth publicity. The best strategy is to begin with modest regional
groups for little or no fee and then work your way to their national parents.
Another sound approach is to gain entry from your clients. A banking client can
introduce you to contacts in the American Bankers Association and even recommend you for a speaking slot (members frequently are asked to nominate
speakers).
How valuable are speeches? In 1996 I spoke 50 times, ranging from 45 minutes to 3 hours. Every one was a result of a request to me based on prior speeches,
consulting work, or my books and articles. The groups have ranged from
Mercedes-Benz dealers to the American Press Institute and the Pharmaceutical
Manufacturers Association of Canada. It’s not uncommon for me to be booked
to speak in, say, Barcelona, for one hour for a four-ﬁgure fee (during which time
I literally bumped into Princess Caroline of Monaco in a tiny elevator).
As a result of a deliberate strategy to speak less and travel less, I spoke only
25 times in 2008. But I made four or ﬁve times the money doing it that I had in
1996, despite the economy. That’s because my brand is so much stronger. It’s not
unusual for me to get $25,000 to $45,000 for a single day on site, and don’t forget
that I made my living and my brand primarily as a consultant, not as a speaker.
An attorney friend of mine recently made the transition into full-time consulting, specializing in dental practice buyouts, mergers, and partner ﬁnancing.
After several harried weeks trying to decide on advertising, direct mail, and other
options to reach his potential audience, he came to me for advice. I suggested
that he approach every state and regional dental association with a proposal to
speak on his topic. After his ﬁrst few efforts were accepted, he is now in great
demand and will be appearing before national groups with considerable fanfare
(and considerable fees—people will pay you handsomely to market your services
on the speaking circuit).
If this strategy works so well for an attorney pursuing business from dental
practices, how well might it work for consultants with a broader-based constituency
and, consequently, more options?

OMNIPRESENCE

235

Case Study
I had worked as a consultant for Cologne Life Reinsurance
for three years. One day the CEO asked if I knew any good
speakers. I thought he was putting me on.
However, he explained that he had that year’s program
chair for the American Council of Life Insurance and
needed a keynoter for the council’s meeting of 250 CEOs! He
simply never knew that I was a professional speaker, and I
had never bothered to inform him!
Let your consulting clients know the full gamut of your
abilities and competencies, and do so periodically.

There are plenty of courses, books, and seminars on how to speak. The
venerable Toastmasters International is still superb, as are membership organizations such as the National Speakers Association. Private ﬁrms also provide
development in the area. It’s not my goal here to teach you how to speak, but it
is my hope to convey to you how to get speaking assignments. This is as good a
place as any to explain what should be in your press kit, which has a variety of
uses but is particularly helpful in pursuing speaking opportunities. [And if you’re
at all interested, please see my book Money Talks: How to Make a Million as a
Speaker (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1998).]

One Percent Solution: You don’t have to be a professional
speaker, but you had better be a good enough speaker to
command a room or a meeting if you want to inﬂuence
others in this business.

Figure 11-1 shows the contents of a professional press kit oriented toward
obtaining speaking assignments. (Such kits should be preassembled but tailored
each time for the particular client and use, so the articles included, testimonials,
and personal experience may differ in each case, just as they would for various
consulting prospects.) The kit should be in the form of a professional presentation folder, with pockets for material, room for books or CDs, and a place for a
business card. (DVDs are also quite popular now.)

236

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Corporate brochure
Black-and-white glossy photo
Personal experience in the
subject area
Interviews conducted with you
Audio- or videocassettes of
prior speeches
List of clients
Examples of speciﬁc work in
the industry

Third-party articles validating
your work
Personal biographical sketch
Testimonials from clients
Articles you’ve written
Book reviews or similar notices
Fee schedule for speaking
List of references
Professional afﬁliations
Honors or awards you’ve won

Figure 11-1 The contents of a press kit. A professional press kit denotes a professional
speaker.

Circulate your press kit to the association executives in the ﬁelds that are
relevant to your work. Send it to independent meeting planners.11 Provide it to
clients who are in a position to pass it on to their professional afﬁliations. Make it
a habit to send out three press kits a week in targeted mailings. (This is something
a secretary can do even while you’re traveling. It’s the essence of marketing productivity.) Follow up with phone calls. And mail repeatedly. If people are deemed
worthwhile to receive the press kit, place them on your mailing list for your regular client mailings, and send a new press kit to them once or twice a year.
There are speakers’ bureaus that book speakers for a commission based on
the fee. Speakers’ bureaus often help only when you don’t need them; that is,
they disdain speakers without a national reputation and embrace those who are
already well known. They are often demanding and unreasonable in their working relationships, and some of the most unethical stories I’ve heard in our profession emanate from relationships with speakers’ bureaus.
There are, however, many excellent ones, and it’s worth your time to ﬁnd
them and develop relationships with the principals. (Beware of any bureau that
charges you to “evaluate” your materials, wants to charge you to appear in “showcases,” or charges you for inclusion in its catalog. That is what the commission
11 In all cases, send it only to a speciﬁc person by name, with a personalized letter; for example, “I’ve been told that you are arranging the Miami conference with an emphasis on productivity. . .” While it takes some work to ﬁnd names and speciﬁc items of reference, this investment is
paid back handsomely by the fact that the odds of the recipient’s reading the material are enormously
improved. Blind mailings are never worth the effort because meeting planners and association executives are ﬂooded with them.

OMNIPRESENCE

237

is supposed to cover. If you’re already paying the bureau, why should it
place you?!)

Million dollar consultants are passionate about what they
do and how they do it. There is no more natural forum than
a speaker’s platform to disseminate those views and share
that passion. This is known as painless marketing.

I have not yet met a top consultant who does not take to the lectern as
opportunities develop. And make no mistake, a consultant with practical experience in improving clients’ condition is a valuable speaker and in great demand.
A professional speaker who is not really a consultant (remember the deﬁnitions in
Chapter 1) but who talks on “inspirational” topics or repeats a standard performance on the podium is not as much in demand these days by major corporations.
Buyers—and audiences—are requiring practical, results-oriented business
advice more than ever before. There is a wonderful opportunity awaiting any
consultant who takes the time and invests the energy to learn to speak well, organize experiences and approaches, and seeks out the people who can arrange the
audiences that will lead to increased business.

PRO BONO WORK
Pro bono work is work that is done for free. Chapter 18 will deal with such
no-fee work in the context of contributions to the environment and ethical issues.
Here I want to deal with it as an investment in your future success because pro
bono work can rebound into lucrative fee-paying opportunities.
And let’s be clear on another thing: pro bono work is work done without
fee at your initiative or as a result of someone else’s request and your unhindered
decision to comply. It is not work done for free because the client has refused to
pay your fee but you still want to complete the project (to keep it from a competitor, to be in position for a legitimate project, or for some other such reason).
That situation isn’t pro bono; it is desperation! There are no chapters in this book
on desperation because you must always deal from a position of strength if you
are to be successful and to grow in this business.
As a rule, never do pro bono work for a proﬁt-making organization. Don’t
let companies fool you with the “e” word—exposure.
There are obvious candidates for pro bono work: the local Boy Scout troop,
your children’s school (public or private, at any level), business associations (for

238

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

example, the chamber of commerce), hospitals, religious institutions, and so on,
depending on your areas of expertise and local need. I’ve found that by helping a
school fund-raising drive to set its strategy, by offering organizational diagnosis
to an arts council, by critiquing the decision-making processes of a charitable
board, or even by discussing leadership skills with volunteer association ofﬁcers,
my name and talents become known. These organizations are often excellent laboratories to apply your skills and are equally often valuable learning opportunities because nonproﬁts sometimes perform more effectively than the for-proﬁts.12
As your talents and contributions become known—and they should,
because your contribution is a rare one to these organizations—you will ﬁnd that
your colleague volunteers often hold key positions in attractive, potential client
organizations. They’ll often solicit your advice about their organization’s problems while working with you in the volunteer activity. This places you in the
appealing position of (1) giving them some advice and encouraging them to contact you for more, (2) sending them some of your materials that address the issues
they’ve raised, and (3) putting them on your mailing list for periodic communications. Sooner or later the timing approach will work, and they will feel an itch
that prompts them to think of you. (It’s hard to turn down the luncheon request
of a fellow board member.)
Ironically and shockingly, the greatest impediment to pro bono work of
this sort is that many organizations will opt not to use the help! I’ve been turned
down by school boards, business recovery councils, and volunteer groups of many
types despite my credentials and references and despite their clear need (and
often appeals) for help. The reasons vary, but they are usually twofold. First, an
outside consultant can create fear among those who know that they have been
performing poorly but have been able to conceal the fact because of a lack of
scrutiny. These people often want to control the consultant’s intervention, and
this is ethically unacceptable to me.
Second, there is sometimes a bureaucratic requirement of one type or
another that is unattractive or impossible to meet (volunteers must contribute
ﬁnancially to the cause; 40 hours of background instruction is required; you must
reside within a certain geographic area).13
12 See “Do Good and Good Will Follow,” pages 183–196, from my aforementioned book, Best
Laid Plans: Turning Strategy into Action Throughout Your Organization (New York: Harper & Row, 1990;
East Greenwich, RI: Las Brisas Research Press, 1995). Consultants can learn a great deal from nonproﬁt structures and operations and can impart this wisdom to conventional private-sector clients.
13 A joint Providence Chamber of Commerce and Council of the Arts endeavor aimed at
securing management consulting help for art institutions is my favorite boondoggle. After advertising for business executives to serve as consultants—whom they would “train” in consulting techniques—they turned down my offer to help because I wouldn’t commit to their rudimentary and
tedious “training” process. In other words, I wasn’t a consultant until they told me I was! Bureaucracy, of course, is the triumph of means over ends.

OMNIPRESENCE

239

Thus, it’s important that you volunteer frequently and diversely until you
establish a win/win relationship with groups of your choice. Don’t be discouraged
by being brushed off. It’s an occupational reality for volunteering consultants.

One Percent Solution: Focus on pro bono work that puts you
in regular contact with people you want to meet, either as
buyers or as recommenders. Don’t take on positions where you
staff the phone by yourself or merely operate out of your home.

In volunteering your services, underpromise and overdeliver. Unlike the
normal client relationship, it’s important here to be regarded for what you do and
for what you say.
Here are the guidelines I’ve found useful for considering whether or not
to undertake a pro bono job:
• Do I believe unequivocally in the cause?
• Can I commit the total time required by my promise and by the
expectations of the organization? Just because I’m volunteering
doesn’t mean that I don’t have to live up to my commitment. If I can’t
appear at every meeting and perform every task, I won’t accept.
• Is the group organized in such a way that I’ll be able to make the
contribution I’m capable of? If a politically oriented ofﬁcer holds
veto power, for example, the group probably can’t make the best use
of my talents.
• Is the group involved in a public good? The legions of lemminglike
volunteers for the defunct est organization were certainly doing
something for nothing, but it was to enrich the coffers of an
individual and his organization.14
• Is there an impact or outcome to be made, and can my contribution
be recognized as supporting it? Any local school fund-raiser,
charitable event, or chamber of commerce undertaking would seem
to ﬁll this bill. The California commission investigating self-esteem,
once parodied so well in the comic strip Doonesbury, did not.

14
est stands for Earhard Seminar Training, one of the ﬁrst and, in my opinion, most dubious of the self-awareness guru-school movements. It was a questionable ethical undertaking rivaled
in squeamishness, for me, by today’s “multilevel marketing.”

240

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

• Are there other people involved, directly or indirectly, with whom
I would want to establish a relationship? Will I work side by side
twice a month with the presidents of two state banks? Will I present
the report to the governor at the quarterly progress meetings? What
kind of networking will I be able to establish? “What’s in it for me?”
is not the primary reason for wanting to do good works, of course.
However, when you consider pro bono projects within the framework
I’ve deﬁned in this section, it’s quite reasonable to analyze what
beneﬁts might emerge for you.
• Will the nature of the particular pro bono opportunity appeal to a
client or prospect who may be involved with that cause? Health-care
prospects will look more favorably on a ﬁrm that, although it has no
current health-care clients, has done volunteer work in setting
strategy or evaluating personnel for community health-care projects.
If one of your client CEOs is a chairperson for the Red Cross, for
example, and you’re considering volunteer work anyway, the Red
Cross certainly has a built-in attraction.15
• Is there a clear path to disengagement if desired (e.g., term limits,
tenured commitments, moving on to other responsibilities)?
Volunteer consulting work should never be done if it conﬂicts with your
client responsibilities, nor should it be done as a substitute for an orthodox client
relationship. However, I believe that it should be a normal and ongoing part of
your investment in your own success—a low-key marketing approach that will
do good for you as you do good for others. It’s often overlooked.
I ﬁnd that I’m almost always the sole consultant involved in volunteer
efforts, amidst bankers, retailers, educators, insurance professionals, and utility
executives. It’s more than slightly ironic that one productive path to million dollar consulting pays no immediate fees, which may be why so few venture into it.
I completed a pro bono strategy session for a women’s shelter and was
immediately hired to do the same for the local police department, business that
I ordinarily would never receive. The chief of police was on the shelter’s board.
He hired me on the spot.
Despite the best investments in success and the greatest diligence in trying to develop your business and your personal capabilities, uncontrollable events
can intervene. Let’s see how even bad times can become good times if you’ll
let them.
15 This ﬁts in with the communications tactics under “special events” discussed earlier.

OMNIPRESENCE

241

THE ESSENCE OF MARKET GRAVITY
Over a decade ago I developed a concept called “market gravity,” which is the
larger universe from which these various elements in this chapter arise. You can
see it in Figure 2-3 and 13-4.
As you revolve around the sphere you can see the diverse elements available to you (more so now than ever, in an electronic age) that are both passive
(Web site) and proactive (press releases or interviews). For a solo practitioner
seeking to create a seven-ﬁgure practice, the gravity wheel is critical to ensure
that you have ongoing marketing efforts in place. This belies the old rubric about
being unable to market and deliver at the same time, or needing staff to perform
marketing tasks.
Decide which of these best ﬁt in your comfort zone. Put those in place.
Then choose those that are slightly out of your comfort zone and pursue them.
Finally, as you get more comfortable and successful, pursue those you thought
you’d never get to.
I use them all, even at this stage of my career. You’ll read about virtually
all of them at various points in this book. You must create your own gravitational
pull. Once you do, clients will come rushing up to you.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. What about publishing a chapter in a book with “name” authors who allow me to
do so for a fee?
A. What about one of the nuttiest scams going? Those “name” authors don’t
need you or the book; they do this to produce revenue for themselves from
people like you, and no one buys the book. Spend your time and money on
legitimate efforts, not worthless shortcuts.
Q. How much should a speakers’ bureau receive if I obtain repeat business from a speaking engagement?
A. Usually speakers’ bureaus demand their normal commission of 25 percent
(or worse) for “spin-off” business, meaning more speeches obtained at that
client. However, my rule is that if I obtain consulting business, I will provide only a 10 percent commission on the ﬁrst project. The bureau doesn’t
deserve 25 percent of a six-ﬁgure deal, even though it introduced me.
Q. How much can I deduct for pro bono work on my taxes?
A. Only the mileage, and even that at a lower rate than business mileage. You
cannot deduct services provided under any circumstances.

242

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Q. If I do self-publish in conjunction with commercial publishing, what would make it
most closely resemble commercial publishing?
A. Put an ISBN number on your work (available from J. D. Bowker through
the Internet), place it on Internet sites such as Amazon, use a professional
graphic artist; use four colors on the jacket or cover, have it printed, not
run off your computer, and generally follow the formatting you see in
major books.
Q. How much of your “marketing gravity” constitutes a critical mass for success?
A. I do all of it. I’d suggest you should be engaged in a minimum of six of the
techniques at any one time, more if you can. If none is comfortable or makes
sense, then you’re in the wrong business.

Final Thought: You must place your name and repute in
front of prospects at every opportunity. There are scores of
ways to do this, all described in the foregoing pages. If you
don’t blow your own horn, there is no music.

CHAPTER
12

HOW TO MAKE BIG
MONEY IN BAD TIMES
KNOWING WHEN TO HOLD
‘EM AND WHEN TO FOLD ‘EM

EARLY WARNING SIGNS OF BUSINESS DECLINE
This section is concerned with your business, not the general economy, which
will be covered in the next section. I’m not suggesting that you should be an economic prognosticator, which is a rough equivalent to the astrologers I mentioned
in the preface. However, I will suggest that you be prudent in assessing your own
cards and realistic in deciding how to play them. A lot of people have lost the
farm pulling for an inside straight.
There is a tendency in our business to look no further than the latest client
check. Those with great foresight sometimes look all the way to the longest-term
signed contract. However, you have to look past all the guaranteed stuff and into
the realm of the uncertain. You have to know what’s at the other end of your
pipeline.
The pipeline approach to sales forecasting and early warning of business
decline is illustrated in Figure 12-1. At the near end of the pipeline are your current implementation assignments, and within the pipeline are your contracts
waiting to be implemented, moving up to their turn in the ﬂow. At the opposite
end of the pipeline are the prospects and targets that you would like to induce
into the ﬂow. Along the way are the repeat business deals with current clients
and the short-term proposals that are accepted (these are wonderful but rare,
like the inside straight).
As I write this in late 2008, I’m receiving scores of e-mails from colleagues
requesting entry into my mentor program. They typically had $225,000 to
$800,000 in business last year, and they now expect to perhaps squeeze out only
$75,000 to $200,000 this year. Three months ago they had dozens of tentative
contracts lined up, and today they have only a few certain and several possible.
How many of us can live on a quarter of last year’s income or expectations, especially with growing families and increasing obligations?
243

244

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Short-term
sales closed
Targets
Prospects
Long-term projects

Short-term projects

Imminent
projects

Implementation

Referrals
Serendipity
Current client
repeat business
12 months

9 months

6 months

3 months

Today

Figure 12-1. The business “pipeline.”

Some of these people are over 50 years old, which is late in life to keep ﬁlling pipelines. (Two problems, quickly revealed: they bill out at an hourly rate,
meaning that they must bill 50 to 80 hours a week to make a quarter of a million, and they don’t gain conceptual agreement prior to proposals, which is why
so many tentative yes responses become ﬁnal no responses when the prospect
gets cold feet.)
Long-term contracts are those that are due to conclude in about 12 months.
(Many organizations cannot, according to their own policies, make multi-ﬁscalyear agreements.) This means that they are assignments requiring a long time
period for completion, or they are projects that you won’t begin until several
months hence because of either the client’s schedule or yours. In either case, you
know that you’ll be working and receiving income “out there,” which, for my
purposes, is about 12 months. As the due dates approach, these become shortterm projects, with implementation responsibilities about 6 months or so away.
Finally, they become imminent, meaning that you’ll be starting the implementation at any time.

One Percent Solution: Pipelines come in all sizes and
capacities. The dimensions are all created by you.

Now here is the snag that trips up most consultants who try to forecast
their business and, consequently, their cash ﬂow. Everything in my pipeline is signed
and sealed. In almost all other cases, however, consultants use prospects and

HOW TO MAKE BIG MONEY IN BAD TIMES

245

potential business as the ﬂow in their pipeline. (As with the individuals just discussed.) This “potential pipeline” creates several instant hazards:
1. The pipeline will not be a predictor of guaranteed business. It is a
predictor of potential business. In actuality, if none of the potential
materializes, the pipeline could be totally empty at any given
moment. It’s not a pipeline so much as a sieve.
2. If the potential is realized, it is often imminent business. That is, the
consultant calculates that a potential deal will require 12 months to
close. If that’s accurate, when it does close, it’s now due to be
delivered. What of the shorter-term business, repeat business, and
other imminent business? How does one coordinate all this? Is it
really feast or famine?
3. Marketing activity should be aimed at the other end of the pipeline
to create contracts within the pipeline. If the pipeline is ﬁlled with
potential business, where is the marketing effort to be focused?
Wouldn’t you have to market within the pipeline as well, since this
business is pending and could go either way?
4. There is a false sense of security in having a great deal of potential
business lined up. One tends to ease up on marketing at the source of
the pipeline to concentrate on the “sure things” within it. If these
things fall through, there is little entering the system.
5. Consultants are dysfunctionally overoptimistic in projecting potential
business. (“He returned my call and said he liked my approach, so
this will probably be $35,000 in a couple of months.” In reality, this
isn’t even a real economic buyer, just a lonely training manager
desperately seeking companionship!)
The area I designate for prospects considering proposals is outside the
entrance to the pipeline. I focus my marketing efforts there (mailings, speeches,
articles, interviews, blog, books, and so on) and place referrals there as well. Only
after an agreement is signed does the ﬁrm enter my system. This means that any
adverse effects—prospects rejecting a proposal, the competition beating me out
for an assignment, a verbal approval being overturned, and the like—are outside
my pipeline.
Thus, I can look about a year out (often with my bankers at my shoulder) and
get a realistic view of cash ﬂow and proﬁt.1 And I know that I must continually
1 Even if clients avail themselves of discounts for payment on signing, I still allocate the revenue stream according to the implementation dates. In this way, I know that a $125,000 project is
to be implemented in three months, regardless of whether the client has already paid the invoice.

246

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

corral and cajole business into those pipeline openings. This is much easier to do
at the long-term end than at the imminent end because I have time to work on the
prospect, and I don’t feel a desperation in trying to close the business.
When the pipeline is dry, the pressure builds to create business that is virtually ready to be delivered, and this is usually poor business at poor fees.

Digression
The most frustrating question that I’m often asked in
coaching consultants is: “What are the best ways to raise
short-term cash?” The answer is: “There aren’t any.”
You can and should call everyone you know, go back to
past clients and offer new value, and so forth. But, in
reality, this is not a “quick cash” business, because even
referrals and leads and business from those sources will
take quite a while for ultimate approval and a check to
clear your bank.
The preventive actions I’m describing are far better than
the contingent actions, which are all that remain if you fail
at the preventive.

Fourteen Pipeline Red Flags
These are the red ﬂags that will indicate that you may be looking at some business economic problems in terms of ﬂow, velocity, and volume:
1. The pipeline is ﬁlled with potential, not signed business.
2. The business in the pipeline is not evenly distributed but is clumped
together at one period.
3. You have no idea who the prospects and targets are that constitute
potential entries into the pipeline.
4. Every organization in or around the pipeline is an existing client—
there are no new prospects represented.
5. Repeat business from current clients is absent from the pipeline.
6. No referrals appear or make it into the pipeline.
7. All business enters the pipeline at the same entrance, for example,
two weeks out or three months from now.
8. Pipeline business disappears without warning.

HOW TO MAKE BIG MONEY IN BAD TIMES

247

9. There are clumps and gaps instead of a smooth ﬂow.
10. Some pipeline business is contractual, and some is simply probable.
11. Projects that do come to fruition are invariably at lower fees than
expected.
12. The inputs to the pipeline are reduced to just one or two conduits.
13. You don’t physically view your pipeline weekly because you don’t
expect any changes.
14. You’re getting business that was never in your pipeline (meaning
that you aren’t controlling potential very well).
If these or similar conditions occur, you can bet that your cash ﬂow and
stability will suffer in the months ahead. While it’s always possible to deal with
these conditions on a contingency basis—borrow money, go after short-term
business, scramble for subcontracting work—it’s far better to prevent these desperation measures by examining your ﬂow for the red-ﬂag conditions and taking appropriate preventive measures.
This is a paper exercise that can be done on a plane or while waiting for an
appointment. There’s really no excuse to be surprised by assignments drying up.
Yet so many of us, caught up in the euphoria of current business and its delivery,
blandly assume that there’s more where this came from. The only real measure
of whether there is more is in scrutinizing the pipeline for real business and lining up enough prospects to clog the entrances to the pipe. I don’t want to see the
light at the end of this tunnel. I want so many prospects lined up that all I see are bodies
clambering to get in.

THE FIVE “UP-TIME” RULES
There is an old apocryphal story about a speaker pitching his cassette series,
which I’ll call, “How to Think Positively and Grow Very Rich.” He had explained
all its beneﬁts, cited the cost as an unbelievably low $495, and told the audience
that it could buy the series right then and there and receive a 10 percent discount
off the unbelievably low price. He wound up his spiel by asking, “Can anyone
cite a reason not to buy this invaluable set of tapes?”
After handling some routine questions, the speaker acknowledged a man
in the middle of the audience with his hand raised. “I think your approaches
are wonderful,” said the man, “but I have a perfect reason not to buy. I can’t
afford it.”
There was an unmistakable agreeing murmur from the crowd, which was
cut off by the speaker with an extraordinary retort.

248

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

“That’s exactly why you should buy it!” he yelled. The crowd was confused.
“Tell me,” continued the speaker, “how old are you, sir?”
“Thirty-one.”
“Did you graduate from high school?”
“Yes.”
“Did you graduate from college?”
“I have an associate’s degree from a junior college.”
“Have you been continuously employed since graduation?”
“Yes. I’ve worked for three ﬁrms.”
“What’s your current position?”
“I’m a payroll supervisor for the local hospital.”
“So,” summarized the speaker, moving toward the man, “you have an associate’s degree, have never been unemployed, and at the age of 31, after over a
decade of continuous employment, you can’t even afford to purchase a set of tapes
for $495 that you think are wonderful! That’s why you need them—because you
haven’t been thinking positively, and you certainly haven’t grown rich!”
After the meeting, the crowd surged around the product booth, frantically
waving money and credit cards. So the story goes.

One Percent Solution: You are what you believe. You behave in
the manner in which you talk about yourself. That can be
either frightening or invigorating. That’s for you to determine.

If you believe that times are bad for you, they will be, because your actions
will be predicated on dealing with bad times. If you believe that all times can be
good for you, they will be, because your actions will be consistently supporting
your growth despite conditions around you.
In the aftermath of the September 11, 2001, tragedy, consultants worried
if there would be work for them in the near future. Yet there has been active
business amidst cataclysms: in the Depression, during both world wars, during
the Vietnam War, after recent hurricanes, during gas crises, during unpopular
wars, and during economic chaos.
If there is business being transacted, there is a need for consulting. My
business has been consistently strong irrespective of the economy, consumer conﬁdence, the stock market, and myriad other traditionally worrisome factors. My
ﬁnest year to date has been 2008, with over 2 million in revenue (which is 90
percent proﬁt), and I’m not alone: I began the Million Dollar Club this year for
a dozen of us who were enjoying great prosperity. The initial offering ﬁlled
immediately.

HOW TO MAKE BIG MONEY IN BAD TIMES

249

If you think you can do it or you think you can’t do it, you’re right in
either case.

Rule 1: Use Down Times as a Spur for Taking Action
Often, the very objections that people raise also hold the reasoning to convince
them that they should proceed. In down times, consultants often hunker down
and assume the worst. Sometimes they actually put themselves out of business
(see the advice about not selling the conference table near the end of this chapter). However, there are some clear actions that enable you not merely to avoid
down times, but also to continue your growth despite them.
I’ve established that the conceptual sale is the key to selling new business.
This is more important than ever in down times.
If a client says, “I couldn’t agree more that we ought to undertake this project, but we just can’t afford to,” you are in the position of the preceding speaker
to reply, “That’s exactly why you have to begin now. The longer you wait, the
more you’ll fall behind, and the more expensive it will be to catch up. The sooner
you make the investment, the more money you’ll save. If money is the only thing
stopping you, let’s work out a payment schedule that alleviates that pain as much
as possible, and let’s start generating the payback immediately.”
If prospects persist in stating that money is the hang-up after stating that
they need what you’re suggesting, you haven’t really made the conceptual sale.
Once the conceptual sale is made, the prospect will see the cost in terms of an
investment on a future return, and the mechanics of a payment schedule can be
worked out easily.

Rule 2: Diversify Geographically
During the early 1990s, while most of the country experienced some degree of
recession, New England was actually in a depression. Many of my colleagues in
the consulting and speaking professions had been severely affected, often to the
point of pursuing traditional jobs in sales or administration, hoping to go back to
consulting when things improved. (Of course, this meant that they weren’t really
consultants, but rather people whose hobby was consulting. Can you picture an
attorney or an architect going into insurance sales because business is poor?)
I continued to grow during those tough times. Revenues increased by 45 percent from 1989 to 1990 alone. You see, I had only ﬁve clients in all of New England.
The rest of my business was all over the country, with some in other countries.2
You cannot allow your business to be overly concentrated geographically, not
2
See Chapter 18 for obtaining international clients. Also see my book (with Omar Kahn) The
Global Consultant (Hoboken, N.J.: Wiley, 2008).

250

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

just because of regional economic conditions,3 but also because a strong regional
competitor can sometimes overwhelm you.
In the latter part of the 1990s and into the new millennium, my consulting revenues were 35 percent in the Northeast, 45 percent in the remainder of
the United States, and 20 percent overseas. My product sales and other streams
of income are about 35 percent international. Business ultimately should be as
diversiﬁed as a good investment portfolio.
Many of us have had great years despite the 2008 economic meltdown
because we are able to do business all over the world, physically and/or economically.

Rule 3: Don’t Be Vulnerable to the Same Economic
Conditions Threatening Your Clients
The economy is like a hydraulic system. When something goes down, something
else goes up. Even in the worst of times, someone is doing well.
I’ve found that some industries do well regardless of the economy as long
as they’re well managed. The pharmaceutical industry is one example. There are
others that do well in bad times—self-help, for example, because people are more
likely to make repairs or build something themselves rather than buying new.
And then there are the industries that thrive when the economy rebounds, such
as air travel, hotels, and recreation. The pet care and pet health industry is almost
always strong.
If you’re a content specialist, it’s somewhat more difﬁcult to diversify industrially. However, my advice to all is to diversify by industry and sector to the
maximum extent possible. Try to obtain clients who do well consistently, clients
who thrive during downturns, and clients who thrive during upturns.
The outplacement business thrives during economic downturns; executive
search thrives during economic upturns. A true consulting business thrives during both. Diversify your client and prospect portfolio.

Rule 4: Increase Your Personal Productivity
Every week you have approximately 40 hours (if you intend to live a balanced
life) to invest in your growth. In the worst times, you won’t be using any of those
hours to deliver client projects, deposit checks in the bank, or close business.
Therefore, during these worst of weeks, what is the opportunity for you?

3 Periodically, states such as Florida and California have attempted to pass sales taxes on
service ﬁrms, which would make consulting services more expensive for the client (or decrease the
consultant’s margin if absorbed). These tax liabilities pose a signiﬁcant threat to growth.

HOW TO MAKE BIG MONEY IN BAD TIMES

Activity
Call two “old” clients a day to maintain communication
Call two prospects a day to follow up on proposals
Send letter/package/press kit to ﬁve targets a day
Network by phone with colleagues once a day
Research or write an article for magazine publication
Research speaking possibilities in associations
Volunteer or perform pro bono work locally
Read professional literature for personal growth
Attend an association meeting or conference
Create/upgrade your press kit and examine others’ kits
Plan a client conference or select advisory board members
Plan “in the neighborhood” mailings for future trips
Call subcontractors to review current or planned work
Spend time with or develop an alliance partner
Plan the next mass mailing to your list
Take your banker to lunch or pay a courtesy call
Surf the Internet to ﬁnd prospects
Examine and upgrade your professional listings

251

Hours
per week
5
2.5
5
2.5
5
2.5
3
3
3
2
2
1
2
2.5
2
2
1
1

Figure 12-2. Eighteen actions to take during a “down week.”

Figure 12-2 shows a suggested 40-hour “down week” schedule that is consistent with pursuing multidimensional growth despite conditions around you.
The more astute among you will have noticed that there are more than 40
hours represented. This is so because some items may not apply to you (although
if you’re following my advice, they should), some of you will invest more than
40 hours, and some of you may be able to move more quickly than the time I’ve
allocated. No matter. The point is that there is plenty to do even when there’s no
client work to be done.

Rule 5: Watch the Company You Keep
Finally, I’ve always tried to work solely with companies with which I’m proud to
do business. I don’t accept assignments that require drastic cost cutting through
the ranks in order to fund lucrative executive bonuses; I won’t lie to or deceive

252

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

client employees; I won’t assist a company that is treating its customers badly or
selling obviously inferior products or fraudulent services; and I won’t work with
executives whose orientation is bigoted or crude.
Quite simply, clients who treat their employees and customers shabbily will
treat their consultants shabbily. In poor times, they will refuse to pay the bill or
honor their commitments. They will make unreasonable demands, take credit
for your contributions, and blame you for any shortcomings. Companies and
managers who act poorly in good times will act horribly in bad times.
My rule of thumb for evaluating the acceptability of a client is very simple: Would I purchase stock in this ﬁrm? Would I invest my own money and
future in the quality of this ﬁrm’s management, strategy, products, services, and
employees? If I’m not certain—or if I’m certain I wouldn’t—why on earth would
I want that company as a client?

CONTRARIAN CONSULTING: ESCAPING
THE RIP TIDE
Changing times are often interpreted as bad times. Changes can threaten consultants because their precious matrices, formulas, and models may no longer be applicable or embraced. Is anyone out there still enamored of transactional analysis as
a management tool4 or applying Maslow’s hierarchy of needs as a pragmatic method
for motivating people? Left-brain/right-brain thinking has been debunked, thank
goodness, and any current fad will also give way to its successor in good time.
People are no longer singing the praises of reengineering, and total quality management is no longer a ﬁght song.
Million dollar consultants welcome change because it represents opportunity, not threat. Change provides the possibility of demonstrating new talents,
helping clients in new ways, and embarking on entirely new approaches. Change
is essential for dramatic growth to be possible. And one excellent way to exploit
change—indeed, to create change—is what I call contrarian consulting.
The speaker mentioned earlier who took an objection and turned it inside
out by using it as a validation was being contrarian. “I can’t do it” is followed by
“that’s why you should do it.” I open many executive conferences by asking,
“How many of you truly believe in training?” Every hand always shoots up. After
looking around the room, I tell the audience that I don’t believe in training. “You
train animals,” I explain, “but you must educate people.” (I heard the poet Maya
Angelou comment on that once and never forgot it.)
This comparison and the immediate challenge to traditional clichés rivet
attention and create quite a stir. I am instantly different from other consultants
4

It’s still used in therapeutic approaches, as it should be and was always meant to be.

HOW TO MAKE BIG MONEY IN BAD TIMES

253

these people have worked with or considered.5 The ﬁrst article I ever wrote for
a publication (which eventually paid me to write a column for three years) was
titled, “The Myth of QC [Quality Control] Circles,” and it was written at the
peak of the popularity of those employee-participation programs. (My point was
that management often used the program as a substitute for its own responsibility for quality and didn’t follow through on participants’ suggestions, making
the situation actually worse than it was before the program’s implementation.
This turned out to be the rule rather than the exception.)
My advice to clients is often to reduce training and invest more in education. Learning should be as close as possible to the application of what’s learned,
and seminars are notorious for sterile learning that is quickly forgotten because
it can’t be readily applied. Now how many consultants do you think have been
telling their clients and prospects that there’s too much training going on?
Many organizations believe that quality is what they think it is, which usually means “zero defects.” I tell them that what they think is irrelevant. It’s the
customer who will determine what quality is, and what I can help the organization learn and apply is just what criteria the customers are using! Quality,
I patiently explain, is not the absence of something in managements’ eyes (that
is, defects), but the presence of something in the consumers’ eyes (that is, value).

One Percent Solution: Contrarian doesn’t mean “wrong”; it
means “against the prevailing conventional wisdom.”
Scarily, it seems to me that common sense these days is
actually contrarian.

If you don’t think that this gets attention, then you just haven’t tried to
stray from the beaten track. Most quality approaches I’ve seen—with six- and
seven-ﬁgure investments—are all backward, in that they focus inward and not
outward.

A unique approach is required if a small consulting ﬁrm is
to win the same types of major lucrative contracts won by
larger ﬁrms. You don’t become unique by trying to do what
the larger ﬁrms already do. You become unique by beating a
new track—a contrarian track.

5

This is consistent with the strategy outlined in Chapter 4 of distinct service and breakthrough relationships. Contrarian positions are wonderful tools for implementing that strategy.

254

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

I’ve found that in bad times and in times of uncertainty and change (which
is most of the time these days), executives are not falling back on the tried and
true. They are receptive to new approaches and are willing to swim upstream if
there is someone credible to guide them. I have no intention of trying to develop
a strategy matrix to compete with that of the Boston Consulting Group. However, I’m happy as a clam to offer clients a strategic approach that places strong
emphasis on values at two different levels in the organization (strategic and tactical), which most of them have never even thought about. I don’t want to compete with Accenture to design outplacement programs in times of staff reductions.
Instead, I gain entry and attention by explaining how to add superb talent during
down times that otherwise would be out of reach. And I won’t touch merger and
acquisition work for ﬁrms that are in excellent shape and are seeking to expand.
However, I will implement a program for them to reduce their workforce over
time, since smart management always should seek to stay as lean as possible, and
the best time to ensure this is when the ﬁrm is in a position of strength and can
treat people well, not during the desperation of economic problems and indiscriminate layoffs.

Digression
The way to escape a riptide, which mercilessly drags
swimmers and even waders out to sea to drown, is not by
trying to swim against the strong current. Instead,
counterintuitively and contrary to what you’d imagine, you
swim a few yards parallel to the beach and perpendicular
to the riptide. This takes you out of its current to where the
water is once more quite calm.
Your normal reaction would probably kill you in a
riptide. You have to think and act differently.

Are you getting the picture? If you take nothing else out of this book,
understand that a central element in achieving wealth is to acquire the same large
contracts that major consulting ﬁrms do with a small ﬁrm’s smaller overhead and
better economies of operation. However, it’s virtually impossible to do this by
trying to outperform the big ﬁrms at what they do so well to have grown so large.
You must seek out different paths that aren’t always in the mainstream, but
that you can justify and substantiate as being of tremendous value added in
improving the client’s condition. This is what I call contrarian consulting. It will
get you speaking engagements, it will get you published, it will get you noticed,
and it will get you rich once you become good at it.

HOW TO MAKE BIG MONEY IN BAD TIMES

255

Sign on the ofﬁce wall of one of my clients: “If you’re not the
lead dog, the scenery never changes.”

I’ll conclude this section by offering a few of my choices for those organizational issues that justify trying to swim against the current (see Figure 12-3).
Remember, however, that these are my observations based on today’s conditions.
They may all be mainstream by the time you read this!
We’ve now examined what to look for in terms of your personal business
down times, what to do to be productive in general economic down times, and
how to swim against the current (and escape the riptide by ignoring the current)
to create opportunity in down times or up times. But what happens when things
get really bad? What do you do when you look up and see deep-sea creatures
swimming in the waters above you? Don’t panic—I’m here to tell you that we’ve
all been there—and that you should do what you’ve been doing all along.

THE MYTH OF CUTTING EXPENSES (DON’T
SELL THE CONFERENCE TABLE)
One of my friends runs an international training ﬁrm. When he gathers together
his partners from around the world, he often hears lamentations of woe from
areas where the economy has gone sour or a large client has defected. Invariably,

Issue
Managing employee diversity
Day care for employees’ children
Problem solving
Succession planning
Merit pay for individual
performance
Handling complaints
Formulating strategy
Managing tasks
The employees serving customers
Conﬂict resolution

Contrarian View
Assimilating employees
Aged parents (at home) day care
Innovation
Boosting high-potential people
Merit pay for team/organization
performance
Preempting complaints
Implementing strategy
Managing outcomes
The employees as customers
Encouraging conﬂict

Figure 12-3 A contrarian view of contemporary business issues. Too many consultants
simply try to follow the pack.

256

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

his partners recommend cutting expenses, cutting staff, and adopting a lower
proﬁle. After the cutback alternatives are exhausted, my friend gives what I call
his “last-dollar speech.”
“If you had only a dollar left,” he asks, “would you try to stretch it out for
as long as possible to feed your family increasingly meager meals each day, or
would you invest the whole amount in a marketing plan that might create enough
business to feed your family in proper style for a year or more?”

One Percent Solution: You cannot “cut back to growth.” You
must invest for growth. You can’t harvest if you haven’t
planted. Go out and buy the seeds.

I’m always impressed by his logic whenever my prospects are dimmer than
I’d prefer—after all, the dollar eventually will be gone, but the marketing effort
can perpetuate itself.
There is a centrifugal force in our profession that pulls people toward conservatism when times seem bad. Risk is one thing when there’s a hundred grand
in the bank and clients knocking at the door, but it’s quite another thing when
your banker is a stranger and no one is knocking at the door. Yet the last thing
to do in bad times is to pull in your horns and try to eke out an existence by
reducing expenses “until things get better.” In most cases, things don’t get better unless you do something to make them get better, and you don’t make things
happen by doing less—you must do more.
Can you picture a professional sports team that has ﬁnished a mediocre
season of .500 ball announcing at a press conference: “In view of our uninspired
past season, we’ve decided to cut back on the coaching staff, reduce practice time,
eliminate recruiting efforts, and halve the size of the conditioning area. We think
that this will substantially improve our position for next year.” The press would
have a ﬁeld day, season ticket holders would forsake the team, and the general
public would lose interest after having a good laugh.
Now substitute publicity for press, clients for season ticket holders, and
prospects for the general public, and you’ll begin to see why even tacit plans to
cut back your operation will create loss of repute and relationships.

When the Competition Seems to Be Retreating . . .
• Contact their existing clients, especially the ones that chose them
over you.
• Take out a larger ad or listing in key market publications.

HOW TO MAKE BIG MONEY IN BAD TIMES

257

• Forge alliances with organizations cutting back on the kinds of
competencies you can provide situationally.
• Speak at trade conferences, for free if you must, to accelerate your
name recognition in a weakened ﬁeld.
• Take very strong stands on issues in writing; don’t be middle of the
road or equivocal.
• Talk conﬁdently, act conﬁdently, and assure people that you can help
them despite the times.
• Increase your testimonials and references so that people are
assured.
• Pursue referrals vigorously and on every possible occasion.
• Consider taking a leading, highly visible position in a trade
association or professional group.
• Offer contrarian articles to newspapers, magazines, and Internet
publications.
In Chapter 14 I’ll discuss credit lines and banking relationships in some
detail. The point for now is, do not panic when things look tough. If you reduce
your expenses by eliminating client mailings, attending fewer meetings and networking events, putting in an answering machine to replace ofﬁce staff, and the
like, you are panicking. No matter how much you save, the “dollar” eventually
will run out.
How do tough times become good ones? For starters, remember that the
times are tough for others as well, and they are probably cutting back. This
means that the same, continuing investment on your part for marketing and publicity will carry even a better return because there is less perceived competition.
Also, clients are impressed by consultants (and any outside professional or
vendor) who act consistently in good times and bad and whose service and quality performance do not vary. Third, no one knows anything about your personal
successes and failures except what you choose to reveal. A cutback in your market proﬁle and uncharacteristic behavior (that is, refusing to extend credit,
demanding expense reimbursement for trivial items, and arbitrary fees) will tell
clients and prospects exactly what you don’t want them to know.

You are never alone in tough times, but you can be alone in
exploiting them for opportunity. Your attitude must be:
“Everyone else has it tough. How can I exploit my position?”

258

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

One group of partners I know had periodic meetings about the hard times
that had beset their ﬁrm. Two of the three continually sought increased visibility and better marketing avenues and a generally more aggressive role in client
support. The third, Carl, repeatedly argued for drastic cost reductions, which
the other two sometimes acquiesced to for “consensus” reasons. Finally, when
things were at their nadir, Carl once again asked for cost cutbacks. When asked
what was left to cut back, he suggested selling the large maple conference table
in the ﬁrm’s lone meeting area.
“It’s worth about 500 bucks,” he explained, “and that will pay the rent next
month.”
“And our clients and prospects,” responded one of the others, “will sit on
the ﬂoor or remain standing!?”
The conference table wasn’t sold, the partners stopped trying to reduce
expenses, and Carl eventually became a subcontractor for them. He wasn’t cut
out for taking risks, and he never again earned signiﬁcant reward.
It is a terriﬁc temptation in tough times to stop spending and treat each
dollar as if it were a vanishing resource that would never be seen again. There
are a host of things wrong with this philosophy.

Digression
The impresario Mike Todd (one of Elizabeth Taylor’s
husbands) was once pushed by his ﬁnancial people to
reduce spending because he was 13 million in debt.
“What?” he yelled. “Do you want me to buy cheaper
cigars?!”
In other words, some cutbacks just don’t matter in the
overall scheme of things.

If You Don’t Invest during Tough Times . . .
1. You will cut back on your marketing just when it can deliver the
biggest return because the competition is cutting back.
2. Clients will immediately detect any reduction in service
commitments, jeopardizing relationships that required years to build.
3. Prospects are not impressed by ﬁrms that stint in the acquisition
process; they are impressed by ﬁrms that send several people to
initial conferences and don’t attempt to charge back expenses for
exploratory meetings.

HOW TO MAKE BIG MONEY IN BAD TIMES

259

4. Your bankers are not nearly as concerned about expense control as
they are about income. In fact, bankers lend money against some
reasonable payoff. A marketing campaign, a new product, or a
publicity trip can provide payoff. A reduction in expenses does not
provide incentive to an investor.
5. You will effectively blunt your multidimensional growth.
Networking, memberships, pro bono work, and related activities all
take a hard hit when expenses are reduced.
6. You will not be attractive to recruits, subcontractors, or alliance
partners. No one is comfortable with someone who is attempting to
work on a shoestring or someone who pays her bills late or doesn’t
invest the proper resources to get a job done in a high-quality
manner. These sources of income and assistance to your ﬁrm will
evaporate.
7. You will become totally reactive because your ability to invest in
proactive measures will disappear. Consequently, you will be too
late, too often, with too little. It is virtually impossible to practice
contrarian consulting, for example, in a low-proﬁle reactive mode.
8. You lose the momentum gained from prior growth by reducing to a
standstill. You can broad jump much farther by racing down the
approach than you can by standing at the edge of the pit.
9. You get one chance with prospects, and if they detect an inferior
operation, they will quickly depart. This applies to the quality of
your letterhead, the shine on your shoes, your response time, and
any number of small things that indicate whether an operation is
strong or struggling.
10. Finally, you are taking the risks of an entrepreneur. Be bold, and
bite off large chunks. You’re not in this to stick your toe in the
water. You’re in this to make waves.

One Percent Solution: “No cross, no crown” (William Penn).
If you don’t take risks, you will never reap the rewards
available to an entrepreneur.

I talked in Chapter 3 about the success trap. Here I am talking about the
failure trap. You can fail in this business only if you allow yourself to fail, and one
of the surest ways to do that is by adopting a failure mentality when times are

260

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

tough. Cutbacks and cost reductions are symptoms of failure and self-defeat, and
represent a poverty mentality. Consistent relationships and activities, during all
times, are signs of a success mentality. You establish the image that you convey
to the client, and your image is notoriously transparent.
I’ve never met a consultant who wasn’t doing “fabulous” business. Everyone I meet in the business tells me how great he is doing. And that’s funny,
because I meet a great many consultants who double-bill clients for expenses,6
are dressed poorly, don’t have any current literature, never attend industry or
trade conferences, and haven’t tried anything new or adventurous in years.
They are as obvious as a ham sandwich, and if they think that their clients
and prospects can’t see what the rest of us can, they are about as intelligent as a
ham sandwich.
Bad times can be especially good times if you allow them to be—if you
step away from the pack and the panicky responses. What would you advise a
client in a highly competitive industry when economic conditions seem bleak? If
you would advise that client to do anything other than to exploit the opportunities that others are unprepared or unwilling to address, not only are you lacking
the stomach for this business, but you are also lacking the mind for it.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. Isn’t a pipeline just a rolling forecast that is bound to change?
A. Not if you leave the assumptions and potential outside the pipeline intake
conduits and include only contracts. In that case, very little will ever change
except your bank account.
Q. You really don’t advise at least prudent cuts when business slows up?
A. What’s prudent to you and prudent to me? My advice is to conduct business
as usual all the time: aggressively seeking buyers and gaining agreement on
proposals.
Q. How useful are a good banking relationship and credit lines during tough times?
A. It’s good to have them there, but they can be poison to use. Banks tend to
increase interest rates, your credit rating will be lowered if you borrow substantially, and creating debt is never, ever good. It shouldn’t be an early fallback position.
6 This is the practice of visiting two or more clients during a single trip, but billing each one
for the total expense rather than a pro rata share. Not only is this unethical, it is stupid.

HOW TO MAKE BIG MONEY IN BAD TIMES

261

Q. How do I discipline myself to do the right things during “up times”?
A. Use your calendar. Write in the steps and tasks for every week and treat them
as serious appointments, not ﬂexible, minor events. The best leverage you’ll
ever have is when you’re strong and times are good.
Q. What about my partners, who believe that we should retrench, pull in our horns, and
ride out the storm in the basement?
A. Quite a mixed metaphor, but a very simple reaction: leave them in the basement and go out on your own (or ﬁnd new partners). Don’t allow their weight
to sink you.

Final Thought: The great successes in life have been those
who didn’t merely ride the wave of good times but were able
to swim through the roiling waters of bad times. As an
entrepreneur, you should have only one forward gear—full
throttle.

CHAPTER
13

TECHNOLOGY IS A
TOOL, NOT A FOOL
HOW TO USE TECHNOLOGY
AND STILL HAV E A LIFE

SIGNS OF OUR TIMES
Over the past several years, I’ve probably attended 20 sessions on the impact of
high technology on our lives and businesses. Each of the presentations was
notable for at least one technological glitch. Such is modern life.
However, I am no Luddite, lurking in the shadows and fearing the Mithraic
language of downloads, cyberspace, e-anything, social networking, twittering
(does that make you a twit?), and ﬁrewalls. I’m with the in-crowd, with my own
very dynamic Web site, four different e-mail drops, Alan’s Blog on contrarianconsulting.com, Alan’s Forums (a global destination for consultants interacting
round-the-clock), registration with search engines, and enough computer paraphernalia to require that I visit the gym regularly to stay in shape merely to carry
the proper connecting wires and rechargers when I travel. This entire chapter
was inconceivable at the time I wrote the original manuscript for this book in
1991. It’s de rigueur now.
I began to appreciate the power of technology and the political requirements for it when Merck started consistently asking for fax access in the late
1980s and Hewlett-Packard integrated me into its voice-mail systems in the
mid–1990s. Primitive, true, but nonetheless it represented the wind change prior
to the tsunami. Some of my clients communicate exclusively by e-mail, magazines want articles submitted electronically, my Apple computers disdain to even
accept anything that isn’t wireless or telephathic, and computer-generated graphics are noticeable only if they are absent in any contemporary presentation using
visual aids.
This is not a matter of deciding to use technological prowess any more than
it’s a discretionary decision to use the phone, a calculator, or a copy machine.
You are no longer (as I learned while chatting with Walter Mossberg, the superb
Wall Street Journal technology columnist) “on the Web” any more than you are
262

TECHNOLOGY IS A TOOL, NOT A FOOL

263

“on the grid” when you plug in your toaster or your Stairmaster. It’s an
omnipresent condition.
Today, the urban legend has it, a casual reader of the weekday edition of the
New York Times is processing more information than an inhabitant of the sixteenth
century processed in an entire lifetime. The sixteenth century was not exactly
chopped liver—it was the time of Luther and Erasmus, of the Renaissance, of
exploration and discovery. Nonetheless, we are asked to assimilate (or at least consider) enormous amounts of data today. In the consulting profession, how does
one remain current conversant with, and connected to the events not only in our
discipline, but also in the domain of our clients? The only answer is to use technology as the catalyst, but not as the constant companion sucking out all our energy.

Case Study
A woman I didn’t know called to request my resource list (a
list of people willing to subcontract) so that she could select
some help for a law ﬁrm for which she was consulting. I
returned the call and asked for her e-mail address. The list
is strictly electronic and would be 40 pages if printed.
“Oh, I don’t have e-mail,” she said, “so just print it out
and fax it to me.”
“I don’t think so,” I told her.
“Are you so superior you won’t do that for me?”
“No, I just don’t work with amateurs.”
She turned out to be a part-time dabbler who picked up
what money she could by promising the world but was able
to deliver nothing. If you don’t want to use e-mail, then you
might as well also rip out your phone.

When I began my consulting career in 1972, I was (as low person in the
pecking order) often crawling around what was known as the wet end of paper
machines in southern mills. These huge plants employed hundreds of low-skill
workers who maintained the monster machines with the manufacturer’s manual
in their back pockets and years of practical know-how and intuition in their heads.
They often used brute force and could devise jerry-rigged solutions on the spot.
Today, the new generations of those machines require a handful of people
covering all three shifts. They sit in control rooms and observation booths, monitoring computer information and changing the programming as needed. Brute

264

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

force is applied only to the soda machine when it fails to cough up a Coke during
the graveyard shift. It’s a brave new world out there, and we’d better get accustomed
to it.1 Oh, and then there’s the fact that paper (along with steel, rubber, and textiles) is not the major industry in the United States that it was when I was younger.

One Percent Solution: Invest in great technology, but don’t
worry about having the newest and the best versions of
everything. The only test is: does it work for you?

My Internet connections can draw a detailed map with directions for virtually any business address in America. And that’s just my iPhone. Rental cars
now contain global positioning systems using satellites that take you—complete
with back-seat-driver audible warnings—through every turn, exit, and adjustment along the route.
We simply can’t afford to watch this parade wend its way by us. The Internet and its accoutrements haven’t changed the face of consulting, as many gurus
would have us believe, but they have offered marvelous ways to improve our
effectiveness and efﬁciency.

CYBER MARKETING
I’m convinced that aggressive marketing over the Internet is akin to cold calling
in real life—not many people are going to purchase consulting services from
someone they’ve never heard of who approaches them out of the blue, be it by
phone or by e-mail. However, passive marketing and visibility are effective on
the Internet, no less than articles, interviews, ads, and listings can be effective in
other media.

One Percent Solution: A consultant’s Web site is not a sales
tool; rather, it is a credibility tool. Economic buyers go there
after they have heard of you, not before. That dictates how
the site should look and feel.

1

I heard noted leadership authority Warren Bennis state once that at some time in the near
future, a factory would have only two workers, a man and a dog. The dog would be there to ensure
that the man didn’t touch anything. The man would be there to feed the dog.

TECHNOLOGY IS A TOOL, NOT A FOOL

265

Here are 10 quick techniques for Internet marketing success. Choose those
that are best for you. No two of them are mutually exclusive, and I know people who do all of them.
1. Contact prospects and clients by e-mail. I do not mean that you should
make solicitations. I mean that you should provide a periodic
contact that is of some worth. You might use e-mail in place of a
regular mailing (although you shouldn’t abandon regular mailings
altogether because they provide the opportunity for substantive
enclosures). Randomly e-mail key people with items of interest
and/or opportunity. One of my e-mail “partners” continually
provides me with interview sources, and I appear about a dozen
times a year in publications that came from his mailings to me.
2. Establish an interesting Web site. Note the operative word: interesting.
The Internet is crammed with meaningless sites and vacuous poster
boards. Create a site that compels people to visit repeatedly. Find a
designer/marketer with the demiurgic talents required. For example:
• Post an article every month that can be downloaded.
• Archive past articles for access and downloading.
• Conduct a rafﬂe or giveaway for people who register each
month.
• Provide a free newsletter copy for those requesting it.
• Provide a link to your e-mail so that people can correspond.
• Use graphics and sound that change periodically.
• Offer products for sale.
Visitors to my Web site have a choice of pursuing special topic
areas (such as books or workshops) or accessing hot tips. In
addition, a wide variety of services is offered, including licensing
and “schedule on demand.”
3. Use bookmarks to establish direct links with reference sources. These
online citations save you the trouble of continually looking for
sources. You can access reference works, consulting associations,
airline schedules, meteorological conditions, biographies, company
locations, and a host of other invaluable information.
4. Host a chat session. I regularly conduct “chats” and online interviews
with interactive displays, often including slides and graphics.
You can direct people to more of your work, and the credibility is
no different from having been interviewed on the radio or in the
print media.

266

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

5. Join information-exchange groups. There are groups that meet formally
at certain times or informally on a drop-in basis to discuss
consulting, speaking, entrepreneurialism, ﬁnances, and just about any
related topic imaginable. You can learn a great deal, contribute, build
relationships, and enjoy signiﬁcant growth by allocating as little as an
hour a week. I host Alan’s Forums (http://www.alansforums.com),
which is home to over 40,000 posts and constant, global discussions
on ethics, fees, politics, and dozens of other topics.
6. Research your clients and prospects. There is a wealth of information on
major companies available through the major search engines that
will help you prepare for your approach, meeting, proposal, or
phone call. You also can send out e-mail notes to your networks
asking for information from anyone who can help. People are
remarkably responsive on the Internet. I once left a message in one
place in a limited group asking if anyone knew a broker who could
sponsor speeches in Australia, and I received three different leads
within 48 hours. When I asked for help in creating a certain type
of electronic ﬁle, 17 people responded within 20 minutes!2
7. Build your own newsletter. I began “Balancing Act” seven years ago
with 40 names of people who I thought would not be upset by my
sending an unsolicited newsletter. I now have nearly 8,000
subscribers with virtually no promotion. The newsletter can be
obtained— and is archived—on my Web site. One of my mentorees
has successfully launched a weekly newsletter on sales tips that gains
him business all over the country because it is passed around far
beyond the subscriber list. This is highly effective and virtually
free marketing.
8. Subscribe to an interview service. There are services that provide daily
updates on reporters working under deadline and the topics they
require more information about. You might ﬁnd someone from the
San Francisco Examiner working on a story exposing the futility of
downsizing or a reporter for BusinessWeek pursuing information on
why the glass ceiling hasn’t broken. If it’s up your alley, you can
respond by e-mail and possibly arrange an interview. With any
discipline at all, this can get you mentioned somewhere in the
country on a weekly basis. You also can accomplish this by joining
2 Be careful, though. I ﬁnd platforms such as Linkedin to be nearly totally worthless. They
claim to “connect” you to hundreds of thousands of people, but 99.9 percent of the communication is
inane (“I’m working late tonight”) and is usually concerned with ﬁnding a job or connecting with old
friends (or old jobs). This stuff can absorb hours of your time if you allow it to, with very little return.

TECHNOLOGY IS A TOOL, NOT A FOOL

267

Expertclick.com or PRleads.com. Sometimes I’ll ﬁnd six of my
mentorees cited in a single column in the Sunday New York Times.
9. Link your Web site to others. Many organizations will welcome a
reciprocal arrangement, wherein your Web site is linked to theirs
and theirs to yours. This increases the exposure and potential hits
exponentially as long as you ensure that the connection makes sense.
For example, it’s logical for you to be interactive with a business
school, but not so logical for you to be listed with an auto parts
dealer (or with a competitor).
10. Use your signature ﬁle intelligently. You’re sending thousands of
e-mails a year. Include your contact information, a testimonial,
information about a book or workshop, and so on. You never know
who’s going to read it and respond. It’s free space with a huge
potential return.

The Internet can be as boring as any other medium. It’s up to
you to attract people and entice them to want to know more
about you. Technological novelty has been replaced by
technological ennui.

If you use some ingenuity and dedicate some otherwise down time to surfing the Net, you’ll turn up all sorts of opportunities that are unique to you. For
example, I found out that Amazon.com will also include my self-published books,
so I’ve included them, and now I receive monthly orders from Amazon.com and,
more important, monthly checks. (This is the Amazon Advantage Program.)
You also have to be prepared for success. Colleagues who run a “humor
institute” fortunately were picked as one of the month’s hot Web sites, but unfortunately were not prepared for such largesse. They had nothing to offer for sale,
no way to track visitors (there were over 20,000 hits in a few days; such is the
power of the medium), and couldn’t keep up with the requests that were made.
If you’re going to do anything, assume that you’ll be successful and prepare for
the best, not the worst.

SOCIAL MEDIA AND OTHER FALLACIES
The problematic term social media has been applied to platforms such as YouTube,
FaceBook, LinkedIn, Twitter, and scores of others. Hear me now: corporate buyers are not ﬁnding consultants on these platforms because they are not looking on

268

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

these platforms. The folks with vested interests in them (or no life) who are shoulder deep in them of course take umbrage at my position.
Social media are ﬁne (if you can excuse the inanity and often obscenity
that you’ll ﬁnd in places such as YouTube). If you go to TED, for example
(http://www.ted.com/), you’ll ﬁnd some outstanding thinkers presenting provocative ideas in under 20 minutes. That’s great stuff. I don’t consider it social
media, just another example of powerful communications. But let’s not split
semantic hairs.
You don’t market on LinkedIn, though you may ﬁnd an old college classmate who cheated off you during ﬁnals. You don’t achieve corporate fame on
Twitter, though you may attract some unemployed people who are honestly curious about how you wash your hair or start your car.

One Percent Solution: Use social media to socialize. Use
marketing media to market.

Whatever you purchase in technological terms will be obsolete before you
can unwrap it. Who cares? Make sure that you buy something that you can use
intelligently for the next several years, not something that will make you the envy
of the gadgetry-challenged. You should be concerned about utility, not about
being leading-edge.
Ask yourself these questions when considering any kind of equipment,
from computers to cell phones to fax machines:
• What is the end result you expect from this equipment? This will help you
determine how many bells and whistles you need. For example, a
plain-paper fax machine that allows you to retain copies and keep
transmissions in memory may make sense in terms of your basic
communications needs. A fax machine with the capacity to store
100 numbers in memory or one that doubles as a copier may not.
And if you’re using computer software that can utilize your computer
as a fax, why are you even hosting a fax machine in your ofﬁce?
• With whom will you be communicating? If it’s a large number of people
all with the same message, some kind of networking arrangement or
listserv may make sense. If it’s to be single individuals, each with
unique communications, high quality will be a necessity.
• What are the volume requirements? I have found that it’s wise to plan at
least three years down the road. A couple of years ago, I said to my

TECHNOLOGY IS A TOOL, NOT A FOOL

269

computer supplier that I wanted the capacity to deal with the volume
I foresaw ﬁve years hence. He suggested a Mac Quadra 840av, with
scanner, laser printer, color printer, and high-speed modem, along
with an Iomega backup disk drive. It lasted for nearly ﬁve years,
before being replaced by a G3 desktop. Then I acquired the
Titanium G4 laptop. My plan for these purchases was to obtain
three to ﬁve years of outstanding service. (I know many of you are
surprised, but I ﬁnd Macs to be idiot-proof, intuitive, and quite easy
to use. With today’s software, I can easily communicate with my
clients’ personal computers without any difﬁculty, so there are no
compatibility problems.) I now have Intel-based Mac desktops and
laptops, 30-inch cinema screens, a wireless home via Airport Express,
and so on. I tell you all this because, by the time you read it, both
you and I will be on still more modern gizmos.
• What trends do you expect to capitalize on? If you’re going to be
using a computer on the road, don’t just buy a laptop, buy one
that is compatible with your ofﬁce equipment (they can access each
other remotely and transfer ﬁles by infrared devices) to maximize
efﬁciency and minimize duplication of effort. For example, can they
synchronize with Palm Pilot (or your PDA) technology? I use a
ﬂash drive to keep all my ﬁles right in my briefcase to plug in
wherever needed.

Case Study
I use an iPhone for expense reporting and my contact list,
with phone numbers. However, I don’t use it for my calendar,
notes, or ﬁles.
One client had to frantically reschedule my meeting—
which involved a ﬁve-hour ﬂight —when his secretary
pointed out that he was scheduling using the calendar for
the year 2012. I’ve watched consultants desperately try to
use the primitive stylus to take complex notes at a client
conference.
Use what makes sense as a tool, but don’t confuse means
and ends. It’s better to use 20 percent of a technology’s
potential effectively than it is to be utterly ﬂummoxed by
trying to use the other 80 percent that is inappropriate,
inadequate, or indecipherable.

270

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

My service standard is to return all calls within 90 minutes during business hours. This is much easier than it appears, although clients and prospects
invariably are knocked out by the responsiveness. I never have a tough time
returning calls because of a lack of equipment or accessibility.
Are the calls expensive? Less and less. We’ll soon be able to use cell phones
on airplanes and I can send and receive e-mail on some. Are they worth it?
Unquestionably. My monthly phone bills used to be about $2,400. An entire
year’s worth—just under $30,000—were paid for by one modest contract or a
couple of speeches. Today, my ofﬁce phone, three car phones, and my wife’s and
my personal cell phones cost about $450 per month.3
Another form of personal assistant is a contact manager. These software
packages enable you to track clients, prospects, visibility outlets, and many others; provide the option to trigger contacts at set intervals; and keep track of prior
discussions and agreements. They also come with autodial features, boilerplate
letters, and other time-saving options.4

BLOGS AND BRANDS
There are, according to some best guesses, about 200 million blogs extant in the
world. You read that correctly. (There are only 30 million Canadians alive, and
about 28 million Australians, so consider that.) And most of the blogs are pure
crap and imbecilic, because
• The author has no expertise, credibility, or experience.
• You can’t identify who is writing it.
• It is written sophomorically.
• It is poorly formatted and presented.
• It is irrelevant.
• It is driven by ego.
Generally, if someone has a brand, he will have a successful blog:
• Personal businesses: David Meister
• Sales: Jeff Gitomer
3 And, of course, my iPhone provides e-mail contact, photos, a camera, Web browsing, location GPS, music, and so on. It replaces at least four other gadgets.
4 I’m all in favor of time saving, but not at the cost of individuality. Most boilerplate stuff, be
it proposals, conﬁrmations, or other documents, looks exactly like that: generic pap. It’s always a
good idea to customize anything you put in writing.

TECHNOLOGY IS A TOOL, NOT A FOOL

271

• Innovation: Seth Godin
• Coaching: Marshall Goldsmith
• Solo consulting: Moi
Note that the brand draws people. Now, there are those (including the
esteemed, aforementioned Seth Godin) who would claim that blogs create
brands. Yes, one time in 100,000, like the ﬁrst-time novelist who gets the million dollar advance. Don’t bet on it.
My blog (http://www.contrarianconsulting.com) has text, podcasts, video,
commentary, and all kinds of features that accrue each week. My brand gets people there, and the quality keeps them coming back for more. If you want an effective blog, develop a powerful brand.
Technology can expedite your business, or it can homogenize you to the
point of nonrecognition. The choice is yours.
Just as there are letterheads and stationery available from supply houses
that give consultants that professional look without the expense of a designer and
a personalized touch, there are technologies that can provide a mass approach
for the lone wolf who has to rely on the kindness of strangers. (Many blogs look
alike, being similar in their horrible design and terrible presentation.) However,
those stock letterheads can be an obvious giveaway that you’re operating on a
shoestring if the prospect recognizes the design (and there are ﬁnite options
here), and that prospect can feel an impersonal touch if your move to efﬁciency
overcomes your need for singularity.
For example, most e-mail systems will allow a ﬁle attachment that creates
an automatic “signature” appended to your letter to identify you beyond your
screen name. It’s the equivalent of a letterhead. This is an appropriate—in fact,
necessary—addition to your e-mail because the correspondent may want to send
you something in the regular mail, fax you, or phone you. It’s silly to have to
exchange further missives to obtain this information, so it’s only logical to
include it in all correspondence on the Web. (Note: Many consultants do not
include signature ﬁles, and their image screams “unprofessional.”)
Mine looks like this:
Alan Weiss, Ph.D.
President
Summit Consulting Group, Inc.
Box 1009
East Greenwich, RI 02818
401/884–2778 Fax: 401/884–5068
http://www.summitconsulting.com
Alan@summitconsulting.com

272

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Member:
Professional Speaking Hall of Fame®
Recipient:
American Press Institute Lifetime Achievement Award
Recipient:
New England Institute of Management Consultants
Lifetime Contribution Award
“One of the most highly respected independent consultants in the
country.”—The New York Post
“One of the top motivational speakers in the country.”—
The Providence Journal
Visit Alan’s Blog: http://www.ContrarianConsulting.com

I choose to include a brief credential and a plug for my newsletter, along
with my contact information.
It’s easy to set this up with a wide variety of personal handwriting fonts
available today for any computer. Even if you print your name conventionally, it
still improves on the formal letterhead information that follows. Clients have
told me that it makes a big difference, and every little bit counts.

Use technological assistance to increase your
personalization, not to decrease it. Just as your materials
shouldn’t look like everyone else’s, neither should your
technological presence.

Another drawback of the electronic letter is its propensity to go on forever. After all, you merely have to hit “reply” to send a quick response, no matter how inane. The trouble is that we’re also taking up someone’s precious time

TECHNOLOGY IS A TOOL, NOT A FOOL

273

in doing so. Refrain from corresponding simply because it’s easy. If someone
sends you a light response, absorb it like a sponge, don’t react to it like a spring.
Don’t make cold calls on the Web. Just as legitimate buyers aren’t going to
purchase consulting services over the phone or by direct mail, they aren’t going
to respond to blanket Web mailings, especially since the junk mail on the Web
has the ﬂavor of those classiﬁed ads at the back end of Popular Mechanics (“You
too can make a zillion dollars at home by watching paint dry!”).
Don’t get more bells and whistles than you need. The latest computer isn’t
necessarily the best computer for your purposes. Chances are that you need
something for mail, word processing, spreadsheet work, ﬁle management, perhaps project management, and some light graphics work (unless you’re an
instructional designer who creates your own programs). Most midrange equipment can handle this. I found that I used my scanner about once a quarter, so
I got rid of it when I upgraded my system. My color printer gets rare use, but it
was a bargain and will stand me in good stead for many years.
You’ll probably use less than 35 percent of your equipment’s total capability in terms of technological prowess. So go for large-scale memory, large storage, and best price. I don’t even upgrade to the latest operating systems on my
Macs unless they provide signiﬁcant improvements and minimum problems.

THE CLIENT AND TECHNOLOGY
There are some marked advantages to exploit in developing and nurturing the
client relationship using technology. While nothing replaces the credibility of
personal meetings, intellectual breadth, empathic listening, and insightful
responses, there are augmentations available using technology as a resource.
Here, then, is a sample list of options depending on your proclivities,
expertise, and innovation:
• Suggest that you become part of the client’s voice-mail system so that
internal people can access you readily in a fashion that’s familiar to
them. Conversely, you can leave messages in a manner that’s
consistent with the company’s preferred format. I did this with
Hewlett-Packard for years. It made me a part of the team and a
natural to include in the next project that came along.
• Encourage people to contact you by e-mail, and make sure that every
contact knows your e-mail address. This enables you to send and
retrieve messages at any hour. Another beneﬁt is a subtle
psychological fact: people who are uncomfortable or won’t disclose
much on the phone tend to be far more accessible and sharing via

274

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

e-mail. If you don’t believe it, try leaving simultaneous and
duplicative voice and e-mail messages and see which people provide
the best response to using each option. People respond more quickly
and sincerely to e-mail than to voice mail.
• Provide key clients with a pager/beeper access number. I suggest that
you limit this to your best clients and most important contacts. It can
help to give them a sense of your accessibility for them. (Devil’s
advocate position: I don’t own a pager and never will. I call in
frequently enough to get my messages, and I equate pagers with
lower-level people. No chief executive ofﬁcer I’ve ever known wore a
pager, and I’m not about to do so either. But that’s me.) This may
work best when you’re actually on a large client site.
• Change your fonts and styles to match the client’s so that you can
provide camera-ready master copies that will ﬁt immediately into the
client’s manuals and literature.
• Scan your clients’ logos and/or graphics into your system so that you
can incorporate them into client work, making for a highly
customized and dedicated piece. (Don’t forget that there are legal
requirements that have to be met when using others’ logos,
trademarks, and other such material, so get the proper permission.)
• Create direct-dial features on your phone and fax, and have key
contacts within the buyer include yours on their equipment so
that assistants and secretaries can rapidly make connections in their
absence.
Finally, think about creating value right from the outset using technology
as an aid. Here’s a typical scenario:
You’re ﬁnally in front of the buyer after some hard work, prolonged trying, or plain serendipity. No matter. This is your chance. Are you so nervous—
or so intent on proving how good you are—that you’re apt to blow the meeting
within the ﬁrst ﬁve minutes?
What most of us don’t realize is that there are three possible outcomes to
this meeting, and two of them are good. One is that the buyer buys— end of
story; send an invoice. A second is that the buyer wants to continue the relationship, ranging from the high end of “send me a proposal” to the low end of
“you should deal with some of my people on this.” Even the latter relegation to
subordinates carries the potential of moving back to the buyer. After all, she sent
you to them, so there is some clout in this position. Only the third, “Never
darken my doorstep again” (read: “Thanks for your time, we’ll get back to you”),
is fatal. The odds are actually in your favor, unless you don’t place the right bets.

TECHNOLOGY IS A TOOL, NOT A FOOL

275

Therefore, what do you do to improve the odds of one of the ﬁrst two
responses taking place (remember, you must be with the economic buyer, or all
this is academic)? My advice is to provide immediate value. For free. On the spot.
You want the buyer to be thinking, “If I’m getting this much out of an
exploratory meeting, what would I get if I actually hired this person?” Technology can come to the rescue.

THE VALUE OF VISUALS
One of the best devices to provide dramatic value is the use of a visual aid. I call
these “process visuals.”5 The criteria for such an aid during an exploratory meeting are captured in my SIGN theory:
• Simple: The other person can relate to it immediately.
• Interactive: The buyer is interested in seeing where he ﬁts.
• Generic: It applies to any business.
• Natural: It blends nicely with your style, and you “own” it.
The beneﬁt of such a visual is that it focuses the buyer on a common point
that the two of you are sharing, implies value, and forces the buyer to think about
your point conceptually rather than considering how much your fee will be, if
there’s a budget available, what time the next appointment is, and so on. In other
words, you want the buyer’s agenda to match your agenda. This alignment creates marvelous focus.
Visual aids are perfect for today’s technology. You can create a professional
single sheet, an overhead, a small card—a wide variety of aids that you can keep
in your briefcase. (They can also be drawn on the spot on an easel or even a pad.
I know that this sounds casual and risks a sloppy appearance, but the ability to
produce a visual to ﬁt with a buyer’s condition at a certain moment carries tremendous power.) If you can provide a concrete example of an abstract problem—
a process known as instantiation—the buyer will immediately react positively to
your ability to illustrate her condition. Thus, it’s important that the visuals
revolve around processes rather than content. This means that you don’t want to
create an image of someone selling computers but of the sales process itself, irrespective of the product or service. Figure 13-1 provides an example of such a
visual aid.
5 See my two books: The Great Big Book of Process Visuals, or Give Me a Double Axis Chart and
I Can Rule the World and Son of Process Visuals. Both from Las Brisas Research Press, 2005 and 2007,
each with a CD for transfer of the images to your own work.

276

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Utility
High

Habit

Loyalty

Apathy

Lost
opportunity

Penetration

High

Low

Low

Another Way of Viewing Penetration and Value
Figure 13-1 A two axis visual aid.

I use this aid to demonstrate to buyers who have concerns about sales productivity that there are four basic conditions that reﬂect their relatioship with
customers. If the utility (the value) of what they provide is considered high and
the penetration into the customer account is high, they are in a “loyalty” condition that probably won’t be affected by economic downturns or competitive
action. If the utility is high but the penetration is low, they are losing a valuable
opportunity, not only ﬁnancially, but also in terms of longevity. If penetration is
high but value is perceived as low, then the customer is simply buying out of
habit. And if neither is high, the account is apathetic.

One Percent Solution: A process visual enables you to
involve the prospective buyer in the diagnostic, which is a
very powerful sales mechanism.

Note that this aid can be changed readily on a computer to use different
terminology, include the client’s organization, or use color. It can be customized
for every client meeting if you so choose, even within the same organization.
As you’ve probably assumed, I now ask the buyer to identify where most
of his best accounts are, what the sales force is being educated to provide, how
people are rewarded, and other such information. This simple double-axis chart
fascinates the buyer because he or she probably hasn’t looked at things in quite
this way before. The buying sign in this example is the question, “So how do we
move our customers to the upper right quadrant?” Bingo.

TECHNOLOGY IS A TOOL, NOT A FOOL

277

I have a hundred of these devices that I can create at a moment’s notice that
will involve the buyer and accelerate my perceived value in the buyer’s eyes. It
doesn’t matter whether this is drawn on a pad or displayed as a four-color card
that the two of you gaze at. I’ve even asked the buyer to write percentages in
each box reﬂecting the ratio of customers in each condition. Now the buyer is
actively using my model.
It’s important for consultants to be diagnostic in the sales process and prescriptive
in the implementation process. It’s amazing how often they just screw that up.
People who don’t understand consulting very well often ask me, “What
model do you use?” Consulting isn’t a model—it’s a process. This process uses
models according to client needs and conditions. If you only have one model,
you’re a one-trick pony, and you ought to go out to pasture.
Scott Adams produced a Dilbert cartoon showing “Ratbert the Consultant”
drawing matrices that he couldn’t explain very well but that he promised to
change into concentric circles with labels and arrows. The buyer is seen thinking, “I’m under the consultant’s spell.” Like most great humor, it’s rooted in reality, although my approach is neither arcane nor devious. You do have to get the
buyer “under your spell,” meaning that the lure of your value and the pragmatism of your approach must outweigh the traditional inertia against buying.
Figure 13-2 is another example of a visual aid to gain credibility and
involvement. This one is even simpler than the ﬁrst one.
In this visual aid, I explain that the buyer has access to 100 percent of the
organization’s talents. People have only 100 percent of their energy and ability
to give. (“Give me 110 percent” is a nice aphorism, but it means absolutely nothing.) I ask the buyer how much of that talent and energy is being applied externally toward the product, service, customer, and relationship and how much is

Where are the resources going?
100 percent of the organization’s
talents and energies

Focused internally

Figure 13-2 A technical visual aid.

Focused externally

278

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

being eroded away internally on ofﬁce politics, unhappiness with the compensation system, resentment over executive perks, and so forth. I point out that the
best companies manage a 90 percent external focus. Inevitably, the buyer admits
that her organization is far below that. Sometimes, organization even have a preponderance of their energy focused internally.
Let me present two more process visual aids to whet your appetite for creating and using them yourself. Figure 13-3 is “market gravity” from Chapter 2,
and Figure 13-4 is an example of the ﬁlters that must be overcome to reach an
economic buyer. These are examples of low technology, perhaps, in that they are
relatively simple graphic representations, but they are extremely powerful in conveying your message.
Technology can’t make a sale, but its judicious use can enhance your value
to the buyer. One obvious area for this potential is in visual aids at the outset to
create value.
Once again, this visual aid can be adapted to the particular client, employ
differing terms (that is, staff time, ﬁeld time, executive time, and so on), and use
various visual alternatives. I suggest that this relationship is the heart of productivity, as opposed to downsizing, training, or quality programs. This dynamic
can be managed, but it has to start from the top. The buyer inevitably asks,
“What would that look like in our case?” Bingo again.
Pro bono work
Networking

Commercial publishing

Products

Position papers

Alliances

Radio interviews

Teaching

TV appearances

Print interviews
Your services
and
relationships

Referrals
Print newsletters

Advertising
Passive listings
Speaking

Third-party endorsements

Web site, Blog

Trade association leadership

Electronic newsletters
Word of mouth

Figure 13-3 Creating market gravity.

TECHNOLOGY IS A TOOL, NOT A FOOL

279

Buyer’s “yes” decision

Providing a proposal with options

Create the choice of yeses

Gaining conceptual agreement

Establish objectives,
measures, and value

Overcoming objections

Overcome four resistance points

Establishing a relationship

Achieve trust

First contract

Reach economic buyer

Figure 13-4 Filters that must be overcome to reach an economic buyer.

MANAGING THE BUYING DYNAMIC
It’s up to you to manage the initial meeting with a buyer. Of course, it’s important to practice reﬂective listening and to ensure that you hear the concerns that
are on the buyer’s mind. However, this alone is insufﬁcient. You have to use what
you’ve heard to demonstrate your value, and your value is never in the features
and beneﬁts of your product, service, or expertise. It’s in your ability to connect
with the buyer’s desire and needs, and you often have to accentuate them far
beyond the buyer’s own words.
This is why a visual aid that creates involvement, agreement on principles,
focus on results, and implied value is so important. This is a key step in conceptual agreement, and those of you who have read my work know that this is the
centerpiece of acquiring large projects and enduring relationships.
Start with a half-dozen of these process visual aids using my SIGN criteria. Build others as your experiences and needs dictate. Carry them around at
the outset so that you don’t forget them. They’ll become second nature soon
enough. Practice how you’ll introduce them; they have to be in smooth response
to an issue raised by the buyer, not adding a jarring, discordant note to the conversation. If you draw your visual aid, ask the buyer if he would like you to send
a copy along later or, preferably, bring it on the next visit or include it with your

280

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

proposal. Using your technology, ask the buyer what form would be desirable:
on a disk, as a sign, on a slide, with the company logo, and so on.
I’ve seen far too many consultants sit down at that precious initial meeting
with the buyer and act as though they had never done it before. While it’s true
that they’ve never met this particular buyer before, they’ve certainly been in this
position before. What good is experience if we don’t learn from it? We can manage the buying dynamic, but only if we choose to. The default position takes this
power away and puts it in the hands of someone whose inclination is not to buy.
Use technology to prepare for, deliver on, and follow up on the value you can
create through visuals.
Use technology and visuals to accelerate your pace with a prospect or client,
and nothing more. That makes sense, doesn’t it?
Or do I need to draw you a picture?

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. All of my friends are on LinkedIn and Plaxo and so forth. If I’m not there, won’t I
be missing something?
A. Maybe socially, but we’re talking business here. It’s amazing how consistently
people who love social networking confuse personal fulﬁllment (afﬁliations)
with business utility (ﬁnding buyers).
Q. I get too much e-mail. Won’t I just be encouraging more time-wasting spam?
A. You could if you’re not careful. Use spam ﬁlters, rigorously remove your
name from lists, and quickly delete the irrelevant. Never provide your e-mail
address on networks and chat rooms unless you have thoroughly vetted
them.
Q. Are Webinars going to replace classroom training and speaking?
A. No, not now, and not ever. The gifted, interactive instructor isn’t going
to lose that position to a remote image. People will always want to “press
the ﬂesh,” especially if it means traveling to Rancho Santa Fe or the Bahamas
to do so.
Q. A lot of people are getting by with just a cell phone and no landline at all. Is that a
good idea?
A. Different strokes for different folks, but I ﬁnd a long call is best done using
a headset with my feet on the desk, so make sure you’re able to do that in
either case. Also, it’s tough to do conferencing, speakerphone, and multiple
lines on any cell I’ve ever seen. If you have a home ofﬁce, why wouldn’t you
have a home ofﬁce landline phone?

TECHNOLOGY IS A TOOL, NOT A FOOL

281

Q. Is it even worth having physical materials?
A. A great many buyers still prefer to sit in a comfortable chair, fold back pages,
and read in the old-fashioned way. (And this is not age-related.) Also, they
like to pass things around. Do you really want them to have to wait until
they’re near a computer to read about you or see your stuff?

Final Thought: Technology should be making your life and
work easier, not more difﬁcult. If you ﬁnd yourself consumed
with technology problems, bugs, repairs, and research, then
consider changing your entire system to something, that’s
simpler to use and more supportive. Important criteria: Is
your technology becoming cheaper, smaller, and easier to
use? If not, get some nontechnological human help.

This page intentionally left blank

PA R T
THREE

THE SELFACTUALIZATION
OF THE MILLION
DOLLAR
CONSULTANT

This page intentionally left blank

CHAPTER
14

THE MILLION DOLLAR
PARTNERS
BORROW $1,000 AND THEY
OWN YOU, BUT BORROW
$1 MILLION AND . . .
ESTABLISHING CREDIT LINES
Once you’ve created what the accountants like to refer to as a “going concern,”
it’s time to start acting like one. Treat your bankers as you would your clients—
as partners in a relationship business.
The easiest and most practical credit source to tap for your growing ﬁrm is
home equity. However, the credit lines you arrange should be business credit lines
in the name of your business.1 I’m very partial to this form of credit because
1. Most banks will allow for interest payments only, meaning that you
can repay the principal at your leisure. This is a considerable cashﬂow beneﬁt during lean times.
2. The money is accessible immediately, either in the form of checks
drawn against the credit line or through a phone call to transfer
funds into the business account. This provides the ﬂexibility to meet
unanticipated short-term needs (for example, paying a subcontractor
to help with an unexpected project even though the client won’t pay
you for at least 30 days).
3. As you borrow against and repay this line, your credit standing
improves continually. Banks despise people who don’t pay their debts,
but they aren’t enamored of people who never borrow, either. Their
favorite people are customers—people who borrow money and
faithfully pay it back with interest. This relationship has been in place
for only about 2,000 years.
1 If you need a personal credit line, too, that’s ﬁne. You can split the equity the bank allows you

in your home between the two. For example, if the bank’s appraisal provides for $200,000 in credit,
you can allocate $150,000 for personal purposes and $50,000 for business purposes, or vice versa.
However, don’t regard them as interchangeable because business credit used for personal reasons must
be allocated as some form of compensation or loan, both of which will increase your tax liability.
285

286

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Digression
We’ve all seen chaotic economic times. In some cases, credit
is tough to obtain. Therefore, a cash reserve is critical. You
should consider “tithing” to yourself, which means putting
10 percent of all your revenues aside in a separate account.
Your priorities should be
1. Creating six months’ reserve for living expenses
2. Fully funding retirement plans for the year
3. Creating reserves for college funds, future purchases of
major impact (new car), vacations, and so forth
4. A “slush fund” for unanticipated expenses or impulse
purchases
Note that paying down debt is as important as saving, and
you should try to reduce all credit card debt to zero monthly.

4. It gives you peace of mind, and this is invaluable. If you are worried
about how to pay the bills each day, you are spending that much less
time developing the business. All professional ﬁrms have credit with
banks. One absolute sign of your growth and professionalism is
access to one or more bankers whom you can call at any time.
5. You are not surrendering any aspect of ownership or control of your
business by borrowing and repaying in this manner. Assuming that
you use the credit only as required and responsibly and that your
overall personal money-management practices are sound (that is, you
don’t buy a new Mercedes after every sale), you will remain in
complete control of your destiny.
An important precursor to the following system is to build credit references by acquiring the standard travel cards that rental car ﬁrms and airlines
offer, as well as telephone and commercial credit cards, billed to your business. Even
gasoline or store credit is useful. Also develop local credit accounts with the
stationery stores, printers, ofﬁce suppliers, and other vendors with whom you do
regular business. These will all help with the bank. Use the credit—even if you
don’t need it—and pay it off promptly to establish a payment record.
I’m going to suggest a process to establish or increase your credit resources
using your home and/or business asset equity. This should work for the professional who has no current credit lines with a bank, and it will also increase credit

THE MILLION DOLLAR PARTNERS

287

opportunities (perhaps even more dramatically) for those with modest arrangements already in place. (All the following assumes that the advice in the preceding two sections of this book has been taken to heart. That is, you are
growing from a lone wolf to a thundering herd. If you haven’t the conﬁdence in
yourself and your own business to use your home equity to fund your business,
then you’re in the wrong business.)

Step 1: Get Your Business Finances into Shape
You should arrange to have a monthly balance sheet and ledger. There are
excellent computer programs that will turn out professional documents if you
choose to do this yourself. I choose to use a bookkeeper on a monthly basis
because
• She proactively suggests improvements in my reporting.
• She is another source to catch errors and reconcile problems.
• I can use her as an independent reference if needed.
• She is cost-effective because less than 30 minutes per month of my
time is required. (My monthly cost is about $250.)
• She provides input to my ﬁnancial ﬁrm for tax reporting and other
audit purposes during the year (and it would be ridiculously expensive
to ask that ﬁrm to perform these mundane tasks).
Shop around for bookkeepers, asking clients and colleagues for references.
My bookkeeper picks up and delivers my paperwork each month. In my experience, you can acquire excellent help for as little as $30 an hour (although many
charge $50 and over), and your affairs can probably be handled in 5 to 15 hours
a month, depending on the number of employees and the complexity of your
transactions.
Obtain a payroll service, such as Paychex or ADT, that will provide you
with salary checks and tax notices and documentation. Even if you are the only
one on the payroll, the ease and accuracy of the system make it a must. You’ll be
issued checks on your existing business account, be notiﬁed of tax bills due and
amounts withheld, and have an excellent tie-in to your bookkeeper. These services are available around the country and can cost as little as $35 per month,
which is more than paid for by your freed-up time. The services call you weekly
or biweekly for payroll amounts and usually provide next-day check delivery,
drawing on your existing accounts. Tax payments are withdrawn electronically
to conform with Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requirements, and salary checks
can be deposited automatically into your personal accounts.

288

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Finally, ﬁnd yourself an excellent ﬁnancial advisor. By advisor, I mean
someone who will sell you nothing other than his expertise (sound familiar?).
Ideally, the advisor should have an array of diverse professional clients so that
your circumstances are not pigeonholed into a model ﬁnancial approach. 2
The advisor should not be a lone wolf; he should be part of a ﬁrm and, preferably, should be one of the principals. Such an advisor is in an empathetic position to your own! Your advisor should handle your ﬁrm’s business taxes and
affairs and your personal taxes and affairs because they are so intertwined when
you own a personal services company. Ideally, in addition to an empathetic
understanding of your business and your strategy, your advisor should have
these attributes:
• Strong ties with local banks to assist you in obtaining credit lines
• Strong ties with local businesses to assist you in getting leads
and publicity
• Sufﬁcient staff so that your questions are answered immediately
• Computerized tax-reporting documents and planning guides
• A contemporary in-depth knowledge of small business tax regulations
• An inventive and innovative track record in sheltering income
from taxes
• Peripheral beneﬁts, for example, an empty ofﬁce to use if you have to
meet a client

One Percent Solution: In selecting a ﬁnancial advisor,
professional credentials are a secondary requirement. The
primary requirement is the chemistry. Does the advisor
appreciate your business and its intent and empathize with
your growth plans and challenges?

If you are aggressive about taxes, ﬁnd an advisor who is similarly disposed.
If you are conservative, ﬁnd a soul mate. Expect to pay anywhere from $3,000
to $10,000 a year for ﬁrst-rate help, depending on your ﬁrm’s size and your personal requirements.
2 Consultants’ businesses aren’t readily understood by someone who specializes in medical

practices or small law ﬁrms, for example. You need someone who understands the entrepreneurial
nature of your business. Many consultants are getting lousy advice from lawyers and accountants
who are family members and who do not comprehend this business.

THE MILLION DOLLAR PARTNERS

289

The combination of a professional ﬁnancial advisor, a bookkeeper, and a
payroll service will create a ﬁnancial picture of your company that is comprehensive and impressive. Figure 14-1 shows how they relate to each other and to
your business.

Note: It’s important that you choose someone who’s providing
advice and not selling products. Every single insurance
professional I’ve ever met insists that life insurance is a key
part of estate planning, annuities, savings, diversiﬁcation,
you name it. And for most of us, it’s not.

Step 2: Sweat the Financial Details Yourself
Once the system is in place, you must have high-quality data for it to polish.
Consequently, keep careful records of receivables, contracts, prospects, and all
other items that bear on your ﬁscal health. (The pipeline approach of Chapter
12 can be a key input.) These should be prepared by computer and updated
weekly as required. There are excellent software programs available for this purpose (such as Quicken, or simple Excel spreadsheets that I create). The objective is to demonstrate that you have your business ﬁnances well managed and
under control. Bankers don’t like to do remedial work. They like to work with
people who are already in excellent condition.
Financial
advisor

Bookkeeper

Payroll
service

Your
business

Personal financial management:
cash flow, receivables, projections,
expenses, credit, fee levels, etc.
Figure 14-1. A ﬁnancial management system; the ﬁnancial professionalism of a
going concern.

290

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Use these documents to construct a rolling one-year forecast. The forecast includes booked business, advance payments, scheduled payments, proposals submitted, targets of opportunity, and probabilities of success with each of
them. These aren’t matters to delegate to your bookkeeper or advisor because
they are qualitative assessments that rely on your knowledge of your client base
and judgment about your prospects.
If your banker can see the ﬁnancial documentation prepared by your advisor for the preceding year (or more, if available), she will be much more amenable
to giving credence to your projections for the next year. Without this professional
backup, however, and reasonable growth predicated on it, it’s hard to convince
anyone that forecasts are anything more than aspirations.
Finally, construct a personal ﬁnancial statement that shows your current
assets, liabilities, and net worth, including the worth of your business and its
prospects. If done well, this can be the most powerful document in convincing
a bank to provide credit. Banks love to see two things side by side: ability to pay,
meaning strong cash ﬂow and reasonable debts, and appropriate net worth, meaning sustenance in case cash ﬂow suffers temporary interruptions.

One Percent Solution: Especially in a Subchapter S or LLC
structure, where everything ﬂows through your individual
tax return, create as positive a net worth “picture” as
possible. This is why reducing debt is so important.

Step 3: Court the Banker as a Partner
Working with your advisor, references from colleagues, and knowledge of your
business community, you should pursue those banks that
• Offer credit lines based on home and business equity
• Provide personalized services for key customers
• Have established similar relationships with professionals
• Are sound, stable, and convenient3
3 If, for any reason, you are not familiar with the stability of local banks, use a bank rating
service for an in-depth analysis of their strengths. The cost is modest—less than $100 in most
cases—and in an era of closed banks and frozen funds, you will sleep much better at night. Note
that at this writing, every bank account in an FDIC-insured institution is insured to $250,000.
(This refers to each account with a different social security number or federal identiﬁcation number, so Alan Weiss, Marie Weiss, and Summit Consulting Group are all separately insured).

THE MILLION DOLLAR PARTNERS

291

• Offer a personalized relationship, such as “trust customer”
• Waive most fees for their best customers
• Provide access to ofﬁcers readily in person and/or by phone
In a larger community, this is fairly easy. For example, in Providence, with
a population of 400,000, I found three excellent candidates. In smaller communities, you may have to go farther aﬁeld and sacriﬁce the convenience aspect.
Approach the right person. This is usually a full vice president (everyone
else in a bank is an assistant vice president, a title apparently given out in lieu of
raises) in a department such as “personal banking,” “professional lending,” or the
like. An introduction from your advisor will shortcut the process. If you don’t
have this luxury, ﬁnd the speciﬁc name, write a letter explaining that you’d like
to meet to discuss your business and a possible banking relationship, and follow
up with a phone call for the appointment.
Your attitude should be that of a careful buyer. The bank will be lucky to
have you, so you want to make sure that you choose the right bank. Provide the
documentation from your advisor and your own rolling projections and ﬁnancial statements. Make it clear that you intend to move at least your business
accounts to the bank you select, and probably a great deal of your personal business as well.4 Share your business strategy in detail, preferably in writing. Show
the banker the articles you’ve published, the clients with whom you work, and
examples of your projects. Provide speciﬁc client references and a press kit, just
as you would for a prospect. And bring the last several years’ tax returns for
yourself and your business. Illustrate the growth you’ve achieved and the growth
you’ve projected for the next few years, backed up by the ﬁgures and projections.
Then settle back and ask what the bank can do for you. Don’t be anxious.
Explain that you’re exploring several alternatives. Ask about key services, such as
overdraft protection, cashing foreign checks if and when you do business internationally, wiring funds, notarizing documents, and so on. You are not looking for a loan.
You are seeking a relationship that will support your growth. Let the banker sell you.
You should work as hard at establishing this relationship as you would with
any client. After you establish it, keep your banker on the mailing list you use
for promotion. Have lunch together once every other month. Provide yearly tax
returns and ﬁnancial statements, as well as updates on your rolling projections,
without being asked.
Depending on the size of your business and the nature of your collateral,
try to begin with a minimum of $50,000 dedicated to your business credit line.
4 Minor digression: you don’t want all your business at one bank for pragmatic economic reasons. Maintain a small second business account elsewhere, and divide your personal accounts as well.
Your ﬁnancial advisor should provide an intelligent diversiﬁcation of funds for you locally. I currently
use three banks, one local, one regional, and one national, and am a special customer at each.

292

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Always aim for the upper limit. Remember, you don’t have to use it, but it’s difﬁcult to increase it under desperate circumstances. Every year, when you submit
updated ﬁnancials to your banker, explore the possibility of raising the limit.
When you are trying to borrow $1,000 at a time, bankers will regard you
as a minor bureaucratic fact of life and demand that you jump through hoops.
However, when you have the capability of borrowing hundreds of thousands of
dollars of the bank’s money, representing a sizable risk and a sizable piece of business, you and the bankers are in it together. Ironically, the more you borrow, the
more you’re in control.
The ﬁrst thing I did when I received a $100,000 credit line was to borrow
$25,000 against it for a month and pay it back along with the interest charge.
I wanted my company and my banker to get used to the process.

Case Study
I had fallen into a rut in dealing with my principal bank
over 10 years and assumed that I was receiving top-ﬂight
service. The inconveniences I experienced I tended to write
off as unavoidable.
Finally, after one royal pain during a transaction, I
asked my ﬁnancial advisor to look around for me. He found
a major bank that was eager to have my business. Not only
did it give me a better business deal, but it reﬁnanced my
mortgage at a better rate, provided a better credit card
deal, and supplied higher interest on my money market
funds, both professionally and personally.
The moral: don’t become complacent. Continue to search
out better deals. Loyalty is ﬁne, but proﬁt is better.

THE HYDRODYNAMICS OF CASH FLOW
The rules of incoming cash ﬂow are as follows:
Rule 1: Cash must ﬂow in at a rate in excess of cash ﬂowing out, and
this excess must represent sufﬁcient funds to cover your total personal
and professional needs, as detailed earlier, down to the “slush fund.”
Rule 2: If you adhere scrupulously to Rule 1, there are no other rules
that mean a thing.

THE MILLION DOLLAR PARTNERS

293

Are there any questions? Well, there must be, because small businesses fail
at an alarming rate, and consulting businesses are no different.
The most direct way to manage the ﬂow-in portion of your equation is
to monitor receivables meticulously. A receivable is, quite simply, a payment due
from a client that has been billed but not yet paid. If it is never paid, it becomes
a bad debt and disappears from your revenue column. In 23 years and millions
of dollars of business dealing with the largest ﬁrms on the planet in long-term
consulting relationships and with tiny businesses that purchase my books and
downloads, I’ve never had one unpaid bill of any type or any amount. None. Not
one. Niente.5

COLLECTING RECEIVABLES
Here is the time range for collecting receivables in order of priority:
• Prior to commencing work
• In full on commencement
• Part on commencement, balance in progress early
• In progress
• In progress and at conclusion
• At conclusion only
• Delayed after conclusion
• Contingent on certain results
• Never

Prior to Commencing Work
I’ve mentioned in earlier chapters the beneﬁts of offering a discounted fee for early
payments in full. If you are signing a contract that requires about nine months of
elapsed time for implementation at $100,000, for example, a 10 percent discount
nets you $90,000 thirty days prior to commencement. The compounded interest
earned on this money over a year at even a 2 percent rate of return would be about
$1,800, not to mention the far greater ﬂexibility in your cash management and less

5 My greatest challenge was a $50 bill for abstracts sent to a department at Rutgers University.
After six months, I wrote directly to the president and got my money. The purchasing department
hadn’t appreciated that I am an alumnus and still had some connections.

294

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

administrative work in billing and follow-up.6 Finally, if the money is in your bank
account, no amount of client reorganization, buyer departure, or economic downturn can threaten your payments. This is simply a wise move every time.
Note: Many organizations have internal policies that demand that any discounted offer be accepted. You must offer such an option to trigger the system.

One Percent Solution: You won’t be paid in advance if you
don’t ask. Suggest to your buyer that the project cannot be
canceled if the funds are already committed and paid. And
remember, if you’re charging by the hour or some other time
unit, you should put this book down and move away from it.
You’re an amateur, and you might get hurt here.

In Full on Commencement
This is a highly desirable arrangement that may be worth a 5 percent discount
in your fee. You are losing a month’s interest based on the preceding formula,
and if the check isn’t ready, you will probably have to begin implementation anyway because your time and resources are committed. (When you are paid prior
to commencing, you have at least 30 days to communicate with the client that
the fee has not been received as speciﬁed in the agreement, and the discount may
be withdrawn.) There are some clients who pay in this manner without a discount because it’s easier for their ﬁnancial administration and because of excess
budget remaining at year-end or canceled projects that have created a budget
glut. You don’t know unless you ask. I’ve often been requested to accept partial
or full payments early as a favor to the client. I always manage to comply.

At ﬁscal year-end, many organizations have systems that
force units to spend unallocated budgets or face a reduction
in the following year’s budget. In these cases, you can be
paid well in advance without any discount because you are
actually doing your buyer a favor. Always be cognizant of
your client’s ﬁscal year and remaining budget.

6
Even if the full amount isn’t banked for the entire term, its presence prevents you from
having to use other funds—or worse, credit lines—that would cost you interest income or interest
payments.

THE MILLION DOLLAR PARTNERS

295

Partial on Commencement, Balance in Progress
This is by far the most common payment option. You should request at least
50 percent on commencement because your expenses will have to be borne by
your cash ﬂow (you won’t be billing expenses until the end of each month, and
the client will probably take at least an additional 30 days to pay them). I favor
billing the remainder as one payment in 45 days, or alternatively as two portions
of 25 percent each at 30 and 60 days or 45 and 90 days.
You want to avoid payment on completion whenever possible because too
many events outside your control can interfere with completion. (I once had an
entire operation burn to the ground.) Use calendar dates, not activity dates, to
determine the payment schedule. Explain to the client that you have to manage
cash ﬂow just as the client does, that unanticipated events can occur, and that
you’re sure the client doesn’t want to establish an incentive to ﬁnish rapidly rather
than thoroughly.

In Progress
We now enter the portion of the range that represents danger in cash-ﬂow management. If you collect your fees only in the course of the project’s progress,
then try to collect a healthy portion as soon as possible. Also, don’t establish
relative dates, such as “in 30 days.” Always establish absolute dates: “due on or
before July 9.” Otherwise, someone in accounts payable inevitably will claim that
the fee was due 30 days from some point 2 months later than you had meant. If
you are forced to collect in progress, try to avoid any portion being paid on completion, for the reasons stated earlier. Keep the number of payments to a minimum (six payments of $20,000 each is far better than ten payments of $10,000
each), and always send your statements 30 days in advance of the due date.

In Progress and at Conclusion
This is a double whammy—the last payment is subject to the problems of determining completion. The danger with in progress and in progress and at conclusion is that too many variables can change within the client company that can
jeopardize your outstanding payments. Try to establish calendar dates if you’re
stuck with this option.

At Conclusion Only
Never, ever accept such a contract for consulting work. Even if you trust the client implicitly, it is unprofessional and antithetical to the collaborative relationship-oriented
business we’ve espoused. Such payments tend to actually become contingency

296

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

contracts (see below), which have no place in intelligent cash-ﬂow management.
The only exception to this is when you are delivering a speech, workshop, seminar, or some similar short-duration service. In such cases, you may well bill after
the fact, including your expenses in one statement with your fee. However, this is
not consulting work, and I try to get paid in advance even for these brief assignments.7 (The briefer the assignment, the easier it is for the client to cancel it owing
to other priorities, which means that you’ve sacriﬁced several days of your time
in preparation and allocation for delivery.) As a rule of thumb, if the assignment
is over $5,000, it’s worth arranging a favorable payment schedule.

Digression
There is the famous (and stupid) question, “What happens if
you die?” (I call this the “beer truck question”: What
happens if you’re hit by a beer truck?)
I usually respond, “What happens if you die?”
The fact is, your estate will take care of all claims
against payment for work not performed. You have
insurance. Why don’t we focus on the future and not the
improbable? (The person asking that question is usually
lower level or someone with whom you haven’t established
much of a relationship.)

Delayed after Conclusion
This implies that the client either wants to see “how things are working” or has
serious cash-ﬂow problems of his own. Don’t accept this for any kind of work.
At best, it is a contingency agreement.

Contingent on Certain Results
Contingency fees have become more popular of late. The proponents claim that
such a fee is simply payment for performance. I believe that it’s the result of
desperation. Essentially, a contingency fee means that you get paid if certain
mutually agreed-upon measures are met. This can be something as objective
and measurable as a written performance evaluation system or as subjective and
nebulous as a reduction in controllable turnover. Although there are those who
7

I demand full payment on acceptance to secure a speaking date. Period.

THE MILLION DOLLAR PARTNERS

297

claim that contingency fees are higher than typical fees because they enable the
consultant to have a piece of the action, I think that they are inevitably lower
and harder to collect and that they seriously undermine cash ﬂow. The acceptance of a contingency fee really means that the consultant has never made the
conceptual sale and has never demonstrated how the client’s condition can be
improved. However, the client is certainly willing to take a “ﬂyer” that may not
cost anything, and the consultant badly wants the work. Hence you have not a
collaboration but a potential confrontation. Not only must you show that the
results have been achieved, but you also must convince the client that you alone
were responsible (“Come on, it would have happened anyway!”). Whenever I
see lawyers advertising about taking on personal accident claims with no payment “unless they win” (because value-based fees are alien to these hourly
billers), I picture mercenary soldiers. This is not the business I’m in.

Case Study
The worst part of contingency (or performance) fees is that
they invariably present conﬂicts of interest and ethical
quandaries. A colleague faced this problem: removing a vice
president of sales becomes an obvious long-term need, but
keeping him in place for another six months would take
care of the period on which my friend’s contingency was
largely based, so what do you do?
The client’s long term inevitably will suffer for the
consultant’s short term in contingency billing. This is why
contingency lawyers often pursue hopeless cases and/or try
to discourage their clients from agreeing to a settlement
early in the process.
Stay away from contingency billing, especially early in
your career.

Never
If you are not getting paid and your billing arrangements call for advance payment or in-progress payments, you certainly have the leverage to stop the project and resolve the situation. You’re better off losing the assignment than losing
both the assignment and your time and contributions. However, when you are
not scheduled to be paid until late in the game or after it’s over, you may ﬁnd
that you’re at risk of losing everything. (If your payment is 90 days late, assume

298

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

that you’re not going to get paid at all. This is not a harsh assessment. You are
being treated unprofessionally.) Since you have nothing further to lose, ﬁre your
heavy guns:
• Give the buyer one last chance by making it clear that you’re going
to the chief executive ofﬁcer (CEO) the next day.
• Approach the CEO of the entire organization directly by phone
and by certiﬁed mail. Request an immediate response, and let the
CEO know that you intend to seek legal recourse and publicize
the difﬁculty.
• If the contract is large enough to warrant it, have your attorney at
least “ﬁre a shot across the bow” to the client’s legal department and
again to the CEO.
• If the contract warrants it, sue. In my opinion, if you can sue for an
amount in excess of the unpaid bill, do so. If the client wishes to
settle merely for the actual amount due, accept but insist that the
client pay for legal fees.
I have never been in any litigation with clients at all. This is mainly due to
the quality of my clients and the quality of my work. However, in a couple of
instances, at least a partial reason for this was my clear, written billing procedures and payment schedules.
If you arrange intelligent billing options and work with the client in a
partnership orientation, you can avoid the major pitfalls that endanger cash
ﬂow. The way you establish the relationship will determine how much money
you collect and how early. Most consultants are their own worst enemy. The
only thing worse than having no business is having business that doesn’t pay
the bills.
A few words about retainers. Unlike legal retainers, which are really
deposits against future hourly billing, consulting retainers represent access to
your smarts. They should not represent projects, merely access. As we’ve previously discussed, there are three key variables:
1. Who has access (the buyer, the buyer’s team, or others)?
2. What is the duration (a month, a quarter, or a year)?
3. What is the scope (phone only, availability during eastern and
western business hours, unlimited e-mail, personal meetings)?
Once you know the answers, develop a monthly retainer to be paid on the
ﬁrst of each quarter. In other words, with a $10,000 monthly retainer, $30,000

THE MILLION DOLLAR PARTNERS

299

should be paid on the ﬁrst day of that quarter. You may discount that for longer
agreements, for example, six months for $50,000. Remember, this is access to
your smarts. Don’t start feeling guilty if you’re not called! No one feels guilty
when she doesn’t have to use her insurance policy.

Remember, you don’t develop the business by reducing
expenses; you develop it by maximizing income. The velocity
or speed at which you receive income is as important as the
volume that you generate. Never tolerate a client who owes
you money beyond the agreed-upon terms, and always make
those terms as favorable to you as possible. You are a
consultant, not a banker.

Never listen to “hard times” excuses from clients. Your bank won’t listen
to yours.

TWELVE CASH KEYS
While you don’t develop your business through Scrooge-like attention to
expenses, you can increase your ability to invest in growth strategies by avoiding unnecessary drains on your capital. The best time to examine expense controls is in good times, from a position of strength, not in bad times, from a
position of desperation. Here’s the mantra: selling the conference table is never
an appropriate decision.
I’ve assembled 12 techniques to help you build expense management into
a source of growth funds for your business strategies. Some may seem old
hat and others unreachable, but as you grow, all of them will apply at one time
or another.

1. Maximize the Number of Bills You Pay on Credit
Cards or Business Accounts
This enables you to refuse payment if goods or services were not delivered as
promised or if charged items could not be used. The credit card laws of this country are excellent: you have a legal right not to pay American Express or Visa if the
business that accepted your charge card did not provide its product or service to
your satisfaction.

300

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

How dramatic can this be? Well, anyone who charged tickets on a defunct
airline and was unable to use them when the company went under did not have to
pay for them if they were charged on a credit card. However, those who paid cash,
paid their travel agents, or used some other form of payment were stuck. I often
return airline tickets that have already been billed to my credit card accounts
because my plans change abruptly and it’s easier to buy entirely new tickets. When
the charge for the unused tickets appears on my bill, I simply ignore it (and inform
the credit card company of the return). However, if I had paid for the tickets, I’d
have to ﬁle for and await a return of the funds, which can take more than 90 days.
Don’t let anyone talk you into the “wisdom” of paying cash unless you
intend to sell consulting services from a pushcart in the street. Establish local
accounts with printers, ofﬁce supply stores, travel agents, and anyone else with
whom you regularly do business, and keep at least three major credit cards. At
year-end, most provide a complete summary of the year’s expenses, which can
be invaluable at tax time.

One Percent Solution: Any credit card charges in place that
you don’t pay in the current year are still tax deductible as
expenses in the current year. Make sure you make these
apparent to your tax people. This includes charges you can
see on your Internet access to your account, even if you don’t
have the physical bill in hand.

2. Pay All Local Vendors Promptly
I talked about this earlier: if you ﬁnd yourself in a cash squeeze, don’t put off the
local suppliers.
These are the people who can least afford disruptions in their cash ﬂow and
whom you will often need to provide last-minute frenzied help with a project. I’m
often told that I’m a pleasure to do business with not because of any special charm
but because I scrupulously pay bills on time. As a result, I’ve often been able to
jump the line at the local printer to get a rush project out or get a special date from
a video production house. Simply paying on time has become a sterling character
asset these days. If you must, put off Hertz or pay only a portion of the MasterCard bill, but always pay quickly close to home. (And it doesn’t hurt to send a present at the holidays, either.) This is why you have the bank credit lines, right? (Caveat:
Make at least minimum payments on time so as not to endanger your credit scores.)8
8 If you do receive a late charge, which are usurious, call the credit card customer service line.
It will almost always waive the ﬁrst transgression or even accept extenuating circumstances
(you were on a three-week trip to Europe).

THE MILLION DOLLAR PARTNERS

301

3. Make an Expense Budget, and Compare Your Actual
Expenditures Quarterly
Use major categories such as travel, ofﬁce supplies, insurance, telephone, memberships, and so on. After two or three quarters, you should be able to arrive at
your average expenses in these areas. Subsequently, comparing your actual outgo
with these averages can provide you with critical expense-management information. For example, you may well ﬁnd that your renewal and membership category
is inordinately high and realize that you’ve joined ﬁve airline clubs (which run
about $300 to $500 apiece nowadays). How many of them have you used in the
last six months? If you never ﬂy two of the airlines, drop them. Similarly, you
might ﬁnd overlapping insurance coverage, travel expenses that you neglected to
bill for reimbursement, or fax charges that aren’t yours.9
If you don’t have a budget, you’re at a disadvantage when you try to compare the actual expenses against reasonable criteria. When you’re growing, it’s
easy to overlook the “budget bloat,” so make it a point to build such scrutiny into
your quarterly activities. (I most frequently ﬁnd errors in rental car bills, local
limousine bills, and any billing that covers a period in excess of one month.)
There are several excellent computer programs that allow you to track and compare expenses at minimum effort, often keyed to your checkbook.
Your bookkeeper should provide a monthly report on current income and
expenses and compare them with last year’s, both per month and year to date.

4. Use a Travel Agent, and Make Your Travel
Preferences Clear
Don’t waste $500 of your personal time trying to save $25 on a hotel rate. Tell
the agent how you prefer to travel (ﬁrst class, ﬁrst class but only with free
upgrades, best coach fare nonpenalty, best coach fare no matter what, or whatever you prefer) and where you prefer to stay (closest hotel to the client, only in
Marriotts, in the least expensive place within ﬁve miles, or whatever). Give the
agent all your club membership numbers, and sit back and run your business.
The agent is being paid to be valuable to people like you. Not only should you
be able to simply give the agent a general itinerary, but you should expect periodic perks that the agent is capable of providing, such as free upgrades, discounted travel opportunities, and so on. Use only one agent, and expect excellent
service. Keep moving until you ﬁnd one with whom the chemistry is perfect.
My travel agent saves me tens of thousands of dollars of my time and money each
year and gives me a gift at the holidays. (There were two owner’s suites on the
9 Certain credit cards, such as Amex Platinum or Black (by invitation only), provide access
to airline clubs, making separate membership unnecessary and saving you sometimes thousands
of dollars.

302

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

cruise ship Norway. I spent $4,000 less than the guy who had the other one
because my travel agent knew enough to register me for free in the Norwegian
Cruise Lines Club and take the instant discount that comes with membership.)
Travel agents are being squeezed badly by the airline and hospitality
industry. They need consistent clients.

Digression
The Internet services such as Orbitz have proved to be less
than ideal for ﬁnding good deals and are totally
nonresponsive to problems and questions. Travel agents can
generally do as well, and if you’re worried about their $50
commission, you’re not on the way to becoming a million
dollar consultant.
Amex offers an excellent travel service that is available
24 hours a day, which is superb for emergency changes
around the world.10

5. Pay Your Bills Twice a Month at Single Sittings
If you pay them more frequently—for example, as you receive them—you tend
to lose track of the big picture in terms of total outgo each month. (Firms such
as UPS and FedEx will bill you each time you use their service, so you might
have several bills from each every 30 days. It’s nice to know the total you’re
paying, and it’s less hassle to pay twice instead of ﬁve or six times a month.) If
you pay less often, you’re likely to miss some due dates, especially if your travel
schedule takes you away during your normal bill-paying time. Also, a single session can be onerous if a great many bills pile up.
Match up credit card receipts with the billing statement (I’ve found unauthorized use of a commercial credit card and telephone credit cards). Minimize
your bill-paying legwork: if some ﬁrms accept direct bank transfers, you can
reduce your paperwork; at least have address labels prepared for those that don’t
provide return mailers; the more you can arrange for expenses to appear on a
10 While sailing in the Mediterranean from Naples to Capri, I received a message that my
daughter had given birth three months prematurely. I made one call from our hotel on Capri to
Amex Centaurian Black Card travel service. In 20 minutes, the remainder of our vacation had been
canceled, and we had three limos, a ferry, two airplanes, and a New York hotel suite, where we arrived
the next evening to see our new grandchildren the following morning, both of whom did just ﬁne.
You cannot put a price on that kind of service and peace of mind.

THE MILLION DOLLAR PARTNERS

303

single or a few major credit cards, the easier it is to write a single check instead of
dozens. Of course, many people pay directly on the Internet.

6. Try to Buy Equipment (rather than Lease or Rent It),
and Pass Up Long-Term Service Contracts
If you buy your computer, fax machine, copier, phones, and other major equipment, you can take certain business deductions (or depreciation, depending on
the amounts and your accountant) immediately and avoid long-term payments
that eat into cash ﬂow. (If you must, use your bank credit line to purchase
that expensive copier that will increase your productivity, and pay it off as cash
ﬂow permits.)
Purchase service contracts or insurance only in those cases that make sense.
For example, my postage scale calculates rates based on class of service, weight, and
prevailing rates. I’m insured against rate changes in that Pitney Bowes will send me
new software to reﬂect any changes in return for my yearly premium. Otherwise,
the cost could be excessive in the case of multiple rate changes. However, I don’t
carry a maintenance contract on the postage meter because the chances of a problem are remote, in my experience, and the repair costs aren’t excessive anyway.11
Avoid a procession of monthly bills representing payoffs on a dozen pieces of
ofﬁce equipment.

7. Request Prepayment of Expenses as well as Fees
With certain set arrangements (for example, you are delivering six workshops a
year at the same site in exactly the same manner), you can predetermine your
expenses and request payment in advance. While airline fares can vary, an alert
travel agent can usually protect you, and if the client pays in advance, you have
the luxury of advance purchases or interest gathering in the bank. Unlike with
fees, you can reach an agreement with the client that any project cancellation
will generate a return of the prepaid expense reimbursement.
You have no idea what billing terms are acceptable to a client unless you
ask. The answer may surprise you.
With such “set situation” work, over half of my clients will pay the fee and
travel expenses in advance, especially if I make my reduced fee offer contingent
11 As a general practice, ﬁnd a high-quality rental source for key ofﬁce equipment in the event
of breakdowns. The time for this search is when you aren’t experiencing breakdowns. Your computer printer will fail, as a rule, exactly when your most critical client report is due. You’ll want to
be able to access your phone directory and call the rental people immediately and not waste time
trying to determine if such services exist. (I also use local Apple repair rather than sending the computers to Apple, which takes four times as long.)

304

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

on payment of full expenses in advance as well. You simply don’t know what the
client will accept unless you ask. (I recommend that you deposit all prepaid
expenses that are not immediately expended on advance purchases into a separate, interest-bearing account that you do not otherwise access. Success in this
technique has a pitfall, in that you can spend thousands of dollars in advance
expense reimbursements months before you incur the actual debt, resulting in
disproportionate outgo later on.12)

8. Don’t Forget to Ask, “What’s the Absolutely Best
Rate (or Deal) You Can Give Me?”
Not only do airlines, hotels, and rental car companies have bewildering hidden
deals that you can mine with a good shovel, but local vendors also will often
negotiate if you simply ask the question. In those cases where you don’t use a
travel agent, ask the reservations clerk what the absolute best rate is—not what
you might qualify for. Then work with the clerk to determine how you can
qualify for it. I’ve called the same airline four times, spoken to four different
agents, and received—you guessed it—four different rates. I accepted the
best offer.
If you merely ask the local printer or graphic artist or computer store
manager, “How much?” he understandably will give you the best rate for him.
However, if you ask, “What’s the best you can do for me here?” he will tend to
give you the best rate for you. The more you patronize the business, the
better deal you should expect.
On one trip, I ﬂew ﬁrst class on American Airlines, stayed in a suite at a
Hyatt Hotel, and drove a luxury Hertz car, all without coupons or frequent-traveler awards. The airfare and hotel cost me no more than full coach fare and full
rate on a regular room. Only the car cost more than a smaller one, but it did
come with a navigation system at no additional charge.

9. Don’t Prepay Your Own Bills
Certain otherwise excellent institutions will bill you months in advance. While
I admire their intent, I have no intention of helping them out.
For example, the American Management Association and the American
Society for Training and Development will bill your renewal membership about
12 I can calculate rental cars, hotels, and incidentals in addition to airfare with signiﬁcant accuracy. If I’m $100 or so worse off, it’s still worth it to have received early payment. If I’m $100 or so
to the better, I return it to the client with a note of explanation. This generates substantial goodwill.
Million dollar consultants don’t concern themselves with a couple of hundred dollars one way or the
other on expenses.

THE MILLION DOLLAR PARTNERS

305

four months in advance. Either stick the bills in a tickler ﬁle for the appropriate month or throw them out. Rest assured that you’ll receive others. Business
publications also will bill far in advance to ensure “uninterrupted service.” My
experience is that even publications I drop keep sending me issues after the
expiration date in an attempt to lure me back.
You might want to drop a membership (such as the excess airline clubs
mentioned earlier) or change some provisions. It’s tough to do this once the check
has been cashed. Pay your bills on time, but not before time.

10. Establish a Clear, Written, and Signed Expense
Policy with Your Employees and Subcontractors
Specify what you will pay for by type (Holiday Inn or equivalent lodging),
amount (daily meal charges, a maximum of $60), and policy (taxis to and from
airports and clients unless rental car rates are less). Demand that expenses be
turned in monthly (or more frequently) with complete receipts, and promise
reimbursement within a reasonable period. (I ﬁnd 10 days to be reasonable
and “when the client reimburses me” to be unreasonable.) While using your
corporate credit card and travel agent is helpful, you also want to avoid inappropriate charges on those cards, so make sure that there are criteria for
the card’s use (always for air travel; never for incidentals). One subcontractor
kept calling her lover on my credit card, and when they quarreled, my phone
expenses tripled.
I ﬁnd that subcontractors and employees are rarely dishonest, but that there
can be large areas of misunderstanding. You are protecting all parties by specifying the policy on phone calls, local secretarial services, weekend travel, and so
forth. My practice is to have anyone who travels on my behalf sign a brief statement of expense reimbursement policies and the person’s agreement with them.
In return, I pay promptly and always give the beneﬁt of the doubt (“The personal calls were to my husband, whom I forgot to tell about the babysitter being
rescheduled so that . . . ”).

11. Use the “Envelope Approach”
As explained earlier, plan for funding your retirement, living expenses, impulse
buys, and so on. That’s often best done by establishing separate bank accounts
into which you deposit the appropriate cash.
This isn’t much different from the envelopes we used to put rent money or
vacation funds in when we were very young, but it works on the same principle,
and it will direct cash to the right purposes; it will also enable you to tell when
you’re shortchanging yourself in any one category.

306

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

12. Examine What You’re Giving Away
I began my seven-ﬁgure Mentor Program in 1996 when it dawned on me that I
was providing a lot of free help in the wake of the publication of the original version of this book! I wondered if people would pay. I tried it. They did. They still
are. Some of you reading this will join my Mentor Program.
Review everything that you give away: advice, products, downloads, services, responses, and so on. Then ask yourself, “Would they pay cash for this?”
The ﬁrst sale is to yourself.
In managing capital, it’s not what you make—it’s what you keep. If you’re
successful in keeping most of it, you can invest in accelerating your growth to
dramatic heights.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. Can I have a retainer arrangement and also charge for projects concurrently in the
same account?
A. Of course. Just be clear that each represents different value, one is for access
to you and the other for actual work with the client.
Q. Is it wise to invest in certiﬁcates of deposits or bonds that deliver a higher return but
require minimum investment periods?
A. Only if you have no other use for the money. The difference in return is
negligible in many cases unless you’re talking about hundreds of thousands
of dollars. You’re not in the money-management business. Don’t lose sleep
just because someone else is making an additional $250 in interest.
Q. What if the client has policies about not paying until certain junctures?
A. You can have policies, too. Stress to your buyer that you are a small business
that is highly dependent on cash ﬂow, and guarantee the quality of your work
(not the results, which depend on many independent variables).
Q. What do I do with clients who tend to balk at paying so much in advance, just because
it’s their nature not to do so?
A. You can always compromise on payment terms (but never on the fee itself ),
but if you begin with terms that are optimally beneﬁcial to you, any compromise is likely to be very favorable in any case.

THE MILLION DOLLAR PARTNERS

307

Q. Does it ever make sense to delay cash?
A. Yes, at year-end, if your ﬁnancial advisor recommends it. In that case, ask
your client to delay payments until January, since you don’t want to have
additional income in the current ﬁscal year. Be careful: if you have received
the check but just don’t cash it, it’s still income.

Final Thought: Merely by being scrupulous about cash ﬂow,
you can add tens of thousands of dollars to your bottom line
without attracting additional business. Don’t be so happy
that you obtained the business that you forget that you are
in business. This means maximizing your payment terms
and cash ﬂow. The client won’t do it for you.

CHAPTER
15

GR ACEFUL GROWTH
GROWTH DOESN’T ALWAYS
EQUAL EXPANSION

ENHANCE YOUR PRESENCE
A few people have taken me to task over the years for not writing the book that
they wanted me to write—how to build a solo practice into a larger ﬁrm that
ultimately can be sold to a still larger ﬁrm. The fact that such a model was never
my intent didn’t seem to inﬂuence the few benighted people who don’t seem to
“get it.” ( Just as a few readers always demand that I correct something in print
“immediately.” Sure, send me the book and I’ll make the correction.)
I’m writing for solo practitioners to enable them to get to a critical point
and a highly rariﬁed one at that: $1 million and above in annual billings for their
practice. It is no minor point that in this fourth iteration of this book, 17 years
after the original, million dollar consulting is still a lofty goal, and I haven’t had
to rename the work Two Million Dollar Consulting.1 It’s also important to understand that a million dollars is what it used to be—a great living for a solo practitioner with little overhead. In fact, such an income will place you in the top
2 percent of the entire U.S. population in terms of income.
Unless you have a personal objective to build a large ﬁrm, surround yourself with the accoutrements of size and mass, and build the equity in the company to the point where you own a valuable business (or a share in one), there is
no intrinsic personal ﬁnancial beneﬁt in linear growth. The highest revenue per
professional I’ve seen on lists published by Kennedy Information’s research arm
was $760,000 from First Manhattan Consulting Group in the late 1990s. Many
ﬁrms were under $200,000 per professional.

1 In fact, for the ﬁrst time, I’ve been able to convene a Million Dollar Club, which will be
having it’s third annual meeting around the time this book comes out. There are a dozen of us, and
we’re growing. When I was asked about doing this 10 years ago, I offered to hold the meetings in
my Ferrari—a two-seater!

308

GRACEFUL GROWTH

309

How do you adequately reward people for their talents at this level of productivity, let alone compensate them for unceasing travel and long hours, once overhead and related expenses are deducted? I have always been of the view that the
sole reason to work for a major consulting ﬁrm was the opportunity for partnership and equity, and if this is your personal and professional goal, then go for it.
Be advised, however, that this is not my model, not the subject of this book,
and not the best way to get rich.

One Percent Solution: If you agree that discretionary time is
real wealth, then you can easily see that simply maximizing
income, despite personal and family sacriﬁces, can actually
decrease your wealth. Be careful about that.

If your objectives are to earn a high income while helping clients to
improve their condition—in other words, to support your family and your aspirations while engaging in constructive and valuable work—then your chances of
fulﬁlling this goal are immeasurably greater if you are running your own small
ﬁrm (small meaning just you or with a few others). You don’t have to wait years
for a portion of the ownership because you already have all of it. You are not
reliant on colleagues’ productivity or management’s strategic decisions, and you
absolutely control how much money you keep.
Ask virtually any professional—doctor, attorney, accountant, architect, musical director, writer, and so on—and they will all tell you the same thing: it’s far
better to earn $100,000 working for yourself than it is to earn $150,000 working
for someone else. And when you begin to earn $300,000 or $500,000 or
$1,500,000 working for yourself, the opportunities increase geometrically because
the discretionary income of your ﬁrm and yourself becomes so powerful.

Digression
As a solo practitioner, with expenses reimbursed by the
client, your top line is really your bottom line. That is,
except for some modest marketing and ofﬁce expenses,
you keep what you make. That’s a tax problem, but it’s a
wonderful one, and it’s better than a business problem.
If you don’t look at your business in this manner, then
why are you incurring the risks of a solo practice?

310

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

The general business community probably hasn’t heard of you, but all
you’re interested in for the moment is growing to $2 or $3 million.2 How can
you intensify the ﬁrm’s proﬁle so that such revenue goals are realistic and your
key prospective buyers begin to perceive you as a million dollar business?
Here are the major methods I’ve found to intensify your proﬁle. Your perceived proﬁle will inevitably be a diminution of what your ﬁrm actually is unless
you actively manage and intensify that image. You may call this public relations,
image building, marketing, or exposure. I call it Million Dollar Consulting
Orchestration: if you don’t blow your own horn, there is no music.

1. Author or Coauthor Scholarly Research
I’ve discussed in earlier chapters the merits of publishing articles. In this instance,
I’m concerned more with academic work that will validate your approaches and
sanction you as an authority. One of the methods I used was to pursue my doctorate in organizational psychology (late in life, it’s not a direct marketing aid,
but an indirect one), recruit several key clients as “laboratories,” and keep all my
clients abreast of my progress and my ultimate degree. Excerpts from my dissertation have been published or cited in the popular press, and I made copies of
it available to any client or prospect who was interested (or whom I could make
interested).3
There are other, somewhat less grueling methods to produce work in this
arena. It is usually highly attractive to university professors to collaborate with
consultants on research papers. In fact, it’s often a marriage made in heaven. The
professor must publish anyway, and she has a raft of theories and beliefs honed
from years of reading, research, classroom discussions, and—heaven forfend—
part-time consulting. You, on the other hand, aren’t well versed in the rigors of
scholarly research, but you have clients who can serve as laboratories or databases,
as well as observations and theories based on pragmatic, real-life experiences and
the time and motivation to collaborate with the professor. These collaborations

2 I’ve found that 9 times out of 10, people to whom I’ve just been introduced who tell me
that they’ve heard of Summit Consulting Group, Inc., either are confusing us with someone else
or are under the impression that they ought to have heard of us and don’t like to admit that they
haven’t.
3 I’ll be discussing international expansion in Chapter 18, but I want to mention here that
advanced degrees—and particularly Ph.D.s—are not critical in obtaining work in the United States,
but are very helpful in securing work in the Far East, some parts of Europe, and other places. I pursued a nontraditional course of work, which included three Fortune 500 clients in my research, a
year on a suicide hotline, board work on a shelter for battered women, speeches to the American
Psychological Association, and so forth. After all that, I had my dissertation rejected and had to
resubmit, then got into an argument at my oral defense. My wife told me to stop whining and get
things done.

GRACEFUL GROWTH

311

often produce work that appears in refereed journals, which constitute one of the
most serious and validated publishing outlets.
The purpose of such publishing, whether solo or in partnership, isn’t to
establish yourself as an academic. In fact, you don’t want the proﬁle to be one of
monastic theory without practical application. It is, however, to establish you as
a recognized, credible source within a community with strict standards for intellectual honesty and disciplined research. This kind of proﬁle will attract and
impress executives; it is also useful in winning over the occasional academic who
happens to be a senior executive of a prospective client.

2. Present Papers, Theories, and Findings
at Conferences
This too is different from the public speaking I advocated earlier. Those were
paid speeches before groups that comprised high-potential buyers of your services. In this case, I am speaking about professional conferences that may not
have a potential buyer within 50 miles.
There are thousands of major conferences held every year on behalf of
every imaginable professional group.4 They usually pay very little or nothing
to most presenters, and you’ll often have to foot the travel bill as well. However, the opportunity to present your ﬁrm’s work on “Strategic Planning for
the Commercial Banking Industry in Recessionary Times” or “Motivation of
the Workforce through Nonparticipative Management” (remember contrarian
consulting from Chapter 12) will enhance your proﬁle signiﬁcantly. These
proceedings generally produce papers, recordings, reprints, summaries, new
accounts, and similar summaries of their output.
You will have to appeal to the organizing committees of these affairs up to
a year in advance. It’s a good idea to put all of them that are relevant on your
general mailing list (see Chapter 6) so that they can call you when they happen
to see that your work lends itself to a future theme of their conference. The work
is well worth it because it is highly credible to cite these presentations in your
ﬁrm’s materials and because the various summaries of your material can be reproduced and distributed as part and parcel of your press package as appropriate.
Moreover, there is a centrifugal force at work that will tend to retain you within
the orbit of these conferences once you have presented to strong response. You
will ﬁnd yourself on the groups’ mailing lists, requesting papers and future presentations.

4
I attended an awards banquet one year for exceptional service in the water treatment
industry, and the top honoree of the evening, after acknowledging prolonged applause, began his
acceptance speech by deadpanning, “It’s true. Sludge is my life.”

312

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

3. Appear on Radio Talk Shows (and Television
if You Can)
Appear in this sense is a misleading term. There are public relations, media, and
image-building ﬁrms in this land that can place you on radio talk shows with
considerably more ease than you imagine. For a modest fee, which can range
from as low as $200 for a local-exposure talk show to $2,500 or more for a
syndicated, national show, the ﬁrm will arrange for a brief (5- to 20-minute)
interview, which may also include some listener call-in questions. In most cases,
you provide a synopsis of the type of work you do (that is, whatever you want
to promote at the time: your strategy work with large companies, your motivation work with small ﬁrms, your newest book on leadership, and so on) and a
list of a dozen or so questions that the host should ask you. This serves the dual
purpose of making the talk show host appear to be knowledgeable about your
business and approaches and focusing the conversation on your highest-proﬁle
potential.
And now the appearance part. Most of these shows conduct the interview—no matter where the station and the host are located—over the telephone, with you sitting in your ofﬁce (or at the pool). Through the magic
of modern communications, your interview and any questions and answers
with listeners are completed without so much as a car ride being required.
Although many of these shows may have only local appeal and/or poor demographics for your work, by choosing a good media ﬁrm, carefully selecting the
shows, and being very patient, you can achieve some penetration of relevant
markets.5
However, the most important beneﬁt is the ability to cite your appearance
on the Minneapolis Today radio show speciﬁcally to discuss your work in conducting customer focus groups or your interview by WWXR in Chicago that
focused on your work in increasing sales force productivity. These are highly
beneﬁcial instances to include in your literature and to politely drop into conversations with prospects.
These ﬁrms can also place you on television talk shows. The investment is
still less than you’d expect—perhaps around $1,000 per placement—but the key
is that you must have a dramatic and unique story to tell. Don’t despair. If you
watch the TV talk shows during any given week, you’ll ﬁnd that they desperately
need people with decent stories to tell, and there’s no reason why yours can’t be
one of them.

5

Or do it yourself, using a source such as Radio and TV Interview Reporter (RITR).

GRACEFUL GROWTH

313

Warning: Let me state that you should not pay to “host” a
TV show on cable, “host a radio talk show,” or appear in a
book with “big name authors.” These are scams, often
perpetrated with recognizable names. Steer clear. They are
worthless except to the parasites who feed off the egos of
those drawn to 10 seconds of “fame.”

Case Study
I advertise every year in Expertclick.com, both online and in
hard copy. I am interviewed frequently because these
sources are accessed by assignment editors, producers,
reporters, and so on.
After the original Survivor television show in 2000, I
was asked by a New York Post reporter, who found me in
that resource, to comment on the management techniques
that the winner, Richard Hatch (who called himself a
“corporate trainer” and later went to jail for tax evasion on
his Survivor prize money), had used to earn his million
dollar prize.
Not only was I liberally quoted in the Sunday edition,
but I also was cited as “one of the most highly respected
independent consultants in the country.” Similarly, Success
magazine once called me “a worldwide expert on executive
education.” These citations went into my press kit in about
nine seconds and are timeless in their applicability and
credibility.
This is how you can leapfrog any larger ﬁrm or
competitor on the radar screens of buyers, becoming a
bigger blip than you otherwise might appear.

Another excellent source is PRLeads.com, which allows you to tailor the
kinds of reporters’ inquiries you receive on a daily basis.

314

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

4. Place “Nonadvertisements”
I don’t advocate advertising as a useful promotional tool for a consulting ﬁrm,
although I do believe in appearing as an endorser or supporter. (“Summit Consulting Group, Inc., proudly supports the efforts of Save the Bay.”) However,
there are occasions when a “nonadvertising” advertisement can make sense.
I look at these as informative efforts, as opposed to promotional efforts.
You are, in fact, informing readers that “this is the proﬁle of my ﬁrm.” One good
instance occurs on anniversaries: “The Delpha Consulting Company wishes to
thank all its clients and friends for their continuing support on this our tenth
anniversary.” A display ad of this type in magazines most relevant to your targeted demographics helps to create a perception about your proﬁle. Such an ad
is often accompanied by a client list and examples of projects completed or ﬁelds
of expertise. You can include a photo of your staff or you at work on a client site.
Another appropriate reason for an ad is to announce something. You might
announce
• That you are the recipient of a particular award or honor
• The addition of a notable professional to your ﬁrm
• An alliance you have formed with another organization
• A new toll-free number or additional ofﬁce location
• Congratulations to a client for a certain achievement or honor
• An annual conference or meeting that your ﬁrm is hosting
• Sponsorship of a charitable or nonproﬁt undertaking
• A new or additional site on the Internet
These types of ads shouldn’t be frequent, or they will be perceived as promotional advertisements despite their content. They are usually most effective
when they are done once or twice a year and without pattern. You are simply
being your own press agent in a low-key manner and inﬂuencing the perception
of your ﬁrm.

5. Seek Out and Apply for Awards and Honors
If you actively inquire, you’ll ﬁnd that there are a plethora of awards and honors in our profession, ranging from client interventions to papers published.
Outside of the famous MacArthur Awards ($500,000 grants to secretly nominated people in diverse ﬁelds), I know of no bestowing bodies that proactively
canvass the ﬁeld. Every award requires an application if the candidate is to be
considered.

GRACEFUL GROWTH

315

Thus, when you read of a call for papers in some journal, take the time to
determine if your work might lend itself to such a paper. If you ﬁnd a competition for “customer service quality,” explore whether you might collaborate with
a client to assemble an entry. After all, this is the ultimate win/win scenario.
Other practitioners of technique 4 probably will be “advertising” their winning efforts, so you need only be on the lookout for who won what under which
conditions. How can you compete in the future? And winning isn’t the only salutary outcome. Merely by competing, you will be able to examine your own practices, enhance your own standards, and increase your own proﬁle in the process.
You may win an “honorable mention” or a specialty award, which can be appropriately “advertised.” You can publicize the mere act of competing for a prestigious honor. (For example, for several years my ﬁrm was nominated in Inc.
magazine’s “most dramatically growing small ﬁrms” category.)
There is no grand arbiter who examines all companies for all practices and
makes bestowals and awards based on pure empirical evidence and absolute merit.
Neither the Olympics (Have you ever watched the diving or skating judges?) nor
the Oscars (How many comedies have won best movie?) are that impartial. You
must enter, compete, and keep trying. If you’re diligent and your work is worthwhile, eventually you will carry home an honor or two, and your “box ofﬁce”
value will be enhanced.

6. Diligently Send Out Press Releases
Press coverage of your activities is worth its weight in gold because an independent, objective source has seen ﬁt to comment on you or your work. Keep a
separate mailing list of newspaper and magazine editors (usually the business
editor, but this may vary depending on your slant), and alert them whenever
• You are appearing as a speaker in their area.
• One of your clients has completed a dramatic project with your help.
• You have earned an award or honor.
• You have published something of note.
• You have an internal publication that is of relevance to their publication.
• You have a ﬁnding that is of relevance to their readership.
• There is a signiﬁcant event in your ﬁrm’s history (for example, your
tenth anniversary).
• You produce a new product or offer a new service.
• One of your regular client mailings goes out.
• There’s a new development on your Web pages.

316

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Once you get to know the editors and the publications, you can begin to
customize the material to better pertain to their personalities and their readership. For example, some might prefer scholarly reports, whereas others may print
business surveys,6 and some accentuate CEOs’ observations. This technique
requires perseverance; most such releases don’t receive careful (or any) attention
at most times. Eventually, however, because you’ve hit the right combination or
because it’s a slow news day (sometimes it’s better to be lucky than good), you’ll
hit the print, and your proﬁle will bask in the growth.
Hint: Include a photo with press releases. Photos can often serve to ﬁll
a “hole” in the copy or formatting, making the editor more inclined to use
the piece. (The editor can always use the text and not the photo, so there’s no
harm done.)
The aforementioned Expertclick.com allows you to send out a free press
release every day as a beneﬁt of membership. It claims to have about 10,000
reporters, editors, assignment editors, talk show producers, and the like on its
contact list, and you can track “hits” if you’re particularly anal-retentive about
these things.

7. Conduct Independent Surveys
This is a simple and grossly overlooked method to enhance repute. All you
have to do is decide on an issue about which clients would appreciate some
information, arrange for a suitable survey to obtain it, and disseminate the
results.
Let’s hypothesize that your clients and prospects are concerned about turnover among newly hired college graduates, believing that there is a decline in
company loyalty among this group and that they must take extraordinary measures to retain these hires. You can send out a mail survey to your client base
(and if it’s not big enough, to similar organizations chosen at random) asking
questions about their experience with new hires, their efforts or lack of efforts
to retain them, comparisons with turnover among longer-tenured employees,
and so on. This is not a scientiﬁc survey but an anecdotal one (unless you choose
to use scientiﬁc rigor), and the results can be expressed as such.
In any case, you will be seen as a leading-edge factor in your ﬁeld. Organizations will often cooperate if you offer to share your results with them in
return for their participation and if you keep the survey simple, offering return
mailers and professional documents. Many publications are eager to print such

6 The Wall Street Journal is forever publishing items on its front page that begin, “A survey

by Acme Consultants reports that. . . .”

GRACEFUL GROWTH

317

results, and most organizations are happy to review them because they lend
perspective to current approaches. You are the perfect intermediary to provide
cross-organizational information of this type.
Surveys may cost you a few hundred dollars to create and interpret
(and are often amenable to online, automated systems), but you are under no
deadlines, and the work can be accommodated as time permits. This technique
is superb for establishing repute and a proﬁle that may be far greater than your
actual previous work in the area. (For years I was familiar with the ﬁrm Wyatt
Associates only because no less than the Wall Street Journal would excerpt a
variety of its survey results on its front pages.)

8. Launch Yourself into Cyberspace
You must have a professional Web site, complete with graphics, text, e-mail links,
and assorted bells and whistles, testimonials, audio, video, position papers, and
so forth. This can cost from $3,500 to over $10,000. (The site can be maintained
for a few hundred dollars a year on someone’s server.) If you’re a technological
consultant, you can probably attend to this yourself and save the money. If you
are not, pay someone to do it because trying to learn the ropes and do it yourself will cost $25,000 of your time. Besides, would you suggest to your clients
that they do their consulting themselves? No; call in the expert.
Try to maintain two e-mail addresses, one for your corporate mail, which
you put in your literature and business cards, and a personal address that you
release to special people. This helps overcome the impersonality of e-mail and
helps establish a priority for you when you’re rushed.
Don’t allow your Web presence to merely resemble everyone else’s. (And
by the way, no one likes to wade through pages of boring text on how good you
are or wait for umpteen pages of graphics to download so that your smiling face
can appear. Less is more.) For example, I have hundreds of free downloads on
my site, which can be read and downloaded by anyone who visits. Past articles
are archived and can be accessed readily.
My monthly newsletter, “Balancing Act”, is also archived there. I want
people to derive value from the visit, to have reason to return next month, and
to spread the word. Some Web sites have self-scoring tests, others have book
reviews, and still others contain puzzles.
If you’d like to visit my Web site for some examples or to order my newsletter, “Balancing Act: Blending Life, Work, and Relationships,” I’m at
http://www.summitconsulting.com. You can e-mail me at Alan@summitconsulting.com. My personal e-mail? Sorry, it really is for key clients and close
friends only.

318

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Digression
Blogs are very useful if you have a brand or some form of
repute, even if in a narrow niche. However, most blogs are
dreadful, poorly written, and poorly supported.
Social media platforms such as Twitter, LinkedIn,
Facebook, or whatever are just that: social media. For
consultants trying to reach corporate economic buyers,
they are a waste of time.
As a test, I currently have 1.5 million contacts on my
LinkedIn account (an experiment that I began six months
ago), and 99.9 percent of the communication has been
information about what people are doing, job hunts, silly
questions, and attempts to get my help from those who have
no intention of paying me for it. Worse, this can be a huge
time dump, which detracts from real and important
marketing gravity.
As we say in New York, fuggedaboudit.

ACTIVELY SEEKING PASSIVE INCOME
Multidimensional growth is a key component of ﬁnancial success, which in turn
supports the life goals that a career in consulting can sustain. Since we’ve reached
a point in this book that deals with exploiting success and capitalizing on such
growth, let’s spend some time examining passive sources of income. I call them
alternative sources because they are not a direct result of consulting engagements. For example, I’ve talked about the value of books and speeches and the
fact that they are lucrative in and of themselves, beyond the more immediate
marketing value. These are direct or active sources of income.
One growing source of passive income is from CDs, and even more from
MP3 downloads, podcasts, and similar products. There is an iPod-devoted, enormous self-help market that gobbles up audio offerings in subject areas ranging
from self-motivation and personal grooming to time management and managing
cultural diversity. Consultants who deal in virtually any area of management—
who have their clients as practical laboratories—and who may be publishing their
approaches in various print media are ideally placed to create audio offerings,
which are leveraged through the media noted earlier.

GRACEFUL GROWTH

319

Here is a great way to leverage (and grow) your brand by leveraging audio
and modern technology:
1. Schedule a teleconference. You can establish these inexpensively
through sources such as http://telephonebridgeservices.com/. You can
charge for this if you have a sufﬁcient brand and mailing list, or do it
for free if you are building your brand and mailing list (thus, this is a
two-sided beneﬁt, no matter where you are in your career).
2. Simultaneously record the teleconference as a podcast, using software
such as GarageBand, which is included with most Macs.
3. Create a download (MP3) version of the teleconference and an MP4
version of the podcast.
4. Sell these on your Web site and/or blog.
5. Create CDs from them, and offer those for sale.
6. When you have a sufﬁcient number (e.g., 6 to 12), offer the CDs in
an album or the downloads as a set.
7. Augment the audio products with text, graphics, slides, coaching,
e-mail access, or whatever. You can have a graphics designer create
artwork for both the electronic and the hard-copy versions.
The podcasts can easily go onto iTunes or similar sites.
To be perfectly candid, here are some drawbacks to be aware of:
• Promotion is difﬁcult. The business is highly competitive, and direct
mail is a science that can drain your time, focus, and resources.
Essentially, you need excellent databases of people who know you or
your work.
• The creation of the programming can be difﬁcult and time-consuming.
You have to organize your ideas in writing and then hope that they
translate well to recording. If you’re not used to this, you need to
practice it until it’s conversational and smooth.
• Your topics can become dated quickly, rendering the album obsolete.
Today’s “empowerment” can easily become yesterday’s “transactional
analysis.” Try to be timeless in your advice and examples.
• There is no endorsement other than your own credibility. No matter
how sound your credentials, it is clear that you have published the work
on your own behalf because you wanted to create and sell it. Therefore,
be sure to pack it and promote it in terms of value to the buyer.

320

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

One Percent Solution: Always remember that you’re in the
consulting business, not the publishing or audio business.
These passive income approaches are intended primarily to
gain you more major consulting business. Don’t focus on the
tail and forget the dog.

This brings us to my special recipe. I believe in synergies among your various focuses in the consulting business, and here is an example that has worked
splendidly for me. Whenever you make a speech in front of a major audience,
there is a 50–50 chance that it will be recorded. Associations and conventions,
for example, almost always have an agreement with a professional taping service
to record all sessions (even the smaller, concurrent ones) and then sell the tapes
to participants during the convention itself.7
These ﬁrms create an excellent master even from wireless lavaliere microphones. At smaller conventions or in-house management conferences, there is
often a sound engineer available to make professional recordings.
In your speaking contract with the client organization, always stipulate
that you will allow your speech to be recorded at no additional fee, provided
that you receive two complimentary copies of any recordings made. Many
speakers prohibit the recording of their talks, and others charge stiff fees for
the right to do so. Consequently, your trade-off is quite reasonable. After all,
your speech is your proprietary work, and recordings have been known to wind
up in other organizations’ and even other speakers’ material. No organization
has ever contested this clause in my contract, and many times I’ve stimulated
them into recording the session when they themselves hadn’t considered it
originally!

If the client isn’t considering taping your presentation, then
suggest that such a tape be made to leverage the client’s
investment. All you want in return for your permission is a
copy of the tapes.

7
When I appeared as the general session speaker for the American Newspaper Classiﬁed
Advertising Managers Association, for example, tapes of my speech were available for purchase in
the lobby within 30 minutes of my saying “thank you” to the audience.

GRACEFUL GROWTH

321

Note: All of this applies to video as well.
What you will walk away with is a live recording of your work and the
reactions of a live audience. You have to ensure that you do the following:
• Provide the person who introduces you with a written introduction,
and ask that it be read exactly as it appears. (Or, in the editing, dub
in a professional voice-over.)
• Carefully prepare your material with the knowledge that it will appear
on tape. (For example, if you generally use a visual aid at a key point,
it won’t be appreciated on tape unless you explain it or translate it into
an oral example.)
• Investigate whether the audience reactions will be picked up on the
recording equipment, and if not, see if you can make arrangements
for better audience pickup. (This is especially important if questions
and answers are a key part of your presentation—always make sure
that you repeat questions before responding to them.)
• Remove all references that will date the tape (current events,
television shows, movies, etc.)
For video:
• Have two cameras, one on the audience to splice in reaction shots.
• Be careful about your backdrop—I’ve critiqued videos of the speaker
in front of a mirror, in front of an emergency exit, and in front of an
indoor pool entrance complete with people in bathing suits.
• Wear clothing consistent with video—no loud stripes or checks, and
blue is better than white for blouses and shirts. Consider using
professional lighting and makeup people. And for goodness’ sake,
have your hair in place.
Read on in this chapter for still more video techniques.
I’ve found that spending 15 minutes with the technology engineers or top
manager on-site from the recording company is time well spent. I tell her that a
good recording will result in large-scale purchases from me and specify what
I’m looking for. This always results in careful attention and excellent results.
Once the recording has been made, listen to it (watch it) and decide how
to edit it. This may include all or some of the following:
• A professional voice-over introducing the tape, its subject matter,
and the setting; for example, “You are about to hear management

322

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

consultant, author, and speaker Alan Weiss deliver the keynote
address to the annual convention of the National Auto Dealers
Association, recorded live in Atlanta.” (Omit when the speech was
given because you don’t want to date the tape.) For video, include a
title screen. Consider generic background music, which you can
purchase.8
• Editing out of the thumps and whacks that occur when you
inadvertently pound the mike or drop a glass of water (or belch).
• Augmentation of the audience’s applause, laughter, and/or questions,
if needed.
• A professional voice-over with instructions to turn the tape over, if
required, at the end of side one and concluding the tape, reminding
the listener of who you are and providing the means to contact you
for further information.
• Background music to precede and follow the voice-overs.
I then have my graphic artist or the tape company’s artist prepare a simple
label with my logo, and I select an off-the-shelf album box that accommodates
the number of tapes I envision for that series. (They generally hold 2 to 12 tapes,
CDs, DVDs, and so on.)
(My partner in The Odd Couple workshops on marketing for professional
speakers, Pat Fripp, and I have a 12-CD, 100-page workbook album that we sell
for $150.)
Using these live recordings greatly reduces risks. First, you have the audience reactions, which helps to shape the eventual listeners’ reactions. Like the
music accompanying a movie, the audience helps the listener to know when to
laugh, when to “ooh and aah,” and when to reﬂect. Second, the live nature helps
to maintain the staying power, despite the topic. Third, the “recorded live” promotion adds tremendous credibility to the tapes. These are not tapes done by a
guru who feels that the world should pay to hear the message, but recordings of
a live speech made by an expert to people who paid to hear that message. You’re
simply doing prospective listeners a favor by making the message available to
those who happened not to be present.9
Finally, these live recordings are among the most powerful of all the promotional tools you’ll develop (and inﬁnitely more so than self-published products).

8 If you use someone else’s music, you will need permission and must pay fees to ASCAP.
9
Many professional speakers record their own speeches through the use of a cordless lapel
microphone and a high-quality cassette recorder that operates automatically. The equipment is available under trade names such as Freedom Mike, and the recording costs about $500 to $800 complete.

GRACEFUL GROWTH

323

You can have extras duplicated for very little money (as opposed to the entire
album). These “singles” provide high credibility to prospects when they appear in
the mail simply as a routine part of your press kit.
I knew that I was on the right track when a participant at a speech came
up to me and told me that he was happy to ﬁnally hear me in person. “My predecessor,” he said to my glee, “left one of your CDs in his desk, and I’ve listened
to it a half-dozen times over the past year.” The best part was that he kept telling
that story to everyone around him.

BUILD YOUR BRAND OR BRANDS
It’s never too early to begin thinking about brands and branding. A brand is simply that public perception with which potential (and current) customers identify
you. [See my book How to Establish a Unique Brand in the Consulting Profession (San
Francisco: Jossey-Bass/Pfeiffer, 2001) for details and speciﬁc strategies.]

One Percent Solution: A brand is a representation of
uniform quality.

• A brand can be a name: “Get me McKinsey & Co.”
• A brand can be an approach: “Get me the total management
quality guy.”
• A brand can be a trademarked identiﬁer: “Get me The Telephone
Doctor.”
• A brand can be an attribute: “Get me the Million Dollar Consultant
approach.”
Brands can be many things, but the objective of all the techniques is to
establish you as a particular value proposition in the eyes of the customer: reliable, experienced, relevant, consistent, and so forth. Think of the great brands:
Google, Coca-Cola, Levis, Nike, Kleenex, Mercedes. They evoke conﬁdence
and quality. And the owners of these brands are also constantly reinforcing and
protecting their brand.
Procter & Gamble, to name one famous example, has a multiplicity of
brands (the parent company is not really a brand itself ) that it actually allows to
compete against each other for shelf space and sales. Mercedes-Benz is one of

324

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

the great brand names (“We are the Mercedes-Benz of the ﬂorist business”), but
virtually no one knows that the parent company was for many years DaimlerBenz. On the other hand, executives readily shout into their speakerphones, “Get
me McKinsey!”
The moral of all this is that a brand is what you make it, and that brand can
be you, your services, your attributes, or a combination of factors. No matter
what your brand is or how many brands you develop, however, here are some
important guidelines for effective branding.

Eleven Techniques to Make Your Brand Indelible
and Memorable
1. Use it repeatedly. When you write an article, make a speech, converse
with a prospect, create a Web site, and/or engage in any other form
of business communication, always incorporate your brand. If your
brand is “The Financial Strategist,” casually write or comment that,
“The reason I’m called ‘The Financial Strategist’ is because of my
unique approach to. . . .” (If you don’t blow your own horn, there is
no music.)
2. Make it visual. Even if the brand is used only in words and type,
include it prominently in your collateral and electronic materials.
If it’s conducive to a logo or graphic, then use this avenue to
impress it in the mind of readers or viewers.
3. Trademark or register it if possible. Your name is, by deﬁnition, unique.
However, if you are “The Conﬂict Resolver,” explore a trademark
or registration mark, and then use it constantly. The Telephone
Doctor is such an example. The woman behind it is Nancy
Friedman, but her moniker is her uniqueness.
4. Use it as the title of a book or article. Virtually nothing will solidify a
brand like a book based on it. Just look at the “idiot” books on a
variety of topics. Or my book, The Million Dollar Consulting Toolkit.
It doesn’t hurt to use it as a speech title either.
5. Put it in your e-mail signature ﬁle. This is automatic once it is set up
and a no-brainer to sustain, but the volume of people associating
the brand with you will grow exponentially.
6. Create a product around the brand. This could be a CD, pamphlet,
booklet, manual, or even a game. I’ve seen people use mugs,
T-shirts, and bumper stickers (although I hate this stuff ).
7. Have clients endorse it. Obtain testimonial letters and blurbs that
speciﬁcally say, “Winning Negotiations’ was the ﬁnest experience
our management team has ever been through together.”

GRACEFUL GROWTH

325

8. Build a newsletter around it. Balancing act is a public-domain term
used by many people who work in the area of life balance and even
the name of a book or two (you cannot copyright book titles in the
United States). However, I’ve established a unique newsletter with
that title that has become phenomenally popular, reinforcing that
brand for me.
9. Be outrageous. My buddy Patricia Fripp, with whom I mentioned
I conduct The Odd Couple marketing seminars, has been a great
example for me of “over the top” marketing. As a result, I made it
known that I drive Ferraris and Aston Martins and Bentleys and
use those car names in my private e-mail addresses. As a result,
I developed the “Ferrari brand” associated with my consulting: high
quality and high performance (and very expensive). It has served me
better than I ever could have imagined.
10. Experiment and change brands. Few brands last forever amid changing
times, and new times create new needs. There is no scorecard on
your success rate with brands. Keep trying them out and changing
the ones that don’t seem to grab attention. Procter & Gamble,
Coca-Cola, and Mercedes-Benz (and I) all constantly introduce new
brands. What do you have to lose?
11. Use the Internet and search engines to promote the brand globally. Use the
phrase in every article, column, newsletter, posting, and other souce
that you can. Use Google alerts to tell you how often your brand
(and your name and company) are picked up and mentioned
elsewhere (and to make sure no one else is infringing on you).

BECOMING A “STAH”
There is a logical progression from audio to video. For those of you who are
about to skip this section because it is too far out, I would advise you to stay put.
Twenty years ago it was unusual for a consultant to be on audiotape, 10 years
ago it was unusual to do a videoconference, and 20 years from now it will be
common for consultants to be on a variety of currently unknown media. If you
can’t view change as opportunity, how will you ever get your clients to do so?
Being on video (DVDs, streaming video on the Web, YouTube, and so on)
serves several purposes, any one of which may apply to you:
• It is a marketing or “audition” device to acquire speaking engagements.
• It can be a passive income source: “Tom Jones on Leadership in the
New Millennium.”

326

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

• It can be a “leave behind” for appropriate consulting interventions.
• It can provide a skills-transfer medium for internal client consultants.
• It provides powerful credibility to refer to “my video on the subject
of . . .”
• It can serve in place of a published book.
• It can create repeat and “cult” following and, therefore, viral word
of mouth.
Convinced about the utility? If so, read on to learn how to be a star.
The best way to create a video is analogous to the creation of an audio: try
to be taped in front of a live audience. I’ve encountered a few conventions or
associations along the way that routinely videotape presenters, but many client
organizations also have the capacity to do so. I’ve been taped by many different
clients with facilities ranging from a company employee with a stationary camera in the rear of the room, to a production team brought in for the purpose, to
a professional stage with video shot from a projection booth and projected on
huge screens.10
Your best bet for video is to have a client tape a presentation. As with audio,
many clients are willing and able to do it, but they simply haven’t thought of it.
It’s your job to help them understand the value of creating such a tape to show
to people who couldn’t attend the session, people in distant locales, people who
join the organization in the future, and as a later point of reference for those
who do attend. You may be able to add more reasons, given the nature of your
talk and/or consulting project. These simple but accurate justiﬁcations are usually highly inﬂuential.
You must prepare your presentation to take advantage of the video medium.

One Percent Solution: Videotape clients giving you
testimonials and place these on your Web site home page.
This is the most dramatic video marketing tool that
I know of.

10 One was at what was then the Golden Nugget Casino, a client in Atlantic City that is now
known as Bally’s Grand. On one such occasion, I addressed casino management from the stage, and
several days later Frank Sinatra sang to the high rollers from the same spot. I was told to avoid the
video screens set ﬂush with the stage, which couldn’t be seen by the audience. They were installed
so that the song lyrics could scroll down while Mr. Sinatra sang, enabling him to glance down
to ﬁnd his place if he needed to. All I could envision was crashing through them in the middle of an
anecdote.

GRACEFUL GROWTH

327

Set up your talk to take advantage of the medium. This is much trickier
than audio, although even there you had to make some adjustments (for example, no lengthy nonverbal demonstrations). The absolute worst video sin is the
“talking head” syndrome. Nothing creates stupor faster than watching someone
on the screen stand in one place and talk for 30 minutes or more. Closely allied
to this horror is a person on video—a fairly sophisticated medium—using a
ﬂipchart or chalkboard—fairly primitive media—to illustrate points for the audience. Similar problems arise with slides and overhead transparencies because of
lighting issues.
Work with the client to best exploit the video format. Since you’ve suggested (or even if the client has suggested) the videotaping, invest a few hours
over the phone with the person who will be running the equipment. Find out
how many cameras will be used, where they will be placed, whether they can
zoom, if there are dead spots in the room, what the sound system will be, and
so on. Inform the operator of your plans for movement, visuals, and audience
participation, and carefully work out what can be covered effectively and what
cannot. Here are some guidelines for videotaping effectiveness from the speaker’s
perspective:
• Arrange to have your introducer included in the taping, and prepare
that person carefully for the introduction you want.
• Try to move across the front of the room and use physical gestures.
This means that you can’t be tied to notes, which must remain on the
lectern. Make sure that the camera can be panned in this fashion and
that the operator is prepared to move with you, not “catch up” with
you. (Depending on lighting, you may need a follow spot.) Alternate
close-up shots with long shots.
• Repeat any questions from the audience for the camera and
sound system.
• Try to have sound pickups to capture audience reactions. Or use
central mikes that they walk to (or circulate handheld mikes).
• Don’t wear a white shirt or blouse or a patterned suit. Conservative
dress comes across best because the medium somewhat exaggerates
colors. Navy blue is always a safe choice. (Black is always stylish
and it’s slimming, plus all accessories go with it. What’s not to like
about black?)
• Practice until you are smooth, but don’t worry about perfection.
Correct any errors in a natural, conversational way; don’t harp on
them or try ad lib humor. The beneﬁt of a video of a live
presentation is that the video audience is not surprised by minor,

328

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

normal errors, but it will be distracted by someone obviously playing
to the camera.
• Pretend the camera isn’t there during your delivery. This will
enhance the natural aspects of the presentation.
• Keep the session relatively short. My bias is for a 30 to 45-minute
duration. It’s tough to edit these down because later points are
often dependent on earlier foundation.
• Keep the visual aids simple and sensitive to the medium. For
example, holding up an item is ideal, provided that it’s large enough
for the camera to capture. Try to stay away from slides that require
lighting adjustments. (It’s often possible to edit in a picture or
diagram speciﬁcally for the video later if something from the session
doesn’t show up well on tape.) PowerPoint will show up, but it’s
overdone and usually boring. Try to stay away from it.
• Review your notes to avoid making any references to timing or events
that would indicate the date, and refrain from ad libs that do so.
• Offer to stay after the session to reshoot any segments that the
technician feels may not have been captured well. Even with the
room empty, you can deliver a ﬁve-minute example or restate
something that was garbled earlier. In most instances, you’ll be able
to view the completed tape immediately.
Once you’ve obtained a master of the video, you can work with a production house to create whatever packaging you desire. I recommend the following
essentials:
1. Include a voice-over at the beginning with generic background music.
2. Add a title graphic with the topic, your name, and the client or
group. Don’t include the date.
3. Edit out extraneous material (picking up dropped notes, an
interruption at the rear of the room), and enhance the audience
reactions if needed.
4. It’s often best to end the tape during the applause and/or while the
host is thanking you. Fade to a ﬁnal graphic.
5. Conclude with a voice-over explaining what was just seen, accompanied
by a graphic showing where to write for more information. This is the
place for your 800 number if you have one. Use generic music to close.
6. Package the video in a simple box with a professional label, including
your name, company, and logo and the title of the subject.

GRACEFUL GROWTH

329

7. Also place the ﬁnished production on a DVD (just as inexpensive to
duplicate and increasingly popular to use). Most of my current
demonstration videos are requested on DVD.
These videos needn’t be placed in albums; they can stand alone in their
boxes. In volume (over 100) you can easily ﬁnd sources that will duplicate them
for less than $10 per disk and sometimes for as low as about $5 per disk. Production costs for editing and voice-overs generally run less than $300 depending on how elaborate your needs are. (My advice: keep it simple and professional.)
Thus, for somewhere around $1,000, you could have 100 DVDs duplicated to
your speciﬁcations, and I suspect that you might get that down closer to $500 if
you investigate carefully. (Does the client have a production house it often uses
that it could recommend to you?)
Finally, what if your clients don’t videotape? The best alternative is to seek
permission to have your own production company shoot the session. You can
ﬁnd local ﬁrms (that is, local to your presentation—you don’t want to pay for
travel expenses) easily, often from the client’s suggestions, that professionally
tape such sessions for reasonable fees. In my experience, you can have a presentation shot with two cameras by an outside group for under $1,000, and this often
will include the subsequent editing. Be careful about minimum time requirements, however; some ﬁrms demand that you retain them for a day because they
can’t do anything else besides your job anyway. The advantage of an outside ﬁrm
hired by you is that you know that the video will be done well and coordinated
with your efforts because you are the client.
The only downside risk is the client’s sensitivities about conﬁdential matters, company policies, and so forth. If you want to bring in an outside ﬁrm,
always offer to waive any fee you’re getting for that particular speech or grant
the client something—a reduction in the project fee, free copies of the video
for distribution, an additional presentation at another site, and so on. Make it
worth the client’s while because it’s certainly worth a great deal to you. Often,
trade associations and conventions will agree most readily to your bringing
in a video outﬁt, particularly if you waive your speaking fee for these budgetconscious groups.
Stay light on your feet. At an international management conference,
I noticed that the camera projecting presenters onto large screens had a recording capability. The operators graciously agreed to tape my two-hour keynote
speech, which beneﬁted from sensational audience reaction. With the client’s
permission, I used this as my demo video, my bureau video, and a product that
sold for $199. Appropriately, my theme that day was “Capturing Opportunity”!
Always be prepared to seize the moment. (My current DVD is also a live keynote
speech shot at a client site. I had zero production costs.)

330

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Your ﬁrm is doing well, your growth is accelerating, and your personal
proﬁle is being enhanced. Yet we’ve established that this is a relationship business.
Let’s turn, then, to the ultimate relationships.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. What is the key step in branding?
A. There are three. First, establish a brand that makes sense, whether its your
name, a trait (I’ve been “the contrarian”), or an analogy. Second, nurture it
by using it constantly on the Internet, in conversation, in print, in introductions, and so forth. Finally, realize the equity of the brand by charging more
for having “the contrarian” in person, or “the globally renowned Alan Weiss.”
Q. What if I really want to build a business with people and infrastructure?
A. More power to you. Remember that you’ll have to invest annually in your
assets, in hopes of selling the business for its equity at some future point, so
that you’ll be taking far less out of the business personally Just don’t get stuck
between the two models, and don’t create a “corporate welfare state” where
you’re supporting employees. They should be supporting you.
Q. I can see professional speakers on audio and video, but does it make sense for a
consultant?
A. Marketing makes sense for everyone, and this is increasingly a visual age,
especially on the Web. Think about videos of you working with a client
and/or the client providing a testimonial.
Q. Isn’t it manipulative to paint my ﬁrm and my accomplishments too grandly?
A. That depends on how much you feel you can deliver value to clients. If you’re
not convinced, enthused, and full of examples, they certainly won’t be. I don’t
want a surgeon, an interviewer, an accountant, a designer, or a consultant
who isn’t captivated by the work and who doesn’t feel he is great at what
he does.
Q. What’s the most effective branding mechanism of all?
A. Your name. After all, there is no other “you.”

Final Thought: Perception is reality. Act like a “going
concern” and a large ﬁrm, and others will regard you that
way. Self-image becomes general image. The ﬁrst sale is
always to yourself.

CHAPTER
16

THE MARKET GR AVITY
RELATIONSHIPS
WHEN PROSPECTS CALL YOU
SEEKING TO BECOME
CLIENTS AND CLIENTS NEV ER
WANT YOU TO LEAV E

LONG-TERM CONTRACTS
Intelligently managed growth creates its own momentum. Gradually you will
ﬁnd that the breaks that never came your way when you were struggling begin
to turn in your favor. “Where were they when I really needed them?” we are
prone to ask. The fact is that we make our own breaks, and the mere act of developing your business creates a force that sweeps newer and better opportunities
your way.
The great Brooklyn Dodgers general manager, Branch Rickey, responding
to critics who said that he was merely lucky in ﬁnding the best players in the
game, replied: “Luck is the residue of design.” And master science-ﬁction writer
Robert Heinlein, with scores of books and awards behind him, noted: “ ‘Luck’
is the term used by the mediocre to explain away genius.”

One Percent Solution: The very act of growing creates a
momentum that generates additional opportunities that
hadn’t been anticipated.

One such opportunity is that of long-term contracts. Although I’ve advocated ﬁnite, shorter-term projects with clear starts and ﬁnishes, I’ve also emphasized long-term relationships, from which such projects periodically arise.
Occasionally, a client will have a legitimate and attractive situation that calls for

331

332

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

ongoing collaboration. By long term, I mean consulting relationships that meet
these two criteria:
• The agreed-upon period is at least one year.
• The objectives are dynamic, not ﬁxed.
The one-year provision is my own arbitrary assessment of what constitutes
long term. In most cases, this will involve two ﬁscal years for the client, even if
all payment is made in only one of them.1 It will involve the completion of a year’s
results to be compared against the plan and the creation of the next year’s plan.
And it will involve sufﬁcient normal change in the operation—turnover, competitive actions, new products and services, acquired and lost customers, and so
on—to provide a realistic opportunity to assess the impact of your assistance. In
other words, you can tell quite clearly whether your presence is improving the
client’s condition.
The second criterion means that the client might say, “Let’s meet twice a
month to brainstorm what I should be doing to improve the operation in view
of ongoing results. In the interim, wander around the business and tell me what
you think I don’t know or appreciate.”
The client isn’t looking for your participation in installing a system or procedure, in delivering a workshop, or in helping to redeﬁne reporting relationships,
although any of these activities might, in fact, occur if conditions warrant it. Your
relationship is based on establishing objectives for improving the organization,
not on meeting predeﬁned ones. You are functioning as the “independent expert”
on the chart of possible interventions from Chapter 1. (And this is ideal retainer
work, as we’ve alluded to earlier: access to your “smarts.”)
These types of contracts are the ultimate demonstration of trust. The
client is not expecting speciﬁc tasks to be accomplished, nor is there a particular objective that needs to be met. Instead, the client is trusting you to provide
the ongoing advice and assistance that will improve the organization and is trusting that it will be delivered with candor, accuracy, and pragmatism.
Firing all the vice presidents doesn’t usually solve anything. Establishing
written statements of accountability that all ofﬁcers help to write, commit to,
and agree to be evaluated against usually does.
In long-term retainer relationships, the client doesn’t need to have speciﬁc
objectives accomplished. The client needs ongoing access to your “smarts.”
1 In my experience, it is very difﬁcult to secure ﬁxed-fee consulting assignments that call for
commitments from the client in more than two ﬁscal years. Many organizations have policies against
such multiyear commitments, especially since tighter ﬁnancial reporting rules were introduced in
the wake of Sarbanes-Oxley.

THE MARKET GRAVITY RELATIONSHIPS

333

I worked with the Calgon Corporation’s water management division for
ﬁve years. The newly appointed president and I agreed on a six-month assignment, which led to a second six-month assignment and four additional one-year
assignments. During this extended period, I conducted workshops, facilitated
meetings, shadowed the president, interviewed all the key executives and managers, visited ﬁeld sites, participated in ﬁeld service calls, designed programs,
recommended personnel moves, evaluated outside programs, and helped establish key accountabilities.
None of these activities was speciﬁed at the outset. The need for them
became apparent as the relationship continued. Most of the time the president
and I agreed; sometimes we didn’t. No matter. I served in the role of consultant
to the management team and provided help as requested or as I thought needed
to be initiated. Some of this work was on a project basis with clear objectives,
measures, and value (e.g., designing programs), while some was purely access to
me (e.g., sounding board for policy creation).
It remains one of the most rewarding consulting assignments I’ve ever had.
Over the course of ﬁve years, I saw my recommendations implemented, observed
the results in terms of the business goals of the organization, and was able to
ﬁne-tune as needed. I knew virtually every manager in the home ofﬁce and the
ﬁeld, and there probably isn’t one who would hesitate to call me if she thought I
could be of help. I was part of the team.
After the ﬁrst year, the division met (and exceeded) its plan for the ﬁrst
time in several years. This was when the group president noted, “You must be
very pleased to have been a part of our success this past year.” And that is exactly
how I felt.
Long-term contracts2 are extremely valuable because they provide the
maximum opportunity for multidimensional growth. (See Figure 16-1 for the
essentials of a long-term contract.) You are able to consistently test the envelope
in a setting that is familiar, trusting, and accepting of change (or you wouldn’t
be there). These relationships are the exact opposite of what most people in the
consulting profession seek.
Too frequently, external consultants help companies implement programmatic change. They design and staff corporate training programs, draft corporate mission statements, design gain-sharing programs, and implement quality
circles. Such programs are ideally suited to the role of external consultants. They
are easy to describe to potential customers. Precisely because they are programmatic, they can be replicated from one company to the next. Because customers
2 When I speak of long-term relationships, I mean a continuing contact with a client over the
years, which usually involves several fee-paying projects during that time period. By long-term contract, I mean a fee-paying project that lasts for at least a year.

334

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

A Long-Term Contract
Is usually established with the CEO or business unit head.
Requires extended time on-site and with client customers.
Should never include competitors of your clients, since extensive
conﬁdential data are usually shared.
Is usually established at the request of the client, not as a result of a
proposal from you.
Requires that you establish credibility and trust with management
several layers down. (If you are seen as a threat or a “hatchet,” your
long-term value will be nil.)
Requires a far greater amount of innovation and initiation on your
part, since you must both react to and anticipate change for the
clients. Your attitude must be not to ﬁx but rather to improve.
Figure 16-1 A long-term contract has these six characteristics, in addition to the duration
and dynamic objectives already cited.

are buying a known product, consultants can accurately estimate the time and
cost of implementing the new program. Programs that do not require lasting
changes in ongoing employee behavior are not usually threatening. However,
while such programs are easy to sell to companies, they do not in and of themselves promote revitalization.
There are two basic methods of assessing fees in such contracts. The better of the two is consistent with the advice already provided in terms of ﬁxed
fees based on value (Chapter 9). What is the value to the client of your long-term
personal help in understanding the operation and its people intimately and in
providing speciﬁc assistance to improve the client’s condition? How valuable is
it for the client to have a priority call on your time?
My preference is to establish your fee for the year (or whatever the period
is) and ﬁx the payment terms, again providing a discount for one-time payment.
(This is often highly attractive in such situations and provides you with a substantial sum of money at one time.) Alternatively, require your usual 50 percent
deposit and establish periodic, calendar-date billing times. Expenses should be
billed at the end of each calendar month.
The ﬁrst method is a long-term retainer. It’s important to accelerate the
payment schedule because even with an ironclad contract, clients will tend to
cancel consulting retainers when management changes, the economy suffers,
and/or the organization suffers other kinds of trauma (even though the consultant is then needed more than ever). This is the tropism toward cost cutting that

THE MARKET GRAVITY RELATIONSHIPS

335

occurs in threatened organizations. And this is what makes the second alternative so dangerous to your cash ﬂow.

Remember the retainer criteria for fees: who is involved in
the relationship, what is the scope of the relationship, and
what is the duration of the relationship?

The second alternative is a monthly retainer. If the client prefers this,
always establish in your contract one of two provisions (or both):
• The retainer is paid in advance, a quarter at a time.
• There is a contractual guarantee of six months.
In this manner, you have protected yourself, to the extent possible, from
unforeseen events, such as falling victim to a bad sales month.
Long-term contracts ensure that you are a going concern. They also alleviate cash-ﬂow worries and, most important, provide for the multidimensional
growth that is that is vital to million dollar consultants.
In one 21/2-year retainer with a division of the Times Mirror Company
that involved myriad linked projects, the client paid nearly a quarter of a million
dollars in one lump sum on January 1. We both think we had a great deal. So did
my bankers.
Since the client generally calls you for such contracts, how do you help
make them happen? How do you create the gravity for long-term retainers?

Criteria for Successful Retainer Business
1. Establish the longest time frame possible.
2 Move all payments toward the front end, and encourage full
payment in advance in return for a discount.
3 Ensure that there is two-way unlimited access: the client can reach
you at any reasonable time, but you also must be able to reach the
client in the same manner.
4 Severely limit the number of people who can access you, or
dramatically increase the retainer amount as that number increases.
5 If the client insists on your not working for competitive businesses,
accept this condition in return for a premium on your fee—the
longer the noncompete provisions, the higher the premium.

336

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

6 Create separate proposals for speciﬁc projects the client may ask
you to undertake that involve more than your advice. If you’re
asked for recommendations on an evaluation system, that’s ﬁne, but
if you’re asked to design and implement one, that’s a separate
project requiring a separate proposal and fee.
7 Meet with the buyer at least once a month and talk with the buyer
by phone or fax at least once a week, but don’t feel you must have an
agenda or proactive advice. Just manifest your availability.
8 Provide an option to renew the retainer well before the current
term expires, that is, in October for the following year if it’s an
annual retainer. You have to plan your time, and the client has to
plan the budget.
9 Do not feel that you must show up to justify the retainer. The value
here is your ongoing advice and counsel on call, not your
appearances.
The latter will limit your business severely while providing no
extra, discernible value to the client.
10 Offer provocative ideas. You’re there to stimulate and break
paradigms, not merely to reassure the client about a conservative
course.
11 Never feel guilty if you’re not used “often enough.” Look at yourself
as an insurance policy, if that helps.

ALLOWING THE BUYER TO BUY
Ultimate relationships mean that you merely need to make it simple and pleasurable for the buyer to buy. That’s easier than you think, and here are some
techniques to employ.

Client Conferences
A friend of mine specializes in strategy consulting, particularly in the formulation stage. He charges fees of $100,000 and up per assignment. He does virtually no advertising, he doesn’t exhibit at trade shows, and I’ve never found him
in any professional listings. Yet in the ﬁrst half of most years alone, he books
more than a dozen strategy assignments. For a long time he was selling, delivering, and following up on these projects by himself.
How does he achieve this rate of business? Well, in 1991, when he began
(during the Gulf War, no less, a lesson for all of us dealing with these turbulent
global times), he gave a client symposium. He invited some of his ongoing, sat-

THE MARKET GRAVITY RELATIONSHIPS

337

isﬁed strategy customers, some likely prospects, and some outside speakers to a
couple of days at a posh resort. Spouses were encouraged to attend. There was
no fee for the session, but everyone paid his own airfare and lodging.
The result? By June, he had sold a strategy formulation to all but one of
the prospects that had attended the symposium.
He long ago learned the lesson of investing money to make money. He saw
the symposium as a strategic marketing tool and employed a tactic that is one of
the most powerful in our profession: peer inﬂuence. He did little selling during
the course of the meeting. He let his current clients sell for him during cocktails, in the halls, and on the golf course.
These are examples of the ultimate relationships: clients selling to prospects through the communications channels you establish. He has never hesitated to spend $50,000 or more for a keynote speaker (Henry Kissenger appeared
one year) because he knows that the investment will pay a huge return, and just
one sale more recovers much more than the mere costs.
There is no greater inﬂuence, no more powerful sales stratagem, than
arranging for one executive to have the opportunity and the motivation to say
to another, “Use this consultant. I thank my stars that we did.”
Client conferences are an excellent method for achieving the interaction
that results in peer inﬂuence. The key factor in successful client conferences is
ensuring that you invite more than just clients! If you are running a symposium,
as my friend did, or a general conference on a particular management subject,
then it makes sense to have a strong mix of people—clients and prospects alike.

One Percent Solution: The platinum standard in marketing
is a peer-to-peer reference at buyer level recommending your
services by name.

If you are running a client-oriented conference, most of the attendees
will be clients, but some should be high-priority, high-quality prospects. You
might even want to pay for their transportation if their organizations don’t
forbid the practice. Every conference you hold is a marketing opportunity of
enormous value.
Here is the checklist for successful conferences. (By successful, I mean that
the participants ﬁnd the time investment well spent, and the prospects are moved
closer to a buying position.)
• Attendees notiﬁed at least two months in advance, and
preferably more

338

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

• A ratio of at least three high-quality prospects to each client present
(if it’s not a purely client conference)
• One excellent outside speaker—a recognizable/prestigious name in
the ﬁeld—per day3
• The use of a superb facility with a wide variety of recreational
opportunities
• A limited formal agenda (that is, mornings only or a full day off ),
with ample time for socializing
• Prearranged press coverage during the conference or publicizing via
the press afterward
• Provision of complimentary copies of books, articles, or examples
that are of use during the conference
• Provision of a postsession report and summary materials and an offer
of ongoing help after the conference
• Online promotion and conference summary
• Provision for participants to remain in touch with others on their
own initiative
• Special password-protected Web site or chat room for use
postconference
• Electronic newsletter updates on the subjects discussed
Note that these conferences are intended for present and potential buyers
of your services. Many ﬁrms hold user-group meetings that encompass the
internal facilitators, instructors, and others who have been instrumental in implementing your project work. These are valuable undertakings that enhance the
relationship you are trying to form with your clients, but they are not the
signiﬁcant, peer-inﬂuence marketing tool that buyer-level conferences and
symposia are.
Moreover, the user-group meetings often can be held internally or regionally among several clients using client facilities. Their goal is enhancing the
technical application of your project work. The buyer-level meeting is a marketing opportunity of tremendous value, which is why a signiﬁcant investment
is justiﬁed. However, don’t confuse the two, and never mix executives and implementers at the same conference. Not only is their frame of reference going to be
different, but your intent with them also will be radically different.

3 Estimated cost is from about $15,000 for noncelebrities to over $25,000 for celebrities. Some-

times you can get a local politician or university professor for peanuts or an honorarium, however.

THE MARKET GRAVITY RELATIONSHIPS

339

Case Study
Many of the consultants I’ve mentored have launched
breakfast and lunch meetings as mini-conferences. They
invite 25 local potential buyers, both clients and prospects,
to a hotel conference room. Typically, about 15 to 20
actually attend, given last-minute emergencies.
The sessions last no more than 90 minutes so as not to
impinge too much on the business day. The consultant pays
for the conference room and meal and facilitates an
informal discussion around a single theme: retention,
global marketing, business regulation, inventory
management, and so on. A guest speaker is often used, and
this can be a local professor of economics or someone from a
government agency.
The total cost is about $1,000, including the invitations.
The key is that the invitation is nontransferable.
(Executives do not like to mingle with those at subordinate
levels at these events.)
Some colleagues have found these sessions so popular
that they have created business roundtables, where the
same group meets monthly to share common issues under
the consultant’s aegis. It’s hard for these relationships not
to lead to additional consulting business.

Client Advisory Groups
Client advisory groups are another technique used to build ultimate relationships. I have an insurance client whose chief executive ofﬁcer asked four of us—
all outside consultants—to participate in an informal advisory board. We met
twice a year at resort locations for no fee, but with all expenses paid and spouses
encouraged to attend. Typically, we spent one day on company business, advising the CEO on issues that were on his priority list and often arguing among
ourselves about our advice. The result was that we explored every issue thoroughly, and the consultants learned as much as the CEO. The second day was
spent socializing—at the beach, on a ﬁshing boat, or whatever.
This CEO received a wealth of consulting help during these few days a
year. It didn’t replace what we did for him independently, working on clearly
deﬁned projects, but it augmented all our work and provided him with a valuable
(and unique) sounding board that was unavailable within his organization. None

340

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

of us held back, and no one ever said, “Wait a minute, this issue really should be
addressed within a project arrangement!”
Commensurately, it’s a good idea for you to form advisory groups from
among your clients and nonclients (who may someday become clients). These
informal outside advisors should not include your attorney or your ﬁnancial advisor. Those people offer advice in narrow, important ﬁelds but should not be
included in an advisory board. Keep your advisory board or group small—no
more than eight members, but more than just a handful because schedules always
will interfere with some individual participation at meetings—and meet infrequently. I think that twice a year is about right.
You don’t have to ﬂy everyone to Antigua, but you should foot the bill for
two days at a decent place, with sufﬁcient social time built in. This is to allow
for that old peer inﬂuence to operate, among other beneﬁts. Remember, consider
including at least two or three nonclients who are key prospects in the group.
And keep the membership at executive level only.
Among the issues you can ask your advisory group to discuss and consult
with you on are these:
• Your strategy in the marketplace
• Major moves/investments: alliances, ofﬁce expansion, new hires, and
so on
• Major marketing plans
• Publishing plans
• Economic trends
• Pro bono work
• Emerging management priorities
• Competition
• Growth of the business and/or infrastructure
• Personal growth needs
• Relevant new technologies
• What to abandon
• Continuing utility of your business model

Client advisory groups serve to cement existing client
relationships by forming a collaborative effort on behalf of
your business. They also develop potential relationships
among nonclient members and member contacts.

THE MARKET GRAVITY RELATIONSHIPS

341

Client advisory groups or boards are not boards of directors, which I would
discourage you from forming. As long as you are taking the risks and providing
the talent, a board of directors can serve no purpose that an advisory group cannot. Meanwhile, a board has certain signiﬁcant drawbacks in terms of restrictions on your activities and divulgence of personal business affairs. The advisory
board has all the supportive elements of a board of directors and none of the disadvantages. (It is also considerably easier to form, alter, and end when necessary.)
No matter what you call your efforts in creating special relationships and
forums—symposia, conferences, meetings, boards, committees, gatherings, sessions, task forces, councils, or something else—your goal should be the same: to
create opportunities for peer inﬂuence to sell your services to prospects and to
create opportunities to solidify and extend the ongoing relationships you’ve
formed with existing clients. These alternatives provide you with great leverage
in these marketing pursuits.

THE VALUE-ADDED DISCOUNTING PRINCIPLE
OF NEVER LOSING CLIENTS
Every book needs a clever acronym. Maybe this is mine: TV-ADPONLC. On
second thought, I’d probably better explain.
The value-added discounting principle of never losing clients (TV-ADPONLC)
is simply my way of emphasizing that the longer term the relationship, the longer
term it is likely to be. No, this is not a truism. At birth, an individual’s life
expectancy may be 77 years. However, once that individual has reached 40 successfully, the life expectancy is probably about 80 years. And once you’re 79, the
odds are that you have a few more years left.
In other words, the longer you live, the longer you probably will live. Client
relationships follow these actuarial realities very closely. But not for the same
reasons.
As you have no doubt realized by now, my path to millions of dollars in
business is through the establishment of long-term relationships. The creation
of these relationships is, in turn, based on creating and implementing the valueadded qualities that enable you to improve the client’s condition.
The sustaining of these qualities and this improvement over time create a
bond that is quite difﬁcult to break because your worth to the client increases
geometrically as you move from project to project. You are not merely the sum
of the performance-evaluation system you implemented plus the customer survey you conducted plus the creation of educational strategies for the human
resources area. As you’ve engaged in these projects, the client organization has
imparted information to you that has made you wise in the organization’s ways

342

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

and culture. Your value added is no longer merely the talents that you bring to
the client; it is also the wisdom that you can now apply through your intimate
knowledge of the client.
And wisdom is critical because it isn’t readily replaceable.

One Percent Solution: Once the client educates you about
the client’s culture and business, you are more valuable and
can charge more, and are therefore harder to displace. It
doesn’t get much better than that.
Most consulting assignments begin with the gathering of
information and the application of knowledge. These
activities are replaceable and nondifferentiated. The
attainment and use of wisdom are an intrinsic value that is
difﬁcult and time-consuming for anyone else to re-create.

Clients can ﬁnd a great many alternatives to implement succession-planning systems, to design workshops on innovation, and even to assist in formulating strategy. In all these and myriad other consulting activities, there is a joint
educational process occurring. The client learns processes, methods, and skills
from the consultant that improve the client’s condition.
However, preparatory to this result, the consultant must be educated about
the client’s organization. The less the consultant knows about the client and the
client’s industry, the more education is required, the longer the process of learning will be, and the greater the chances of early errors, misconceptions, and misjudgments.
The more the consultant knows about the client’s organization and industry, the less remedial education is required, the shorter the process of learning
will be, and the lower the chances for errors, misconceptions, and misjudgments.
Typically, when I begin an assignment for a new client, I include what I call
roaming time in my plans. During my roaming, I try to
• Meet all key senior managers to learn their responsibilities and their
perceptions of the organization.
• Meet a wide cross section of middle- and lower-level managers to
learn their perceptions.
• Meet a wide variety of hourly and administrative people to learn
their perceptions.

THE MARKET GRAVITY RELATIONSHIPS

343

• Accompany ﬁeld people on client calls and sales calls and attend ﬁeld
sales meetings.
• Observe the normal work routines, including the way complaints and
crises are handled.
• Immerse myself in the organization’s culture, mores, beliefs (real and
perceived), and attitudes toward customers.
• Meet customers, if possible, on site or off site.
• Understand how knowledge is used (is it readily available at the point
of need?).
• Learn how technology is used (does it tend to help or hinder?).

Case Study
While roaming through an organization that had assured
me that it had a “fully diversiﬁed, interactive employment,”
I found the cafeteria voluntarily segregated into Hispanic,
African American, and white, and even these groups were
stratiﬁed by hierarchy.
My buyer told me that I “was not describing his
company.” I asked him when it was that he had last roamed
around “his company.”

This roaming never really ends, but it’s most intense in the beginning of
an assignment, when I try to gather this information in as little time as possible
so that I can be as productive for the client as quickly as possible.4
On succeeding projects for that client, my primary education needs have
been met, my knowledge is intact (although the continuing education never
ends), and I begin to become a source of wisdom for that client. That is, my
consulting help now has the added dimension of a thorough understanding of
my client’s beliefs, goals, culture, comfort zones, and unique problems. I am a
wise man.
4 Consultants who simply enter client organizations with canned approaches and off-the-shelf
interventions don’t do this and are never as potentially useful and powerful as true consultants who
design interventions based on unique client needs and conditions. No one makes $1 million delivering workshops on time management, but you can make tens of millions showing organizations how
to save time and increase productivity by changing their systems and procedures. When you see a
consultant “selling” off-the-shelf testing instruments for any occasion, throw him out.

344

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

In Australia (my ﬁfteenth trip is coming up), I’ve had a very warm reception, as do American consultants in general. We are cordially (I like to believe)
referred to as “wise men from the East.” I think there’s more to this quotation
than meets the ear.
Data can be exchanged. Information can be exchanged and communicated.
Knowledge is readily shared. All these things are based on facts and circumstances that can easily be instantiated—moved from the abstract to the concrete
via the written word, examples, discussions, and exchanges. This is one of the
reasons why organizations hold so many meetings. They are frantically trying
to share information so that their knowledge base can be increased.
Information alone isn’t valuable. It is only a prerequisite for knowledge,
which is the application of that information to improve the workings of the
organization.5
For example, you may have data about turnover that include the fact that
it is 5 percent in marketing, 7 percent in sales, 6 percent in administration, and
22 percent in production. As you investigate and gather more data, you learn
that the general manager of production has a different compensation plan
that is strictly oriented toward quarterly production goals. As you combine
these data, you have information that suggests that employee turnover is
unimportant to production management and that the reward system actually
encourages turnover if production goals are met. If the company’s objectives
are to reduce the expenses of turnover and create long-term employees, your
knowledge of the problem and of effective organizational interventions
provides this solution: modify the reward system and educate the general manager about the organization’s needs to reduce turnover as well as meet
production goals.
So far you’ve applied information to create knowledge and improve the
client’s condition. Let’s assume now that the client has asked for your advice
about reorganization of the ﬁeld force to reduce unnecessary layers of management. During this process, you advise the client (given your experience with
production turnover) that the reorganization must include a restructuring of the
ﬁeld management performance evaluation and reward criteria because the organization has a propensity to manage tasks rather than results. In fact, the correct emphasis on long-term business goals for ﬁeld management will be the key
factor in the success of the sales force reorganization. The client leans back,
ponders you for a moment in deepest respect, and says, “That’s very wise. Tell
me more.”
5 There is a school of thought that requires information to be gathered before the sale and
prior to money changing hands. Let’s be perfectly objective: that school gets a ﬂunking grade.

THE MARKET GRAVITY RELATIONSHIPS

345

I’ve heard many people sarcastically say, “Don’t be so
smart.” But I’ve never heard any one say, “Don’t be so wise.”

Once you’ve acquired the wisdom that comes with the successful implementation of several client projects, close relationships with key managers, exposure to the organization’s “soul,” and establishment of credibility and trust
through your improvements, you are a wise person.
This wisdom is worth a great deal to the client because to replace it would
cost a fortune. To replace your level of wisdom with a new consulting source
would require that the new person engage in several successful projects, develop
the necessary relationships, gain exposure to the inner workings of the organization, and build the credibility and trust you that have already acquired.
Even if another consultant charges fees that are less than yours, the cost of
bringing that consultant up to your current level of wisdom would be prohibitive.
So now we have arrived at the ultimate relationship. You have become so
valuable to the client—so wise in the client’s ways—that replacing you is far more
expensive than whatever your fees may be. And if you recall our discussion (in
Chapter 9) on establishing fees, the best and most lucrative way to do so is to
base fees on perceived value.

One Percent Solution: Your perceived value is never higher
than when you have arrived at a long-term relationship in
which the client sees your wisdom as irreplaceable.

An executive at Merck told me a story about one of his most brilliant
lieutenants who was clearly destined to become one of the very top people in the
organization. However, one day the subordinate reported that he had made
a huge error in judgment and that his bad decision would cost over $1 million
to correct. After making a candid disclosure, the subordinate tendered his
resignation.
“Why on earth do you think I’d accept that?” asked my client.
“After this disaster, you have no choice but to ﬁre me, and I wanted to make
it as easy as possible for you,” responded the subordinate.
“Are you crazy?” said the boss. “I’ve just invested a million dollars in your
education. You’re much too valuable to lose after that. Now get back to work!”

346

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Your job isn’t to make million dollar mistakes, of course, but to make million dollar improvements and contributions. If you do this consistently, you
become much too valuable to lose—in good times or bad—and your fees are literally not an issue. In tough economic times, it’s easy to cut outside consulting
expenses. If you are a little-known entity or simply implementing programs,
your time to go has probably come. However, if the executive says, “We’ve got
some tough decisions to make. Get Alan Weiss in here for our next meeting, and
tell him we’ll be needing a lot of his help . . . , “ there probably isn’t too much to
worry about other than making plane reservations.
You see, I’m not a consulting expense to my clients; I’m Alan Weiss, a
person who has provided substantial assistance in the past and has the wisdom
about the operation to continue to do so. In tough times, clients cut expenses,
not wisdom.

The ultimate client relationships are those in which you
are the wise person whose contributions are a synthesis
of personal talents, organizational knowledge, and
interpersonal relationships established with top management.

In these ultimate relationships, you are simply too valuable to lose, and the
cost of replacing you is prohibitive because of the client’s past investment in your
education. Consequently:
1. You will not tend to lose clients in tough economic conditions.
2. Your fees can be value-based and will not be an important issue.
3. The client will call you regularly for assistance.
4. You will be immune to inroads from other consultants.
5. You will develop a priceless model and reference for other work.
What I’ve been calling ultimate relationships [see my book and series, The
Ultimate Consultant (San Francisco: Jossey-Bass/Pfeiffer, 2001), for detailed discussions on these issues] are not purely a factor of longevity. Simply hanging
around a client for a long time doesn’t do it. You have to amass wisdom through
continual learning about the client and the organization’s business goals, and you
must constantly learn about and consider new interventions. This is why a single consulting model, limited programmatic offerings, and a “ﬂavor of the

THE MARKET GRAVITY RELATIONSHIPS

347

month,” fad-type approach will never result in such relationships. They don’t
represent any unique synthesis between the client and you, and they are readily
replaceable with other alternatives without great expense.
I’ve seen consultants thrown out of client organizations after ﬁve-year relationships because the one trick in their bag had ﬁnally worn out. (Workshops
and seminars are famous for this. They identify you with a single, narrow intervention—decision making or negotiating, for example—and after you’ve trained
everyone in the discipline, what do you do next—train them again?)
The value-added discounting principle of never losing clients simply
means that
1. If you become sufﬁciently valuable in the client’s eyes, you will be
continually called on for assistance.
2. This value is based on your becoming wise in the ways of the client
and combining this intimate relationship with your own talents and
your never-ending search for new interventions and solutions to
improve the client’s condition.

LIFE BALANCE: TIAABB (THERE IS ALWAYS A
BIGGER BOAT)
As my practice grew over the years, I realized that I needed to manage the trajectory of my business. In other words, getting on airplanes every week and having only the weekends for myself and my family was one thing when I was in my
twenties but would be completely unacceptable when I was in my forties, and
into my ﬁfties and (yikes) beyond, I intended to be able to “write my own ticket.”
I don’t suggest that you adapt my model for your life, but I do recommend
that you create some model for your life.
I’ve become intrigued by the issue of life balance as I’ve grown personally
and professionally. What I’ve discovered is that a holistic and full life makes one
a better consultant and that a narrow and business-focused life makes one, ironically, poorer at business.

One Percent Solution: Discretionary time is real wealth.
Chasing too much money can actually erode your wealth.

348

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Case Study
I was conducting an evening workshop at Boston University
for a select group of highly successful entrepreneurs under
the auspices of the school’s business department. Forty of us
were discussing the merits of life balance and ﬂexibility.
An attorney asked if he could demur. “I work probably
80 hours a week for my clients, but I love the work. I have no
other interests,” he said, “so why shouldn’t I immerse myself
in what I love? It provides a ﬁne contribution to my family’s
lifestyle. So what if this is all I know, and I don’t have
varied pursuits with my family? They beneﬁt ﬁnancially
better than most.”
“I would only ask you,” I said, “how much they are
beneﬁting from a husband and father who is largely
‘absent’ in his work and who can’t support them in anything
other than ﬁnancial underpinnings?”
Ultimately, the “workaholic” is a selﬁsh position and a
severely self-limiting one. This man was probably an
adequate lawyer but not a great one because he allowed
himself no time to learn and to grow. He simply did the
same thing over and over again.

If you’re successful on the road toward million dollar consulting, you’re
going to be afforded the opportunity to diversify your life through travel, recreation, personal interests, family, philanthropy, community service, continued
formal and informal learning, and so on. I would suggest to you that these pursuits make you a better person, which also makes you a better consultant.
You have to help yourself if you are to be in a position to truly help others. (Put your own oxygen mask on ﬁrst, as the airlines advise.) Aggressively pursue a well-rounded life. Don’t compartmentalize your life into business and
nonbusiness. There is nothing wrong with watching your kids play soccer at two
in the afternoon and equally nothing wrong with taking a cell phone and a laptop on vacation to check in with clients for an hour each day. You don’t need
purity of purpose in your life—you need ﬂexibility.
Nietzsche wrote, “A day has a hundred pockets if you know what to put in
them.” Since we’re approaching the latter parts of this book, let me suggest some

THE MARKET GRAVITY RELATIONSHIPS

349

techniques to ensure that you use your good fortune and hard work to create a
full and enriching life for you and for those around you.

Twelve Techniques for Million Dollar Life Balance
1. Eliminate arbitrary time boundaries. Do things when the spirit moves
you (which also results in higher quality). If you want to go to the
beach on Monday and complete a client document on Saturday
afternoon, then do so.
2. Accentuate continued external learning. The noted psychologist Albert
Bandura has conducted studies demonstrating that people who
believe that they can acquire skills readily from external sources are
resilient and tend to persevere through setbacks. Those who believe
that skills are strictly innate are more easily defeated by setbacks
because they have no other source of skill acquisition.
3. Push the envelope. Try new things. Learn to paint or play a musical
instrument. Experiment with ﬁne wines or cooking. Stretch your
capabilities and explore new passions. Constantly reinvent yourself.
4. Maintain perspective. Nothing you do will affect the course of
Western civilization tomorrow. Don’t confuse yourself about
priorities. We do important work, helping individuals and
organizations improve. Nothing more, nothing less.
5. Reward yourself regularly. I’ve seen too many people promise
themselves that a lifetime of sacriﬁce will lead to a joyous
retirement, only to ﬁnd that the sacriﬁce never ends. Buy the
impulse gift for your family or yourself. Take a long weekend.
As an entrepreneur, you have control over your time and your
life. Don’t sacriﬁce that control to an anthropomorphic little
guy on your shoulder who shouts in your ear, “You don’t
deserve it!”
6. Avoid isolation. You’ll need a “trusted other” in whom to conﬁde
your fears, your triumphs, and your uncertainties. This might be a
spouse, a relative, a close friend, or a therapist (we need to get over
the idea that we use therapy only when we have serious problems).
You’re a lone wolf only if you allow yourself to be one. Create your
own pack.
7. Help others. You’ll be amazed at how soon you can mentor and
counsel others (who are where you were a year or two ago), and

350

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

how that help will rebound to assist in your own learning and
growth. Make a contribution to the profession and the community.
8. Employ healthy outrage. There are times when you will be poorly
treated. Do not neurotically search for where you went wrong.
Sometimes we do everything right and still lose the business or miss
the opportunity. Channel your frustration into healthy outlets.
9. Stay ﬁt. I’ve become convinced that, physically, mentally, and
emotionally, exercise and a proper diet can build conﬁdence, sustain
a diversity of interests, and combat life pressures. Stress is a killer.
Take care of yourself, and make that your top priority.
10. Never be afraid to fail. Fear is a dampener of talent. If you’re not
failing, you’re not trying.
11. Money is a means, not an end. It is fuel for our lives. There is always
someone with a bigger boat. Don’t let others control your life
through your competing with them. Meet and exceed only your
own aspirations, not someone else’s.
12. Rejoice. Whether in loving relationships, spiritually, in nature,
mediation, or whatever, energize yourself. You are an entrepreneur
who has taken control of your life and your destiny. There are
perils and risks, but also great rewards and fulﬁllment. Focus on the
half-ﬁlled glass.
You need strong, long-term relationships with only a few clients to make—
and keep—a million dollars a year. As I originally wrote the last page of this
chapter—honest to goodness—I was interrupted by a call from a client with
whom I’ve worked continuously for six years. He told me to “prepare my schedule and time allotment” for next year accordingly because the company had just
submitted a budget calling for me to conduct a minimum of two major projects
for one division alone. I had never submitted a proposal, and one of the projects
was totally unknown to me.
The two projects will net about $200,000.

Digression
In 2008, my best year ever— well into seven ﬁgures—
75 percent or more of my income came from services and
activities that I was not providing—that did not exist—
three years ago.

THE MARKET GRAVITY RELATIONSHIPS

351

You should constantly seek to reinvent yourself because
times, technology, society, and economies have a funny way
of constantly changing. If you get in the habit of doing
that, you’ll never have to play “catch-up” and you’ll
establish ultimate relationships that are constantly
renewed.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. What if a client mentions that he hasn’t used me much on a retainer and would like
to get some future credit?
A. The preventive action is to note in your agreement that there is no time use
included and that the time period expires at a certain point, regardless
of use. The contingent action is to say at that time, “You don’t use your
ﬁre insurance policy if there is no emergency, and I didn’t hear you shouting, ‘Fire!’ ”
Q. What happens if the buyer learns something unpleasant at a joint meeting with prior
clients, or wants a different deal?
A. Be careful whom you place in the room! But that’s a buying signal, so deal
with it. Just don’t forget that past clients always get the best ﬁnancial deals,
not new ones.
Q. Are you saying that I shouldn’t be aware of and competing against the standards set
by other consultants I respect, like you?!
A. Yes, I am. I can’t be you, you can’t be me. Focus on the life goals that are
important to you and your loved ones. This book is titled Million Dollar Consulting, but it’s not mercenary. There is no subtitle, “At any cost.” TIAABB,
and I don’t even own a boat!
Q. Won’t clients be confused if I’m constantly offering new services?
A. This is evolutionary, not revolutionary, but offering new services (and products) to existing clients (with whom you already have a relationship) is a primary aspect of smart marketing. Don’t your clients constantly try to improve
their offerings to their customers?
Q. At what point should I anticipate that I’ve “enabled buyers to buy” and I can reduce
my travel and labor?
A. At the point where your brand (or brands) is working extremely well, typically where market need, your competence, and your passion are all
strongest, and/or where people are ﬂocking to you!

352

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Final Thought: Escape velocity is very tough to achieve
and demands a huge expenditure of fuel. It is far more
cost-effective and less wearing on your life to attract
clients to you. As long as you’re doing this, you might as
well attract them for the long term. Turn your gravity into
magnetism.

CHAPTER
17

ACCELER ATING REPEAT
AND REFERR AL
BUSINESS
THINKING OF THE FOURTH
SALE FIRST

THE VELOCITY FACTOR
One of the key factors in consistently growing practices is the ability to increase
the velocity of sales. By velocity, I mean the speed at which you progress from a
lead and a ﬁrst meeting to a conceptual agreement and a signed proposal.
Think of the ability of a Toyota Camry to proceed from a standing start to
60 miles per hour in about 12 seconds, a BMW 650 to do the same thing in about
6 seconds, and a Bentley GTC to do the same thing in 4.4 seconds. The second
car takes half the time, and the last one takes a third less than that. Yet they are
all manufactured on production lines using strikingly similar technologies.
We’re all consultants, part of the same profession. However, some of us
have engineered our practices to move much faster and reach our targets much
sooner. While you can argue that the time it takes to reach 60 miles per hour in
an automobile is unimportant (although it seems to make a big difference in
entering a freeway ﬁlled with other consultants), the time it takes you to close
business is vitally important.

One Percent Solution: It’s not what you make, it’s what you
keep. But in this business, if you follow sound fee policies,
you should keep most of what you make.

The greater your velocity of closing business, the more your proﬁt is,
because what we make is generally close to what we keep.

353

354

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

The Twelve Factors of Lucrative High Closing Velocity
1. Money enters your bank account more quickly.
2. You spend less money on acquisition, so your margins will
be higher.
3. Things are less likely to unexpectedly go wrong or awry.
4. You complete the project more quickly.
5. You can allocate your time more effectively (and with certainty).
6. Repeat business will occur more quickly.
7. Referrals and testimonials can be gained more rapidly.
8. There are fewer buyers involved and fewer potential naysayers.
9. When the client is prone to move quickly, commitment is
usually higher.
10. You enter the account with much higher credibility (no “tough” calls).
11. You can plan much farther out in terms of both cash ﬂow and time
allocation.
12. You can withstand tough times more easily because you’ve been
paid in advance for business yet to be delivered.

If you view a sale as a series of small consents from the
client, you can examine which parts of the sequence tend to
slow you up and how you can better handle the “car” on
that “stretch of road.”

The fundamental fuel in accelerating your closing speed is to know the
automobile and the road signs very well—in other words, to know your own
business model intimately and exactly where you are in it at the moment. For
example, here is my business model from ﬁrst step to closure (details of these
steps appear at various places earlier in this book):
1. Initial contact (phone call, inquiry, e-mail, letter, referral, etc.). This
may be initiated by you (reach out) or by the prospect (market gravity).
2. Ascertain if the contact is the economic buyer.
3. If no, gain agreement for an introduction to the economic buyer.
4. If yes, gain agreement to meet in person.
5. Establish a trusting relationship with the economic buyer.

ACCELERATING REPEAT AND REFERRAL BUSINESS

355

6. Gain conceptual agreement (objectives, measures, value to the
organization and to the buyer personally).
7. Submit proposal.
8. Begin work on approval.
You may have a different model, with fewer steps or more steps. However,
the point is that I always know where I am in my own model. For instance, I’m
not going to submit a proposal to someone who is not the economic buyer.
Period. I’m not even going to try to meet with someone who’s not the economic
buyer unless that is the sole way to gain access. I know I can’t gain conceptual
agreement unless I’ve ﬁrst established a trusting relationship. (One of the great
consulting marketing sins is wasting time with people who can’t say yes but can
say no. Just ending that bizarre habit boosts income dramatically.)
Consequently, my model is a series of yeses. Each yes is relatively minor—
I don’t enter a prospective client organization for the ﬁrst time and expect to
emerge with a signed contract. However, I do expect to make progress toward
my next small yes. Thus my goal is to accelerate through this sequence, understanding the road signs and my own machine and how they interact. I want the
car revving at full throttle for this trip, so I need great visibility—the clear
knowledge of what my next step is and how to achieve my yes.

Digression
I advise all my Mentor Members to apply a “min/max” rule.
This means that you should have a minimum expectation
and a maximum expectation for every prospect call.
The minimum might be to ascertain that this is, indeed,
the buyer, and the maximum to gain conceptual agreement,
or whatever. After the call, you can assess whether you at
least met your minimum objective and evaluate how well
you’re doing.
If you never meet the minimum, you may be too ambitious,
or you may have a weak approach. If you always meet the
maximum, you may have too low an expectation or you may
just be an all-star!

The faster someone signs your proposal, the better off you are. However,
if you believe in a sequence similar to the one I use, this means that your speed
is actually a factor of making sure you hit the intermediate points correctly.

356

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Ignoring them and blindly accelerating—sending a proposal after a perfunctory
initial visit—will merely send you up a wrong alley or careening off a curve into
a ditch.
Velocity is a function of controlled speed.
Most consultants I’ve worked with ignore the initial steps and speed happily off in the wrong direction, meaning either that they have to turn around
and begin again or that they’ve wrecked their chances.

HOW TO HANDLE THE BENDS IN THE ROAD
(OR THE BENZ ON THE ROAD)
Here are the biggest mistakes that consultants make in ignoring the proper sales
sequence and hitting detours and potholes and how to avoid them.

Meeting with the Wrong People
Sometimes it’s necessary to meet with gatekeepers and feasibility people (typically in human resources, training, purchasing, quality control, and other such
departments) in order to gain access to the economic buyer. But not always.
Don’t accept this meeting by default. Ask who the economic buyer is (for example, “Who’s sponsoring this project?” or, “Who is funding this initiative?”), and
state that your procedure is to meet with that person to ascertain whether the
project makes sense.
Meeting with the wrong people will have two adverse effects. First, you’ll
be delayed, perhaps fatally, by people who are unwilling to allow you to move
forward. Second, you may well be regarded as a peer of those people even if you
do meet the economic buyer, meaning that you’ll be relegated to their status.
Both conditions are fatal in terms of the life of a consulting assignment.

Fear of Hurting the Feelings of the Wrong People
This error is inexplicably chronic. The consultant, having met with lower-level
people (perhaps out of necessity—it was the only way in the door at all)—now
believes that alienating them by attempting to go to the next level is unethical,
illegal, immoral, or some kind of athletic infraction.
Allow these people time during your initial meeting to indicate their
willingness to make the proper introductions. If they are disinclined to do so,
force the issue (for example, “I’m happy to work with you on the ongoing implementation of this project, but ethically I must meet the person who is actually
approving the expenditure so that I can be sure that her expectations are realistic and that I have the resources to meet them”).

ACCELERATING REPEAT AND REFERRAL BUSINESS

357

I have seen more sales delayed and acceleration halted completely by the
unwillingness—not inability, but unwillingness—of consultants to simply boldly
move past gatekeepers than any other single reason.

Case Study
I was called by an event planner at Fleet Bank who had
obtained my name from a colleague at another institution.
She asked if I had expertise in a certain area. I told her I did.
“Fine,” she said. “Could you submit materials for our
review? We’re searching for some consultants in this area.”
“No,” I replied, “but I would like to meet the person who is
sponsoring this to determine mutually whether it makes sense
for both of us.”
She was incredulous. “No other consultant has requested
that, and in any case, Martha is very busy.”
“Well, that’s why I might be your best choice, and I’m busy,
too, but I’m sure we can both make time for a 20-minute
initial meeting. Here are some dates I can be in Boston. Can
you check her calendar while I’m on the phone?”
I was the only consultant to meet personally with
Martha, who asked me for a proposal by the end of the
meeting, after we had reached conceptual agreement. The
total business over the next year was nearly $265,000.
I could have easily put material in the mail to the event
planner and hoped for a $15,000 speech. But that was the
slow road to nowhere.

By the way, the fear that a disgruntled subordinate will sidetrack your project later is just an excuse not to alienate the subordinate. In most healthy organizations, subordinates are jumping aboard the initiatives sponsored by their
superiors. It’s amazing how rapidly these people will support you once their boss
does. Be bold.

Failing to Establish a Trusting Relationship
Most consultants (in fact, most salespeople) think that they are accelerating rapidly when they launch quickly into a features and beneﬁts tirade, showering the
buyer with a sound and light show. (A related detour is the amateur sales process
of “ﬁnding the pain.” Not only do many buyers not have pain—their operations

358

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

are doing quite well—but seeking new levels, rather than ﬁxing things, is much
more valuable anyway.) In fact, such sales approaches mean that the salespeople
are simply spinning their wheels in the mud they’ve created.
Demonstrate your business acumen to the buyer. Be prepared to discuss
current events and their effects on the business environment. Know something
about the competition. Determine what the buyer’s personal interests might be
(the ofﬁce decor will often tell you). This trust building may take an hour or a
month, but it’s always the express lane to conceptual agreement. Buyers will not
share important and intimate needs if they don’t trust you. Period. That’s why you
have to be quite clear on the sequence of steps in your business model.

Failing to Move Zealously toward
Conceptual Agreement
If trust has been established, then it’s time to
• Establish objectives. What will the scope of the project be, and what
results will delight the buyer?
• Establish metrics. How will the buyer know that progress is being
made that can be speciﬁcally attributed to your work together on
this project?
• Establish the value to the organization. If the metrics indicate that the
objectives have been met, then what is the return for the organization
and the buyer?
Once you have these answers, you can submit a proposal with a high probability of acceptance. My experience indicates about 80 percent probability,
which is not chopped liver. [See my book How to Write a Proposal That’s Accepted
Every Time, 2nd ed. (Fitzwilliam, N.M.: Kennedy Information, 2002), which
includes a disk and proposal examples that can be used as templates.]

Gaining conceptual agreement about the value of the
project to the organization will virtually ensure that your
fee will be seen as an intelligent investment (return on
investment) and not as an unbudgeted cost. This is a
nuance, but it is the equivalent of turbocharging the process
because fee resistance will not impede progress.

ACCELERATING REPEAT AND REFERRAL BUSINESS

359

Submitting a Poor Proposal
Finally, a great acceleration factor once you’ve traveled this far is to submit a lean
and mean proposal. Most proposals suffer from bloat and weigh down the vehicle with their pomposity. If you have gained conceptual agreement, you don’t
need biographies of the consultants, lengthy descriptions of methodology, tables
of data, and other esoterica that consultants use to generally gum up the works.
My proposals are 21/2 pages, no matter how large the project. This is so
because a proposal based on a previously obtained conceptual agreement is a
summation, not an exploration.
Million dollar consultants accelerate the speed from ﬁrst contact to close.
They also do one other thing to ensure low-cost, high-margin business.

THINKING OF THE FOURTH SALE FIRST
Whenever you are dealing with an economic buyer, consider the long-term
relationship and not the immediate project. I know that this may sound counterintuitive (or downright crazy when there’s a mortgage waiting to be paid), but
hear me out.
A new client represents the following potential:
• The immediate project
• Successive projects for that buyer
• Projects for other buyers within the client
• Projects for the customer’s customers
• Projects for the customer’s vendors and suppliers
• Projects for the customer’s trade and professional organizations
• Referrals to friends of the buyer in nonrelated organizations
• Referrals and testimonials to use with unrelated buyers
• The cachet and credibility to use unilaterally in your relationship
with the client
• A transient buyer who leaves and brings you into his new organization
Thus the immediate project is merely one aspect of the full potential
represented by this superb new relationship. I think that you get my drift.
Don’t be overanxious to exploit merely the ﬁrst one.
I don’t believe that many consultants truly appreciate the dynamics of my
list. A relationship with an economic buyer and the power that accrues from a

360

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

project that is well implemented and results that are well documented (objectives/
measures/value) represent vast potential.
When I suggest that you think of the fourth sale ﬁrst, I mean that these projects create cumulative beneﬁts that amass over time. It’s always better to accept an
initial $50,000 project that is unambiguous, discrete, and easily completed so as to
build on the other steps (and their $400,000 of potential) than it is to try to stretch
the initial opportunity to $70,000 (by promising too much or attempting something that you are not prepared for) and sacriﬁcing $380,000 for sure.
In other words, $400,000 over three years always trumps $70,000 over six
months. I want you to accelerate to the close of the sale, but then take your time by
adopting a strategic view of the overall potential. These are compatible, not contradictory, notions. You speed your way through conceptual agreement and then
formulate a proposal that’s geared to maximize the full potential of the relationship.

Case Study
I was asked to help coach a division president on his
delegation skills. When I met him for the ﬁrst time, I was
guessing that it would be a $15,000 to $25,000 project.
Once I had established a trusting relationship, he told
me of the pains he had gone through to make delegation
work, albeit unsuccessfully. He also shared the difﬁculties
of his predecessor and why he had been replaced.
I used this trust to point out the real need: the culture
was far too authoritarian and risk-averse for even the most
adept delegator. We had to change the culture, the reward
system, communications devices, and so on if delegation
and empowerment were ever to work.
This took the burden from the CEO’s shoulders, and he
agreed to my approach, which resulted in a $65,000 project.
When that worked beautifully, we entered into a series of
ﬁve one-year retainers for $100,000 per year, attacking every
issue that was appropriate through the ultimate sale of the
company to a new parent.
By accelerating to the close but then looking at the
larger picture, I increased the business from $15,000 in
coaching to $565,000 in organizational development. As
consultants—as drivers of our cars—we control this
dynamic far more than we think or act on.

ACCELERATING REPEAT AND REFERRAL BUSINESS

361

When you are at that profound moment of conceptual agreement and
about to embark on your proposal, use this opportunity to take a strategic view
of your long-term potential relationship, and act accordingly. What’s immediately in front of you may be less than you and the client deserve to achieve.
Million dollar consulting is based on the premise that somewhere around
80 percent of your annual business will be repeat business. No one (whom
I know) generates this kind of revenue from a standing start each year. Instead,
you need the momentum of ongoing delighted clients who have moved quickly
to the initial sale and who are constantly providing you with second, third,
fourth, and even further business opportunities.

THE SECRET ART OF REFERRALS
I mentioned one of the basic sins of consultants earlier in this chapter: stabling
relationships with gatekeepers and intermediaries. But the greatest sin, at least
in terms of repeat business, is failing to ask for referrals.
I can trace about 90 percent of my business today to four common
sources—which arose between 1985 and 1990! I can see the lineage better than
any anthropologist trying to trace our ancestry. The DNA is quite clear.
That’s because clients talk to prospects naturally enough, but you can
accelerate this a thousandfold by amplifying the communications. Here is the
wording to use with any client; adjust it for your own comfort and for the relationship: “Referrals are the coinage of my realm. We’ve both been pleased with
the results this project has generated, and I wonder if you’d be kind enough to
give me three or four names of colleagues or contacts whom you believe could
beneﬁt from similar value.”
That’s it. Then you shut up and wait. Here are some guidelines:
1. Set this up early in your relationship by mentioning to your client
that you routinely ask for referrals when the project results begin to
be manifest.
2. Anticipate company policy and individual preferences by offering
three options:
a. A personal introduction would be great.
b. It would be wonderful to be able to use your name.
c. I’ll happily withhold your name if you can just suggest the best
people for me to contact.
Now your buyer can decide how best to do this for you, not
whether to do this for you.

362

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

One Percent Solution: You need to ask everyone you know
for referrals at least twice a year, and quarterly is ﬁne.

3. Use the approach and philosophy that this is a win/win/win. Your
contact should be thrilled to be able to help others.
4. Use reciprocity. You probably refer people to your doctor, your
accountant, your lawyer, and so forth. It’s not unreasonable to expect
them to refer people to you. (Which is why you should always attach
your name to referral business to others and follow up.)
5. Practice doing this smoothly.
6. Don’t be put off. If the other person says, “Give me some time to
think about it,” reply, “Of course, I’ll give you a call tomorrow at 2.”1
Hal Mapes was an insurance agent who visited me and my wife when I was
22 and ﬁrst working at Prudential. He came by every six months, and he always
asked for and received three referrals.
If he had 200 clients, that means that he made 400 visits and received 1,200
names annually. If he closed 10 percent, that would be 120 new clients at about
$3,000 commission over the course of the policy. And the next year, of course,
he had 320 clients to ask.
I still remember his name, and he retired a very successful man. Are you
asking for three names?

THE TALENT IS YOU, SO CHARGE FOR IT
I didn’t want to leave this topic without a reminder that you are the talent.
By that I mean that you shouldn’t be charging more when you use other
people or subcontractors, you should be charging more when you do everything
yourself.
You are the talent.

Case Study
A Fortune 50 client asked me to propose how to launch a
new strategic communications initiative. I explained that
the overseas work could be done by the client’s own people,

1 Some people who don’t have referral names are happy to serve as a reference, which is just as

good. Don’t abuse this, and provide their names only to serious potential buyers, never to gatekeepers.

ACCELERATING REPEAT AND REFERRAL BUSINESS

363

but that was unacceptable to the client, because they
wouldn’t have credibility.
I explained that I could use colleagues in key overseas
cities, but the client felt that those sites would feel like “poor
cousins,” since I had personally launched the domestic work.
I explained that I could do the global work, but that
would be the most expensive option of all. The client said
that was just ﬁne.
My wife and I then went around the world on a
$350,000 project.

One Percent Solution: Don’t sell yourself short. Sell yourself
expensively.

If you can accept that you are the real talent, and are therefore worth a premium, you can
1. Reduce your labor intensity, or at least direct it to the most
lucrative projects.
2. Guarantee repeat business through your promise of continued
personal intervention.
3. Maximize referral business through “I can have her personally contact
you and work with you.”
4. Increase margins dramatically.
5. Build your brand emphatically.
6. Implement much more easily because you have achieved “expert” status.
Repeat after me: “I am the talent, and I’m worth a great deal. Which
colleagues do you think would best appreciate and utilize my value?”

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. What is the average time I should consider in terms of ﬁrst contact to closing a sale?
A. I know of none. Sometimes you can gain agreement to accept a proposal in
one meeting; sometimes you don’t make much headway but the buyer calls
you a year later and says that the timing is now perfect. The key is to have
a lot of stuff in the pipeline, as discussed earlier.

364

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Q. With those percentages of repeat business, does that mean that I’m working with
clients for a long, long time?
A. It means that outside of small business, education, and government (though
there are exceptions even there), you should reasonably hope to engage in
several projects over several years with clients, assuming two things:
1. You’ve done excellent work.
2. You are diverse enough to be able to work on a variety of client issues.
Q. Isn’t it a bit arrogant to think that I’m the talent and I deserve more than if I brought
in other, excellent people?
A. Conﬁdence is the honest belief that you’re highly capable of helping others.
Arrogance is the honest belief you have nothing more to learn yourself.
It’s a ﬁne line, but walk right up to it. (Smugness is arrogance without the
talent—these are the people “coaching” others who have never done what
they’re coaching.)
Q. Will some clients request or expect a referral fee or other remuneration for referrals
or to serve as a reference?
A. Not corporate or organization clients, and you shouldn’t ever offer one;
it’s unethical.
Q. Can I offer a referral fee to an independent third party?
A. Sure, and my formula is:
• 5–10 percent for a valid buyer’s name
• 10–15 percent for an introduction to a buyer
• 15–20 percent for having made the sale and I just have to show up
Be careful: if this is someone working with or for that buyer, then you must
make your ﬁnancial relationship transparent lest the buyer think that this is
an objective, arm’s-length referral.

Final Thought: You need new business to keep you fresh and
to replace business that inevitably will end. But the
predominant percentage of your yearly revenues should
come from existing clients. If you are completing only a
single project for most clients, you probably have either
been implementing poorly or, more likely, not associating
yourself closely enough with the results (objectives/
measures/value).

CHAPTER
18

BEYOND SUCCESS
MONEY IS ONLY A MEANS
TO AN END

ETHICAL ISSUES
As you achieve multidimensional growth and your ﬁrm prospers, the nature of
the problems and challenges you face evolves. At the outset of your consulting
career, you are typically concerned about cash ﬂow, marketing, and developing
the expertise required to complete more diverse assignments.
In midcareer, during the ﬁrm’s dramatic growth, the issues become those
of ﬁnding the right alliance partners, developing long-term relationships, and
establishing proper fee levels. Once you are a going concern, the priorities
become the unique issues related to your very success.
Million dollar consulting generates some million dollar ethical challenges.
How would you respond to these 11?
1. Can I simply charge the highest fee possible and not even worry
about perceived value? If I’m in demand, isn’t the guideline
“whatever the trafﬁc will bear”?
2. I choose to travel ﬁrst class, stay on the concierge ﬂoor of the best
hotels, and take limos rather than taxis. That’s my travel style, and
I’m worth it. As long as I’m honest about it, shouldn’t the client be
billed for my normal travel preferences?
3. There is nothing new under the sun, and I’m a recognized name
and a sought-after ﬁgure. There’s nothing wrong with taking some
ideas espoused by other consultants and authors and using them in
my work or writing as long as I put my personal spin on them. You
can’t copyright ideas, so I can use what I wish to, right?
4. I’m seeing three clients on this trip. I know that if I attempt to
prorate expenses, their accounting systems will question the
charges. However, if I simply bill each one for the entire airfare and
365

366

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

lodging, there won’t be a single question. Shouldn’t I make it easier
on myself and on them and bill each of them for 100 percent, since
I have to visit each one anyway?
5. In doing my research within a client organization, I’m told by a
midlevel manager on a strictly conﬁdential basis about an internal leak
to competitors and ongoing employee theft. If I divulge this to the
president, it will be clear that I was the source, and my value to the
client within the organization may suffer. Isn’t it better—and even
ethically necessary—to maintain the conﬁdentiality and continue to
be a valuable resource within the organization for the client?
6. A client offers me ﬁrst-class airfare to visit its European ofﬁces.
I can use my free airline mileage to take my entire family and, by
cashing in the ﬁrst-class tickets, pay for all our food, lodging, and
recreation. There’s no reason to explain all this to the client, is
there, since it’s my personal business?
7. A competitor of one of my largest clients wants to hire me because
my reputation has been associated with my client’s success. Is there
any problem with taking on competitive organizations?
8. A client asks me to conduct an anonymous employee survey by
mail, but asks me to use a hidden code to differentiate by unit—
though not by person—the source of the feedback. This is because
the client is sincerely interested in the quality of the unit managers
and wants to isolate those whose people are unhappy with their
treatment. Is this a legitimate goal to justify the subterfuge?
9. I am asked to write speeches and articles for the president of the
organization, who is my client. He confers with me on topics and
critiques the ﬁnal work, but the actual writing is totally mine.
The president gives no attribution whatsoever, publishes some of
the articles in the trade press, and gives the speeches at business
conferences to great acclaim. Is this a service that I should continue
to provide?
10. Through an alliance partner, I develop a client contact with the
alliance partner’s blessing. After a three-month, highly successful
assignment, the client asks me to take on a long-term project in
place of the alliance partner, with whom the client has been
unhappy for some time. Can I ethically accept this project?
11. The prospect is the antithesis of “green” and environmentally
friendly. The ﬁrms observes the laws in theory, but not in practice.
Can I use my opposition to its wasteful ways as justiﬁcation not to
do business with this ﬁrm?

BEYOND SUCCESS

367

One Percent Solution: Always ask yourself, “Would I be proud
of this if it appeared all over the Internet tomorrow?”

Most of these situations have happened to me, and the rest have happened
to colleagues. There are no magic answers to ethical dilemmas. Ernest Hemingway observed, “What is moral is what you feel good after, and what is immoral
is what you feel bad after.” Of course, no one ever recorded that Hemingway
tried his hand at consulting; otherwise, For Whom the Bell Tolls might have
been called An Analytic Report on Bell Cacophony, Causation, and Demographic
Probabilities.
You can’t do much better than to try to do the right thing consistently.
I’d rather go with the credo that I’ve heard virtually all managers at Merck
& Co. articulate when they are asked what to do in ambiguous situations when
policy and precedent don’t apply: do the right thing. Here’s what I consider the
right thing to do in each instance.

1. Should You Charge the Highest Fees You Can
Get Away With?
There is certainly no moral prohibition that I know of to discourage you from
charging what the trafﬁc will bear. If you are charging on a fee basis and
the client is aware of and accepts the fee, the client obviously has determined
that the value is worth the investment. However, I would emphasize two
caveats:
• It is never advisable to overpromise and underdeliver. Consequently, if
you are justifying the high investment through extravagant promises
and providing only marginal delivery, you are certainly not building
long-term potential. Which is better: a single $150,000 project that
results in no further work or an ongoing series of $75,000 projects the
results of which send the client into ﬁts of ecstasy?
• If you are charging a per diem or a fee based on some other ﬁxed
standard, despite the strictures of Chapter 9,1 there is never an excuse
to charge for anything other than actual hours performed, on-site or
off-site. Padding days goes beyond an ethical transgression—it’s theft.

1 Frankly, if you are charging by the day, I doubt that you’ll ever need the advice in this chapter, and I wonder why you’ve even read this far.

368

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

2. Should You Travel First Class and Bill the Client?
You can make a case for the fact that if the client approves of a sybaritic travel
style, there is no problem. However, your primary charter is to improve the
client’s condition. Do you help ﬁscally through this kind of expense (which has
nothing to do with your value or expertise), and do you help your credibility
with the client’s people through this kind of image?
I doubt it. There are some high-ﬂying organizations in which this mode of
travel is the status quo, and in such circumstances, the luxury makes sense. I’ve
also found that most clients offer ﬁrst-class transportation overseas, and many
do so for domestic coast-to-coast trips. (However, these tend to be terminated
quickly in a poor economy.)
Nevertheless, my rule of thumb is simple: if the client doesn’t offer it,
I don’t abuse it. I travel ﬁrst class and use limos and the best hotels, but I charge
clients for coach, taxis, and standard Marriott-type rates. And I won’t use limos
or other frills if their visibility raises questions about the “high-priced outside
help,” even if I am paying for it myself. And don’t pull a fast one: take the difference in the cost of luxury travel out of your pocket as a decreased margin;
don’t pad the fee to make up the difference.

3. Should You Borrow Others’ Ideas and Present
Them as Your Own?
It’s true that you cannot copyright concepts (you cannot even copyright book
titles) and that there are few breakthrough ideas. Most of the really good ones
are merely old ideas reapplied in new ways. However, your clients are smart.
People recognize ideas that were formulated by others. Since it’s your application of the idea for your client that is novel, why not give credit where credit is
due? It’s the mark of a successful, self-conﬁdent consultant to say, “This is a
technique developed by Sally Smith and written about in the McGoo Review of
Management. I’ve developed an adaptation for your situation that I believe we
should implement.”
You are not expected to be a rocket scientist or the director of a research
and development factory. You are hired to provide pragmatic consulting interventions using the best ideas in existence. Since this is what you are being paid
for, it makes sense to reveal the sources of all ideas and techniques.

4. Should You Bill More than One Client for
the Same Basic Expenses?
Never double-bill (or, in this case, triple-bill). I’ve seen every excuse under the
sun for doing this, and none of them passes muster as “doing the right thing.”

BEYOND SUCCESS

369

Send a cover letter with your expense statement explaining why you are
charging the client only one-third of the full amount on some of the receipts (for
example, airfare) and the full amount on others (for example, meals during the
days you are working exclusively for that client). Turn the procedure into an
opportunity to demonstrate your ﬁscal responsibility toward that client.2

5. Should You Pass on to the Client Confidential
Information Given You in the Course of
Your Assignment?
Who is the client’s here? You were brought onboard to help improve the client’s
condition, and it’s up to the client to determine what the most useful role is. In
this case, you’re ethically bound to inform the client about what you’ve discovered and allow the client to decide whether to take action immediately or to
preserve your current role by not taking action.
You cannot make these moral decisions for the client, only in collaboration with the client, and only with the client, reserving the decision-making
prerogative.
By the way, I never ask for information in return for a promise not to
reveal it, and I never agree to accept information on the condition that I not
reveal it. Once you do this, you are ethically compromised on the spot. When
someone tells you, “This is conﬁdential, but . . . , “ you are free to listen and use
the information as long as you haven’t acknowledged that you will respect the
conﬁdentiality. Good consultants ﬁnd out what they need to through intelligent
questioning and keen observation. Relying on informants isn’t consulting—
it’s spying.

Case Study
I was asked to coach the president of a bank’s retail
lending division. One of his direct subordinates had sent
alarming reports about his behavior to the president’s
corporate boss.

2 I once had two clients whose accounts-payable bureaucrats both demanded the single, original receipt for the airfare. Since there was only a single original (which I like to keep for my records),
I gave them each a choice: I would send the original to whichever wanted to pay the entire air bill
and a copy to the one who would pay a 50 percent share. Both quickly accepted copies, and I had
examples of internal policies that, when followed blindly, create waste to show to my buyer.

370

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

As I conducted my work, the subordinate continued to
send conﬁdential messages to the corporate ofﬁcer and to me,
reporting transgressions but demanding that the information
and source not be revealed. I quickly ended this by telling
the corporate ofﬁcer and the subordinate that he was
compromising the organization. You can’t say, “I know where
we’re losing money, but you can’t do anything about it.”
The subordinate was furious at having been “sold out,”
but I merely pointed out that his behavior was as
destructive as his boss’s and maybe worse because his was
with premeditation. Conﬁdences are not more important
than the health of the organization. Period.

6. Should You Use Tickets Supplied by Your
Client to Bring Your Spouse Along?
This might be your personal business, but the tickets are the client’s. There’s
nothing wrong with this practice if you inform the client of your plans. You can
never be too candid or err on the side of excessive honesty.
I’ve taken my wife on many trips using the tons of free air mileage we all
acquire, and I tell the client what I’m doing and that I’ll simply charge the equivalent of coach airfare. I also pay any difference in the room rate.
I’ve never had a client say anything other than, “It’s always a good idea to
take along your spouse whenever you can; I always try to myself.”
As for “it’s only my personal business,” here’s what happened to my own
personal physician, who consults on medical/computer applications. The client
provided a ﬁrst-class ticket to Paris on British Air. The doctor cashed it in to
pay for two business-class tickets for a subsequent European vacation with his
wife, and he booked a coach fare on another carrier. Just before his departure,
he received a fax informing him that the client’s limo would meet him at the
special ﬁrst-class arrivals area!

“Innocent” falsehoods can develop into complicated and
unnecessary questions about your ethical standards. Either
tell the client what you’re doing, or don’t do it. (If you’re
uncomfortable telling the client, the chances are strong that
what you’re doing is unacceptable.)

BEYOND SUCCESS

371

As for my doctor, he had to fess up, which is why he’s a full-time physician
and only an occasional consultant.

7. Should You Accept an Assignment from a
Client’s Competitor?
This is a tricky one, and I’ve found the following criteria to be sound in determining whether to accept or decline an assignment:
• I will not do anything that reveals conﬁdential information, directly
or indirectly. A direct revelation: “Tell us how they plan to promote
in region X.” An indirect revelation: “Design a succession-planning
process that is similar to theirs.” Acceptable conditions: “Evaluate our
ﬁeld-force management personnel and tell us what developmental
work is needed in light of our business goals.” (No competitive
revelation is necessary at all.)
• I will try to assign different personnel to each project. If I am
personally demanded, I will make the provisions in the ﬁrst criterion
clear at the outset.
• I will inform my present client of the competitor’s request and the
tentative project and ask if the client wishes me to decline.
• If the new assignment is accepted under the preceding criteria, I will
not divulge anything learned to the current client either.
There is nothing intrinsically wrong with working for several clients within
the same industry. After all, many buyers use “experience in our industry” as a
hiring condition. The critical ethical consideration is this: are you being hired
for your expertise and your ability to improve the client’s condition, or are you
being hired for what you happen to know about the competition? Revealing conﬁdential data is never itself a conﬁdential process, and once it is inevitably discovered, it will propel you back to a nine-to-ﬁve job very rapidly.

8. Should You Agree to Use Secret Identifying
Codes on a Confidential Survey?
Sorry, but ends do not justify means. Despite the client’s pure thoughts on the
matter, the action is unethical. Anonymous surveys are supposed to be exactly
that. You are committing an unethical act as soon as you tell people that their
responses are conﬁdential and then provide a document that exposes them
by area.

372

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

If the client’s need for information makes sense, as it does in this case, there
are other options. You could tell people that the responses are sorted by unit. Or
you could provide a place for the unit to be recorded at the respondent’s option.
Or you could suggest other alternatives altogether, such as focus groups or direct
observations.
There are always pragmatic reasons for doing the right thing. I’ve found
that any attempt to disclose respondents’ feedback by unit or person, despite
promises to the contrary, is always found out by the rank and ﬁle. There are no
secrets in organizations. There are simply some facts that take longer to surface
than others.

9. Should You Continue to Write for a Client Who
Passes Off Your Work as His Own?
No problem here. The president is paying you for your expertise, you have
agreed to the arrangement, and the president is acting with your permission.
(Presumably, this service is also speciﬁed in your consulting contract with the
client.) The only trouble with plagiarism arises when permission is not obtained.
If you don’t like someone else taking credit for your pearls of wisdom, don’t open
the clam by accepting such assignments.

10. Should You Agree to Supplant an Alliance Partner
Who Introduced You to the Client?
Well, yes and no. Improving the client’s condition certainly justiﬁes the project, since the client, having worked both with the partner and with you, is convinced that you can better meet current needs. However, you also have
an obligation to anyone who has introduced you to a client that you won’t steal
her revenue.
In these cases, I tell the client’s that I can accept only after I speak to
the partner, explaining my obligations and my ethical concerns. This usually
raises my esteem in the eyes of the client. I’ll then explain the situation to my
alliance partner, encourage the partner to contact the client to talk about it,
and offer assurances that this initiative was the client’s, not mine. Having done
all this, I will accept the assignment. The client has made an objective choice,
my expertise is deemed appropriate, and I’ve been honest with the partner
organization.
Of course, engaging in any action whatsoever to supplant a partner at your
initiative is unqualiﬁedly unethical. If you feel comfortable informing your partner of the situation and inviting the partner to discuss it with the client, you

BEYOND SUCCESS

373

probably have acted well. If you accept without providing this opportunity, you
have no doubt acted badly.3

11. Am I Justified in Turning Down Business from a
Firm Whose Practices Are Reprehensible to Me?
Absolutely. There is no law requiring you to take on all prospects. You are
neither a public conveyance nor a public accommodation. You can refuse to work
with people to your heart’s content, providing
a. You’re not being capricious or biased (“I’m not working with men!”).
b. Your whims don’t adversely affect your income. (Whims are
not values.)
One of the beneﬁts of building a successful consulting ﬁrm is the opportunity—and the necessity—to ponder on, develop criteria for, and take action
on ethical issues with clients and colleagues. I’ve described composites of 11 of
the more common ones that I’ve encountered, but you’ll undoubtedly be faced
with some unique quandaries of your own.
Therefore, in conclusion, here are the guidelines that I ﬁnd useful in determining whether I am doing the right thing:
1. Does the activity improve the client’s condition or merely my own?
2. Is the activity something that I am comfortable explaining to
the client?
3. Is the activity something that I am proud of and would publicize
as a trait?
4. Is there harm being done to anyone without his knowing it and/or
being able to respond?
5. Is this treatment something that I would willingly subject myself to?
There are no simple yes or no answers. In fact, the very act of putting the
question to the client often may be sufﬁcient to help you avoid ethical compromise. Ultimately, the client will be thankful that you asked.

3 I have a short list of consultants whom I would never use as subcontractors because I have
seen evidence of their theft of business from former employers or other consultants. I freely tell my
partners and colleagues about them. A pox on their houses.

374

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

THE GLOBAL COMMUNITY
The only reasons not to pursue foreign clients early in your career are the problems of lack of focus and lack of funds. It takes more time and certainly more of
an investment to develop relationships abroad. However, I’ve found that foreign
organizations are very receptive to consulting help, particularly if you target your
efforts carefully. Once your ﬁrm is well established, with both its repute and
its resources in larger supply, international expansion is a logical and practical
consideration.4
There is a hierarchy of requirements when picking targets for foreign concentration (see Figure 18-1). These criteria apply irrespective of whether you
are pursuing a target of opportunity or an organization is pursuing you. I’ve seen
many situations in which what appeared to be a lucrative overseas consulting
assignment turned out to be just the opposite because funds couldn’t be taken

Language
1. English-speaking as a ﬁrst language (e.g., U.K. Australia)
2. English-speaking as business language (e.g., Hong Kong, Singapore)
3. English-speaking capability common (e.g., Germany, Switzerland)
4. English spoken by elite only (e.g., Spain, Thailand)
Sophistication
1. Information-based, knowledge-oriented society (e.g., Japan, France)
2. Emerging from manufacturing base to knowledge (e.g., Brazil, Korea)
3. Labor-intensive manufacturing (e.g., Indonesia, Nigeria)
Currency policy
1. Stable and relatively easy to covert and exchange (e.g., Germany)
2. Somewhat unstable, easy to convert and exchange (e.g., Italy)
3. Diffcult to exchange (e.g., Philippines, Brazil)
4. Highly unstable (e.g., Eastern Europe)
Figure 18-1. Priorities to bear in mind when choosing a foreign target for concentration.

4 If this is an area of interest, for a full book discussing it, see the author’s The Global
Consultant (with Omar Kahn) (Hoboken, N. J.: Wiley, 2008).

BEYOND SUCCESS

375

out of the country (one poor soul wound up investing his consulting fee in local
baskets, which he tried to import and sell in the States), or because a key client
manager demanded a bribe (they’re often listed on the books as “commissions”
in Latin America), or because the client, after hearing all the consultant’s ideas
during the proposal process, decided to handle the issue internally.5
The best way to acquire overseas clients is through strategic alliances. I’ve
worked with people in Singapore and the United Kingdom whose skills and
approaches are complemented by my own. They will often underwrite a trip
for me, during which we make joint sales calls after I help them on a particular
project. In this manner, I’ve developed work with Shell Singapore, Citibank in
Singapore, and the Singapore Straits Times, and with Case Communications,
Lucas Engineering, and the British Standards Institute in the United Kingdom.
These alliances are extremely productive because they combine current, feepaying projects with the opportunity to develop new business.

One Percent Solution: The globalization of economies
combined with ever-advancing technology makes this the
best and easiest time ever to work globally, whether in
person or remotely.

A second effective method is to pursue international work through existing multinational clients based in the United States (or based elsewhere, with a
U.S. operation as your primary client). Through an international division of
Merck, I’ve had the opportunity to work and develop a reputation in the United
Kingdom, Costa Rica, Hong Kong, and Brazil. (Note that when you pursue this
avenue, some of the difﬁculties involved with the lower-priority targets are
mitigated. For example, I don’t worry about currency restrictions or instability
in Brazil because I’m paid in the United States by the parent company.)
State Street Bank sent me around the world, ﬁrst class, because it didn’t
want to give its global management team the perception that it was getting anything less than what the home ofﬁce got (me).
Still another way to market internationally is to write for international
publications. There are management journals in most countries, and they will
5 In the Republic of China, all management ideas are considered the property of mankind,
and thus belong to everyone. In Indonesia and the Philippines, plagiarism of published work from
even major authors and publishers is widespread and tolerated, and copyright laws are virtually unenforceable. I’m ﬁnding entire books made available free online through “clubs” you can subscribe to
run by people around the world.

376

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

usually accept articles written in English. (Many publish in English as well.)
I’ve generated many contacts from writing for such publications in the United
Kingdom, Brazil, Mexico, Singapore, Switzerland, Germany, and Hong Kong.
As a rule, foreign clients place a much higher value on written papers and
research than do Americans. I’ve recently published in a major Germanlanguage publication based in Switzerland. I was sought over the Internet and
wrote and submitted the article via e-mail.
Finally, you can market overseas by seeking speaking opportunities at international conferences. This is no different from seeking domestic speaking assignments, except that you will often be asked to pay your own way. This is one
reason why I advocate such tactics only after you have established yourself. The
greater your reputation, the more likely it is that your expenses and fee will be
covered, but even if they are not, the greater your growth, the more you are able
to underwrite such marketing opportunities yourself.

Case Study
Perhaps the most effective way to acquire overseas clients is
through a commercially published book, even when that
book is solely in English. My books on sales acquisition,
proposals, and fee structure have attracted clients in
20 countries in the last ﬁve years alone.
Several of my books have also been translated into
German, Italian, Spanish, Korean, Arabic, Japanese,
Russian, and Chinese.
As noted earlier in this book, there are few marketing
devices as powerful as a book that promotes your consulting
(and/or speaking) business through the force of your
authority as an expert. The allure of having the author
work with a client in person overcomes any problems in
terms of expense, currency translation, fees, and so on.

Given the increasing globalization of business, there may well be more
opportunity for dramatic growth abroad than at home for entrepreneurial
consultants. Million dollar consulting is just as lucrative when the components
are pounds, euro, yen, and pesos. And once you’ve worked internationally, you
have a tremendous marketing opportunity at home for your business literature,
proposals, interviews, speeches, and articles.

BEYOND SUCCESS

377

You are now an international consultant who has worked in x number of
countries. If you don’t think that this carries instant credibility, try it out yourself. The ﬁrst time a client asked me what I could possibly contribute to its benchmarking plans and I replied, “Let me give you an example from my work on
innovation with the British Standards Institute, anticipating the plans of the
European Union,” there wasn’t a sound in the room other than the client’s pen
sliding out of his pocket to sign the contract.

Digression
The Internet and it’s peripherals—online communities, cell
phones, Skype, e-mail, Webinars, teleconferences, discussion
groups, and so forth—have made global consulting not
merely available, but mandatory.
In diversifying your client portfolio, international
business now is a virtual “must.” Make yourself known
through publishing articles, blogs, newsletters, interviews,
and so on.
No consultant who aspires to seven-ﬁgure status—
anywhere in the world—should be focusing merely on
domestic prospects.

DESIGNING YOUR OWN FUTURE
My experiences in the consulting profession have led me to establish a very
simple philosophy:
1. This is a relationship business.
2. Multidimensional growth provides for high-quality, enduring
relationships.
3. There is no limit to the ﬁrm’s—or your own—income from
those relationships, and you must help yourself if you are to
help others.
At this point, you may be asking, “How can it be that simple? After all, if
everyone is trying to establish those relationships, aren’t we all back in the old
competitive-commodity ball game, trying to prove that a relationship with me
is somehow superior to one with the other consultants?

378

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

“What about all the people reading this book? Won’t we all look the same
going out there to try to do the same thing?”

One Percent Solution: It’s not what life deals you, it’s how
you deal with life.

I’d like to respond to these concerns by drawing on a consulting assignment as an avatar. I had been working with a large specialty chemicals ﬁrm that
found itself a diminishing “number three” among its competitors. Whereas it
had once had hopes of overtaking its two much larger rivals, it found itself
facing the possibility of smaller organizations chipping away at some of its
traditional business. The ﬁrm’s strategy team was divided: do we invest the
substantial resources needed to make a run at the leaders, or do we solidify our
position as number three, ﬁghting off challenges to that spot? Neither position
was terribly attractive. After all, overtaking the leaders would take years, ﬂawless performance, and a great deal of luck. However, to remain number three
was to manage an “also ran,” and it’s hard to attract, retain, and motivate
people in an acknowledged “loser.”
The answer, of course, was breathtakingly simple: to be number one on
the company’s own terms. The company redeﬁned itself in terms of what it did
better than anyone else in the industry—including its larger competitors—and
established a vision and mission of being number one in the market and under
the conditions it had deﬁned for itself.
I call this “taking a sharp right.”
Strategically, it’s quite simple: you don’t allow the competition to deﬁne the
playing ﬁeld or to write the rules. You redeﬁne and reinvent yourself.
When I began my own practice leading up to my current ﬁrm, I was told
unequivocally that I couldn’t generate over $300,000 in income and that I would
have to add people and facilities, probably using outside investors. I was also
advised that I would be swallowed whole unless I specialized in some market
segment as protection against “the big guys.”

It’s extraordinarily difﬁcult, if not impossible, to break the
paradigms when someone else is deﬁning the paradigms.

BEYOND SUCCESS

379

Now listen up: those pieces of advice probably were accurate for someone
who chose to play by the existing, conventional rules. However, I deﬁned what I
wanted to become. Under my rules, such as the three listed at the beginning of
this section, traditional conditions didn’t apply. I wasn’t competing with anyone
because I was going to be numero uno as a unique, boutique-type consulting ﬁrm
that did business with Fortune 1000 organizations and their brethren.
If you use the other person’s equipment, play on his ﬁeld, use his rules, and employ
his ofﬁcials, you’re going to lose the game.
The key is not to outthink your competitors, because doing so is unlikely
and overwhelmingly tiring. The key is to have no competitors because you have
deﬁned your own playing ﬁeld and written your own rules (taken the sharp right).
The specialty chemical ﬁrm did this, avoiding the suffering of myriad organizations in similar straits that have vainly tried to play by others’ rules.
I did it, made a fortune, and emerged to write this book because I determined
how I would play the game. However, the idea itself isn’t mine. It’s practiced by
the most successful businesspeople and entrepreneurs in the world.
Don’t worry about being smarter than your competitors, because any
competent competitor will be working just as hard to be smarter than
you. The trick is to have no competitors.
—Warren Buffett, CEO, Berkshire Hathaway6
Once you’ve established who you are and how you’ll play, concerns about
the competition and “Isn’t everyone doing this?” evaporate. You’ll always need
to be cognizant of what your competitors are doing, but you’ll never need to be
concerned about what they’re doing.
Another consultant and I were with the CEO of a company that is a client
of both our ﬁrms. We were returning from a day-long ﬁshing trip off Montauk,
Long Island, with two of our kids. There were ﬁve tuna in the hold, and Bob and
I were very contentedly reﬂecting on the lives we had carved out in this business.
I remarked that client relationships didn’t get much better than this. He
pointed out something that never ceases to astonish me: “The relationship is one
thing,” he said, “but it’s exploiting the opportunity it presents that sets people
like us apart. Most consultants I know are pretty good at scrambling around and
overcoming setbacks, enabling them to survive. But very, very few know how to
exploit success, and know how to prosper.”

6 An “oldie but goodie,” quoted in Emory Business Magazine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA
30322, and cited in Boardroom Reports 20(16) (August 15, 1991), p. 2.

380

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

Maybe out there off the continental shelf we were suffering terminal male
bonding. However, Bob’s observation makes just as much sense to me here on
dry land.
Each of us has to transcend the mere survival reﬂex and understand that
surviving is not the point. Prospering, to me, is the ability to meet personal and
family goals through the income, wisdom, and experiences generated by a thriving business. The multidimensional growth I’ve been espousing doesn’t pertain
only to your professional life, which is why I advocated life balance so strongly
in Chapter 16. As you grow personally, you grow professionally, and as you grow
professionally, you grow personally. This is why this business is so wonderful.
As you prosper, you will begin to create what I call a body of work.7 By this
I merely mean that the combination of the types of projects you are best known
for, your publishing and/or speeches, your pro bono efforts, and your general
visibility will represent those facets of your business at which you have become
most adept. Nearer to the beginning of your career, you will have had to deliberately establish your unique, number-one-in-the-ﬁeld brand and strategy. As
your career blossoms, your body of work will speak for you. By the very nature
of what you’ve accomplished, you will be considered the best at what you do, and
your clients and prospects will see you in this distinguishing light.
The future of the ﬁrm then becomes whatever you wish it to be. What
will become of Summit Consulting Group, Inc.? I’m still not sure. My kids
won’t be going into the business, apparently, because one is an Emmy
Award–nominated producer at MTV after majoring in broadcast journalism,
and one is headed for the stage after majoring in drama and gaining a Master
of Fine Arts to teach, as well.
I don’t plan to retire because I can do what I’m doing—consulting, speaking, writing—without age constraints, although I can become more selective,
into the indeﬁnite future.
Will a larger ﬁrm buy me out? Possibly—I’m sure there’s an amount of
money somewhere that constitutes an offer I can’t refuse. Perhaps people with
whom I work or even clients will take over the ﬁrm. Frankly, it’s a matter of no
great importance to me.
My ﬁrm is and always has been a means to an end. That end has been the
well-being of my family, the pursuit of our interests, and what Maslow cryptically termed “self-actualization.” You see, the future of the ﬁrm isn’t so important; it’s the future of the founder that’s crucial! Your body of work deﬁnes more
than your company’s projects and positioning. It deﬁnes your values and your

7
When a different publisher expressed interest in this book, the acquisitions editor told me that
I had “a nice shelf.” After a stunned moment, I learned that she was referring to the solid sales of my
other books. I didn’t know whether to be disappointed or relieved. I’ll try not to be so obscure here.

BEYOND SUCCESS

381

contribution to the environment around you. I have since completely lost the
source, but I remember Peter Drucker saying once, “An organization is not like
a tree or an animal, successful merely by dint of perpetuating the species.
An organization is successful based on the contribution it makes to the outside
environment.”

One Percent Solution: Remember that money is fuel for life
and that the real wealth is discretionary time.

For an individual to establish a consulting ﬁrm that contributes to the
improvement of its clients’ conditions, to the enhanced productivity and quality
of their people, to the increased proﬁtability of their operations, and therefore
to the increased well-being of their customers and stockholders is an ultimate
contribution to the outside environment. And if, in so doing, you personally
achieve success through the realization of your personal life goals, then you are
in rareﬁed air indeed.
How many of us are in a position to meet our personal and professional
goals—and to amass true wealth—through a constant process of helping others
to meet their personal and professional goals and enhance their wealth?
Professional consulting isn’t just a wonderful profession; it’s a wonderful
way of life. And if, in that pursuit, you make millions, who can object?

TIPS FROM THE MILLION DOLLAR
CONSULTING COMMUNITY
Instead of questions and answers, I’m ending with tips garnered from the
Million Dollar Consulting Colleges, the Grad Schools, the Million Dollar Club,
and the members of the Mentor Hall of Fame (many of whom you’ve seen
contribute throughout the book).

About Us as Consultants and Self-Esteem:
1. A large proportion of attendees (about 75 percent) felt “alone” when
they were very young, either because they perceived themselves to
be different from others or because they were somehow not in a
“traditional,” loving family. And where are we now? In a profession
that requires a certain strength in being alone!

382

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

2. “Lone wolves” don’t have much opportunity for exploring emotional
issues with trusted peers. Life and work revolve solely around work
to too great a degree, and most conversation is centered on work
challenges, not personal issues.
3. What doesn’t kill you makes you stronger. Most successful people
have learned from setbacks and turned them into sources of
strength and self-worth.
4. Forgiveness is critical. If you don’t forgive those whom you perceive
as having hurt you, you become permanently enslaved to them
(even though they might not realize it). If you allow real and
perceived slights to fester, your self-worth will suffer.
5. Efﬁcacy and self-worth are separate. You can be excellent at a given
pursuit but not feel good about yourself, and vice versa.
6. Personal relationships are a key foundation of self-worth. If you can
positively and constructively engage in your personal relationships,
your self-worth improves. Hence, poor relationships have to be
improved or abandoned, not merely maintained as poor relationships.
7. You can look at self-esteem as a verb— an action, leading to a
condition—or as a noun—self-conﬁdence.
8. People carry far too much old “baggage” around, and it’s insufﬁcient
merely to drop it. You must throw it “off the train” so that it isn’t
merely at your feet traveling in the same direction and at the same
speed that you are. However, don’t jettison everything. Some of the
positive baggage makes sense for the trip.
9. Positive self-talk is one of the most powerful tools to build selfworth. Stop apologizing and be honest about your own talent and
abilities. Don’t generalize from a speciﬁc: just because you didn’t
understand a play doesn’t mean you’re ignorant about art.
10. It’s not about what life deals you; it’s about how you deal with life.

About the Business of Growing in Consulting
If you don’t understand something, do two things. First, question it
immediately, because otherwise the ensuing structure will have a weak
foundation. Second, try to apply it in your circumstances to integrate
the learning.
People learn in different ways, so notes, recordings, mind maps, and
holographic telepathy are all ﬁne with me. But if you don’t have three
things (or less) to move forward on at the end of the day, you may have
quantity but not quality.

BEYOND SUCCESS

383

“The 1% Solution: Tools for Change” says that if you improve by
1 percent a day, in 70 days, you’ll be twice as good. But if you don’t learn
carefully and instead become confused, the opposite can actually occur.
People can get dumber.
When creating pragmatic representations of conceptual images, whether
brands or graphics or process visuals, it is always better to work with a
small team that you trust for quicker and higher-quality results.
Failing, and learning as a result, among peers is better than mindlessly
succeeding among inferiors.
Emotion is as important as intellect in integrating learning.
The female advantage in learning: less ego investment and more
openness. The male advantage: less tendency to take disagreement
personally and more tendency to focus on the issue, not the person.
Groups don’t bond through dumb icebreaking exercises. They bond
through sharing challenge, contributions, disagreements, and socializing.
All groups claim that they want to stay in touch and reconnect. The
ones that do so most successfully always have an organizer or organizers
who take on that responsibility.
If the facilitator isn’t learning constantly, she should go into another line
of work. Simply doing something well and receiving plaudits for it is like
watching people applaud a movie you made years ago.

About the Most Frequent Organizational Issues
Leadership is inept in that key people are not serving as avatars of the
behavior they are seeking in others.
Team building is sought when, in actuality, the organization has
committees and needs committees, not teams.
There are silos headed by powerful people who are defending their turf.
Problem solving is prized over innovation, and “black belt nine delta”
nonsense takes over people’s minds like a bad science ﬁction movie from
the 1950s.
There is excessive staff interference instead of support, typically from
HR, ﬁnance, IT, and/or legal.
There are too many meetings that take too long and are
overwhelmingly focused on sharing information—the worst possible

384

MILLION DOLLAR CONSULTING

reason to have a meeting. The organization’s talent and energy are being
squandered internally instead of being applied externally.
The customer’s perceptions of the organization’s products, services,
and relationships are different from the organization’s perceptions.
The reward and feedback systems are not aligned with strategy and
are not encouraging the appropriate behaviors and not discouraging
the inappropriate.
Strategy and planning are mistaken for each other.
Career development and succession planning are not wedded.
The organization is bureaucratic, in that it focuses on means and
not ends.

The Very Final Thought: I’ve found that about 10 percent of
people who voluntarily expose themselves to new thinking—
in a book or a workshop—actually take afﬁrmative action
quickly. Yet you need only 1 percent improvement a day to
continually double your effectiveness. As you reach this
ﬁnal word, you’ll understand the driving force required to
become a million dollar consultant: you.

INDEX

Academic research, 310–311
Acceptance, proposal component, 216
Accountabilities, proposal component, 214–215
Acquiring clients, 10–15, 120
(See also speciﬁc topics)
Activities for down times, 249, 251
Advertising, 43, 120, 314
Advice, 68
Agents, professional, 122–123
Alliances, 44, 140–141, 146, 372–373
Amex travel services, 302
Art and science of consulting, 3–10
Asking for best deal, 304
Assets, as collateral, 99–100
Audio as product, 121, 319–323
Awards and honors, 314–315
Banking relationships, 260, 290–292
Bidding process, 48–49
Bill paying, twice monthly, 302–303
Blogs, 43, 270–273
Boards of directors, approaching, 173
Body of work, building, 380
Bookkeepers, 95, 287, 289
Bookmarks, 265
Books and periodicals
commercial publishing, 11, 23, 43, 119,
224–231
exploiting published book, 230–231
interviews in periodicals, 118–119
ISBN numbers, 242
products for branding, 44, 70–74, 126–128,
318–323
publishing articles, 115–117, 226–228
reference library, 95, 111
self-publishing, 226, 231–232, 242
Boredom, avoiding, 206
Branding, 51–57
graceful growth, 323–325
growth, transition from success trap,
88–89
legal entity/incorporation, 53, 176n.2
logo, 52–53, 56
making memorable, 324–325
name, 52
numbers of brands, 134

ofﬁce and equipment requirements,
54–57, 94
self vs. business, 66
technology, 270–273
visibility, 54
Breakthrough relationships, 69–78
developing, 74–78
and dynamic growth, 69–74
facilitate client publicity, 76–77
long-term contracts, 244, 331–336
treat clients as partners, 78
ultimate relationships, 345–347
B2B (business-to-business) markets,
167–168, 173
Budgeting, expense, 301
Business cards, 113, 128
Business decline warning signs, 243–247
Business growth
early positioning for, 25–46
ﬁnancial, and high-quality relationships,
78–81
graceful, 308–330
midcourse breaking away, 47–66
midcourse paradigm shifts, 67–82
secrets of, 89–94
transition from success trap, 83–103
Business-to-business (B2B) markets,
167–168, 173
Buyer preparation for proposal, 207–211
Buying opportunities, 336–341, 351
C corporations, 53, 176n.2
Case studies, creating, 93
Cash ﬂow, 98–99, 292–293
Cash reserves, 286
Cell phones, 111, 270, 280
Change, client adjustment to, 90, 102
Chat hosting, 265
Client, deﬁned, 115n.8
Client advisory groups, 339–341
Client conferences, 336–339
Clients and prospects
buying opportunities, 336–341, 351
evaluating acceptability of, 251–252
new client potential, 359
nontraditional markets/prospects, 159–174
385

386

INDEX

publicity facilitation, 76–77
Clients and prospects (Cont.)
researching, 266
technology, 273–275
(See also speciﬁc topics)
Closing sale, 217, 219, 354–355
Coaching vs. consulting, 8, 169–170
Collaboration
breakthrough relationships, 73–74
client relationships, 64–65
peer-to-peer, 10–11, 23, 76, 112–113, 121
revenue sharing, 150–153, 158
staff, lack of, as tough question, 132–133
Collecting receivables, 294–300
Commercial publishing, 11, 23, 43, 119
Commissions, 33n.3, 76
Communication, 115, 220–224
Companies (See Organizations)
Competency, as success path, 9
Competition, 180–184, 256–258, 371
Conceptual agreement, 14–16, 358
Conceptual breakthrough time (CBT), 26
Conference presentations, 311
Conﬁdential information, 369
Consultants
deﬁned, 4–5
overview, 3–24
Content vs. process, 6–7
Contingency fees, 296–297
Contracts (interventions), 8, 16–18
Contrarian consulting, 252–255
Controllable rejection, 47
Conventional wisdom, 27–28, 62, 67
Copiers and printers, 55
Core strength, 40
Credit cards, 299–300
Credit lines, 260, 285–292
Credit references, building, 286
Crucial issues, raising, 75–76
Currency policy, global considerations, 374
Current client, 115n.8
Cybermarketing, 264–267
Debt funding, 97–98
Decision maker, dealing with, 124
Deliverables vs. results emphasis, 15–19, 23
Delivery and collaboration fee structure,
150–153
Designing your own future, 377–381
Directories, listings in, 119–120
Disability insurance, 95n.4
Discounts for advance payments, 108–109,
163, 293
Diversiﬁcation of business, 249–250
Down times (See Pipeline approach and
down times)
Early adopters, 93

Economic conditions, 40
Educating clients, 28, 46
Effort vs. payoff, ﬁring clients, 32
Electronic newsletters, 43
E-mail
address, 12, 317
client relationships, 273–274
as essential resource, 95, 263
marketing, 265
signature line, 267, 271
spam ﬁlters, 280
Employees, 136–138, 157
Entrepreneurial coaching, 169–170
Envelope approach to banking, 305
Equipment requirements, 54–57, 94, 303
Equity funding, 97, 99
Ethical issues, 128–130, 365–373
Events for client communication, 222
Expenses
budgeting / management, 299–306
cutting, as a myth, 255–260
double-billing, 368–369
Experience, 57–61, 131, 133
Expertclick.com, 120, 267, 313
Failure, need for, 47–51, 135
Failure trap, 260
Family-owned businesses, 161–164
Fax machine, 55
Fee-commitment relationships, 80–81
Feedback, 89–91, 93, 126
Fees
basis for fee structure, 198
below-usual fees, 175
contingency fees, 185, 197
decision-maker, dealing with, 124
discounts for advance payments, 108–109,
163, 294
establishing, 186–187
ethical challenges, 367–368
ﬁnder’s fees, 33n.3, 76, 148–150
formula for, 184–188
formulaic method for per diem,
176–180
increasing revenue, 90, 96, 102
market-demand approach, 180–184
performance fees, 197
ranges for various activities, 181
reasons for raising fees, 192–196
revenue sharing, 150–153, 158
speaking, 85–86, 107–110, 234
to subcontractors, 142, 147
value-based, 175–198
value distance, 188–192
(See also Retainers)
15 secrets of sound growth, 89–94
Financial advisors, 288
Financial professional services, 94–95

INDEX

Financial resources and planning, 96–100,
285–307
cash ﬂow, 98–99, 292–293
collecting receivables, 294–300
credit lines, 285–292
debt funding, 97–98
equity funding, 97, 99
expense management, 299–306
lack of, as objection, 124
planning for, 96–100
working capital equations, 97
Financial software and documentation,
289–290
Finder’s fees, 33n.3, 76, 148–150
Finding excellent people, 144–147
Firing clients
assisting, 33–34, 86–88
effort vs. payoff, 32
growth positioning, 30–36, 46, 93–94
identifying clients, 34–35
increasing revenue/decreasing overhead, 35
margins, 193
paint-yourself-in-a-corner syndrome, 31
quantity vs. quality of work, 31–32
reevaluating and dropping 15%, 32
time as wealth, 26, 31, 143–144,
347–350, 381
First impressions, 129
Follow-up, 46, 48, 217, 219
Forecasting, ﬁnancial, 290
Formulaic method for per diem, 176–180
Franchises, 170
Gaining Traction workshops, 83
Geographic diversiﬁcation, 249–250
Giveaways, 306
Global consulting, 374–377
Goals, 36–39, 84–85, 101–103
Grandfathering services, as growth secret, 91
Growth (See Business growth)
Growth clients, 92
Handling objections, 123–126
Home ofﬁce, 54–57
Human resources, 136–158
alliances, 44, 140–141, 146, 372–373
beneﬁts and opportunities of team,
155–156
collaboration and revenue sharing,
150–153, 158
employees, 136–137, 157
ﬁnder’s fees, 33n.3, 76, 148–150
ﬁnding excellent people, 144–147
leverage growth, 153–157
partnerships, 138–140, 146
part-time help, 137–138
subcontracting, 141–143, 146
Hurting feelings of wrong people, 356–357

387

Ideas, borrowing other peoples, 368, 372
Image (company logo), 52–53, 56
Imminent contracts, 244
Incorporation, 53–54
Industry experience, lack of, 131
Information, knowledge and wisdom,
344–347, 369
Information-exchange groups, 266
Inner circle advisors, 112
Instantiation, 276
Insurance professionals, 95
International consulting, 374–377
Internet and Web sites
advertising, 43
brand building, 128
branding, 54
client communication, 222
e-mail addresses, 12
as essential resource, 95
global consulting, 377
for marketing, 265–267
organizational selection, 11
presence enhancement, 317
publishing, 117
Interventions (contracts), 8, 16–18
Interview services, 266–267
Inventory, as collateral, 99
Investing during tough times, 258–260
Investment vehicles, 306
Invoicing and payment terms, 293–299, 306
Job interferes with careers, 25–30
Joint accountabilities, proposal component,
214–215
“Keepers,” 109–110
Knowledge, as value-added competency, 7
Labor intensity reduction, 26, 143–144
Language, global considerations, 374
Lateral growth, 50–51
Leads and obtaining contracts, 12–14, 120
Learning, 28–29, 47–49
Legal entities, 53
Legal expertise, 94–95
Life and living, philosophy of, 377–381
Life balance, 347–352
Life insights, 204–205
Limited liability company (LLC), 53,
176n.2, 290
Listings in trade publications, 119–120
Local outsourcing, 171
Local vendors, paying, 300
Logo, 52–53, 56
Long-term contracts, 244, 331–336
Long-term relationship perspective,
359–361, 364

388

INDEX

Long-term relationships, 333n.2
Long-term retainers, 334–335, 351
Low-end projects, dropping client, 33
Magazines (See Books and periodicals)
Mailings, periodic, 115
Market-demand approach to fees, 180–184
Market gravity relationships, 331–352
buying opportunities, 279–280,
336–341, 351
life balance, 347–352
long-term contracts, 244, 331–336
midlife starts, 202–203
new service offerings, 351
presence, 241–242
retainers, 334–335, 351
timing approach, 42–44
“value-added discounting principle of
never losing clients” (TV-ADPONLC),
341–347
Market need, identifying, 9
Marketing
commercial publishing, 11, 23, 43, 119,
224–231
Internet and Web sites, 265–267
lack of certiﬁcation or barriers to entry,
3–4
manifest body of work and performance,
11, 23
midlife starts, 202, 204
peer-to-peer, 10–11, 23
strategic goal example, 85
value-added competencies, 5–9
(See also Publicity and promotion)
Marketing gravity, 10–11
Measures of success, proposal component, 212
Methodology and options, proposal
component, 213–214
Midcourse corrections, 70–74
Midlife starts, 199–206
Million dollar consulting principles and tips,
100–102, 381–384
Min/max rate, 355
Mistakes, avoiding, 356–359
Monthly retainers, 335
Motive force, growth positioning, 36–39
Name, branding, 52
Needs of client, 16–18, 21–23, 125
Networking, 44, 110–113, 122
New service offerings, 351
Newsletters, 266
Nonproﬁt organizations, 164–167, 174
Nontraditional markets/prospects, 159–174
business-to-business (B2B), 167–168, 173
criteria for nontraditional prospects,
160–161
entrepreneurial coaching, 169–170
family-owned businesses, 161–164

franchises, 170
local outsourcing, 171
nonproﬁt organizations, 164–167, 174
professional ﬁrms, 169
serendipity, 172
start-up companies, 169, 173
trade associations/professional groups, 43,
122, 172
Number of consultants/consultant
organizations, 4n1, 9
Objectives, proposal component, 212
Ofﬁce requirements, 54–57
Omnipresence (See Presence)
One person/one situation vs. timing
approach, 40
Organizations
client needs, 16–18, 21–23
issues in, 383–384
selection of consultants, 10–15, 23, 43, 119
Outcomes, value of, 185
Overhead, 35
Paint-yourself-in-a-corner syndrome, 31
Paradigm shifts, midcourse, 67–82
Partners, treating clients as, 78
Partnerships, 138–140, 146
Part-time help, 137–138
Passion, 9
Passive income, 318–323
Passive listings, 43
Passive marketing, 10
Payment schedules/terms, 293–299, 306
Payroll services, 287, 289
Peer-to-peer collaboration, 10–11, 23, 76,
112–113, 121
Perceptions of higher fees, 192–193
Per diem, formulaic method for, 176–180
Performance fees, 296–297
Periodicals (See Books and periodicals)
Personal conduct, 129
Personal philosophy of business, 103
Personality inventories, 58–59
Personality traits/strengths, 199–200
Pipeline approach and down times, 243–261
business decline warning signs, 243–247
contrarian consulting, 252–255
cutting expenses, as a myth, 255–260
investing during tough times, 258–260
potential pipeline hazards, 245
red ﬂags, 246–147
rules to follow in “up times,” 247–252, 261
Planning for ﬁnancial resources, 96–100
Plateau and success trap, 47–51
Position papers, 43
Postage meter, 56
Pragmatic range of interventions, 18–19
Prepaying bills, 304–305

INDEX

Presence, 220–242
commercial publishing, 11, 23, 43, 119,
224–231
constant communication methods, 220–224
graceful growth, 308–318
market gravity, 241–242
pro bono work, 42, 92–93, 111, 237–241
self-publishing, 226, 231–232, 242
speaking, 43, 116–117, 234–237
Press kit, 201, 230, 235–236, 251
Press releases, 315–316
Print for client communication, 221
Print interviews/newsletters, 44
Printed materials, 44, 55, 94
Printer/copier services, 55, 95
Pro bono work, 42, 92–93, 111, 237–241
Process consultation, 7
Process vs. content, 6–7
Process visuals, 275–279
Productivity, increasing personal, 250–251
Products, branding, 44, 70–74, 126–128,
318–323
Professional ﬁrms, 169
Proposals, 207–219
buyer preparation, 207–211
components of 2.5 page proposal, 211–216
conceptual agreement, 358
follow up and close sale, 217, 219
starting on “telephone handshake,” 219
submitting poor, 359
Prospects (See Clients and prospects)
Prospering, 380
Prudent risk, 64–65
Public speaking (See Speaking)
Publicists, professional, 122–123
Publicity and promotion, 107–135
activities, 110–111
ethical issues, 128–130
handling objections, 123–126
“keepers,” 109–110
methods for, 114–123
networking, 44, 110–113, 122
preparing answers for tough questions,
130–134
products, 44, 70–74, 126–128, 318–323
speaking fees, 85–86, 107–110, 234
Quantity vs. quality of clients, 30–32
Radio interviews, 43, 312
Receivables, 99, 294–300
Recommending other resources, 76
Reduced fees, working for, 81
Reference library, 95, 111
References, and credibility question, 133–134
Referral fees, 364
Referrals (See Repeat and referral business)
Reinvention, continual, 32

389

Rejection, learning from, 47–49
Relationships (See Breakthrough relationships)
Repeat and referral business, 353–364
alliances, 44, 140–141, 146, 372–373
avoiding mistakes, 356–359
of bottom-end work, 33, 86–88
commissions, 157–158
guidelines for referral requests, 92, 118,
361–362
human resources for, 154–155
long-term relationship perspective,
359–361, 364
talent, charging for, 362–364
triage, 86–89
velocity factor, 353–356
Research, academic, 310–311
Resources
essential, 94–95
ﬁnancial, 96–100
human resources, 136–158
Results emphasis vs. deliverables, 15–19, 23, 26
Retainers
ﬁnancial resource planning, 298–299, 306
long term, 334–335, 351
value-based fees, 196–197
Retirement ﬂexibility, 20
Revenue, 96
(See also Fees)
Revenue sharing, 150–153, 158
Risk and reward, 61–65
Roaming time, 342–343
S-curve theory, 50
Sales acquisition, collaboration fee structure,
150–153
Science and art of consulting, 3–10
Self-delimiting boxes, 57–61
Self-esteem, 381–382
Self-publishing, 226, 231–232, 242
Series projects, dropping client, 33
Service, as client interaction, 70–74
Service contracts, 303
Short-term cash, 246
Short-term contracts, 244
SIGN theory, 275–279
Signature line, e-mail, 267, 271
Situation appraisal, proposal component,
211–212
Six Figures to Seven workshops, 83
16 principles of million dollar consulting,
100–102
Skill improvement, 4
Skills transfer to client, dropping client,
33–34
Social media, 44–45, 267–270
Sole source resource, 49
Sophistication, global considerations, 374
Speakers bureaus, 150, 236, 241

390

INDEX

Speaking
after dinner, 85n.2
audio/video series, 121, 319–323
conference presentations, 311
fees, 85–86, 107–110, 234
presence, 43, 116–117, 234–237
Spousal travel, 370
Staff, lack of, 132–133
Start-up companies, 169, 173
Steady climb, 48
Strategic growth
early positioning for, 25–46
midcourse breaking away, 47–66
midcourse paradigm shifts, 67–82
secrets of, 89–94
transition from success trap, 83–103
Strategy
deﬁned, 102
vs. tactics, 101
Subchapter S corporations, 53, 176n.2, 290
Subcontracting, 112–113, 141–143, 146, 305
Subordinates, helping, 77
Success trap
and lateral growth, 47–51
transition from, 83–103
(See also Strategic growth)
Supplanting alliance partner, 372–373
Surveys, 48, 63–64, 316–317, 371–372
Tactics vs. strategies, 101
(See also speciﬁc tactics)
Talent, charging for, 362–364
Tasks, repetitive, value of, 185
Taxes and pro bono work, 241
Teaching, 44
Technology, 262–281
blogging and branding, 270–273
buying dynamics, 279–280
client relationship enhancement, 273–275
collaboration fee structure, 150–153
cybermarketing, 264–267
power and importance of, 262–264
process visuals, 275–279
products for brand building, 318–323
questions to consider, 268–270
social media, 267–270
Telephone
cell phones, 111, 270, 280
client communication, 221–223
in ofﬁce, 54–55
provide essential phone numbers, 75
“telephone handshake” to start work, 219
Yellow Pages, 120–121
Television talk shows, 312
Terms and conditions, proposal component,
215–216

Thinking blinders, 68
Third-party endorsements, 44
Time and timing approach
collecting receivables, 293–299, 306
growth positioning, 39–45, 91–92
market gravity relationships, 42–44
timing, proposal component, 214
value of client’s time, 95n.4
velocity of sales process, 154
Toll-free phone number, 54, 121
Tough questions, preparing for, 130–134
Trade associations, 43, 122, 172
Trade publications, listings in, 119–120
Trade show exhibitions, 117–118
Travel, ﬁrst class, 368
Travel agents, 95, 301–302
Trust, 126, 357–358
(See also Breakthrough relationships)
Unattractive work and higher fees, 193
Unbundling services, 18
Uncontrollable rejection, 47
“Under promise and over deliver,” 62
Unlimited meetings, 187
Urgency, lack of, 124–125
User-group meetings, 338
Valuable information, providing, 74–75
Value to organization, proposal
component, 213
Value added, 5–9, 92
(See also speciﬁc topics)
“Value-added discounting principle of never
losing clients” (TV-ADPONLC),
341–347
Velocity, 83–86, 154–155, 353–356
Videos, 121, 319–323, 325–330
Visibility, 54
Visits to client, 223
Visual aids, 275–279
Voice mail, 55n.4
Volunteering, 42, 92–93, 111, 237–241
Wealth and time, 26, 31, 143–144,
347–350, 381
Web sites (See Internet and Web sites)
Webinars, 280
White-collar moonlighting, 20
Word of mouth, 43
Working capital equations, 97
Working smarter, not harder, 26–28
Wrong people, meeting with, 356–357
Year-end cash delay, 307
Yellow Pages, 120–121
“Yes” opportunities, 30, 133, 354–355

