Real-World Testimonials About
the Advantage of Organizational Health
“Lencioni’s organizational health principles and practices allowed our
organization to tap into its intellectual capital and talent like never
before. We are seeing organizational transformation right before our
eyes.”
—Steve Burr, senior vice president, Carolinas HealthCare System
“When I first told my team that we were going to work on organizational health, everybody rolled their eyes and thought it was going to
be touchy-feely. They quickly realized it wasn’t. As a result of implementing Lencioni’s program, we now know exactly who we are, what
we do, why we do it, and who can be successful in our company. Our
culture and bottom line have both been transformed.”
—Clinton Anderson, CEO, Downunder Horsemanship
“After two years of work around organizational health, we had our best
year ever in the midst of the most challenging time our market has ever
faced. We can’t imagine having the success we did had we not adopted
this approach.”
—Peter Levangie, president, Bay State Milling
“Our work around organizational health helped us recognize our state
of crisis and found it wasn’t due to market conditions; rather, it was
because we were broken as a team and on a trajectory for failure as a
business. Taking on organizational health as a priority has been nothing
short of transformational.”
—Matt Danilowicz, president and managing director, Clear-Com
“The work we have done around organizational health saved us. It is
the reason we are in the position we are today.”
—Jeff Sackrison, president, Chowan Hospital

“Our consistent focus on organizational health continues to provide us
with a real competitive advantage. If the world had discovered Patrick
Lencioni sooner, there would be fewer complex leadership and management cult theories, and more effective leaders.”
—Gordon Samson, managing director, Williams Lea
“We have learned that in order for us to be successful at work, literally
saving lives, we need to be healthy. Working through the organizational
health material has helped us clarify who we are, what we do, and what
kind of behaviors we expect from people. This work has allowed us to
minimize organizational politics and has profoundly impacted our
ability to carry out our mission.”
—Elaine Berg, former president and CEO, New York Organ Donor
Network
“Our company has grown over 50 percent during the last three years
of economic turmoil. It started with the game-changing work of Patrick
Lencioni and our focus on organizational health. I spent my academic
and professional career focused on ‘smart,’ with little attention to
‘healthy.’ We were out of balance; now we are not. The results speak
for themselves.”
—Richard M. Heard, president, Insight Investments
“We have made Lencioni’s methodology core to our long-term strategic
roadmap. The results have been nothing short of fantastic. Employee
satisfaction, communication, cooperation, and true teamwork have all
improved dramatically—ensuring our spot on Inc. magazine’s list of
fastest growing companies for the sixth year in a row.”
—Smith Yewell, CEO, Welocalize
“The principles of organizational health have deeply impacted our
company and continue to serve as a driving force for us as we grow and

develop. The organizational clarity piece prompted us to become
aligned and realize that we needed to make fundamental shifts in many
aspects of our business. With determination and consistency, we
exceeded all our goals.”
—Steven C. Cooper, president and CEO, TrueBlue
“Our work around organizational health is literally giving kids the
opportunity to go to college. We finally have the team, the culture, and
the systems in place to work through the inevitable challenges we must
overcome to achieve our goals.”
—Tom Torkelson, founder and CEO, IDEA Public Schools
“By using the organizational health model, we have created an extraordinary and productive work environment. The design and construction
industry has taken note, and we have had many outsiders ask what is
so special about our approach.”
—Jay Leopold, regional manager, DPR Construction
“By applying the tenets of organizational health, we have moved farther
forward in the last eighteen months than we had the previous four
years. Many of the employees had legacy issues and didn’t think we
could actually change. We have proved that we can and the group is
enjoying the benefits of being part of a high-performing team.”
—Lynn Sasser, executive leader, Baptist State Convention of North
Carolina
“As a leader in our field, we were suffering from acute growing pains with
no end in sight. Since adopting organizational health as the core of
everything we do, our business is back on track with renewed energy and
momentum. Our staff, our clients, our families, and our bottom line
have reaped the benefits of making organizational health a priority.”
—Ken Allman, founder and CEO, PracticeLink.com

“Our organization was historically at war. We had a strong business
model, but we needed something more foundational. We needed to cut
past the history and build a more cohesive leadership team that provided clarity to the entire organization; we needed to build a healthier
organization. It has been a journey, but the people in our multifaceted
company are now working together instead of against each other.”
—Robert R. Auray, vice chairman, Reverse Logistics and Remarketing,
GENCO ATC
“By applying Lencioni’s principles, our organization’s performance has
dramatically improved. We are nimbler, more efficient, more cohesive,
and able to focus on important challenges rather than the day-to-day
minutiae that were dragging us down. This new approach to work is
energizing, and more fun to boot.”
—Bill Colleran, CEO, Impinj
“The concept of organizational health has enabled our management
team to drive healthy behaviors throughout our company, which has
supported our growth over the last eighteen months.”
—Colin Guppy, managing director, HMD Pumps
“We have always considered ourselves to be a smart company and have
never given our health much thought. We recently shifted our approach
and have seen a great response from employees and customers alike.”
—Tom Sloane, vice president sales, Export Development Canada
“As a group of highly-educated, motivated, and skeptical individuals,
it only took about five minutes for Lencioni’s principles to capture our
attention and subsequently take us on an important journey. We are
now a healthier unit, ready to tackle the major issues facing our business. This new approach to work is now a strategic advantage.”
—Alfred Foglio, managing director, GI Partners

“Pat’s work around organizational health has been truly instrumental
for our company’s success. It is the foundational underpinning of our
new Leadership Institute.”
—Greg Serrao, CEO, American Dental Partners
“Our executive team had plateaued and found itself unprepared to meet
the fast pace of change ahead. Through the adoption of Lencioni’s
model for organizational health, the executive team experienced greater
cohesion and collaboration which, in turn, flowed down and impacted
the entire organization. In fact, an outside rating group declared that
our organization had undergone a culture change that would position
us for continued success in the future.”
—Ricky D. Napper, CEO, Magnolia Regional Health Center
“Lencioni’s teamwork and organizational health concepts have focused
our entire organization around our mission, allowing us to achieve
superior results. All organizations can benefit from these principles.”
—David C. Haley, president, HBK Capital Management
“Organizational health is the cornerstone of our culture and provides
a blueprint for our company’s everyday work environment. We have
made critical business decisions—even closed stores—in order to maintain our health. In the last couple of years, we have increased our cash
flow, strengthened our team, and set our family of Harley-Davidson
stores apart from others.”
—Scott Fischer, owner and CEO, Scott Fischer Enterprises

Also by Patrick Lencioni
Leadership Fables
The Five Temptations of a CEO
The Four Obsessions of an Extraordinary Executive
The Five Dysfunctions of a Team
Death by Meeting
Silos, Politics, and Turf Wars
The Three Signs of a Miserable Job
The Three Big Questions for a Frantic Family
Getting Naked
Field Guide
Overcoming the Five Dysfunctions of a Team

The
Advantage

The
Advantage
Why Organizational Health
Trumps Everything Else in Business

PATRICK LENCIONI

Copyright © 2012 by Patrick Lencioni. All rights reserved.
Published by Jossey-Bass
A Wiley Imprint
One Montgomery Street, Suite 1200, San Francisco, CA 94104-4594—www.josseybass.com
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any
form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise,
except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without
either the prior written permission of the publisher, or authorization through payment of the
appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers,
MA 01923, 978-750-8400, fax 978-646-8600, or on the Web at www.copyright.com. Requests to
the publisher for permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons,
Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, 201-748-6011, fax 201-748-6008, or online at www.
wiley.com/go/permissions.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best efforts
in preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or
completeness of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied warranties of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales
representatives or written sales materials. The advice and strategies contained herein may not be
suitable for your situation. You should consult with a professional where appropriate. Neither the
publisher nor author shall be liable for any loss of profit or any other commercial damages, including
but not limited to special, incidental, consequential, or other damages. Readers should be aware that
Internet Web sites offered as citations and/or sources for further information may have changed or
disappeared between the time this was written and when it is read.
Jossey-Bass books and products are available through most bookstores. To contact Jossey-Bass directly
call our Customer Care Department within the U.S. at 800-956-7739, outside the U.S. at
317-572-3986, or fax 317-572-4002.
Wiley publishes in a variety of print and electronic formats and by print-on-demand. Some material
included with standard print versions of this book may not be included in e-books or in print-ondemand. If this book refers to media such as a CD or DVD that is not included in the version you
purchased, you may download this material at http://booksupport.wiley.com. For more information
about Wiley products, visit www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Lencioni, Patrick, 1965–
The advantage : why organizational health trumps everything else in business / Patrick Lencioni.
– 1st ed.
    p. cm.
Includes index.
ISBN 978-0-470-94152-2 (cloth), 978-1-118-26603-8 (ebk), 978-1-118-26610-6 (ebk),
978-1-118-26673-1 (ebk)
1. Organizational effectiveness. 2. Organization. 3. Success in
business. 4. Well-being. I. Title.
HD58.9.L465 2012
658.4–dc23
2011050953
Printed in the United States of America
first edition
HB Printing 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

CONTENTS

Introduction

xv

The Case for Organizational Health

1

The Four Disciplines Model

15

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

19

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

73

Discipline 3: Overcommunicate Clarity

141

Discipline 4: Reinforce Clarity

153

The Centrality of Great Meetings

173

Seizing the Advantage

189

Checklist for Organizational Health

195

More Resources

199

Notes

201

Acknowledgments

203

About the Author

205

Index

207
xi

For my dad, Richard Lencioni (1936–2008),
who gave me more than I deserved.

INTRODUCTION

This book is the result of an unpredictable journey, one that began
when I was just a kid, probably eight or nine years old.
My dad was a salesman who was extremely good at what he did,
but I remember that he’d often come home from work frustrated,
complaining about how his company was being managed. I didn’t know
what management was, but I was pretty sure my dad shouldn’t feel
frustrated after putting in ten hours at work.
A few years later I started working, as a busboy in high school and
a bank teller in college, and I had my first real glimpse of management.
Although I still didn’t understand everything that it entailed, it was
clear to me that some of the things that took place in the organization
where I worked made sense, that others didn’t, and that it all had a very
real impact on my colleagues and the customers we served.
After graduating from college, I went to work for a management
consulting firm and thought I was finally going to figure out this
management thing. Instead, I found myself doing data collection,
data entry, data analysis, and a variety of other things that had to do
with data.
To be fair, the firm taught me quite a bit about strategy and finance
and marketing, but not much about organizations and how they should
be run as a whole. But somehow I became convinced that the biggest
problem our clients faced, and their biggest opportunity for competitive advantage, was not really about strategy or finance or marketing;
xv

Introduction

it was something a little less tangible—something that seemed to
revolve around the way they managed their organizations.
When I suggested that we look into that, my superiors politely
informed me that this was not something our firm did for a living,
which was ironic because we were a management consulting firm. But
I had been hooked and decided I needed to change the focus of my
career.
I spent the next few years working in corporate America in the
world of organizational behavior or development or psychology—
whatever you want to call it. I found it interesting, for sure, but ultimately too soft, fragmented, and academic. This bothered me because
I knew that there was something that needed to be more widely appreciated and understood. But something was missing. Context. Integration. Practicality.
And so a group of colleagues and I started our own firm, and I
began consulting and speaking about a practical approach to improving
organizations. I have to admit that we were a bit surprised by just how
quickly and enthusiastically clients responded to our approach. There
was definitely a need out there. Over time it became clear that scores
of people working in all kinds of organizations, at every level, were
experiencing the same pain that my dad had, and they were hungry for
a better way.
So I began writing books that took a practical approach to addressing various issues relating to organizational dysfunction—teamwork,
meetings, alignment, employee engagement—while my firm’s consulting focused on the integration of all those topics.
Demand for those books, and for our integrated approach to
implementing the concepts in them, far exceeded our expectations
again, and I started to become convinced that we had found that
missing something—that advantage—I had been searching for throughout my career. Based on the feedback and encouragement of readers
and clients, I finally decided that at some point in the future, I should
xvi

Introduction

bring all of the ideas from my books and consulting practice together
in one place. That time is now.
Unlike my other books, this one is not a fable but rather a comprehensive, practical guide. I’ve tried to make it as engaging and fun
to read as possible using real-world examples and actual client stories
to illustrate my ideas. It’s worth mentioning that many of the individual
concepts I cover here have been introduced or touched on in one of
my eight business fables—most notably, The Four Obsessions of an
Extraordinary Executive; The Five Dysfunctions of a Team; Silos, Politics,
and Turf Wars; and Death by Meeting—where I use fictional characters
and plot situations to bring my theories to life.1 For those who would
benefit from a narrative approach to a specific topic, I make reference
to those books whenever possible.
Because I’m not a quantitative researcher, the conclusions I draw
here are not based on reams of statistics or finely crunched data, but
rather on my observations as a consultant over the past twenty years.
But as Jim Collins, the research giant, once told me, qualitative field
research is just as reliable as the quantitative kind, as long as clients and
readers attest to its validity. And I’m happy to say that based on my
experience with executives and their organizations, the principles in this
book have proven to be as reliable as they are simple.
I hope you enjoy reading The Advantage and, more important, that
it allows you to transform your organization, whether it is a corporation, a department within that corporation, a small entrepreneurial
venture, a school, or a church. It’s my goal that one day in the future,
the simple principles contained here will be common practice, and that
salespeople, busboys, bank tellers, CEOs, and everyone else who works
in an organization will be more productive, successful, and fulfilled as
a result.

xvii

The
Advantage

The Case for
Organizational
Health

T

he single greatest advantage any company can achieve is organizational health. Yet it is ignored by most leaders even though it is simple,
free, and available to anyone who wants it.
That is the premise of this book—not to mention my career—and
I am utterly convinced that it is true. If it sounds absurd, it should.
After all, why in the world would intelligent human beings ignore
something that is powerful and readily accessible?
That question was finally answered for me on July 28, 2010.
STOOPING TO GREATNESS
I was attending a client’s leadership conference, sitting next to the CEO.
This wasn’t just any company. It was, and still is, one of the healthiest
organizations I have ever known and one of the most successful
American enterprises of the past fifty years. In an industry plagued with
1

The Advantage

financial woes, customer fury, and labor strife, this amazing company
has a long history of growth and economic success, not to mention
fanatical customer loyalty. Moreover, its employees love their jobs,
their customers, and their leaders. When compared to others in the
same industry, what this company has accomplished seems almost
baffling.
As I sat there at the conference listening to one presentation after
another highlighting the remarkable and unorthodox activities that
have made this organization so healthy, I leaned over and quietly asked
the CEO a semirhetorical question: “Why in the world don’t your
competitors do any of this?”
After a few seconds, he whispered, almost sadly, “You know, I
honestly believe they think it’s beneath them.”
And there it was.
THE THREE BIASES
In spite of its undeniable power, so many leaders struggle to embrace
organizational health (which I’ll be defining shortly) because
they quietly believe they are too sophisticated, too busy, or too
analytical to bother with it. In other words, they think it’s beneath
them.
And in some ways, it’s hard to blame them. After years of off-site
meetings filled with ropes courses and trust-falling exercises, even the
most open-minded executives have come to be suspicious of anything
that looks or sounds touchy-feely. Combine that with the notion that
corporate culture has been reduced to surface-level artifacts like funky
office furniture, employee yoga classes, and bring-your-dog-to-work
policies, and it’s no wonder that so many leaders have become cynical,
even condescending, toward most things related to organizational
development.

2

The Case for Organizational Health

This is a shame because organizational health is different. It’s not
at all touchy-feely, and it’s far bigger and more important than mere
culture. More than a side dish or a flavor enhancer for the real meat
and potatoes of business, it is the very plate on which the meat and
potatoes sit.
The health of an organization provides the context for strategy,
finance, marketing, technology, and everything else that happens within
it, which is why it is the single greatest factor determining an organization’s success. More than talent. More than knowledge. More than
innovation.
But before leaders can tap into the power of organizational health,
they must humble themselves enough to overcome the three biases that
prevent them from embracing it.
•

•

The Sophistication Bias: Organizational health is so simple
and accessible that many leaders have a hard time seeing
it as a real opportunity for meaningful advantage. After all, it
doesn’t require great intelligence or sophistication, just
uncommon levels of discipline, courage, persistence, and
common sense. In an age where we have come to believe
that differentiation and dramatic improvement can be
found only in complexity, it’s hard for well-educated
executives to embrace something so simple and straightforward.
The Adrenaline Bias: Becoming a healthy organization takes a
little time. Unfortunately, many of the leaders I’ve worked with
suffer from a chronic case of adrenaline addiction, seemingly
hooked on the daily rush of activity and firefighting within their
organizations. It’s as though they’re afraid to slow down and deal
with issues that are critical but don’t seem particularly urgent. As
simple as this may seem, it remains a serious obstacle for many
dysfunctional organizations led by executives who don’t

3

The Advantage

•

understand that old race-car drivers’ axiom: you have to slow
down in order to go fast.
The Quantification Bias: The benefits of becoming a healthy
organization, as powerful as they are, are difficult to accurately
quantify. Organizational health permeates so many aspects of a
company that isolating any one variable and measuring its
financial impact is almost impossible to do in a precise way.
That certainly doesn’t mean the impact isn’t real, tangible,
and massive; it just requires a level of conviction and
intuition that many overly analytical leaders have a hard time
accepting.

Of course, I suppose that even if leaders were able to humble
themselves enough to overcome each of these biases, there is yet
another reason that might
prevent them from tapping
Once organizational health is
into the power of organi­
properly understood and
zational health, and that is
placed into the right context,
what provoked me to write
it will surpass all other
this book: it has never
disciplines in business as the
been presented as a simple,
greatest opportunity for
integrated, and practical
discipline.
improvement and competitive
I am convinced that
advantage. Really.
once organizational health is
properly understood and
placed into the right context,
it will surpass all other disciplines in business as the greatest opportunity for im­provement and competitive advantage. Really.
So what exactly is organizational health?
I thought you’d never ask.

4

The Case for Organizational Health

UNDERSTANDING ORGANIZATIONAL HEALTH
At its core, organizational health is about integrity, but not in the
ethical or moral way that integrity is defined so often today. An
organization has integrity—is healthy—when it is whole, consistent,
and complete, that is, when its management, operations, strategy, and
culture fit together and make sense.
If that’s a little too vague for you (it would be for me), think about
it this way. Whenever I present organizational health to a prospective
client or a roomful of executives, I start by contrasting it with something more familiar to them. I explain that any organization that really
wants to maximize its success must come to embody two basic qualities:
it must be smart, and it must be healthy.
Smart Versus Healthy

Smart organizations are good at those classic fundamentals of business—
subjects like strategy, marketing, finance, and technology—which I
consider to be decision sciences.
When I started my career at the management consulting firm Bain
& Company, we did research and analysis to help clients make smarter,
better decisions in these areas. No one with any experience in business
will tell you that these pursuits are not critical to the success of an
organization, nor should they.
But being smart is only half the equation. Yet somehow it occupies
almost all the time, energy, and attention of most executives. The
other half of the equation, the one that is largely neglected, is about being
healthy.
A good way to recognize health is to look for the signs that indicate
an organization has it. These include minimal politics and confusion,
high degrees of morale and productivity, and very low turnover among
good employees.

5

The Advantage

Two Requirements for Success
Smart

Healthy

• Strategy

• Minimal Politics

• Marketing

• Minimal Confusion

• Finance

• High Morale

• Technology

• High Productivity
• Low Turnover

Whenever I list these qualities for leaders, I usually get one of
the following reactions, and sometimes both. Often they laugh
quietly, in a nervous, almost guilty kind of way. Or they barely sigh,
like parents do when they hear about a family where the kids do
what they’re told the first time they’re asked. In either case, it’s as
though they’re thinking, “Wouldn’t that be nice?” or, “Can you
imagine?”
What I find particularly amazing is that none of the leaders I
present to, even the most cynical ones, deny that their companies would
be transformed if they could achieve the characteristics of a healthy
organization. They never dismiss it as being soft or touchy-feely, and
they immediately recognize the practical connection between a lack of
health and overall performance. So it would be natural to assume that
those executives would then march back to their companies and focus
a large portion of their time, energy, and attention on making their
organizations healthier.
Well, I’ve come to learn that even well-intentioned leaders usually
return to work and gravitate right back to the “smart” side of the
equation, spending their time tweaking the dials in marketing,
strategy, finance, and so forth. Why would they do something so
absurd?

6

The Case for Organizational Health

Better Light

One of the best explanations for this strange phenomenon comes from
a comedy sketch I saw as a child. I remember it being part of an old
episode of I Love Lucy.
Ricky, Lucy’s husband, comes home from work one day to find his
wife crawling around the living room on her hands and knees. He asks
her what she’s doing.
“I’m looking for my earrings,” Lucy responds.
Ricky asks her, “You lost your earrings in the living room?”
She shakes her head. “No, I lost them in the bedroom. But the
light out here is much better.”
And there it is.
Most leaders prefer to look for answers where the light is better,
where they are more comfortable. And the light is certainly better in
the measurable, objective, and data-driven world of organizational
intelligence (the smart side of the equation) than it is in the messier,
more unpredictable world of organizational health.
Studying spreadsheets and Gantt charts and financial statements is
relatively safe and predictable, which most executives prefer. That’s how
they’ve been trained, and that’s where they’re comfortable. What they
usually want to avoid at all costs are subjective conversations that can
easily become emotional and awkward. And organizational health is
certainly fraught with the potential for subjective and awkward
conversations.
That’s why so many leaders, even when they acknowledge the pain
that politics and confusion are causing their organizations, continue to
spend their time tweaking the dials in more traditional discip­lines.
Unfortunately, the opportunities for improvement and competitive
advantage they find in those areas are incremental and fleeting at best.
That’s right. The advantages to be found in the classic areas of
business—finance, marketing, strategy—in spite of all the attention

7

The Advantage

they receive, are incremental and fleeting. In this world of ubiquitous
information and nanosecond technology exchange, it’s harder than it
has ever been in history to maintain a competitive advantage based on
intelligence or knowledge. Information just changes hands too rapidly
today. Companies, even entire industries, come and go faster than we
could have imagined even a decade ago.
Permission to Play

And so, being smart—as critical as it is—has become something of a
commodity. It is simply permission to play, a minimum standard
required for having even a possibility of success. It’s certainly not
enough to achieve a meaningful, sustainable competitive advantage
over any length of time.
In fact, I’d have to say that a lack of intelligence, domain expertise,
or industry knowledge is almost never the problem I see in organizations. In twenty years of consulting to clients in virtually
I’ve become absolutely
every industry, I have yet to
convinced that the seminal
meet a group of leaders who
difference between successful
made me think, Wow, these
companies and mediocre or
people just don’t know enough
unsuccessful ones has little, if
about their business to succeed.
anything, to do with what they
Really. The vast majority
of organizations today have
know or how smart they are;
more than enough intelliit has everything to do with
gence, expertise, and know­
how healthy they are.
ledge to be successful. What
they lack is organizational
health.
This point is worth restating.
After two decades of working with CEOs and their teams of senior
executives, I’ve become absolutely convinced that the seminal difference
8

The Case for Organizational Health

between successful companies and mediocre or unsuccessful ones has
little, if anything, to do with what they know or how smart they are;
it has everything to do with how healthy they are.
If you’re tempted to dismiss that idea, consider this. Though I made
the statement just a few paragraphs ago that I’ve not yet met a group
of leaders whom I thought lacked the knowledge, expertise, or intelligence to succeed, I’ve met plenty who made me think, Uh-oh. The
culture within this team and this organization is way too unhealthy to
sustain a successful business. And time after time I’ve seen smart companies find a way to fail in spite of their sizable intellectual and strategic
assets.
Again, that’s not to say that being smart isn’t important. It is. But
if someone were to press me on which of the two characteristics of an
organization, intelligence or health, should receive first priority, I would
say without hesitation that health comes out a clear number one. Here’s
why.
Health Begets—and Trumps—Intelligence

An organization that is healthy will inevitably get smarter over time.
That’s because people in a healthy organization, beginning with the
leaders, learn from one another, identify critical issues, and recover
quickly from mistakes. Without politics and confusion getting in their
way, they cycle through problems and rally around solutions much
faster than their dysfunctional and political rivals do. Moreover, they
create environments in which employees do the same.
In contrast, smart organizations don’t seem to have any greater
chance of getting healthier by virtue of their intelligence. In fact, the
reverse may actually be true because leaders who pride themselves on
expertise and intelligence often struggle to acknowledge their flaws
and learn from peers. They aren’t as easily open and transparent with
one another, which delays recovery from mistakes and exacerbates politics and confusion. That’s certainly not to say that being smart isn’t
9

The Advantage

desirable, just that it provides no inherent advantages for becoming
healthy.
The same phenomenon can be seen in families. Healthy families—
the ones where parents give their children discipline, affection, and
time—almost always improve over the years, even when they lack many
of the advantages and resources that money can buy. Unhealthy families, the ones without discipline and unconditional love, will always
struggle, even if they have all the money, tutors, coaches, and technology they could ever want.
The key ingredient for improvement and success is not access to
knowledge or resources, as helpful as those things may be. It’s really
about the health of the environment. And consider this: if you had to
bet on the future of one of two kids, one raised by loving parents in a
solid home and the other a product of apathy and dysfunction, you’d
always take the former regardless of the resources surrounding them.
Well, the same is true in organizations.
The Multiplier Effect

Here is another testament to the superiority of organizational health
over intelligence. In my career as a consultant, I’ve worked with a
number of great, healthy companies that were led by men and women
who attended relatively modest colleges—people who would admit to
being just a little above average in intellectual capacity. When those
companies made wise decisions that set them apart from their competition, journalists and industry analysts incorrectly attributed their
success to their intellectual prowess. The truth of the matter was that
those companies weren’t smarter than their competitors; they simply
tapped into the adequate intelligence they had and didn’t allow dysfunction, ego, and politics to get in the way.
On the flip side, I’ve seen all too many companies whose leaders
earned the best grades at the top universities, who possessed tremendous intellectual capacity and had extraordinary experience and indus10

The Case for Organizational Health

try knowledge, yet still managed to fail because they couldn’t tap into
much of it. In almost every situation, it was politics, behavioral misalignment, and inconsistency that did them in, leading them to make
what seemed in retrospect like obvious tactical and strategic mistakes.
Journalists and analysts always seem perplexed by how those executives
“could have been so dumb.” But again, they miss the point by attributing the bad decisions to intellectual deficiencies. They fail to see that
the real deficiency, the one that makes it possible for smart people to
make dumb decisions, is a lack of organizational health.
And so a good way to
look at organizational health
Most organizations exploit only
—and one that executives
a fraction of the knowledge,
seem to respond to readily—
experience, and intellectual
is to see it as the multiplier
capital that is available to them.
of intelligence. The healthier
But the healthy ones tap into
an organization is, the more
almost all of it.
of its intelligence it is able
to tap into and use. Most
organizations exploit only a
fraction of the knowledge,
experience, and intellectual capital that is available to them. But the
healthy ones tap into almost all of it. That, as much as anything else,
is why they have such an advantage over their unhealthy competitors.
Okay, I’ve already add­ressed the biases that pre­vent so many
leaders from embracing the power of organizational health. Another
worthwhile question that needs to be answered is this: Why haven’t
more business scholars and journalists embraced it?
Media and Academia

First, organizational health just isn’t very sexy, so journalists aren’t terribly excited to talk or write about it. No magazine or newspaper
wants to run a story about a humble leader who continues to run her
11

The Advantage

medium-sized company with discipline, common sense, and consistency. They would rather tell you about how a brash young entrepreneur is trying to set the world on fire—and maybe himself—with a
disruptive new piece of technology or a revolutionary new service. And
that makes sense given that they’re trying to sell magazines and lure
more advertisers. But it certainly doesn’t mean their eye-catching stories
are more instructive or practical.
Another reason that organizational health has been overlooked by
academia and the media has to do with the difficulty of measuring its
impact. As I mentioned earlier, trying to identify exactly how much a
company’s health affects its bottom line is next to impossible; there are
just too many variables to isolate it from the myriad of other factors.
But again, that doesn’t make the impact of organizational health any
less real, just harder for journalists and academics to justify in a definitive, quantitative way.
Finally, organizational health gets overlooked because the elements
that make it up don’t seem to be anything new. And in many ways,
they aren’t. The basic components—leadership, teamwork, culture,
strategy, meetings—have been a subject of discussion within academia
for a long time. The problem is that we’ve been looking at those elements in isolated, discreet, and theoretical ways instead of as an integrated, practical discipline.
It’s tempting to downplay this oversight of organizational health
by media and academia and, for that matter, leaders, as just another
interesting and unfortunate phenomenon of modern business culture.
However, the cost of that oversight is extraordinarily high and cannot
be overstated.
The Price of Poor Health

Anyone who has ever worked in an unhealthy organization—and
almost everyone has—knows the misery of dealing with politics, dysfunction, confusion, and bureaucracy. As much as we enjoy making
12

The Case for Organizational Health

jokes about these artifacts of organizational plight, there is no denying
that they exact a significant toll.
The financial cost of having an unhealthy organization is undeniable: wasted resources and time, decreased productivity, increased
employee turnover, and customer attrition. The money an organization
loses as a result of these problems, and the money it has to spend to
recover from them, is staggering.
And that’s only the beginning of the problem. When leaders of an
organization are less than honest with one another, when they put the
needs of their departments or their careers ahead of the needs of
the greater organization, when they are misaligned, confused, and
inconsistent about what is important, they create real anguish for real
human beings. And they experience that anguish themselves too.
Aside from the obvious impact this has within the organization,
there is a larger social cost. People who work in unhealthy organizations
eventually come to see work as drudgery. They view success as being
unlikely or, even worse, out of their control. This leads to a diminished
sense of hope and lower self-esteem, which leaks beyond the walls of the
companies where they work, into their families where it often contributes to deep personal problems, the effects of which may be felt for years.
This is nothing short of a tragedy, and a completely avoidable one.
I point all this out only so that we don’t underestimate the cost of
allowing our organizations to remain unhealthy, and, more important,
so that we fully grasp the opportunity that lies before us. Turning an
unhealthy company into a healthy one will not only create a massive
competitive advantage and improved bottom line, it will also make a
real difference in the lives of the people who work there. And for the
leaders who spearhead those efforts, it will be one of the most meaningful and rewarding endeavors they will ever pursue.
Okay, here is the next question that has to be answered, the one
that will occupy the rest of this book: What does an organization have
to do to become healthy? There are four required disciplines.
13

1.
Build a
Cohesive
Leadership
Team

2.
Create
Clarity

ORGANIZATIONAL HEALTH
4.
Reinforce
Clarity

3.
Overcommunicate
Clarity

The Four Disciplines Model
An organization doesn’t become healthy in a linear, tidy fashion. Like
building a strong marriage or family, it’s a messy process that involves
doing a few things at once, and it must be maintained on an ongoing
basis in order to be preserved. Still, that messy process can be broken
down into four simple disciplines.
DISCIPLINE 1: BUILD A COHESIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM
An organization simply cannot be healthy if the people who are chartered with running it are not behaviorally cohesive in five fundamental
ways. In any kind of organization, from a corporation to a department
within that corporation, from a small, entrepreneurial company to a
church or a school, dysfunction and lack of cohesion at the top inevitably lead to a lack of health throughout.
DISCIPLINE 2: CREATE CLARITY
In addition to being behaviorally cohesive, the leadership team of a
healthy organization must be intellectually aligned and committed to
the same answers to six simple but critical questions. There can be no
daylight between leaders around these fundamental issues.
DISCIPLINE 3: OVERCOMMUNICATE CLARITY
Once a leadership team has established behavioral cohesion and created
clarity around the answers to those questions, it must then communicate those answers to employees clearly, repeatedly, enthusiastically, and
repeatedly (that’s not a typo). When it comes to reinforcing clarity,
there is no such thing as too much communication.
15

The Advantage

DISCIPLINE 4: REINFORCE CLARITY
Finally, in order for an organization to remain healthy over time, its
leaders must establish a few critical, nonbureaucratic systems to reinforce clarity in every process that involves people. Every policy, every
program, every activity should be designed to remind employees what
is really most important.

Is this model foolproof?
Pretty much. When an organization’s leaders are cohesive, when
they are unambiguously aligned around a common set of answers to a
few critical questions, when they communicate those answers again and
again and again, and when they put effective processes in place to
reinforce those answers, they create an environment in which success
is almost impossible to prevent. Really.
Sure, if those leaders make a catastrophic, completely boneheaded
mistake in strategy, finance, or marketing they could sink the organization. But people in healthy organizations rarely make those kinds of
mistakes. That’s because cohesive leadership teams prevent groupthink,
learn from mistakes, and call each other on potential problems before
they get out of hand. And so it makes sense that this is the first of
the four disciplines that should be taken on: building a cohesive
leadership team.

16

WHAT’S IT WORTH TO YOU?
Imagine two organizations.
The first is led by a leadership team whose members are open with
one another, passionately debate important issues, and commit to clear
decisions even if they initially disagree. They call each other out when
their behaviors or performance needs correction, and they focus their
attention on the collective good of the organization.
The second is led by a leadership team whose members are guarded
and less than honest with one another. They hold back during difficult
conversations, feign commitment, and hesitate to call one another on
unproductive behaviors. Often they pursue their own agendas rather
than those of the greater organization.
The question: What kind of advantage would the first organization
have over the second, and how much time and energy would it be worth
investing to make this advantage a reality?

1.
Build a
Cohesive
Leadership
Team

2.
Create
Clarity

DISCIPLINE 1

ORGANIZATIONAL HEALTH
4.
Reinforce
Clarity

3.
Overcommunicate
Clarity

Build a Cohesive
Leadership Team

T

he first step a leadership team has to take if it
wants the organization it leads to be healthy—
and to achieve the advantages that go with it—is
to make itself cohesive. There’s just no way around
it. If an organization is led by a team that is not
behaviorally unified, there is no chance that it will
become healthy.
It’s kind of like a family. If the parents’ relationship is dysfunctional, the family will be too. That’s
not to say that some good things can’t come out of
it; it’s just that the family/company will not come
anywhere close to realizing its full potential.
The importance of leadership team cohesion is
almost never overtly disputed, even by the most
cynical executives. But somehow, few organizations
19

The Advantage

invest nearly enough time and energy in it, and certainly not with the
level of rigor that building a cohesive team requires and deserves. So it’s
difficult to avoid coming to
the conclusion that most
Few organizations invest
organizations either give lipnearly enough time and
service to the idea that teamenergy in making their
work at the top is critical, or
leadership teams cohesive,
they underestimate what it
and certainly not with the
takes to achieve it. Whatever
level of rigor that it requires
the case, it’s clear that a better
and deserves.
approach needs to be taken if
they are to eradicate dysfunction from their teams.
I should mention here that I wrote a book that addresses this topic.
It’s called The Five Dysfunctions of a Team, and it’s a fable about a leader
who takes over a political, dysfunctional team and works to turn it
around. That book provides a fictional but thorough and realistic case
study about how a team needs to wrestle with dysfunction in order to
improve. I’ve also written a field guide, Overcoming the Five Dysfunctions
of a Team, which provides detailed instructions for how to implement
many of the exercises and tools we use in our consulting practice.1
What I’ll do in this section is present a comprehensive overview of the
model and provide advice about addressing the five dysfunctions and embracing the positive behaviors that are at the heart of any cohesive leadership team.
I’ll also use real stories to draw on what I’ve learned from clients and readers
since those books came out ten and seven years before this one, respectively.
But first, we need to get clear on what a leadership team really is.
DEFINING A LEADERSHIP “TEAM”
The word team has been so overused and misused in society that it has
lost much of its impact. The truth is, few groups of leaders actually work
20

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

like a team, at least not the kind that is required to lead a healthy organization. Most of them resemble what Jon Katzenbach and Douglas
Smith, authors of the book, The Wisdom of Teams, call a “working group.”2
A good way to understand a working group is to think of it like a golf
team, where players go off and play on their own and then get together
and add up their scores at the end of the day. A real team is more like a
basketball team, one that plays together simultaneously, in an interactive,
mutually dependent, and often interchangeable way. Most working
groups reflexively call themselves teams because that’s the word society
uses to describe any group of people who are affiliated in their work.
Becoming a real team requires an intentional decision on the part
of its members. I like to say that teamwork is not a virtue. It is a
choice—and a strategic one.
That means leaders who
Teamwork is not a virtue. It is
choose to operate as a real
a choice—and a strategic one.
team willingly accept the
work and the sacrifices that
are necessary for any group
that wants to reap the benefits of true teamwork. But before they can
do that, they should understand and agree on a common definition of
what a leadership team really is.
A leadership team is a small group of people who are collectively responsible for achieving a common objective for their organiza­tion.
Any concise definition of such a broadly defined and widely used
term is going to need some clarification and further definition of terms.
Here goes.
A Small Group of People

So many teams I’ve encountered struggle simply because they’re too
large. This is a big problem and a common one. A leadership team
should be made up of somewhere between three and twelve people,
21

The Advantage

though anything over eight or nine is usually problematic. There is
nothing dogmatic about this size limit. It is just a practical reality.
Having too many people on a team can cause a variety of logistical
challenges, but the primary problem has to do with communication.
When it comes to discussions and decision making, there are two critical ways that members of effective teams must communicate: advocacy
and inquiry. A professor at Harvard, Chris Argyris, introduced this
idea.3
Advocacy is the kind of communication that most people are
accustomed to, and it is all about stating your case or making your
point. I think we should change our advertising approach. Or, I recommend that we cut costs.
Inquiry is rarer and more important than advocacy. It happens
when people ask questions to seek clarity about another person’s
statement of advocacy. Why do you think the advertising approach
is wrong? And which aspects of it are you referring to? Or, What evidence
do you have that our expenses are too high? And how certain are you
of this?
What does this have to do with the size of a team? Plenty. When
more than eight or nine people are on a team, members tend to advocate a heck of a lot more than they inquire. This makes sense because
they aren’t confident that they’re going to get the opportunity to speak
again soon, so they use their scarce floor time to announce their position or make a point. When a team is small, members are more likely
to use much of their time asking questions and seeking clarity, confident that they’ll be able to regain the floor and share their ideas or
opinions when necessary.
If this isn’t clear, consider an institution like the U.S. Congress or
the United Nations, where members use their precious time at the
podium making declarations and statements. The same is true in large
committees or on task forces within organizations, where people rarely
take the opportunity to probe for understanding and clarity, but instead
22

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

merely pile opinion upon opinion. This inevitably leads to misunderstanding and poor decision making.
If this phenomenon is so compelling—and based on the evidence
I’ve seen over the years in my work with leaders and their teams, I’m
convinced it is—then it begs the question, Why do so many organizations
still have too many people on their leadership teams?
Often it’s because they want to be “inclusive,” a politically correct way
of saying they want to portray themselves as welcoming input from as
many people as possible. And as nice as it may sound on a bumper sticker
or a flowery poster, it is an ineffective and inefficient way to optimize decision making within an organization. Inclusivity, or the basic idea behind
it, should be achieved by ensuring that the members of a leadership team
are adequately representing and tapping into the opinions of the people
who work for them, not by maximizing the size of the team.
Another reason that leadership teams are often too large is the lack
of wisdom and courage on the part of the executives in charge who put
people on their teams as a reward or as an enticement to join the
company. I can’t give Bill a raise or a promotion, but I think he’ll be happy
if I make him part of the executive team. Or maybe, If you come to work
for my company, I’ll have you report directly to me. These are bad reasons
to add staff to a leadership team.

The Noah’s Ark Management Team
A smallish telecommunications company purchased one of
its equal-sized competitors, and in order to placate the
execu­tives of the acquired company, the CEO agreed to
merge the two groups of leaders into what I call the “Noah’s
Ark” management team. For every position on the executive
team, there were two leaders, each representing one side of
the merger. Two heads of marketing, two heads of sales, two
heads of . . . you get it. As ridiculous as that sounds, they
were convinced it was the best thing to do.

23

The Advantage

With so many people on the leadership team—I believe
it peaked at seventeen—meetings became a mess. The
group’s ability to be decisive and come to closure around
decisions diminished, as you would expect, and executives
grew so bored that a few would actually sleep during staff
meetings (I kid you not.).
Aside from the comedy of it all, what made this situation
so fascinating to me was the way in which it was resolved.
Executives eventually became so frustrated by the bureaucracy and wasted time that they started asking the CEO to
take them off the team! They were willing to sacrifice their
coveted place at the table, and report to a peer, just to avoid
having to waste their time and energy working on such a
large and unruly team.
Ironically, the ultimate impact of the Noah’s Ark approach
was not an improvement in the morale of the people in the
newly acquired company, but rather a prolonged period of
transition, denial, and frustration.

When executives put people on their leadership teams for the
wrong reasons, they muddy the criteria for why the team exists at all.
The only reason that a person should be on a team is that she represents
a key part of the organization or brings truly critical talent or insight
to the table. If someone is unhappy with his pay or status or wavering
about accepting a job offer, the leader should deal with that issue headon, not compound it by making the executive team larger and less
productive.
It amazes me that intelligent people will sacrifice the effectiveness
and manageability of their team for a tactical victory. This is undeni­
able evidence that many executives, in spite of what they might
say, don’t really understand the importance of leadership team
cohesiveness.

24

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

Collectively Responsible

This is perhaps the most important distinction between a working group
and a real leadership team. Collective responsibility implies, more than
anything else, selflessness and shared sacrifices from team members.
What kind of sacrifices am I talking about? Well, first are the
tangible, literal sacrifices. These include standard things like budget
allocations or head count, resources that need to be shifted from
one suborganization or department to another. Making these kinds
of sacrifices is much easier to commit to in theory than in practice,
because no leader likes to go back to his or her department and
announce that bonuses are going to be smaller or head count is going
to be reduced in order to help out another department that needs it
more. But that’s what members of real teams do.
There are other sacrifices that team members have to make beyond
these tangible ones, and they come about on a much more regular
basis—often daily. Two big ones are time and emotion.
Members of cohesive teams spend many hours working together
on issues and topics that often don’t fall directly within their formal
areas of responsibility. They go to meetings to help their team members
solve problems even when those problems have nothing to do with their
departments. And perhaps most challenging of all, they enter into difficult, uncomfortable discussions, even bringing up thorny issues with
colleagues about their shortcomings, in order to solve problems that
might prevent the team from achieving its objectives. They do this even
when they’re tempted to avoid it all and go back to the relative
safety of their offices to do what I refer to as their “day jobs,” that is,
the work of their department.
Common Objectives

Though this is pretty straightforward, it’s worth stating that most of a
leadership team’s objectives should be collective ones. If the most

25

The Advantage

important goal within the organization is to increase sales, then every
member of the team shares that goal. It isn’t just the responsibility of
the head of sales. No one on a cohesive team can say, Well, I did my
job. Our failure isn’t my fault.
This is another concept that plenty of leadership teams say they
believe in but that few really embrace. Most of them rely far too heavily
on people working exclusively within their areas of expertise, handing
out different objectives to different team members based on their titles
and management responsibilities. And while there will always be a need
for division of labor and departmental expertise, leadership team
members must see their goals as collective and shared when it comes
to managing the top priorities of the greater organization.
Finally, if a team shares a common objective, a good portion of their
compensation or reward structure, though not necessarily all of it, should
be based on the achievement of that common objective. When leaders
preach teamwork but exclusively reward individual achievement, they are
confusing their people and creating an obstacle to true team behavior.
Okay, now that I’ve put forward a general definition of what I mean by
a leadership team, let’s focus on the steps for building a cohesive one. At the
heart of the process lie five behavioral principles that every team must embrace:

Results

Accountability
Commitment
Conflict
Trust

26

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

BEHAVIOR 1: BUILDING TRUST
Members of a truly cohesive team must trust one another. I realize that
sounds like the most patently obvious statement ever made, something
that every organization understands and values. As a result, you’d
think that most leadership teams would be pretty good at building
trust. As it turns out, they aren’t, and I think a big part of it is that
they have the wrong idea about what trust is.
Many people think of trust in a predictive sense; if you can come to
know how a person will behave in a given situation, you can trust her.
I’ve known Sarah for years, and I can trust that when she says she’s going to
do something, she’ll follow through. As laudable as that might be, it’s not
the kind of trust that lies at the foundation of building a great team.
The kind of trust that is necessary to build a great team is what I
call vulnerability-based trust. This is what happens when members get
to a point where they are completely comfortable being transparent,
honest, and naked with one another, where they say and genuinely
mean things like “I screwed up,” “I need help,” “Your idea is better than
mine,” “I wish I could learn to do that as well as you do,” and even, “I’m
sorry.”
When everyone on a team knows that everyone else is vulnerable
enough to say and mean those things, and that no one is going to hide
his or her weaknesses or mistakes, they develop a deep and uncommon
sense of trust. They speak more freely and fearlessly with one another
and don’t waste time and energy putting on airs or pretending to be
someone they’re not. Over time, this creates a bond that exceeds what
many people ever experience in their lives and, sometimes, unfortuna­tely,
even in their families.
At the heart of vulnerability lies the willingness of people to
abandon their pride and their fear, to sacrifice their egos for the collective good of the team. While this can be a little threatening and uncomfortable at first, ultimately it becomes liberating for people who are
27

The Advantage

tired of spending time and energy overthinking their actions and managing interpersonal politics at work.
If this is starting to sound at all touchy-feely, rest assured that it’s
nothing of the sort. It’s not about holding hands and singing songs and
getting in touch with your inner child. It’s ultimately about the practical
goal of maximizing the performance of a group of people. And it’s
entirely achievable for both teams that are just coming together for the
first time and those that have been working in a less-than-trusting
environment for years.
Personal Histories

The first part of learning to build vulnerability-based trust is a small
step that is necessary because to ask people to get too vulnerable too
quickly is unrealistic and unproductive. While truly vulnerable team
members eventually have to
get comfortable revealing
At the heart of vulnerability
who they are, they need to
lies the willingness of people
start in a nonthreatening
to abandon their pride and
way. That’s why, during an
their fear, to sacrifice their
off-site session, we take teams
egos for the collective good
through a quick exercise
of the team.
where we ask them to tell
everyone, briefly, a few things
about their lives. In particular, we have them say where they were born, how many siblings they
have, where they fall in the order of children, and finally, what the most
interesting or difficult challenge was for them as a kid. Again, we’re
not interested in their inner childhoods, just what was uniquely challenging for them growing up.
This discussion takes just fifteen to twenty minutes, and it always
works. No matter how many times I’ve done it with a group of leaders,
I expect them to say, “Come on, Pat, we already know all about one
28

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

another.” And yet that has never, ever happened. Some of the people
may know one or two people on the team well, but every time I’ve
done this with a leadership team, people sitting around the table are
genuinely surprised at what they didn’t know about their colleagues’
backgrounds.
This inevitably leads to a newly found sense of respect because of
the admiration that comes when someone realizes that one of their
peers endured and overcame a hardship or accomplished something
remarkable. More important, team members begin the process of
getting comfortable with vulnerability when they realize that it is okay,
even gratifying, to tell their peers something about themselves that they
had never mentioned or been asked about before.
In addition to making people feel more comfortable being vulnerable, this discussion serves to level the playing field on the team. There
is something powerful and disarming about hearing the CEO of a
company talk about being bullied because he was a chubby kid or that
his family struggled with grave poverty. As a consultant, I always find
it amazing to witness how quickly the dynamic of a team can change
after a simple twenty-minute exercise as people who thought they knew
one another develop a whole new level of respect, admiration, and
understanding, regardless of their job title, age, or experience.

Backstories
Members of an executive team at a large insurance company
were struggling with their CFO, a relatively older guy who
didn’t give his colleagues much freedom when it came to
managing their budgets. The consensus was that he didn’t
trust the people on the team to make decisions, so he felt
the need to micromanage them in any situation involving
expenditures. The level of frustration among the team,
directed at the CFO, had been building for years and didn’t
seem likely to diminish.

29

The Advantage

Then the team did the personal histories exercise. When
it came time for the CFO to describe his family situation and
childhood, he explained that he grew up in Chicago in the
1950s and that his family was really, really poor. He had no
indoor plumbing during part of his childhood, and the electrical service in his home was inconsistent at best. You’d have
thought the guy grew up during the 1850s.
After he finished explaining what it was like for him
growing up, he did his best to make the following comment
in a matter-of-fact way, though his underlying emotion was
undeniable: “So that’s probably why I’m so tight with the
money. I don’t ever want to be poor like that again.”
The room was silent as everyone digested the subtle
magnitude of that statement. It was amazing to watch the
executives immediately begin to reassess their attitudes
toward the CFO, and a new level of dialogue quickly ensued
about the way that they discussed expenses. That would not
have happened had they not taken the time to understand
one another from a basic human perspective.

Of course, stopping there would only ensure that the trust level of
a team would quickly recede to its original level after a few hours or
days. The personal histories discussion is merely the first step in helping
a team get more vulnerable with one another.
Profiling

The next stage, though deeper than the first one, is still largely nonthreatening. It involves using a behavioral profiling tool that can give
team members deeper insights into themselves and their peers. We
prefer the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator, because it is widely used and
understood, and seems remarkably accurate. However, there are other
workable tools out there as well.

30

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

The key to the usefulness of profiling tools is that the information
that is uncovered is neutral; in other words, there are no good or bad
types. Everything is valid, and every type of team member is as useful
as the next. That may sound like something a kindergarten teacher
would tell her students, but it’s both true and important. Every person
has many natural tendencies that are useful and helpful to a team and
a few that are not.
The goal is to get everyone on the team to identify and reveal those
tendencies to their peers, both for the practical purpose of having them
understand one another and to help them get comfortable being
transparent and vulnerable about their shortcomings and limitations.
When members of a leadership team willingly acknowledge their weaknesses to one another, they give their peers tacit permission to call
them on those weaknesses. Of course, it also serves to validate their
strengths.
Sometimes it’s during the process of coming clean about weaknesses that the biggest breakthroughs happen among team members.

Myers-Briggs Breakthrough
I was working with the leadership team of a consulting firm.
I didn’t know it at the time, but two of the executives didn’t
enjoy working together, and they had a track record of not
trusting one another. As we were going through the MyersBriggs discussion, something amazing happened.
One of the two executives, Barry, read the one-page
description of his Myers-Briggs type aloud to the team. Part
of that description included the fact that he was a perfectionist, which made him procrastinate whenever he couldn’t
do something precisely the way he thought was best.
The colleague he didn’t get along with, Tom, interrupted.
“Go back and read that again.”

31

The Advantage

Barry read the description a second time, and Tom
seemed dumbfounded.
Finally, Tom said, “So, that’s part of your personality?”
Barry nodded. “Yeah, I’m like that at home too. I don’t
want to procrastinate; it’s just that I struggle when I can’t do
something perfectly.”
“I thought you were just being disrespectful to me when
you didn’t turn things around until the last minute.” Tom was
being remarkably honest. “I had no idea . . . ” He didn’t need
to finish the sentence.
The two of them just sat there, digesting the impact of
this simple but profound revelation. I could swear that both
had the first indication of tears in their eyes.
Finally, Tom said, “You know, I could help you with that
if you wanted.”
Barry seemed legitimately relieved by both the offer of
help and the breakthrough in his relationship with Tom. “That
would be great.”
And then they stood up, hugged one another, and wept
like babies.
No, just kidding. But everything before the hugging part
is true.

The Fundamental Attribution Error

This story speaks to a fascinating phenomenon that prevents people
who don’t know one another well from building trust. It’s called the
fundamental attribution error.4 As sophisticated and complex as it may
sound, it’s really quite simple.
At the heart of the fundamental attribution error is the tendency
of human beings to attribute the negative or frustrating behaviors of
their colleagues to their intentions and personalities, while attribut­
ing their own negative or frustrating behaviors to environmental factors.
For instance, if I see a dad at the grocery store scowling at his five-year32

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

old daughter and wagging his finger in her face, I’m likely to conclude
that the guy has an anger problem and needs some counseling. If I find
myself scowling and wagging my finger at my own five-year-old, I’m
likely to conclude that my behavior is caused by my unruly child or
that I’m just having a tough day.
Of course, this kind of misattribution, where we give ourselves the
benefit of the doubt but assume the worst about others, breaks down
trust on a team. The best way to combat it is to help team members
understand one another on a fundamental level and to give them as
much information as possible about who a person is and why this
person might act the way he or she does. By doing this, we greatly
increase the likelihood that people will replace their unfair judgments
with insight and empathy, qualities that allow a team to build trust and
goodwill with one another. Or as the prayer of St. Francis goes, we
must seek to understand more than to be understood. Though that is not
always the case, the benefits of greater understanding can sometimes
be staggering and immediate.

Avoiding a Costly Misattribution
I was doing a two-day off-site for the executive team at a
large and geographically dispersed technology company.
Team members had flown in from around the country for the
meeting, something they did every few months.
After I finished my opening lecture about organizational
health and teamwork, we took a break. The CEO pulled me
aside and pointed out his sales vice president, Carl, and said
quietly, “I’m probably going to fire him after this off-site is
over.”
To say the least, I was surprised. The CEO didn’t go into
much detail, only to tell me he didn’t think Carl was a team
player and that he was more interested in himself than the
rest of the organization.

33

The Advantage

After the break, we did the Myers-Briggs session, and
Carl announced to the team that he was an ESTP. Having
shared a bedroom with a brother who was an ESTP, I was
able to describe his type fairly well: “So, I’m guessing that
you don’t like protocol, and you tend to blow off meetings
and break the rules when you don’t think it helps you succeed.
You somehow always find a way to make your numbers, but
you sometimes piss people off along the way. Your team in
the field probably likes you a lot, but the people at corporate
think you’re kind of a rebel.”
People in the room started to laugh nervously at the
accuracy of my description. I pushed on.
I looked at the CEO’s Myers-Briggs type, ESTJ, and noted
that one of the things that bothered his type the most was
broken rules and lack of respect for the system. I looked over
at Carl and then back at the CEO. “He must really make you
mad sometimes.”
Carl and the CEO looked at me as if I was a fortune-teller,
and now the rest of the room broke out into robust laughter.
Based only on my basic understanding of their behavioral
preferences, I was able to describe the likely dynamic
between these two executives. Carl didn’t deny any of what
I had said, and the CEO suddenly had a whole new understanding of his relationship with his sales VP. Most important,
he could now attribute Carl’s behavior to the way he was
wired rather than to some attitudinal defect. That didn’t give
Carl permission to do whatever he wanted, but it certainly
allowed the CEO to take a more empathic approach to
working with him.
At the end of the meeting, the CEO pulled me aside and
said he was not going to fire Carl, a testament to the power
of using vulnerability to overcome the fundamental attribution error and build trust.

34

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

Too Much Vulnerability?

Some people ask me if it’s possible for team members to be too vulnerable with one another, to leave themselves open to being hurt. My
answer is no.
The only way for teams to
To believe that a person
on a team can be too vulnerbuild real trust is for team
able is really to suggest that
members to come clean about
she would be wise to withwho they are, warts and all.
hold information about her
weaknesses, mistakes, or need
for help. This is almost never a good idea. Perhaps during the initial
stages of team development, complete vulnerability is not a realistic
expectation. But soon after, the only way for teams to build real trust
is for team members to come clean about who they are, warts and all.
I suppose that if a team member were to come to every meeting
with a laundry list of mistakes and weaknesses, that could certainly be
a problem. But the problem, in fact, would be a lack of competence
rather than too much vulnerability. Ouch.
Finally, it’s worth pointing out that vulnerability is not about a
team member using the team as his own private therapy group. There
is something uncomfortable and weird about a team member airing all
of his dirty laundry in front of the team. A measure of judgment and
emotional intelligence is always required, and I’ve found that the vast
majority of leaders understand where to draw the line.
The Leader Goes First

As important as it is for all members of a leadership team to commit
to being vulnerable, that is not going to happen if the leader of the
team, whether that person is the CEO, department head, pastor, or
school principal, does not go first. If the team leader is reluctant to
acknowledge his or her mistakes or fails to admit to a weakness that is

35

The Advantage

evident to everyone else, there is little hope that other members of the
team are going to take that step themselves. In fact, it probably wouldn’t
be advisable for them to do so because there is a good chance that their
vulnerability would be neither encouraged nor rewarded.

An Invulnerable Leader
I once worked with an intimidating CEO who rarely received
unfiltered or honest feedback from the members of his leadership team. At the urging of his head of human resources,
he solicited formal feedback from his team in an anonymous
survey and then failed to share the results with them for
months. Finally, the head of HR convinced him to reveal the
findings at his next staff meeting.
At that meeting, he started by reading aloud his greatest
weakness according to the survey data. He then paused, with
a slightly puzzled look on his face, and said “Hmm. What do
you guys think?” Awkwardly, the execs sitting around the table
took turns denying that it was a problem, even though the data
had been generated by their input alone. Then the CEO read
his next weakness and asked the team again what they thought.
Once again, the timid leaders, one by one, failed to own up
to the data that they had provided. It was astounding!
Finally, one brave member of the team acknowledged
that he agreed with one of the weaknesses in the report
and that he had responded to the survey in a way that
was consistent with the data. After an uncomfortable pause,
one of the other members of the team announced that
he just didn’t see the problem, and he was joined by a
chorus of other executives who left their one honest colleague by himself to incur the disapproval of his defensive
boss.
Aside from the disappointing spectacle of weakness that
took place there, the real impact of that meeting was a clear

36

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

message from the CEO to his team: I’m not going to admit
my weaknesses, so you probably shouldn’t either. From that
moment on, team members avoided admitting their mistakes
and asking one another for help. The company eventually
spiraled and was sold for a fraction of its previous value. And
while journalists and industry analysts attributed its demise
to bad decisions around strategy and products, the members
of the team knew that those were mere symptoms of the
real problem: a lack of trust that began with their CEO.

The only way for the leader of a team to create a safe environment
for his team members to be vulnerable is by stepping up and doing
something that feels unsafe and uncomfortable first. By getting naked
before anyone else, by taking the risk of making himself vulnerable with
no guarantee that other members of the team will respond in kind, a
leader demonstrates an extraordinary level of selflessness and dedication
to the team. And that gives him the right, and the confidence, to ask
others to do the same.
Trust is just one of five behaviors that cohesive teams must establish
to build a healthy organization. However, it is by far the most important of the five because it is the foundation for the others. Simply stated,
it makes teamwork possible. Only when teams build vulnerabilitybased trust do they put themselves in a position to embrace the other
four behaviors, the next of which is the mastery of conflict.

37

The Advantage

BEHAVIOR 2: MASTERING CONFLICT
Contrary to popular wisdom and behavior, conflict is not a bad thing
for a team. In fact, the fear of conflict is almost always a sign of
problems.
Of course, the kind of conflict I’m referring to here is not the nasty
kind that centers around people or personalities. Rather, it is what I
call productive ideological conflict, the willingness to disagree, even
passionately when necessary, around important issues and decisions
that must be made. But this can only happen when there is trust.
When team members
When there is trust, conflict
trust one another, when they
know that everyone on the
becomes nothing but the
team is capable of admitting
pursuit of truth, an attempt to
when they don’t have the
find the best possible answer.
right answer, and when
they’re willing to acknowledge when someone else’s idea is better than theirs, the fear of conflict
and the discomfort it entails is greatly diminished. When there is trust,
conflict becomes nothing but the pursuit of truth, an attempt to find
the best possible answer. It is not only okay but desirable. Conflict
without trust, however, is politics, an attempt to manipulate others in
order to win an argument regardless of the truth.
Discomfort

But that’s not to say that even productive conflict isn’t a little uncomfortable. Even among the most trusting team members, there will
always be a certain level of discomfort associated with disagreement.
But it will be a healthy discomfort, a sign that there is productive
tension around an issue that warrants discussion and debate.
Overcoming the tendency to run from discomfort is one of the
most important requirements for any leadership team—in fact, for any
38

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

leader. Every endeavor of importance in life, whether it is creative,
athletic, interpersonal, or academic, brings with it a measure of discomfort, calling to mind the old saying, “No pain, no gain.” And when we
avoid necessary pain, we not only fail to experience the gain, we also
end up making the pain worse in the long run.

Conflict Intolerance
Early in my career, I worked on a team with a CEO who
couldn’t tolerate and, in fact, actively discouraged conflict.
As a result, his staff meetings were generally boring and not
terribly useful.
One day a few of the members of the executive team
started to argue. I remember it well because it was the
most interesting thing I’d seen happen at a meeting, and
because people were finally digging into issues that
needed to be discussed. It was uncomfortable, no doubt,
as people were finally airing their frustrations with one
another about the direction of the organization. But it was
real.
Suddenly the CEO pushed back his chair, stood up, and
announced, “I don’t have time for this.” And he walked out
of the room.
His message could not have been clearer: I would rather
have boring, ineffective meetings that avoid the real issues
than have to endure the discomfort of conflict. From then
on, meetings continued to be a struggle, resulting in poor
decisions being made.
One of those decisions, a critical one about product
direction, probably didn’t get more than a few minutes
of discussion at an executive staff meeting. It turned out to
be a backbreaker, resulting in hundreds of lost jobs, lost
customers, and ultimately a greatly diminished stock price.
More than a decade later, industry analysts and former

39

The Advantage

employees shake their heads at the apparent stupidity of
the decision. What they don’t know is that it wasn’t the
result of any intellectual deficiency, but rather the unwillingness of the leader to endure the discomfort of healthy conflict and allow his direct reports to get to the heart of critical
issues.

Conflict Avoidance

Avoiding conflict creates problems even beyond boring meetings and
poorly vetted decisions, as bad as those things are. When leadership
team members avoid discomfort among themselves, they only transfer
it in far greater quantities
When leadership team
to larger groups of people
throughout the organization
members avoid discomfort
they’re
supposed to be serv­
among themselves, they only
ing. In essence, they leave it
transfer it in far greater
to others below them to try
quantities to larger groups
to resolve issues that really
of people throughout the
must be addressed at the top.
organization they’re supposed
This contributes to employee
to be serving.
angst and job misery as much
as anything else in organizational life.
As critical as conflict is, it’s important to understand that different
people, different families, and different cultures participate in conflict in
different ways. All other things being equal (and they almost never are),
an organization in Japan will look very different from one in Italy when
it comes to how it engages in conflict. And for that matter, a team in
New York City may look quite different from one in Los Angeles. And
that’s okay, because there is more than one way to engage in healthy
conflict. What’s not okay is for team members to avoid disagreement,

40

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

hold back their opinions on important matters, and choose their battles
carefully based on the likely cost of disagreement. That is a recipe for
both bad decision making and interpersonal resentment.
Why would team members who don’t engage in conflict start to
resent one another? When people fail to be honest with one another
about an issue they disagree on, their disagreement around that issue
festers and ferments over time until it transforms into frustration
around that person.
When someone comes to a meeting and states an opinion or makes a
suggestion that his teammates don’t agree with, those teammates have a
choice: they can explain their disagreement and work through it, or they
can withhold their opinion and allow themselves to quietly lose respect for
their colleague. When team members get used to choosing the latter
option—withholding their opinions—frustration inevitably sets in. Essentially, they’re deciding to tolerate their colleague rather than trust him.
As time goes on, they barely conceal their eye-rolling or sighs of
exasperation whenever that colleague speaks. For the employee who is
being merely tolerated, the treatment starts to feel hurtful and dis­
respectful, which is hard for that person to understand. It isn’t difficult
to see how this behavior erodes the cohesiveness of a team.
As an Irish-Italian-American, I seem to have come out of the womb
ready for passionate conflict, and I was certainly able to practice it
regularly during childhood. However, some of the members of my team
at work came from families that rarely shouted or demonstrated outward
disapproval with one another. This creates a potential problem. To
mitigate it, team members have to be open and vulnerable enough to
explain their conflict tendencies to one another and then find common
ground. Using a profiling assessment like the Myers-Briggs can be
helpful in this process because people’s attitudes toward conflict can
be shaped by their personalities and behavioral preferences as much as
by their families and cultural backgrounds.

41

The Advantage

Conflict Continuum

When it comes to the range of different conflict dynamics in an organization, I’ve found there is a continuum of sorts. At one end of that
continuum is no conflict at all. I call this artificial harmony, because it
is marked by a lot of false smiling and disingenuous agreement around
just about everything, at least publicly. At the other end of the continuum
is relentless, nasty, and destructive conflict, with people constantly at one
another’s throats. As you move away from the extreme of artificial
harmony, you encounter more and more constructive conflict. Somewhere in the middle of those two extremes is the demarcation line where
good, constructive conflict crosses over into the destructive kind.
The Conflict Continuum
Ideal Conflict
Point
Destructive

Constructive

Artificial
Harmony

Mean-Spirited
Personal Attacks

Contrary to what we see in movies and on television, where people
go to meetings and argue like battle-tested generals, most organizations
live somewhere fairly close to the artificial harmony end of this continuum. They go out of their way to avoid direct, uncomfortable disagreement during meetings or doing anything that would suggest
moving away from their comfortable end of the scale. Why? Because
whenever they move down the line toward the middle, to that place
where they’re having more and more constructive conflict, they see
themselves one step closer to conflict Armageddon. So they run back to
the world of passive, indirect communication and artificial agreement.
The optimal place to be on this continuum is just to the left of the
demarcation line (the Ideal Conflict Point). That would be the point
42

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

where a team is engaged in all the constructive conflict they could possibly have, but never stepping over the line into destructive territory.
Of course, this is impossible. In any team, and for that matter, in any
family or marriage, someone at some point is going to step over the
line and say or do something that isn’t constructive. But rather than
fearing this, teams need to accept that it will happen and learn to
manage it. They must be willing to live through the messiness of recovering from slightly inappropriate conflict, so that they will have the
courage to go back to the best place again and again. Eventually they’ll
develop the confidence that they can survive an occasional step over
the line and can even get stronger and build greater trust with one
another when they do. But this will never happen if executives are
clinging to the side at the shallow end of the pool in the world of
artificial harmony.

The Benefits of Surviving Conflict
One of our consultants experienced the benefits of stepping
over the line when he was working with a leasing company.
He was helping the CEO, president, and other executives
deal with some issues relating to compensation and equity.
Evidently, changes had recently been made that weren’t
popular among many members of the team.
At one point during the awkward conversation, one of
the top sales execs looked at the president and exploded:
“You know, the real reason we’re here is that you have simply
become greedy and we’ve become nothing but highly compensated laborers!”
A long, uncomfortable pause followed. The president
seemed to be in shock and the other executives were looking
at the consultant to see what he would do to salvage the situation. Resisting the temptation to dive in, he let the moment
continue so that the team would eventually reengage.

43

The Advantage

Finally, after a ten- or fifteen-second pause (which felt
like two minutes to our consultant), the angry sales exec
spoke again: “Wait a minute. That wasn’t fair. I can’t allow a
seven-year relationship to go over the cliff because I lost my
cool. So let me apologize and try that again. You guys
changed the equity policy without telling us why. It was a
change in the rules halfway through the game, and it has led
to a lot of hard feelings.”
The president accepted the apology, and suddenly the
rest of the team started airing some of the concerns that
they had been withholding for a long time. At the end of the
meeting—and this time I’m not joking—the sales exec went
over to the president and gave him a hug. It was a breakthrough for the team, and it would not have happened had
someone not stepped over the line—and if the consultant
had not allowed them to work through it.

Nowhere does this tendency toward artificial harmony show itself
more than in mission-driven nonprofit organizations, most notably
churches. People who work in those organizations tend to have a misguided idea that they cannot be frustrated or disagreeable with one
another. What they’re doing is confusing being nice with being kind.
Two people who trust
Two people who trust and
and care about one another
and are engaged in something
care about one another and
important (that sure sounds
are engaged in something
like a mission-driven nonimportant should feel
profit to me) should feel comcompelled to disagree, and
pelled to disagree with one
sometimes passionately, when
another, sometimes passionthey see things differently.
ately, when they see things
differently. After all, the con-

44

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

sequences of making bad decisions are great. When leader­ship team
members fail to disagree around issues, not only are they increasing the
likelihood of losing respect for one another and encountering destructive
conflict later when people start griping in the hallways, they’re also
making bad decisions and letting down the people they’re supposed to
be serving. And they do this all in the name of being “nice.”
Conflict Tools

Even when teams understand the importance of conflict, it is frequently
difficult to get them to engage in it. That’s how powerful our cultural
aversion is to discomfort. In order to break through that aversion, there
are a few things that a team leader can do.
One of the best ways for leaders to raise the level of healthy conflict
on a team is by mining for conflict during meetings. This happens when
they suspect that unearthed disagreement is lurking in the room and
gently demand that people come clean. At first, mining for conflict
might seem like stirring the pot and looking for trouble. But it is quite
the opposite. By looking for and exposing potential and even subtle
disagreements that have not come to the surface, team leaders—and,
heck, team members can do it too—avoid the destructive hallway
conversations that inevitably result when people are reluctant to engage
in direct, productive debate.
Another tool for increasing conflict is something I refer to as realtime permission. The idea here is that people need to get immediate
feedback, the positive kind, when they start to try out this approach to
conflict. And no matter how minor the nature of that initial conflict
might seem, it is going to be uncomfortable.
So when a leader sees her people engaging in disagreement during
a meeting, even over something relatively innocuous, she should do
something that may seem counterintuitive but is remarkably helpful:
interrupt. That’s right. Just as people are beginning to challenge one

45

The Advantage

another, she should stop them for a moment to remind them that what
they are doing is good.
That may sound a little patronizing, even childish, but it won’t
come across that way. What it will do is give people the permission
they need to overcome their guilt—and they’ll definitely be fighting off
feelings of guilt—and continue to engage in healthy but uncomfortable
conflict without unnecessary and distracting tension. I’ve done this
with many of the teams I work with, and they are always genuinely
relieved to have someone remind them, right in that moment, that they
are actually helping the team by disagreeing, not hurting it. Their
tension seems to melt away and they’re able to focus on resolving the
issue at hand.
Another way that leaders can help their teams overcome their aversion to conflict is by creating clear expectations and guidelines around
what it should entail.

Rules of Engagement
One of our consultants worked with the leadership team of
a division within a large beverage company. He convinced
the VP of that division that more conflict was necessary on
the team. Unfortunately, they were having a hard time getting
people to engage in it. This is typical.
So the VP put in place two formal rules.
First, if people remained silent during discussions, he
would interpret that as disagreement. People quickly realized
that if they didn’t weigh in, a decision could not be made.
Second, at the end of every discussion, the VP would go
around the room and ask every member of his team for a
formal commitment to the decision.
These simple rules changed the nature of their meetings
and increased healthy conflict almost immediately. This

46

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

would not have happened had the VP simply told his team
that they should engage in more conflict.

Finally, it’s important to remember that the reluctance to engage in
conflict is not always a problem of conflict per se. In many cases, and
perhaps in most of them, the real problem goes back to a lack of trust.
Remember that when team members aren’t comfortable being vulnerable,
they aren’t going to feel comfortable or safe engaging in conflict. If that’s
the case, then no amount of training or discussion around conflict is going
to bring it about. Trust must be established if real conflict is to occur.
In a similar way that trust enables conflict, conflict allows a team
to move on to the next critical behavior of a cohesive team: achieving
commitment.

47

The Advantage

BEHAVIOR 3: ACHIEVING COMMITMENT
The reason that conflict is so important is that a team cannot achieve
commitment without it. People will not actively commit to a decision
if they have not had the opportunity to provide input, ask questions,
and understand the rationale behind it. Another way to say this is, “If
people don’t weigh in, they can’t buy in.”
This is a critical point and needs to be clarified because it should not
be misinterpreted as an argument for consensus. When leadership
teams wait for con­sensus
before taking action, they
When leadership teams wait
usually end up with decisions
for consensus before taking
that are made too late and are
action, they usually end up
mildly disagreeable to everyone. This is a recipe for mediwith decisions that are made
ocrity and frustration.
too late and are mildly
Great teams avoid the
disagreeable to everyone. This
consensus trap by embrac­
is a recipe for mediocrity and
ing a concept that Intel, the
frustration.
legendary microchip manufacturer, calls “disagree and
commit.” Basically they
believe that even when people can’t come to an agreement around an
issue, they must still leave the room unambiguously committed to a
common course of action. Most executives who hear about this disagreeand-commit philosophy are immediately convinced that it is something
they want. But they need to remember that it requires a willingness
on the part of the leader to invite the discomfort of conflict. After
all, the principle of disagree and commit can’t happen without the
disagree part.
See, it’s only when colleagues speak up and put their opinions on
the table, without holding back, that the leader can confidently fulfill
48

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

one of his most important responsibilities: breaking ties. When a leader
knows that everyone on the team has weighed in and provided every
possible perspective needed for a fully informed decision, he can then
bring a discussion to a clear and unambiguous close and expect team
members to rally around the final decision even if they initially disagreed with it.
Some leaders have a hard time believing this. They feel that if
they entertain disagreement around a contentious topic, they’ll
make it less likely that they’ll be able to gain commitment. But this
is selling their employees short. The truth is, very few people in the
world are incapable of supporting a decision merely because they had
a different idea. Most people are generally reasonable and can rally
around an idea that wasn’t their own as long as they know they’ve had
a chance to weigh in. But when there has been no conflict, when different opinions have not been aired and debated, it becomes virtually
impossible for team members to commit to a decision, at least not
actively.
When people leave a meeting without active commitment around
a decision, they don’t go back to their offices and design a plan to sabotage the idea. That happens only on television and in the movies, and
it makes for great theater. In real life, what actually happens is far more
boring—and more dangerous.
Most leaders have learned the art of passive agreement: going to a
meeting, smiling and nodding their heads when a decision is made that
they don’t agree with. They then go back to their offices and do as little
as possible to support that idea. They don’t promote it on their own
team, and they certainly aren’t willing to run out onto the tracks waving
their arms to prevent a train wreck. Instead, they sit back and watch
problems develop, quietly looking forward to the day when things go
badly and they can say, “Well, I never really liked that idea in the first
place.” The impact of this is often embarrassing and costly for the
organization.
49

The Advantage

The Price of Passivity
The leadership team at an international pharmaceutical
company realized that its sales were beginning to decline
and that its expenses were heading in the opposite direction.
During a staff meeting, the CEO decided that in an effort to
curb costs, a moratorium would be placed on all first-class
and business-class air travel. This would not be easy for
people who traveled frequently and far.
As usual, no debate was encouraged among the
team. Executives simply nodded their heads in agreement,
something the CEO was all too happy to accept as
commitment.
Well, half of the executives at the meeting went to their
teams and gave them the unpopular order to change the
way they traveled. The other half told their staff members to
ignore the decree. When people in the organization started
to notice the discrepancy in behavior among departments,
anger and frustration broke out.
Employees in the obedient departments were upset at
their respective leaders for holding them to a higher and
more difficult standard than their peers in other parts of
the organization. Those leaders were mad at their colleagues
on the executive team who had ignored the supposed
agreement.
The cost of not achieving real commitment—a result of
not engaging in healthy conflict—was undeniable. Forget
about the financial cost of people continuing to fly business
class. It pales in comparison to the loss in credibility that
executives encountered and the internal politics that they
created because they failed to achieve real, active commitment around a decision.

50

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

The only way to prevent passive sabotage is for leaders to demand
conflict from their team members and to let them know that they are
going to be held accountable for doing whatever the team ultimately
decides.
Specific Agreements

I’ve always been amazed that even teams that embrace conflict and
honest debate can still struggle with commitment. That’s because they
fall short of arriving at specific agreements at the end of their discussions. Although they are sitting in the same room and speaking the
same language, they often leave with different ideas about what was
just decided. There is only one way I know to prevent this.
At the end of every meeting, cohesive teams must take a few
minutes to ensure that everyone sitting at the table is walking away
with the same understanding about what has been agreed to and
what they are committed to do. Unfortunately, people are usually
eager to leave the room when a meeting is coming to a close, and so
they are more than susceptible to tolerating a little ambiguity. That’s
why functional teams maintain the discipline to review their commitments and stick around long enough to clarify anything that isn’t crystal
clear.
A good way to ensure that people take this process seriously is to
demand that they go back to their teams after the meeting and communicate exactly what was agreed on. When team members know that
they are going to have to stand in front of the people they lead and
vouch for a decision, they are much more likely to push back on that
decision if they don’t understand it or don’t agree with it. As painful as
this may be to a group of executives who are more than ready to get
out of a meeting, the only thing more painful than taking additional
time to get clarity and commitment is going out into the organization
with a confusing and misaligned message.

51

The Advantage

Misalignment Nightmare
One of our consultants worked with the leadership team of
an information technology organization to clarify the department’s core purpose and values. After the meeting, the consultant encouraged the team to keep working until they were
crystal clear with one another about the purpose and values
before doing any communication to the rest of the
organization.
The team promised to meet again later to iron out any
possible inconsistencies. Unfortunately, they never got
around to doing that and decided to go ahead and have a
big rollout meeting to unveil the new purpose and values to
the more than fifty managers who worked for them.
At that meeting, a handful of leaders from the executive
team began the presentation and were quickly met with
push-back around their ideas. Unfortunately, that push-back
came not from one of the fifty managers but from a member
of the executive team who decided to announce that he never
really liked or bought into what was being presented.
The people in the room were dumbfounded. Not only did
the executive team’s failure to get commitment negate the
impact of the work they had done, it also caused them to
lose credibility among the people they were trying to lead.
“We looked foolish, and rightly so,” admitted the leader of the
executive team. “We couldn’t even agree among ourselves,
and we were out there asking the rest of the organization to
get on board. I vowed that it would never happen again.”
After the next executive off-site meeting, the team
insisted on getting completely clear about the commitments
they were making. And when they communicated to the
larger group, not only did they demonstrate alignment, but
they modeled vulnerability by acknowledging the dysfunction of what had happened before and the steps they would
take to prevent it in the future.

52

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

Although few would doubt the importance of achieving active and
clear commitment at the end of a discussion, many don’t really think
about the practical reason that that is so critical. It’s only when people
know that their peers have completely bought in to a decision that they
will have the courage to embrace the fourth and most difficult behavior
of a cohesive team: accountability.

53

The Advantage

BEHAVIOR 4: EMBRACING ACCOUNTABILITY
Even well-intentioned members of a team need to be held accountable
if a team is going to stick to its decisions and accomplish its goals. In
some cases, people will deviate from a plan or a decision knowingly,
tempted to do something that is in their individual best interest but
not that of the team. In other cases, people will stray without realizing
it, getting distracted or caught up in the pushes and pulls of daily work.
In either case, it’s the job of the team to call those people out and keep
them in line.
Of course, people aren’t going to be willing to do this if they have
doubts about whether their peers bought into—really bought into—
the decisions that were made. That’s why commitment is so important.
When colleagues know that there has been only passive commitment
around a decision, they aren’t going to feel good about confronting a
peer about their behavior. Nor should they. After all, if a person never
really bought into something, why would she heed a reminder from a
peer who points out her deviation?
Peer Pressure

Notice that I’m focused here on peers. That’s because peer-to-peer
accountability is the primary and most effective source of accountability
on the leadership team of
Peer-to-peer accountability is
a healthy organization. Most
the primary and most effective
people assume that the leader
source of accountability on
of an executive team should
a leadership team.
be the primary source of
accountability—and that’s
the norm in most unhealthy
organizations—but it isn’t efficient or practical, and it makes little
sense.

54

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

When members of a team go to their leader whenever they see a
peer deviate from a commitment that was made, they create a perfect
environment for distraction and politics. Colleagues start to wonder
who ratted them out, they get resentful of one another, and the team
leader finds herself being constantly pulled into situations that could
be more quickly and productively solved without her.
When team members know that their colleagues are truly com­mitted
to something, they can confront one another about issues without fearing
defensiveness or backlash. After all, they’re merely helping someone get
back on track or seeking clarity about something that doesn’t seem right.
And the person being questioned about her behavior or performance will
be willing to admit that she has inadvertently lost her way—after all, she’s
vulnerable—and adjust her behavior accordingly.
I realize that people who are used to working on noncohesive teams
will think all of this sounds like a fairy tale. To those who have experienced the reality of cohesive teams, it is simply the most effective way
to keep one another focused on what matters most.

Accountability in Action
One of our consultants was working with a leadership team
that had been together for less than a year and had not met
in person with one another for a number of months. Inevitably, things were a little rocky.
During an off-site meeting, our consultant led them
through an accountability exercise that calls for team
members to confront one another about each other’s behaviors. The exercise, which isn’t as scary as it sounds, usually
takes about an hour. But in this case, because the team had
not been together for so long and because they had made
a major commitment to holding one another accountable,
the session lasted three hours.

55

The Advantage

Among the comments made during the exercise were
these: “You need to keep standing up to the CEO and not
letting him off the hook when he resorts to unilateral decision
making.” “You’re involving me in conversations that I don’t
need to be involved in. Just go directly to my reports and
get what you need.” “Your reports are not telling you this,
but your sarcastic humor is offensive to them and it’s hurting
your team.” “You’re complaining about me to your peers, but
you’re not coming to me directly. That’s hurting all of us.”
“Watch out for your self-righteous attitude. It shuts down our
brainstorming.”
During those three hours, there was some tension,
no doubt. But there was also a lot of listening, and even
laughter. Most important, there was no hesitation in
speaking up. And though the session took a long time,
the team was able to repair much of the trust that they
had lost over the months that they hadn’t been together,
and they proved to themselves that they were committed
to

working

together

as

a

functional

team

going

forward.

Overcoming the “Wuss” Factor

The irony of all this is that the only way for a team to develop a true
culture of peer-to-peer accountability is for the leader to demonstrate
that she is willing to confront difficult situations and hold people
accountable herself. That’s right. The leader of the team, though not
the primary source of accountability, will always be the ultimate arbiter
of it. If she is reluctant to play that role—if she is a wuss who constantly
balks when it’s time to call someone on their behavior or performance—
then the rest of the team is not going to do their part. This makes sense.
Why would a team member want to confront a colleague about an
issue when the team leader isn’t willing to and is probably going to let
them off the hook anyway?
56

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

So—and here is the irony—the more comfortable a leader is
holding people on a team accountable, the less likely she is to be asked
to do so. The less likely she is to confront people, the more she’ll be
called on to do it by subordinates who aren’t willing to do her dirty
work for her. I know this because I struggle with holding people
accountable, and I am fully aware that the reluctance of my staff
members to do so with one another is a simple function of my behavior.
(I’m working on it.)
Many leaders struggle with accountability but don’t know it. Some
will tell me that since they aren’t afraid to fire people, they must not
have an accountability problem. Of course, this is misguided. Firing
someone is not necessarily a sign of accountability, but is often the last
act of cowardice for a leader who doesn’t know how or isn’t willing to
hold people accountable.
At its core, accountability is about having the courage to confront
someone about their deficiencies and then to stand in the moment and
deal with their reaction, which may not be pleasant. It is a selfless act,
one rooted in a word that I
To hold someone accountable
don’t use lightly in a business
is to care about them enough
book: love. To hold someone
to risk having them blame you
accountable is to care about
them enough to risk having
for pointing out their
them blame you for pointing
deficiencies.
out their deficiencies.
Unfortunately, it is far
more natural, and common, for leaders to avoid holding people
accountable. It is one of the biggest obstacles I find preventing teams,
and the companies they lead, from reaching their full potential. It’s no
surprise that among the teams that complete our Five Dysfunctions of
a Team Assessment (see “The Universal Challenge of Peer Accountability” sidebar), the lowest scores are usually found in the area of
accountability.
57

The Advantage

THE UNIVERSAL CHALLENGE OF
PEER ACCOUNTABILITY
The Table Group has identified a major trend plaguing teams
today: team members readily avoid holding their peers accountable for both their performance and behaviors that might hurt
the team. The trend is a conclusion based on data collected
from The Table Group’s Online Team Assessment, a thirty-eightquestion online tool that measures a team’s likely susceptibility
to the five dysfunctions. In reviewing the 12,000 teams who
have taken the online assessment, data shows a full 65% of
teams scored “red” on accountability—or lowest on The Table
Group’s three-tiered rating scale of green-yellow-red. Other red
scores for the remaining four behaviors include trust (40%),
conflict (36%), commitment (22%), and results (27%).

Percentage of Teams Scoring in Lowest Category
70

65%

60
50
40

40%
36%

30

27%
22%

20
10
0
Trust

Conflict

Commitment Accountability

% of Teams

58

Results

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

Many leaders who struggle with this (again, I’m one of them) will
try to convince themselves that their reluctance is a product of their
kindness; they just don’t want to make their employees feel bad. But
an honest reassessment of their motivation will allow them to admit
that they are the ones who don’t want to feel bad and that failing to
hold someone accountable is ultimately an act of selfishness.
After all, there is nothing noble about withholding information
that can help an employee improve. Eventually that employee’s lack of
improvement is going to come back to haunt him in a performance
review or when he is let go. And I’m pretty sure there is nothing kind
about firing someone who has not been confronted about his
performance.
Behaviors Versus Measurables

Some leaders don’t realize they have an accountability problem because
they are more than comfortable confronting people about issues regarding measurable performance. For instance, when a direct report misses
his sales target four quarters in a row or doesn’t deliver a product on
time and according to specifications, leaders have no problem telling
him and taking action. That is indeed one form of accountability, but
it’s not the most important kind. The kind that is more fundamental,
important, and difficult is about behavior.
After all, even the most reluctant, fearful leaders can usually
summon the courage to tell someone that he missed his number. That
is a relatively objective, nonjudgmental act, which makes it safe and
free from emotion. Confronting someone about their behavior is a
different matter. It involves a judgment call that is more likely to
provoke a defensive response.
The reason that behavioral accountability is more important than
the quantitative, results-related kind has nothing to do with the fact
that it is harder. It is due to the fact that behavioral problems almost
always precede—and cause—a downturn in performance and results.
59

The Advantage

Whether we’re talking about a football team, a sales department, or an
elementary school, a meaningful drop in measurable performance can
almost always be traced back to behavioral issues that made the drop
possible. Lack of attention to details at practice, decreased discipline
about cold-calling, poor preparation of lesson plans: all of these are
behavioral problems that occur long before any decrease in measurable
results is apparent. Great leaders and great team members confront one
another about those behaviors early because they see the connection
between the two and care enough about the team to take that risk
before the results begin to suffer.
It’s difficult to overstate the competitive advantage that an
accountability-friendly organization has over one where leaders don’t
hold one another accountable. More than anything else, problems are
identified and solved earlier and without the collateral damage of politics. Whether you measure that in terms of greater revenue, higher
productivity, or reduced turnover, the benefits are massive and real.
It’s worth pointing out here that people often confuse accountability with conflict because both involve discomfort and emotion. But
there is an enormous difference between the two. Conflict is about
issues and ideas, while accountability is about performance and behavior. As difficult as it is for many people to engage in conflict, at least it
is somewhat objective, removed from a person’s behavior. It is much
harder for most people to hold one another accountable because it
involves something of a personal, behavioral judgment.
Team Effectiveness Exercise

A good tool for teams that want to improve their ability to hold one
another accountable is something we call the team effectiveness exercise. I’ll explain it here in some detail because it’s pretty simple, it
requires only an hour or two, and it can transform how team members
go about holding each other to higher standards of performance. It’s
just that powerful.
60

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

We usually do this exercise at the end of a two-day off-site meeting,
but only when we believe the team has a decent foundation of trust
(they usually do). If team members aren’t capable of being vulnerable
with one another, there is no point in doing it.
We start the exercise by having everyone write down one thing
that each of the other team members does that makes the team
better. In other words, they write down, for everyone other than themselves, the single biggest area of strength as it pertains to the impact
on the group. We’re interested not in their technical skills, but in the
way they behave when the team is together that makes the team
stronger.
Then we ask them to do the same thing, except this time focusing
on the one aspect of each person that sometimes hurts the team. After
ten or fifteen minutes of thoughtful consideration and note taking,
everyone is usually done.
Then, starting with the leader, we go around the room asking
everyone to report on the leader’s one positive characteristic. We then
allow the leader to provide his general, one-sentence reaction. In
most cases, the leader is quite humbled by the positive feedback,
sometimes even surprised by it. Then we go around the room again,
asking people to report on the one characteristic that the leader needs to
improve on. Again, we let the leader provide a brief reaction—not a
rebuttal, but simply a reaction—to the feedback after everyone has provided their input. In virtually every case, there is acceptance and
appreciation.
And then we do the same exercise for every other member of the
team. It takes about ten minutes for each person to receive both
the positive and constructive feedback from peers and to provide his
or her simple reactions. After an hour or two, depending on the size
of the team, the exercise is complete. It’s usually at this point that people
are sitting around the table in a state of mild amazement at the direct,
honest, and helpful feedback that they’ve just shared.
61

The Advantage

The benefit of this exercise goes far beyond the mere sharing
of information, as important as that is. The greatest impact is the
realization on the part of leadership team members that holding one
another accountable is a survivable and productive activity, and it will
make them likely to continue doing it going forward. And in some
situations, the eventual result is particularly powerful.

Voluntary Turnover
One of our consultants was working with the leadership
team of a large company’s information technology department. Many members of the team were struggling with the
behavior of one of their peers, Fred, who had a close relationship with the CIO who was in charge of the team. They didn’t
believe that the CIO was holding Fred accountable for his
destructive behavior, that he was playing favorites. The CIO
would later admit that he valued Fred’s technical expertise
and was reluctant to do anything that might cause him to
leave.
During an off-site meeting, the team confronted the CIO
about his lack of consistent accountability across the team,
in particular, with Fred. The CIO acknowledged the issue and
announced that he would work on it.
Over the course of the following months, the CIO started
to hold Fred more accountable. Just as important, the team
followed suit, engaging with Fred more directly about his
behavior. Without the protection that he had grown accustomed to getting from his boss, Fred eventually decided that
he didn’t want to be a part of the team, and he left the
company.
Contrary to his fears about losing Fred, the CIO found
that the performance of the rest of his team improved. He
attributed that to Fred’s absence and the new culture of
accountability that the team had embraced.

62

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

Losing a team member is not at all a common outcome of building
a culture of accountability. In most cases, team members simply learn
to demand more of one another and watch their collective performance
improve. In some cases, though, the only way for them to do that
is by losing someone from the team. But again, that’s certainly not
the norm.
No matter what the situation, there will always be some discomfort
as team members confront one another about their behavior. In the
end, however, the level of cohesion and personal satisfaction among
team members who embrace the new philosophy overwhelms any
temporary discomfort.
Public Versus Private

I’m often asked whether leaders should hold their people accountable
privately during one-on-one sessions or in more public forums with the
whole team, like during meetings. Although every case is a little different, generally I believe that on cohesive teams, accountability is best
handled with the entire team. I say this because when leaders and team
members call one another on issues in front of team members, they get
benefits that don’t occur when it takes place individually.
First, when accountability is handled during a meeting, every
member of the team receives the message simultaneously and doesn’t
have to make the same mistakes in order to learn the lesson of the
person being held accountable. Second, they know that the leader is
holding their colleague accountable, which avoids their wondering
whether the boss is doing his job. Finally, it serves to reinforce the
culture of accountability, which increases the likelihood that team
members will do the same for one another. When leaders—and peers—
limit their accountability discussions to private conversations, they
leave people wondering whether those discussions are happening. This
often leads to unproductive hallway conversations and conjecture about
who knows what about whom.
63

The Advantage

Having said all that, when it comes to addressing relatively serious
issues, or matters of corrective action in which a leader is wondering
whether a member of the team might not be worthy to be on the team
anymore, then everything changes. These are best handled privately, in
a one-on-one situation, to respect the dignity of the person being held
accountable. However, and this can be dicey, the leader is often well
advised to let her people know that she is addressing the situation to
avoid unproductive and dangerous speculation.
As uncomfortable and difficult as it can often be, accountability
helps a team and an organization avoid far more costly and difficult
situations later. It also allows a team to embrace the last behavior that
is critical for a cohesive team: the focus on results.

64

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

BEHAVIOR 5: FOCUSING ON RESULTS
The ultimate point of building greater trust, conflict, commitment, and
accountability is one thing: the achievement of results. That certainly
seems obvious, but as it turns out, one of the greatest challenges to
team success is the inattention to results. What would members of an
executive team be focused on if not the results of their organization?
Well, for one, the results of their department. Too many leaders seem
to have a greater affinity for and loyalty to the department they lead
rather than the team they’re a member of and the organization they are
supposed to be collectively serving. Other distractions include a concern
for individual career development, budget allocations, status, and ego,
all of them common distractions that prevent teams from being obsessed
with achieving results.
Some people find this
No matter how good a
extreme emphasis on results
leadership team feels about
to be a little cold and uninitself, and how noble its
spiring. But there is no
mission might be, if the
getting around the fact
organization it leads rarely
that the only measure of
achieves its goals, then, by
a great team—or a great
definition, it’s simply not a
organization—is whether it
accomplishes what it sets out
good team.
to accomplish. Some leaders
of teams that don’t regularly
succeed will still insist that they have a great team because team members
care about one other and no one ever leaves the team. A more accurate
description of their situation would be to say that they have a mediocre
team that enjoys being together and isn’t terribly bothered by failure.
See, no matter how good a leadership team feels about itself, and how
noble its mission might be, if the organization it leads rarely achieves
its goals, then, by definition, it’s simply not a good team.
65

The Advantage

Keep in mind that revenue and profitability are not the only measures of achievement, even in for-profit organizations (though they are
certainly critical ones). The definition of results and achievement will vary
from one organization to another depending on the reason that a given
organization exists. A football team most likely will measure itself in
terms of wins and losses, a school in terms of how well it prepares students
for their next step in education, and a church based on how many parishioners are growing in their faith. That’s not to say that all of those organizations will not have financial measurements; it’s just that finances are
probably not going to be their primary measure of results.
In traditional for-profit companies, financial metrics are certainly
going to take a more prominent place in the hierarchy of goals, as they
should. After all, they are the indicator of how well a company is serving
its customers and fulfilling its mission. However, even in these organizations, other measures will often be just as important as, if not more
important than, profit. Plenty of businesses, usually smaller, privately
held ones, make decisions every day to do something for customers that
may never benefit them financially. They do it because they think it’s
the right thing to do, or because they think it might eventually help
them become more influential in the market. Regardless of their rationale, if they make that decision consciously, knowing what they want
to achieve, then they are still focusing on results.
Collective Goals

When it comes to how a cohesive team measures its performance,
one criterion sets it apart from noncohesive ones: its goals are shared
across the entire team. This is not just a theoretical way of saying that
people should help one another. It’s far more specific, and far more
difficult too.
In most organizations, results are compartmentalized by department. Executives see themselves as having little or no responsibility for
goals that fall outside their functional areas of expertise. This, of course,
66

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

is the antithesis of teamwork, though somehow it doesn’t deter many
leaders from calling themselves teams and preaching the importance of
working together across functions.
The only way for a team to really be a team and to maximize its
output is to ensure that everyone is focused on the same priorities—
rowing in the same direction, if you will. When the marketing department defines itself by how well it does marketing and the other
departments do the same in their functional areas, there is no reason
to expect synergy within the team. As simple as that may sound, most
leadership teams still do not seem to understand this.

One Team, One Score
After a recent loss, a thirteen-year-old boy on my son’s
soccer team said to me, “Well, I don’t feel like I lost.”
“Really?” I asked him. “How do you figure?”
He proudly announced, “Well, I’m a forward, and we
forwards did our part by scoring three goals. It’s really the
defense that lost the game because they gave up too many
goals. They’re the losers.”
I kindly pointed out to him how absurd his reasoning
was, not only because there is only one score for the team,
but because every player on the field plays defense, though
perhaps on different parts of the field. Even a forward plays
a role in preventing the other team from scoring by making
it difficult for the opponent’s defense to organize an attack.
To be fair, the kid smiled and acknowledged the ridiculousness of his original remark.

I wish I could say that it was that easy to convince leadership team
members. Too many of them don’t see a connection between the
decisions they make and the impact they have on other parts of the
business. They don’t seem to understand that the way they spend their
67

The Advantage

time, energy, and resources can influence the overall performance of
the organization. All too often they embrace the attitude embodied by
the fisherman who looks at the guy sitting at the other end of the boat
and announces, “Hey, your side of the boat is sinking.”
Great teams ensure that all members, in spite of their individual
responsibilities and areas of expertise, are doing whatever they can to
help the team accomplish its goals. That means they need to be asking
difficult questions about what is happening in other departments and
volunteering, in any way they can, to help those parts of the business
that might be struggling and might jeopardize the success of the entire
organization.
Team Number One

The only way for a leader to establish this collective mentality on a team
is by ensuring that all members place a higher priority on the team
they’re a member of than the team they lead in their departments. A
good way to go about this is simply to ask them which team is their
first priority. I’ve found that many well-intentioned executives will
admit that in spite of their commitment to the team that they’re a
member of, the team they lead is their first priority. They’ll point out
that they hired their direct reports, they sit near them and spend more
time with them every day, and they enjoy being the leader of that team.
Moreover, they feel a sense of loyalty to the people they manage, and
feel that those people want and need their protection.
This is absolutely natural, common, and understandable. And
dangerous.
When members of a leadership team feel a stronger sense of commitment and loyalty to the team they lead than the one they’re a member
of, then the team they’re a member of becomes like the U.S. Congress
or the United Nations: it’s just a place where people come together to
lobby for their constituents. Teams that lead healthy organizations reject
this model and come to terms with the difficult but critical requirement
68

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

that executives must put the needs of the higher team ahead of the needs
of their departments. That is
Teams that lead healthy
the only way that good deciorganizations come to
sions can be made about
terms with the difficult but
how best to serve the entire
critical requirement that its
organization and maximize
its performance.
members must put the
The advantage that can
needs of the higher team
be achieved by shifting a
ahead of the needs of their
team’s priorities from indidepartments.
vidual to collective ones, and
thus demonstrating a true
commitment to team number one, is undeniable.

First Team
We worked with the CIO of a massive corporation. She was
struggling with team members who seemed to be working
almost exclusively on their own priorities, with little concern
for what was happening with their peers in other departments. As a result, there was minimal cooperation and
synergy, and the overall performance and reputation of the
IT organization had suffered.
Confronting the problem with the team, the CIO
announced that they would be taking specific and difficult
measures to refocus the staff on their team number one.
Those steps included moving each of her direct reports away
from their departments and onto the same floor in the same
building of the company’s sprawling campus. She would also
pull the team together every morning for a five-minute informal gathering to begin building the kind of professional and
personal relationships that would be necessary to turn the
organization around and thus better serve the company.

69

The Advantage

At first, her direct reports resisted. They didn’t want to leave the
physical and emotional comfort of their departments and were concerned that their own direct reports would feel abandoned as a
result. But because she was their boss, they complied.
Within just a few months, the behavior of the executives, the
synergy within the team, and the overall performance of the organization had improved dramatically. “Somehow we became a new
team with a collective focus, instead of a bunch of subdepartments
doing their own thing. We can’t imagine going back to the old way,”
remarked one of the CIO’s reports. “And even the people in my
department benefited when they saw how aligned and focused we
had become as leaders.”

The surprising power of embracing team number one is one of the
most gratifying and powerful things we witness in the work we do with
leaders.

Testament to Unity
One of our consultants was working with the CEO of a
mental health hospital who was tired of his staff members’
pursuing their own agendas. Over a period of a few months,
the two of them worked to shift the team’s focus to the collective good of the organization.
The CEO’s reaction to what happened says it all: “The
concept of team number one has created a common language and sense of identity for our team. It provides the
mind-set that individual goals, issues, and interests are set
aside to focus on what’s best for the organization. I truly
believe it is the one thing that keeps us from busting apart
at the seams as we deal with the challenging issues of managing in a complex business environment.”

70

Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

CHECKLIST FOR DISCIPLINE 1:
BUILD A COHESIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM
Members of a leadership team can be confident that they’ve
mastered this discipline when they can affirm the following
statements:
⎯

The leadership team is small enough (three to ten people)
to be effective.

⎯

Members of the team trust one another and can be genuinely vulnerable with each other.

⎯

Team members regularly engage in productive, unfiltered
conflict around important issues.

⎯

The team leaves meetings with clear-cut, active, and
specific agreements around decisions.

⎯

Team members hold one another accountable to commitments and behaviors.

⎯

Members of the leadership team are focused on team
number one. They put the collective priorities and needs of
the larger organization ahead of their own departments.

71

WHAT’S IT WORTH TO YOU?
Again, let’s imagine two different organizations.
The first is led by a team whose members share a common passion
for what they do and are committed to abiding by the same set of
values. They have a clear plan for success and know exactly how they
differ from their competition. At any given moment, they can articulate
their top, collective priority, and they understand how every member
of the team contributes to achieving that priority.
The second is run by a group of well-intentioned executives who
have a good understanding of the details of their business. But they
don’t spend much time thinking or talking about why their organization exists or what values should drive their behaviors. Though they
talk about being more strategic, they can’t really articulate a simple,
clear strategy, and they don’t have a consistent method for evaluating
decisions. The leadership team is constantly managing against a long
list of eclectic goals, some of which may not be compatible and most
of which pertain to only a few members of the team. Moreover, most
team members have somewhat limited knowledge about and interest
in the specific responsibilities of their peers.
The question: What kind of advantage would the first organization
have over the second, and how much time and energy would it be worth
investing to make this advantage a reality?

1.
Build a
Cohesive
Leadership
Team

2.
Create
Clarity

DISCIPLINE 2

ORGANIZATIONAL HEALTH
4.
Reinforce
Clarity

3.
Overcommunicate
Clarity

Create Clarity

T

he second requirement for building a healthy
organization—creating clarity—is all about
achieving alignment. This is a word that is used
incessantly by leaders, consultants, and organizational theorists, and yet for all the attention it gets,
real alignment remains frustratingly rare. Most
executives who run organizations—and certainly
the employees who work for them—will readily
attest to this.
A big part of the reason for the failure to gain
alignment has to do with the fact that, like so many
other popular terms, people use it without being
specific about what they mean. Within the context
of making an organization healthy, alignment is about
creating so much clarity that there is as little room
as possible for confusion, disorder, and infight­ing
73

The Advantage

to set in. Of course, the responsibility for creating that clarity lies
squarely with the leadership team.
Unfortunately, most of the leaders I’ve worked with who complain
about a lack of alignment mistakenly see it primarily as a behavioral or
attitudinal problem. In their minds, it’s a function of the fact that employees below them do not want to work together. What those executives don’t
realize is that there cannot be alignment deeper in the organization, even
when employees want to cooperate, if the leaders at the top aren’t in lockstep with one another around a few very specific things.
Of course, few executives will dispute this. It’s
All too often leaders
hard to argue with the idea
underestimate the impact of
that egregious and fundaeven subtle misalignment at
mental differences among
the top and the damage
leadership team members
caused by small gaps among
create obstacles to alignment
members of the executive
and success. But all too often
—and this is critical—
team.
leaders underestimate the
impact of even subtle misalignment at the top, and the damage caused to the rest of the organization by small gaps among members of the executive team.
Thinking they’re being mature, leaders often agree to disagree with
one another around seemingly minor issues, thereby avoiding what they
see as unnecessary contentiousness and conflict. After all, from their
vantage point, the gaps in their opinions and decisions seem small and
innocuous. What they don’t understand is that by failing to eliminate
even those small gaps, they are leaving employees below them to fight
bloody, unwinnable battles with their peers in other departments. This
leads to the antithesis of (oh, I hate to use this word) empowerment.
No matter how many times executives preach about the “e”
word in their speeches, there is no way that their employees can be
74

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

empowered to fully execute their responsibilities if they don’t receive
clear and consistent messages about what is important from their
leaders across the organization. There is probably no greater frustration
for employees than having to constantly navigate the politics and confusion caused by leaders who are misaligned. That’s because just a little
daylight between members of a leadership team becomes blinding and
overwhelming to employees one or two levels below. I’ve heard this
referred to as the “vortex effect.” Whatever you call it, it’s real, it’s a big
problem, and it makes deep organizational alignment impossible.
Okay, assuming that there is agreement around the benefits of
clarity and alignment, the next logical question would be, How do we
go about achieving it? Before answering that question, I think it might
be helpful to take a look at an example of how not to do it.
BLATHER
Since the 1980s, many organizations have centered their clarity and
alignment efforts around a singular tool that has been a major disappointment. What I’m referring to is the mission statement.
Though I can’t be sure, I suspect that at some point about thirty
years ago a cleverly sadistic and antibusiness consultant decided that
the best way to really screw up companies was to convince them that
what they needed was a convoluted, jargony, and all-encompassing
declaration of intent. The more times those declarations used phrases
like “world class,” “shareholder value,” and “adding value,” the better.
And if companies would actually print those declarations and hang
them in their lobbies and break rooms for public viewing, well, that
would be a real coup.
Even if my historical suspicions are untrue, it can’t be denied that
most mission statements have neither inspired people to change the
world nor provided them with an accurate description of what an
organization actually does for a living. They certainly haven’t created
75

The Advantage

alignment and clarity among employees. What they have done is make
many leadership teams look foolish.
Just in case you’re not convinced of this, take a look at the following mission statement I’ve lifted from the T-shirt of a company that
most people know fairly well. I’ve redacted the name of the organization
and just one word that might give away its industry. See if you can
guess which company it is.

Mission Statement

__________ Incorporated provides its customers with
__________ products and the expertise

quality

required for making informed buying decisions. We
provide our products and services with a dedication to
the highest degree of integrity and quality of customer
satisfaction, developing long-term professional relationships with employees that develop pride, creating
a stable working environment and company spirit.

As bad as it is, it’s hard to deny that this statement seems fairly
ordinary, like so many others
Alignment and clarity cannot
that we’ve come across in our
careers. And yet what makes
be achieved in one fell swoop
this one particularly noteworwith a series of buzzwords and
thy is that it is meant to be a
aspirational phrases crammed
joke. You see, this is the
together. It requires a much
mission statement of Dunder
more rigorous and
Mifflin, the fictional paper
unpretentious approach.
company featured on the
timeless sitcom, The Office.
76

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

That’s right. It’s a spoof. And yet it sounds like so many of the mission
statements we’ve seen hanging in the lobbies of companies where we
do business.
The point here is that alignment and clarity cannot be achieved
in one fell swoop with a series of generic buzzwords and aspirational
phrases cram­med together. Leaders simply can­not inspire, inform,
motivate, market, and position their companies in the context of a
T-shirt or lucite tschotske. Clarity requires a much more rigorous and
unpretentious approach.
SIX CRITICAL QUESTIONS
What leaders must do to give employees the clarity they need is agree
on the answers to six simple but critical questions and thereby eliminate
even small discrepancies in their thinking. None of these questions is
novel per se. What is new is the realization that none of them can be
addressed in isolation; they must be answered together. Failing to
achieve alignment around any one of them can prevent an organization
from attaining the level of clarity necessary to become healthy.
These are the six questions:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Why do we exist?
How do we behave?
What do we do?
How will we succeed?
What is most important, right now?
Who must do what?

If members of a leadership team can rally around clear answers to
these fundamental questions—without using jargon and shmarmy
language—they will drastically increase the likelihood of creating a
healthy organization. This may well be the most important step of all
in achieving the advantage of organizational health.
77

The Advantage

Answering these questions, like everything else in this book, is as
difficult as it is theoretically simple. It’s simple in that it doesn’t require
great intellectual capacity or cleverness; every leadership team has more
than enough information and experience to achieve clarity. It can be
difficult, however, for a variety of reasons.
First, as we explored in the last chapter, it requires cohesion at the
top. A team that isn’t behaviorally cohesive won’t be able to engage in
the level of passionate, messy dialogue that is required to achieve real
buy-in around these questions.
Second—and this is a big one—it’s often tempting for leaders to slip
into a marketing or sloganizing mind-set when answering these questions,
trying to come up with catchy phrases or impressive-sounding statements.
This is a sign that the team is missing the boat and has been distracted
from its real purpose: establishing true clarity and alignment.
Finally, answering these questions requires time. Not months, but
certainly a few days up front followed by a little more time in the following weeks to fully bake the answers. Taking time to sit with the
questions and ensure that all members of the leadership team understand
what they mean and are truly aligned around the answers is essential.
But what if the answers they come up with are wrong? Here’s the
thing: there are no right or
More than getting the right
wrong answers. I mean,
answer, it’s often more
who’s to say what is right and
important to simply have an
wrong when it comes to
answer—one that is
setting the direction of an
organization? After all, there’s
directionally correct and
more than one way to skin a
around which all team
cat, or so I’ve been told.
members can commit.
More than getting the right
answer, it is important to
simply have an answer—one that is directionally correct and around
which all team members can commit.
78

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

PERFECTION PARALYSIS
So many organizations struggle with this idea that there are no right
answers. I think they’ve been influenced by academics, analysts, and
industry pundits who falsely attribute business success to intellectual
precision and accuracy in decision making. The stories journalists write
always seem to conclude that a company succeeded because it came up
with the right strategic answers, even though the leaders of those organizations will almost always tell you that what they were really good at
was not necessarily having the right answer, but rather being able to
rally around the best answer they could find at the time. This tendency
to apply twenty-twenty hindsight to success falsely leads people to think
that intelligence and precision, rather than clarity, are key.
Plenty of euphemisms attest to this idea that implementation
science is more important than decision science. One I heard years ago
comes from the military: a plan is better than no plan. And it was
General Patton who once said, “A good plan violently executed today
is better than a perfect plan executed next week.” Those adages attest
to something I’ve seen among too many leadership teams: a simple
failure to achieve clarity because executives are waiting for perfection.
In the meantime, confusion reigns, leaders lose credibility, and the
organization suffers.

Wait for It . . .
The head of marketing for a large company I once worked
for complained incessantly about the CEO’s lack of decisiveness. “When is this guy going to announce a strategic direction for the company?” was his mantra-like rhetorical question.
He was relentless, and to be fair, many of us agreed with him
even if we didn’t like his dismissive attitude toward his boss.
Well, the board finally removed the CEO and, wouldn’t
you know it, put the head of marketing in charge of the
company. Though we liked the previous chief executive, we

79

The Advantage

were excited by the prospect that the organization now had
a leader who was finally going to declare a position in the
market and chart a course for the future.
For the first few weeks of the new CEO’s tenure, we
gently asked him if he was ready to communicate the company’s new direction.
“Not yet,” he assured us. “I’m waiting for a few things to
take shape first.”
That seemed reasonable for a new leader, so we decided
to give him time. But for the next few months, he kept
putting us off. “The market is changing,” he would say as we
encouraged him to set the course for the company. Meanwhile, employees grumbled, competitors outflanked us, and
paralysis set in, all because the leader wanted to find the
perfect plan.
Nine months later—I promise that this actually happened—
we were still operating without a clear statement of direction.
The only thing the CEO was willing to commit to, in terms
of anything new regarding clarity, was a three-word slogan
to be used for marketing purposes (and yes, the three words
rhymed).

Of course, that’s not to say that leaders should just come up with
any answer to these questions without regard to whether or not they
are directionally correct. That would be ridiculous. It’s just to say that
waiting for clear confirmation that a decision is exactly right is a recipe
for mediocrity and almost a guarantee of eventual failure. That’s because
organizations learn by making decisions, even bad ones. By being decisive, leaders allow themselves to get clear, immediate data from their
actions. As a result, they are often able to change course and defeat
their indecisive competitors who, while congratulating themselves for
not making a mistake, are too mired in theoretical analysis paralysis to
rally around any clear plan.
80

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

Now that we’ve acknowledged the danger of seeking perfection at
the expense of decisiveness, let’s take on each of the six critical questions
that leaders must answer in order to create clarity and build a healthy
organization.

81

The Advantage

QUESTION 1: WHY DO WE EXIST?
Answering this question requires a leadership team to identify its underlying reason for being, also known as its core purpose. Jim Collins and
Jerry Porras introduced the idea of core purpose in their great book, Built
to Last.1 They asserted that successful, enduring organizations understand
the fundamental reason they were founded and why they exist, and they
stay true to that reason. This helps them avoid losing their way.
I certainly believe that Collins and Porras were right. Unfortunately, too many of the teams I’ve come across in my consulting work
fail to properly capture what the authors intended. Instead, they end
up with uninspiring and mediocre mission statements that are neither
lofty enough nor descriptive enough to be helpful (see the Dunder
Mifflin example in the previous “Blather” section).
An organization’s core
Employees in every
purpose—why it exists—has
organization, and at every level,
to be completely idealistic.
need to know that at the heart
I can’t reiterate this point
enough. Many leadership
of what they do lies something
teams struggle with this,
grand and aspirational.
afraid that what they come
up with will seem too grand
or aspirational. Of course, that’s the whole point. Employees in every
organization, and at every level, need to know that at the heart of what
they do lies something grand and aspirational. They’re well aware that
ultimately it will boil down to tangible, tactical activities.
In order to successfully identify their organization’s purpose, leaders
must accept the notion that all organizations exist to make people’s lives
better. Again, that sounds idealistic, but every enterprise—every last
one—ultimately should exist to do just that. To aspire to anything less
would be foolish. After all, no one doubts that every company must
have some sort of value proposition—a compelling reason that custom82

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

ers or constituents want to interact with it. And at the heart of that
interaction is the expectation of a better life.
Now that doesn’t mean that all organizations make people’s lives
better in major, transformational ways. Most do so in relatively small,
subtle ways. And it doesn’t mean that they make all people’s lives better;
usually it’s a relatively small subset of the population. Nonetheless,
every organization must contribute in some way to a better world for
some group of people, because if it doesn’t, it will, and should, go out
of business.
Assuming that a given organization does, in fact, have the potential
for identifying an underlying reason for being—I’ve yet to meet one
that doesn’t—the challenge then is to identify and articulate that reason.
If leaders can’t do that, they cannot rightfully expect employees to get
out of bed every morning with any sense of purpose beyond completing
tasks and keeping their jobs.
There is a darn good chance that your company—in fact, any given
company—has not yet identified its purpose. I’ve found that most have
not, at least not adequately. And I’ve come to realize that even organizations that think they have usually haven’t done so with the degree of
rigor and specificity that is necessary. This leads to two problems.
First, those teams don’t achieve a real sense of collective commitment from their members. Too often busy executives who want nothing
to do with what they see as ethereal, metaphysical conversations
simply nod their heads and agree with whatever the team comes up
with for a statement of purpose. This is a recipe for jargony, empty
declarations.
Second, and this is certainly related, those executives don’t see the
company’s reason for existing as having any practical implications for
the way they make decisions and run the organization. As a result of
having no real idealistic boundaries, they operate in a largely reactive,
shortsighted way, being overly tactical and opportunistic. And they
often lose their way by getting involved in a variety of random pursuits
83

The Advantage

and projects that might be financially justifiable in the short term but
don’t really fit together. This tends to dilute the focus and passion that
employees look for when they’re coming to work.
Some executives, especially those who are a little cynical about
all this purpose stuff, will say that their company exists simply to
make money for owners or shareholders. That is almost never a purpose,
but rather an important indicator of success. It’s how an organization
knows that it is effectively fulfilling its purpose, but it falls far short of
providing the organization with a guide to what ultimately matters
most.
In those rare companies where business owners really do believe
that the organization’s underlying purpose is to provide themselves with
financial windfalls, it is best that leaders are up front about that purpose.
Otherwise they’ll create confusion, cynicism, and a sense of betrayal
among employees who almost always prefer a more idealistic reason for
coming to work.
Finding Your Reason for Existing

When leaders set about identifying the purpose of their organization,
there are a few critical factors they must keep in mind to give them a
good chance at success.
First, they must be clear that answering this question is not the end
of the clarity process. They will have the opportunity, in short order,
to clarify more tactical areas of focus for the organization in a less
idealistic, more practical way. Knowing this gives them the confidence
they need to be purely idealistic in their momentary pursuit of addressing this question and to avoid the guilt-driven temptation to include
too many practical concepts that are of a more tactical nature.
Second, an organization’s reason for existence, its purpose, has to be
true. It must be based on the real motivations of the people who founded
or are running the organization, not something that simply sounds good
on paper. Identifying an organization’s true purpose becomes difficult
84

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

when that organization has been around for a long time, sometimes for
decades, and has never really clarified its underlying reason for being.
In those cases, leaders have to go back and try to understand why its
founders started the organization or, at the very least, to connect their
current motivations to the organization’s history. If this isn’t doable, then
those leaders need to go about this process as though they were rebirthing the company themselves, and they must be prepared to stick with
their answer for as long as the organization exists.
Third, the process of determining an organization’s purpose cannot
be confused with marketing, external or internal. It must be all about
clarity and alignment. Certainly it will be important to eventually communicate the answer to the entire organization, and maybe even to
integrate it into external communication when appropriate. But a real
danger, and a common one, occurs when leaders confuse their motivation for identifying their purpose with trying to come up with something that will sound impressive on a billboard, in an annual report, or
on an employee sweatshirt.
When leaders do this, confusing marketing with creating clarity,
they often commit the subsequent error of making a big, formal
announcement about the company’s purpose. This only provokes cynicism. I try to remind them that even if they never wrote it down or
formally communicated their core purpose (not that I would ever recommend this), if it lived only in the hearts and minds of the leadership
team, it could still do its job by guiding their decisions and actions and
keeping the company grounded. Eventually it would become apparent
to employees and customers alike, even without billboards and
sweatshirts.
So how does an organization go about figuring out why it exists?
It starts by asking this question: “How do we contribute to a better
world?” Again, skeptics who think this sounds soft or ethereal need to
remember that this is not the end of the clarity process and that it is
critical to create a framework for more tactical decisions.
85

The Advantage

Usually the first answer that leaders come up with is not ideal
enough—for example: We help companies use technology to do more business with their partners. We pave driveways so people can get in and out of
their houses and go places. We teach kids how to do their homework better.
Those are a start, but they’re certainly not lofty enough. As Porras
and Collins say, the next question that needs to be asked, and asked
again and again until it leads to the highest purpose or reason for existence, is Why? Why do we do that? Why do we help companies use technology to do more business with their partners? Why do we pave driveways?
Why do we teach kids how to do their homework better?
Eventually, by answering that question again and again, a leadership team will get to a point where they’ve identified the most idealistic
reason for their business. That point will be somewhere just shy of to
make the world a better place. That’s how they’ll know they’re done.
“Why Do We Exist?” Categories

A tricky part of this is understanding that there are a number of very
different categories of purpose, any of which can be valid. Identifying
which category fits your organization’s purpose can be very helpful in
focusing your discussion of why your organization exists because it
better clarifies who the organization ultimately serves.
Customer: This purpose is directly related to serving the needs of an
organization’s customer or primary constituent. For instance, a hotel
might exist simply because its founder always believed in serving
customers. In other words, it’s about pleasing the human beings who
walk through its doors. How does that inform the leaders? Well, if
customers have a need, the hotel should try to fill it, because that would
be true to its purpose. And the hotel shouldn’t hire people who don’t
love to serve customers.
The department store Nordstrom is a good example of this. Their
underlying motivation for everything they do is about serving custom86

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

ers. Period. It’s not really about fashion, though they certainly need to
be good at that; it’s about giving people what they’re looking for, no
matter what.
Industry: This purpose is all about being immersed in a given industry.
Getting back to the hotel example, maybe it exists because its owners
just love the hotel business. It isn’t going to try to get into other lines
of business that are not central to hotels, and it isn’t going to hire people
who don’t think that hotels are cool.
Many smaller businesses and entrepreneurial ventures fall into this
category: they simply love the nature of their industry. That’s why its
founders started their business in the first place: to do what they love.
One that comes to mind is a horse-training company one of our
consultants has worked with in Texas. The founder and CEO grew up
on a ranch in Australia and loves everything to do with horses. So his
stated purpose is “to inspire the dreams of horsemen.” Everything his
company does is born out of a love for horses and the people who share
that love.
Greater Cause: This kind of purpose is not necessarily about what the
organization does, but about something connected to it. For instance,
a hotel might exist because its owner is a fanatic about vacations. Or
maybe it’s all about allowing people to experience luxury. Or the
importance of special occasions. It’s not about hotels per se, and it’s not
simply about making any customer happy. The hotel exists because it
believes in something that a hotel can play a role in making a reality.
Ideally employees ought to buy into, if not share, a passion for vacations,
luxury, celebrating special occasions, or whatever else it is that drives
the owners or leaders of the organization.
The reason that Southwest Airlines exists is to democratize air travel
in America. It believes that flying on airplanes shouldn’t be reserved for
the wealthy and that all people should be able to attend a family
87

The Advantage

reunion, go on vacation, or do business with clients in another city
without sacrificing their financial security. That’s why the airline was
started. Does it serve customers? Sure. Do they enjoy aviation? Yeah.
But those are not the fundamental reasons that Southwest is in business.
Its leaders have a larger cause associated with that service, and that cause
informs every decision they make. For instance, they are committed to
low prices. To violate that commitment would be to violate their
purpose because democratizing travel can’t happen if large numbers of
customers are priced out of the market.
Community: This purpose is about doing something that makes a
specific geographical place better. For instance, our fictional hotel
might exist simply to provide a city or region with a nice place for
visitors, events, or business. It’s about pride in a community. The hotel
will do whatever else it can to contribute to that community, and
employees who share a love for and commitment to the area will thrive
there.
The head of a youth soccer club near my office told me that his
underlying purpose is not really about soccer itself (of course, he loves
soccer too), but about serving his local town. He grew up in that community and returned there to run the club even though there are
other clubs with more money and better facilities nearby. His commitment to the community is why he insists on drawing mostly local
talent and partnering with civic groups. And yes, like the neighboring
clubs, he wants to win. But that’s akin to a company wanting to make
money: it’s an indication of success, not the underlying reason for
existing.
Employees: This purpose is not about serving the customer, the industry,
or the region, but rather about the employees. Our fictional hotel might
be all about giving employees a great work experience or providing a

88

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

place to work for low-income people in the area. It will not make
decisions or hire people who will jeopardize the well-being of employees.
A paving company I worked with struggled with identifying its
fundamental purpose. After coming up with a few uninspiring ideas
having to do with keeping driveways safe and making it possible for
people to park their vehicles, the CEO/founder finally had an epiphany.
He announced to his somewhat surprised executive team that his initial
reason for starting the business had nothing to do with paving, but was
really about helping poor, first-generation Americans find good jobs so
they could buy their first homes and send their kids to college. To make
his point clear, he explained that if the paving market tanked, he’d be
fine going into roofing, or painting, or whatever other business would
allow him to keep his employees working and their families moving
forward in their lives.
Wealth: This purpose is about wealth for the owners. It’s possible that
our hotel exists simply because the person who owns it thinks it’s a
good way to make money for himself and his co-owners. This will and
should inform the decisions that they make, with everything seen
through a financial lens.
We don’t run across many companies in this category (they probably don’t come to us for help), although a number of venture capitalists
and law firms we’ve seen would probably fit. Ultimately they aren’t
going to do anything that will reduce their near-term earnings potential
or financial return, and they see customers, clients, and employees
simply as a means to achieving that. If this is the real reason for existing, it’s important for leaders to be clear about it, with themselves and
the people who work for them. Otherwise they’re going to waste a lot
of time doing meaningless exercises and having fruitless conversations
that only create confusion and cynicism among employees who are best
served by knowing the clear truth.

89

The Advantage

Not a Differentiator

As we can see by using the example of the hotel, two companies that
are in the same industry will often have different reasons for existing.
That makes sense. However, it’s also interesting to understand that two
companies in completely different industries can share the same
purpose. For instance, both a hospital and a masseuse could very well
exist to alleviate pain and suffering in the world. Or a gardener and an
artist might exist to help people appreciate beauty.
The point here is that an organization’s reason for existing is not
meant to be a differentiator and that the purpose for identifying it is
only to clarify what is true in order to guide the business. When leaders
try to use their purpose as a strategic differentiator, they usually fail to
fully tap into the real reason for having one, and then find themselves
disappointed when they learn that another company, perhaps even
within their industry, shares theirs. They need to remember that it is
simply about getting clarity.
It’s important to keep in mind that the process of identifying why
an organization exists is often a messy one. Because it’s more of an art
than a science, it’s going to require a little time and plenty of fluid,
unstructured discussion. And that’s okay. The goal is not to get to an
answer in the shortest amount of time possible, but rather to untap the
true reason for the organization’s existence. Of course leaders need to
remember that it is only the first of six elements of organizational
clarity.

90

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

QUESTION 2: HOW DO WE BEHAVE?
The word intolerance isn’t often used in a positive way in society.
And yet when it comes to
creating organizational cla­
If an organization is tolerant of
rity and alignment, intolereverything, it will stand for
ance is essential. After all, if
nothing.
an organization is tolerant of
everything, it will stand for
nothing.
The answer to the question, How do we behave?, is embodied in an
organization’s core values, which should provide the ultimate guide for
employee behavior at all levels. This too is an area that Collins and
Porras addressed in Built to Last. In their research, they found that
enduring, successful companies adhered strictly to a fundamental set
of principles that guided their behaviors and decisions over time, preserving the essence of the organization.
The importance of values in creating clarity and enabling a company
to become healthy cannot be overstated. More than anything else,
values are critical because they define a company’s personality. They
provide employees with clarity about how to behave, which reduces the
need for inefficient and demoralizing micromanagement.
That alone makes values worthwhile. But beyond that, an organization that has properly identified its values and adheres to them will
naturally attract the right employees and repel the wrong ones. This
makes recruiting exponentially easier and more effective, and it drastically reduces turnover.
The impact of values goes beyond employees. Clear values can also
serve to attract and repel the right customers who want to do business
with an organization that reflects what they value, and not just in some
cause-related, theoretical sense. People who value creativity, for instance,
often choose an organization that builds its culture around creativity.
91

The Advantage

Often this is a more effective means of marketing than expensive and
easy-to-ignore programs around advertising, PR, and lead generation.
Companies that are serious about their values find that the right customers eventually start to seek them out naturally.
Values Stampede

Collins and Porras made such a compelling case in their book that they
set off a stampede of executives determined to find some core values of
their own. Unfortunately, many of those executives missed the authors’
point and came home from their off-site meetings with a long list of
generic and uninspiring words that they then plastered onto posters,
T-shirts, and Web sites. All too often, the result was an organization
full of confused, frustrated, and cynical employees (and sometimes
customers too).
The mistake those leaders made was trying to be all things to all
people, which led them to make their values statements as broad and
inclusive as possible. In many cases, this comes about because leaders
conduct a survey asking employees to vote on which values they want,
and then they try to accommodate all of the input they receive. Let me
be very clear: this is a terrible process for identifying core values, for
reasons that will become obvious later in this section.
When an organization announces that it has nine core values
including customer service, innovation, quality, honesty, integrity, environmental responsibility, work-life balance, financial responsibility, and
respect for the individual, it makes it impossible to use those values to
make decisions, hire employees, or enact policies. After all, no action,
person, or policy can meet all of those criteria.
This creates its own set of problems. When leaders who adopt too
many values finally realize what they’ve done and that there is no hope
for actually putting their many values to practical use, they often end
up ignoring them altogether. In their heart of hearts, they come to see
their value statement as a piece of internal marketing, even propaganda.
92

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

So they resign themselves to operating their companies in a pragmatic,
valueless way, leaving employees and customers unsure of what the
organization really stands for. When employees complain that the company’s values are being violated, leaders just shrug their shoulders and
focus on something more tangible.
Different Kinds of Values

As

tal

pir

en

cid

atio

Ac

na

l

An important key to identifying the right, small set of behavioral values
is understanding that there are different kinds of values (something I
wrote about a number of years ago in the Harvard Business Review).2
Among these, core values are by far the most important and must not
be confused with the others. Let’s define the different types now so we
don’t get them confused:

Core

Permissionto-Play

Core Values
These are the few—just two or three—behavioral traits that are inherent in an organization. Core values lie at the heart of the organization’s
93

The Advantage

identity, do not change over time, and must already exist. In other
words, they cannot be contrived.
An organization knows that it has identified its core values correctly
when it will allow itself to be punished for living those values and when
it accepts the fact that employees will sometimes take those values too
far. Core values are not a matter of convenience. They cannot be
extracted from an organization any more than a human being’s conscience can be extracted from his or her person. As a result, they should
be used to guide every aspect of an organization, from hiring and firing
to strategy and performance management.

Not for Everyone
We worked with an airline that is fanatical about its culture.
It had three core values, one of which had to do with humor.
What testifies to the fact that this is a true core value is
that the company refuses to hire people in any job, at any
level, who don’t have a sense of humor about themselves as
well as life. Its leaders even go so far as to encourage and
defend the humorous behaviors of their employees on the
rare occasion when a customer doesn’t appreciate it.
A great example of this occurred when a frequent flyer
wrote to the company’s CEO complaining that a flight attendant was making jokes during the preflight safety check. She
was upset that the employee was trying to be funny while
he was talking about something as serious and important as
safety.
Now, most CEOs would respond to that complaint by
thanking the customer for her time and her loyalty to the
airline and assuring her that safety was, indeed, important to
the organization. They would then promise to look into the
matter to make sure that the flight attendant adjusts his
behavior to avoid offending any other passengers who could

94

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

be uncomfortable with the jokes. That would be reasonable
enough, I suppose, unless your core values have to do with
humor.
Well, the CEO of this company took a different approach.
Rather than apologizing to the customer and asking the
flight attendant to moderate his behavior, he wrote her a
short note with three words on it: “We’ll miss you.” There can
be little doubt that the company believed that humor was a
core value.
(Rest assured that this company, like all good airlines,
takes safety very, very seriously.)

Aspirational Values
These are the characteristics that an organization wants to have, wishes
it already had, and believes it must develop in order to maximize its
success in its current market environment. Aspirational values are the
qualities that an organization is aspiring to adopt and will do its best
to manage intentionally into the organization. However, they are
neither natural nor inherent, which is why they must be purposefully
inserted into the culture. But they should not be confused with core
values, which, again, do not change over time and do not come and
go with the needs of the business.

Wishful Thinking
I once worked with a CEO to identify the core values of his
company. When I asked him what he thought one of the
values might be, without hesitation he said “sense of urgency.”
I was a little surprised because the limited exposure I’d had
with the employees at the company didn’t mesh with that
description. When I asked him if he believed that urgency
was evident in the organization, he responded “Heck no.

95

The Advantage

We’re complacent as hell. That’s why it needs to be a core
value.”
What we advised that client to do was make “sense of
urgency” an aspirational value and do everything it could to
intentionally instill it in the organization. But they needed
to avoid falsely claiming it as a core value, because that
would only incite cynicism among employees who knew
better.

Confusing core and aspirational values is a frequent mistake
that companies make. It is critical that leaders understand the
difference.

Aspirations
A small consulting firm I know was founded on the values of
humility and passion. Every potential new hire had to pass
the screening for those values, and every decision the firm
made was scrutinized, to a certain extent, against whether it
reflected humility and passion.
As the firm started to experience increased demand for
its services, it realized that its informal, scrappy approach to
serving clients wasn’t scalable and needed to change. Essentially, it needed to instill a greater sense of professionalism
and systematization in its operations.
Knowing that this was not inherent in its passionate,
entrepreneurial culture, the founders decided to make “professionalism” one of the firm’s aspirational values. That meant
they would intentionally hire someone who had experience
building a more mature and organized consulting practice.
Of course, that person would have to embody the firm’s core
values too, because, as the president said, “To hire someone
who wasn’t humble and passionate would be like selling our
soul.”

96

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

The firm hired a new VP who met the core values criteria
and brought a new level of professionalism to the firm. But
they were careful to remind themselves that this was not
something that came naturally to them and that they would
always have to work at it so that the firm could continue
growing.

Permission-to-Play Values
These values are the minimum behavioral standards that are required
in an organization. Although they are extremely important, permissionto-play values don’t serve to clearly define or differentiate an organization from others. Values that commonly fit into this category include
honesty, integrity, and respect for others. If those sound generic, something you’ve seen on virtually all of the values statements plastered on
the walls of every mediocre company you’ve ever visited, then you
understand the problem. Permission-to-play values must be delineated
from the core to avoid dilution and genericism (I don’t think that’s a
word, but you get the point).

Integrity About Integrity
An executive team at a technology start-up we worked with
insisted that integrity was a core value of their company
(many of our clients do this).
They justified this by explaining that they would never
hire someone who lied during an interview or put false information on a résumé. We explained that most organizations
had similar policies and that unless they were willing to adopt
clearly higher standards for integrity than most other companies, and then stand by those standards even in the face
of serious market pressure, they should classify integrity as
a permission-to-play value.

97

The Advantage

They initially refused, saying, “But if we don’t have integrity as one of our core values, then people will think we don’t
care about it.”
During a subsequent meeting, executives discussed the
possibility of doing some competitive intelligence gathering
in a manner that could easily appear to be unethical to some
people. We reminded them about their insistence on including integrity as a core value. They relented and reclassified
it as permission-to-play.

Accidental Values
These values are the traits that are evident in an organization but
have come about unintentionally and don’t necessarily serve the
good of the organization. In many companies, behavioral tendencies
develop over time because of history, or because people start to hire
employees who come from similar backgrounds. One day everyone
looks around and realizes that just about every employee who works
in the organization shares some quality: socioeconomic status, intro­
version, or good looks. The question that needs to be asked is
whether being middle class, introverted, or good looking is something
that the company has cultivated for a purpose, or whether it came
about accidentally. It’s important that leaders guard against accidental
values taking root because they can prevent new ideas and people
from flourishing in an organization. Sometimes they even sabotage
its success by shutting out new perspectives and even potential
customers.

Unintended Consequences
A fashion accessory company we worked with during its
founding adopted a strong set of three core values that it
carefully built its operations around.

98

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

A few years later, we visited the company’s headquarters
after not having seen them for quite some time. They had
grown considerably and had hired dozens of new employees.
But something struck me about the new hires: they all
seemed to be in their early twenties and were wearing the
same kind of mod, hip, black clothes.
I asked the CEO, “When did you adopt a new core value?”
He seemed confused, so I pointed out that the company
seemed to be hiring people who fit a common demographic
and stylistic profile. It was only then that he realized that they
had accidentally adopted a certain youthful, hip culture, one
that had nothing to do with their customer base and that
could potentially limit the appeal of their company to prospective candidates. They took steps to revisit their hiring
methods and their decision making.

Isolating the Core

The key to sifting core values from the others, especially aspirational
and permission-to-play values, is to ask a few difficult questions.
For instance, separating core from aspirational values can be done
by asking the questions, Is this trait inherent and natural for us, and
has it been apparent in the organization for a long time? Or, is it
something that we have to work hard to cultivate? A core value will
have been apparent for a long time and requires little intentional
provocation.
Permission-to-play values are also often confused with core. The
best way to differentiate them is to ask, Would our organization be able
to credibly claim that we are more committed to this value than 99 percent
of the companies in our industry? If so, then maybe it really is core. If
not, then it’s probably a candidate for permission-to-play; it’s still
important and should be used as a filter in hiring, but it’s not what sets
the organization apart and uniquely defines it.

99

The Advantage

It’s worth restating that the reason organizations need to understand the various kinds of values is to prevent them from getting confused with and diluting the core. Core values are what matters most.
Choosing a Name

Another key to successfully undertaking the core value process is deciding what to call a core value once you’ve identified it. The key is to
avoid excessive wordsmithing while at the same time finding the most
descriptive and effective phrase. I find it helpful for leaders to choose
a unique, nontraditional word or phrase—something that doesn’t
already have such a worn legacy in society that everyone assumes they
know what it means. Of course, once a name or a term has been chosen,
it will be important for the leadership team to define that term with
the most vivid and behavioral description possible. And the best way
to do that is to write a description of what that value looks like in
action.

Floor Sweeper
One start-up client I worked with described one of its core
values as “willing to sweep floors.” Most companies would
have described it simply as “hard work,” and few people
outside the organization knew exactly what it meant. But
that was a good thing because it gave the company the
opportunity to define the phrase in its own way.
In their case, the leaders described “willing to sweep
floors” as having no concerns about status and ego and
willing to do whatever was necessary to help the company
succeed. No job was beneath any employee, and even the
highest-level executive had to be willing to do the most
menial work if that’s what was needed.
The value was so powerful that the day after the leadership team established it, one of its members decided to quit

100

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

because he just didn’t see himself as being a floor sweeper.
Without bitterness, he acknowledged that he had an ego and
that a big part of his career was building a résumé. He didn’t
want to hold the team back by being a misfit.
The CEO gladly accepted his resignation with no hard
feelings, relieved to have addressed the cultural discrepancy
before it became a bigger problem. A few years later, the
executive who left the start-up called our consulting firm to
have us work with his new company. He appreciated the
clarity that we had helped the start-up achieve and wanted
to build a similarly clear and strong culture in his new firm.

The problem for organizations that choose common words like
innovation or quality is that everyone has their own understanding
of those terms. That makes it a little more difficult for leaders to establish their own definition. Of course, none of this matters if the values
that an organization adopts are not real ones. When leaders choose
elaborate and unique phrases for their values but don’t adhere to them,
they generate more cynicism and distrust than if they said nothing
at all.
Once an organization successfully identifies and describes its core
values and separates them from the other kinds, it must then do its best
to be intolerant of violations of those values. It must ensure that every
activity it undertakes, every employee it hires, and every policy it enacts
reflects those core values. Few organizations actually take this important
step, instead allowing their values to be minimized as mere idealism
rather than real building blocks of operations and culture. For those
who are serious about their values, this is why it’s so important not to
dilute the power of core values or nullify it altogether by having too
many. Later in the book, when I discuss reinforcing clarity, I’ll get into
the various ways that healthy organizations can build their values into
their processes that revolve around people.
101

The Advantage

Identifying Core Values

One of the best ways to go about identifying an organization’s core
values is to undertake a three-step process as an executive team. The
first step is to identify the employees in the organization who already
embody what is best about the company and to dissect them, answering
what is true about those people that makes them so admired by the
leadership team. Those qualities form the initial pool of potential core
values.
Next, leaders must identify employees who, though talented, were
or are no longer a good fit for the organization. These are people who,
in spite of their technical abilities, drive others around them crazy and
would add value to the organization by being absent. Once those
people are identified—sadly, this is usually a little easier than the first
step—they need to be dissected in the same way. What is it about them
that makes them a distraction and a problem? It is the opposite of those
annoying traits that provide yet another set of potential candidates for
core values.
Finally, leaders need to be honest about themselves and whether or
not they embody the values in that pool.

Mirror, Mirror
The leadership team of a fast-growing high-tech start-up
asked me to help them identify their core values. After dissecting a handful of wonderful employees in the organization
and then doing the same for some of the more difficult ones,
the team was left with a few values that seemed like natural
candidates for the core.
One of those values was friendliness. As simple as that
may sound, the executives were convinced that it was what
the best employees in the organization shared and what the
difficult ones lacked. They decided that they would figure

102

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

out a better way to describe friendliness in a way that would
be more meaningful, but essentially, that was the concept
they settled on.
It was then that I had to ask them to take the third step
and ensure that their suggested core values, including friendliness, applied to them too. When I put the question to them,
“So, would you say that this leadership team embodies
friendliness?” the executives in the room hesitated a little and
looked at one another. Without thinking too hard about it, I
continued, “Because compared to the other teams I work
with, I wouldn’t say that you guys seem particularly friendly.”
After a short pause, the executives laughed and agreed
that they didn’t really see themselves as overly friendly
people either. And they quickly eliminated that from the list
of core values. To call it part of their core would be to invite
accusations of hypocrisy from employees. Imagine those
executives standing up and touting the inherent friendliness
of the company and building everything from performance
reviews to hiring profiles around a concept that they did not
exhibit naturally.
At the same time, the executives agreed that they
needed to work on becoming more approachable and
friendly, because it was something that many others in the
organization valued. It would become an aspirational, but
certainly not a core, value.

This three-step process is obviously not scientific, but it is nevertheless a reliable way of informing the judgment of leaders as they wrestle
with what is core to the organization’s culture. Settling on core values
rarely happens in one sitting, and for good reason. It usually requires
extended discussion and review among leaders who must be confident
that their cultural building blocks are solid.

103

The Advantage

Having answered the first two questions, Why do we exist? and How
do we behave?, a leadership team can then come down the mountain,
so to speak, and begin answering the next four, which are a bit more
concrete and tangible.

104

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

QUESTION 3: WHAT DO WE DO?
This question is the simplest of the six and takes the least amount of time
and energy to address. The answer lies at the opposite end of the idealism
scale from why an organization exists and is nothing more than a description of what an organization actually does. No flowery adjectives or
adverbs here. Nothing ethereal or abstract. Just an unsexy, one-sentence
definition—something your grandmother can understand (no offense
to grandmas). The answer to this question is something we call an organization’s business definition (but never a mission statement!).
If an organization’s reason for existence answers the question, Why?,
then its business definition answers the question, What? It’s critical that
it be clear and straightforward. It should not be crafted so that it can
also be used in marketing material. The point is just to make sure that
the leadership team is crystal clear about, and can accurately describe,
the nature of the organization’s business so that they don’t create confusion within the rest of the company or, for that matter, in the market.
It’s as simple as that.
Coming up with a good business definition is usually not terribly
difficult and often doesn’t take much more than ten, maybe twenty
minutes. Unlike the core purpose, most leaders have a good idea of the
basic activities of the organizations they lead. Nevertheless, I’m always
surprised when I ask members of a leadership team to quietly write
down a sentence or two about what they think the organization does,
and I find that there is more discrepancy than I or, more important,
they had thought. Taking a few minutes to make sure everyone is on
the same page is always worthwhile.
Here are a few examples from organizations we’ve worked with.
They are not particularly interesting, and I suppose that’s part of the
point. They are simply concrete, detailed descriptions that, when combined with the reason for existing, describe what an organization does
and why it does it:
105

The Advantage

•
•
•

•
•

A power company: “We generate and deliver electrical and natural
gas products and services to people throughout the state.”
A credit card company: “We provide payment products and
extend credit to consumers.”
A technology hardware company: “We develop, manufacture, and
market hard drives, solid-state drives, and storage subsystems for
consumers, OEMs, and enterprises.”
A biopharmaceutical company: “We discover, develop, make, and
commercialize better medicines through integrated sciences.”
A Catholic church: “We provide Sacraments, outreach services,
counseling, and religious education for people in our parish.”

Again, no adverbs or qualifiers, and no unnecessarily detailed
descriptions of sales channels or pricing. That kind of information
comes in the next section, when we get into strategy.
It should be noted that an organization’s business definition can
change over time, but only when the market changes and calls for a
meaningful shift in the fundamental activity of the organization. In the
course of my consulting firm’s fifteen years as a company, we’ve changed
our business definition three times. Keep in mind that our core values
and reason for existing have never changed.
That’s all that needs to be said about answering question 3, so that’s
all I’ll say. The next question that needs to be answered is much more
interesting and important.

106

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

QUESTION 4: HOW WILL WE SUCCEED?
When team leaders answer this question, essentially they are determining their strategy. Unfortunately, more than any word in the business
lexicon, strategy is one of the most widely employed and poorly defined.
Executives, consultants, and scholars use it to mean so many different
things that it has become almost meaningless without a clarifying definition each time it is cited.
Years ago, not long after I started my consulting firm, a client asked
me to help his team with its strategy, and I froze. I thought to myself,
What exactly is a strategy? This was particularly troubling because I had
spent two years working for a strategic management consulting firm. I
wondered, Did I sleep through the day they taught us the definition of
strategy?
So I went and did some research, reading and rereading a few books
about strategy. And they were mostly confusing. Michael Porter’s book,
Competitive Strategy, was by far the most helpful, and using that and
some of our own ideas based on companies we had worked with, we
came up with our own defiAn organization’s strategy is
nition and process for iden3
tifying strategy. We were
nothing more than the
relieved, and a little surcollection of intentional
prised, to learn that clients
decisions a company makes to
found it to be so helpful, and
give itself the best chance to
that we weren’t the only ones
thrive and differentiate from
who were confused by the
competitors.
“S” word.
Strategic Anchors

Essentially we decided that an organization’s strategy is simply its plan
for success. It’s nothing more than the collection of intentional decisions
a company makes to give itself the best chance to thrive and differentiate
107

The Advantage

from competitors. That means every single decision, if it is made intentionally and consistently, will be part of the overall strategy.
But that definition is not particularly actionable or useful for
guiding the decisions of leaders and employees. We came to realize that
the best way for an organization to make strategy practical is to boil it
down to three strategic anchors that will be used to inform every decision the organization makes and provide the filter or lens through
which decisions must be evaluated to ensure consistency. Strategic
anchors provide the context for all decision making and help companies
avoid the temptation to make purely pragmatic and opportunistic decisions that so often end up diminishing a company’s plan for success.

Strategic Branding
We worked with a fresh produce company that decided that
one of its three strategic anchors was about maintaining “a
premium, high-quality brand.” As a result, the leaders marketed their products aggressively using the company name
and they went to great lengths in stores to merchandise and
present their higher-quality products in an attractive way to
justify the higher prices that they commanded.
But sometimes the company’s produce didn’t come off
the farm as attractive and delicious as they wanted it to be.
Resisting the temptation to mix it in with the higher-quality
product and hope that consumers wouldn’t notice, the
leaders decided to sell their slightly lower-quality produce
through different channels and under a different brand and,
of course, at a different price. And in those rare instances
when they couldn’t grow any premium-quality produce in a
given category, the company simply refused to provide
stores with products. Its leaders would rather forfeit shortterm revenue than diminish the brand that they believed was
critical to their differentiation and long-term success.

108

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

Keep in mind that another company with a different set
of strategic anchors—namely, without a premium brand
being one of them—would probably handle that situation
differently. And that would be okay as long as it was intentional and consistent with what they believed would enable
their success.

Identifying Anchors

The best way for leaders to go about finding their strategic anchors is
to take a reverse-engineering approach and extract them from everything that they know to be true about their organization. They need to
start by creating an exhaustive list of all the decisions and realities that
form the context of their current situation. This will include anything
beyond the organization’s reason for existence, core values, and business
definition.
To understand how this works, let’s dissect a (mostly) fictional
small, regional chain of sporting goods stores.
We’ll assume that the company has already answered the questions,
Why do we exist?, How do we behave?, and What do we do? Let’s say their
reason for existing is “to enable people to enjoy being outdoors,” their
core values are “enthusiasm for helping people, personal responsibility,
and pride of ownership,” and their business definition is, “We provide
recreational and sports-related goods and equipment to people in the
greater metropolitan area.”
Having identified those critical components, the next question the
leaders would need to answer, and the one at the heart of the strategic
anchor activity, is, How will we succeed? Or put another way, How will we
make decisions in a purposeful, intentional, and unique way that allow us to
maximize our success and differentiate us from our competitors?
To create their exhaustive list, the leaders would consider everything imaginable related to their business. And I mean everything
—topics like pricing, hiring, site selection, marketing, advertising,
109

The Advantage

branding, merchandising, sourcing, partnering, product selection, instore experience, service offerings, promotions, decor, and more. I’m
sure I’ve left a few things off that list.
Here’s what their list looks like:
• Huge selection of products
• Competitive/low prices
• Nontraditional sports categories
• Seasonal focus of merchandise
• Informal, homemade signage in
the stores
• Minimalistic displays and no glossy
merchandising
• Free CPR and other medical classes
• Free meeting space for scouts and
local sports teams
• Pet-related products
• Warehouse-like locations
• Easy access and parking
• Employee training and development
opportunities

• Hire for attitude and cultural fit
• Seasonal employees
• Ski-lift tickets at cost
• Employee discounts
• Store stays open late
• Minimal advertising
• Active local event sponsorship
• Liberal return policy
• Flexible employment policies
and hours
• Slightly better than industrycompetitive wages and benefits
• Six stores in the metropolitan area
• High cooperation among stores
• Equipment rentals

That’s a long and exhaustive list, and it needs to be. It’s impossible
not to notice that some of the items are slightly redundant and that
there is no clear or consistent taxonomy. In other words, it includes
apples, oranges, monkeys, and Cadillacs, which is fine. It’s better to be
redundant and a little inconsistent than to leave something out. The
purpose is just to get everything out on the table (actually the flip chart)
so that leadership team members can gain a sense of the whole messy
picture. And it’s worth noting that when we work with clients we don’t
write these items as a linear list. We draw a big amoeba-like shape on
a flip chart and just start filling it in with terms and phrases. This makes

110

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

it easier to see relationships between terms, which becomes important
in the next step.
That next step is a little chaotic, difficult, unscientific, and fun.
Leaders must search for patterns that would indicate the organization’s
strategic direction and anchors. Put another way, they need to identify the
items, or collections of items, that fit together to form a theme or category.
Michael Porter has a similar process called activity system maps.4
In the case of the sporting goods chain, there seems to be something common about having stores in large, low-rent buildings; spending minimal money on merchandising and signage; engaging in minimal
advertising and traditional marketing; and charging relatively low
prices. A leadership team might label this potential anchor, “keep prices
low by being frugal whenever we can” or “reduce fixed costs as much
as possible.” Whatever they call it, it will speak to the idea of low prices
and low costs.
Similarly, they would certainly see a connection between offering
free CPR classes, free meeting space for local sports teams and scouts,
easy access and ample parking, and sponsorship of local sporting events
as something like “build local loyalty and become a community
destination.”
Finally, the competitive wages and benefits, investment in training,
hiring for behavioral values, flexible hours and policies, employee
discounts, and even the liberal return policy would suggest that “create
a positive, flexible environment for employees” might be another
anchor. (See “The Strategy Amoeba”.)
Remember, this process will always be a little messy and organic.
It requires judgment, reflection, and, at times, intuitive synthesis on
the part of the members of a leadership team. Nonetheless, it is a reliable process that should lead to an outcome that will resonate with the
team and inspire confidence in how decisions can be made in an intentional, strategic way.

111

The Advantage

The Strategy Amoeba

112

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

Every organization’s process for identifying strategic anchors will
be different, though similarly messy.

Strategic Food
I was working with the confections division of a large food
company. We started our strategy discussion by putting
together an exhaustive list of truths about their business:
integrated direct-to-store shipping model, a strong brand,
customer-centricity, innovation, product quality (taste),
leverage being part of a big company, operations as competitive advantage, compete against private label, part of
parent company, superpremium brand, fun place to work,
low margins, headquarters in New York, seven U.S. factories,
high quality, U.S. market focus, complexity of operations,
superior products, use of in-store marketing, multiple brands,
consumer driven, and aggressive use of technology.
Next, the executives looked over the flip chart with all
the items on it and searched for the potential anchors. To
help them, we asked, “Which of these are so fundamental
that they should be used as filters to inform every other
decision?” The answers didn’t leap off the page immediately,
but, as usual, within five or ten minutes a few strong candidates began to emerge, as well as a few that were obviously
not going to be strategic anchors (for example, headquarters
in New York).
As people started to discuss the possible candidates for
anchors, they came up with new and better ways to describe
what they had originally put on the list, which was fine. We
reminded them that this was a messy, nonlinear process, and
that’s the way it needs to be.
Whenever anyone made a recommendation for a possible anchor, we asked the team if that was fundamental, or
if it was merely a function of something else on the list that

113

The Advantage

was even more fundamental. In the end, the team came up
with the following strategic anchors: product superiority,
in-store

market

execution,

and

predictable

financial

performance.
The team was saying that their success would be dependent on (1) continuing to make better-tasting and higherquality products than their competitors, (2) being great at
in-store merchandising and placement, and (3) delivering
consistent and conservative financial results to their parent
company. Every decision they made would need to be evaluated in light of and informed by these anchors.
For example, if a company emerged as a potential acquisition candidate, the team would evaluate that decision
against the three criteria: (1) Does the acquisition candidate
have products that are or could be of superior quality to
those of their competition? (2) Can we merchandise those
products in stores in a way that meets our high standards?
(3) Is there a reasonable chance of seeing a profit in the
not-too-distant future? If the answer to these questions is
yes, it’s probably a strategic fit. If the answers are no, going
forward with the acquisition would probably not be a strategically aligned decision, regardless of how tempting it
might be.

Now, in rare instances every organization will find itself in situations where it will have to make small, tactical short-term decisions that
don’t conform to its strategic anchors. It is critical that leaders be completely up front about the fact that such a decision is off-strategy and
is a rare exception.
Unlike a company’s reason for existing and core values, which never
change, and the business definition, which changes fairly infrequently,
an organization’s strategic anchors should change whenever its competitive landscape shifts and market conditions call for a different approach.
114

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

How often this happens will vary depending on the nature of a
given organization’s market or industry (see the “Strategic Durability”
sidebar below).
STRATEGIC DURABILITY
How often will your organization need to
change its strategic anchors?
Well, that will depend largely on two industry traits: the barriers
to entry in a given market and the rate of innovation.
When barriers to entry are high and innovation is relatively
low, strategic anchors will be very durable and require less
change over time. Airlines certainly fall into this category.
When barriers to entry are low and innovation is high, strategic anchors will need to be reviewed and revised much more
frequently. Online software applications companies would fit
this one.
When barriers to entry are high and innovation is high—
something that would apply to pharmaceutical companies—
strategic durability would fall somewhere in between. The same
would be true when barriers to entry and innovation are both
low, as is seen in many smaller services firms, including law,
consulting, and advertising.
High
Low
Durability

(Strategy
Changes
Frequently)

Medium
Durability

Rate of
Innovation
Medium
Durability

Low

Low

High
Durability

(Strategy
Changes
Infrequently)

Barriers to
Entry

115

High

The Advantage

In some cases, one of an organization’s strategic anchors may
not yet be on the list because it isn’t part of what the organization is
currently doing, so it needs to be added. That’s why it’s important
for an organization to realize that the process of identifying strategic
anchors should not be completely reactive or historical. Sometimes
it is the very process of identifying strategic anchors that alerts
an organization to the fact that what it is currently doing isn’t right or
isn’t enough to ensure success and differentiation, and so a change is
needed.
Another outcome of establishing strategic anchors is making it
easier to agree on what an organization should not be doing.

Strategic Schools
We worked with an organization that runs charter schools.
As is true in many mission-driven organizations, there is a
real temptation in schools for leaders to want to be all things
to all people. Of course, with limited resources and high
stakes, the cost of not being strategic is great.
The team started by creating an exhaustive list of everything that was currently true about the organization: focus
on kindergarten through fifth grade, standardize core processes across all schools, headquarters in Texas, slightly
lower staff pay than average public schools, emphasis on
student safety, no transportation services provided, performance driven, data driven, no special education programs,
emphasis on parent volunteerism and involvement, internal
promotion of leaders, formative assessments, focus on
benefit to kids, low cost, minimal branding and marketing,
character-focused education, state-controlled pricing, distributed leadership model, local principal autonomy, no frills,
employees passionate about mission.
After an hour of brainstorming and passionate debate,
they arrived at the following strategic anchors: standardiza-

116

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

tion of operations, selective marketing, performance and
measurement driven. They decided that the way to ensure
their success and differentiate from their competition was to
ensure that every decision they made reflected (1) the ability
to leverage standardized processes for efficiency and low
cost, (2) to do only cost-effective, targeted marketing to
parents in the micromarkets they served, and (3) to focus
relentlessly on student achievement and parents’ return on
investment.
Those anchors also gave them the clarity about what
they shouldn’t do like provide transportation services and
special education. As unhappy as they initially felt about
those decisions, the leaders of the company knew that their
ability to succeed in a competitive world meant they had to
make difficult, strategic trade-offs.

Many leadership teams struggle with not wanting to walk away
from opportunities that seem basically good and easily justifiable
outside the context of having a strategy, but which would distract the
organization and pull it away
from its stated intent. StrateMany leadership teams
gic anchors give a leadership
struggle with not wanting to
team the clarity and courage
walk away from opportunities.
to overcome these distracStrategic anchors give them
tions and stay on course.
the clarity and courage to
Some people ask why
overcome these distractions
there are three strategic
and stay on course.
anchors and not four or two
or fifteen. Years ago I would
have said, “Well, if you think
having four or five works better for your organization, then go for it.”
But I’ve come to learn over the years, with the encouragement of clients
and con­sultants who found it to be true, that there should be three
117

The Advantage

anchors. I suppose there is something about the idea of triangulation
that is at play here or the concept of the three legs of a stool. Maybe
three is just the number of things that people can remember or keep
in mind at any given time. Whatever the case, I’m convinced that three
is almost always the right number of filters that an organization should
establish to make their decision making as intentional as possible.

118

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

QUESTION 5: WHAT IS MOST IMPORTANT,
RIGHT NOW?
More than any of the other questions, answering this one will have the
most immediate and tangible impact on an organization, probably
because it addresses two of the most maddening day-to-day challenges
companies face: organizational A.D.D. and silos.
Most organizations I’ve worked with have too many top priorities
to achieve the level of focus they need to succeed. Wanting to cover
all their bases, they establish a long list of disparate objectives and
spread their scarce time, energy, and resources across them all. The
result is almost always a lot of initiatives being done in a mediocre way
and a failure to accomplish what matters most. This phenomenon is
best captured in that wonderful adage, “If everything is important,
nothing is.”
When a CEO announces that her company’s top priorities for the
year are to grow revenue, improve customer service, introduce more
innovative products, cut expenses, and improve market share (we’ve all
seen lists like this before), she is almost guaranteeing that none of those
objectives is going to get the attention it deserves. And there is an
additional consequence beyond the distraction, diffusion, and dilution
that this causes: the emergence of departmental silos.
By communicating that the organization has five or seven top
priorities, leaders put their well-intentioned employees in the inevit­
able position of getting pulled in different directions, sometimes
polar opposite ones. Wanting only to succeed, they often find
themselves working at cross-purposes with their colleagues in other
departments who are left to make their own decisions about which
of the many priorities is most important. Leaders should not be
surprised to find that the various departments within the organiza­
tion are operating as independent units without alignment and
cooperation.
119

The Advantage

One Thing

Of course, to say that there are too many top priorities is something
of an oxymoron. After all, for something to be the top priority, it has
to be more important than
Every organization, if it wants
everything else. And even if
to create a sense of alignment
there are multiple big prioriand focus, must have a single
ties, ultimately one of those
has to be at the very top. The
top priority within a given
point here is that every orgaperiod of time.
nization, if it wants to create
a sense of alignment and
focus, must have a single top priority within a given period of time.
I came to realize this somewhat by accident. I had been hearing so
many of my clients complain about the silos within their organizations
that I decided I should try to solve that problem. So I went out in
search of companies where silos were not an issue to learn from them.
It was a dry search.
Then I realized that there was a certain category of organization that
seemed to rise above the silo problem: emergency responders. These
include firefighters on the scene of a fire, emergency room doctors and
nurses, soldiers on a rescue mission, and even police officers in the midst
of a dangerous situation. Silos just didn’t seem to exist in these groups.
Think about it. You never see two firefighters standing in front of a
burning building and arguing about which one of them should be responsible for climbing up and saving a child’s life based on the departmental
jurisdiction of their respective divisions. And you aren’t going to find two
nurses debating which cost center to bill for gauze while a patient in the
ER is hemorrhaging blood. And in the midst of a battle, you aren’t going
to hear a Marine say, “I’m not going to risk my life. This is a Navy problem.”
Of course, what these groups have in common is a crisis—a clear
and present situation of great and immediate consequence. What a
crisis provides for an organization, whether that organization is an
120

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

emergency responder accustomed to dealing with crises or a more traditional organization that finds itself temporarily in the midst of one,
is a rallying cry, a single area of focus around which there is no confusion or disagreement.
The Thematic Goal (a.k.a. The Rallying Cry)

As I thought about the power of a rallying cry, I wondered why all organizations couldn’t replicate the benefits of achieving that kind of focus
(short of creating false crises, which is never a good idea). And I decided
that there is no reason that every organization couldn’t have a rallying
cry, even when it is not in crisis. I called this rallying cry “a thematic
goal” because it needs to be understood within the context of the organization’s other goals, at the top of the list. And so, the thematic goal is
the answer to our question, What is most important, right now?
I introduced this concept in one of my business fables, Silos, Politics, and Turf Wars, which may be helpful for readers wanting to see a
thorough and vivid description of the thematic goal concept.5 Before I
provide a few real world examples, I’ll clearly define what a thematic
goal is so that all of this makes sense:
A thematic goal is . . .
• Singular. One thing has to be most important, even if there are
other worthy goals under consideration.
• Qualitative. The thematic goal should almost never be
established with specific numbers attached to it. The opportunity
for putting quantitative measures around a thematic goal comes
later, and it should not be done too early because it can too
narrowly prescribe what needs to be achieved and limit people’s
ability to rally around it.
• Temporary. A thematic goal must be achievable within a clear
time boundary, almost always between three and twelve months.
Anything shorter than three months feels like a fire drill, and
121

The Advantage

•

anything longer than twelve invites procrastination and
skepticism about whether the goal will endure. (I’ll wait a few
months to focus on that because it will probably change, and, who
knows, I might not even be working here then.)
Shared across the leadership team. When executives agree
on their top priority, they must take collective responsibility for
achieving it, even if it seems that the nature of the goal falls
within one or two of the executives’ regular areas of ownership.

The best way to identify a thematic goal is to answer the question,
If we accomplish only one thing during the next x months, what would it
be? In other words, What must be true x months from now for us to be
able to look back and say with any credibility that we had a good period?
These questions provide a critical level of focus for leaders who are being
pulled in numerous directions.
Once a team has agreed on its thematic goal, it should resist the
temptation to run out and communicate that goal right away or make
a big announcement about it. For one, the thematic goal alone is not
enough. It needs further detail or it will come across as an empty campaign slogan. I’ll get to that shortly.
Second, the primary purpose of the thematic goal is not necessarily
to rally all the troops within the organization, as helpful as that may
seem. More than anything else, it is to provide the leadership team itself
with clarity around how to spend its time, energy, and resources. Yes,
in most cases, it will be appropriate for leaders to eventually communicate that goal to employees at large or to some subgroup of them. In
rare cases, when the thematic goal revolves around a confidential matter
like a potential merger or layoff, it will not. That will depend on the
nature of the goal and the extent to which it involves a concerted,
wide-reaching effort throughout the company. But even if the leadership team never announces the thematic goal to anyone and uses it only
to guide its own actions, it will have served its purpose.
122

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

Leaders Without Hats

Regardless of how it is communicated within the larger organization,
it’s worth repeating that every thematic goal must become the collective
responsibility of the leadership team. This is true even if the goal doesn’t
seem to directly involve the departments that some of those executives
lead. To understand what this means, it’s helpful to think about
members of the executive team going into each of their meetings
without their departmental titles. Or as I like to say, they need to take
off their departmental hats and put on generic corporate ones. I explored
this basic idea in my description of team number one in the “Build a
Cohesive Leadership Team” section, but it’s certainly worth repeating
here.
On a cohesive team, leaders are not there simply to represent the
departments that they lead and manage but rather to solve problems
that stand in the way of achieving success for the whole organization.
That means they’ll readily offer up their departments’ resources when
it serves the greater good of the team, and they’ll take an active interest
in the thematic goal regardless of how closely related it is to their functional area. And while individual team members will certainly have
expertise and responsibility in different parts of the business, they will
not limit their input and participation to those areas alone. Unfortunately, on many teams, this happens regularly.
Like the representatives of Congress or the United Nations, too
many leaders come to meetings with the unspoken assumption that
they are there to lobby for and defend their constituents. When they
see that the agenda for a staff meeting has little if anything pertaining
to their world, they do their best to avoid conversation in the hope that
the meeting will end quickly. Or they try to sneak in some busywork
to attend to or perhaps even shift the focus of the meeting to something
that involves them and their department.
This is a perfect recipe for dysfunction and mediocrity. And while I’ll
address the subject of meetings later in this book, let me make it clear that
123

The Advantage

it is the lack of a defined, compelling rallying cry or thematic goal that allows
most bad staff meetings to happen, which enables poor decision making.
The benefits of establishing an overarching thematic goal are enormous. Divisional rivalry and infighting become much less likely as
leaders stop seeing their primary responsibility as solely running their
own departments. Focus during meetings gets easier as unimportant
and ancillary topics are guiltlessly cast aside. Paralysis around resource
allocation can be broken due to clarity around what deserves the most
energy and attention. And the need to referee political battles, not only
at the executive level but deeper in the organization, diminishes greatly
as people better understand the trade-offs that need to be made and
the rationale for them.
Defining Objectives

Realizing the benefits of having a clear and collective focus requires
more than merely identifying the thematic goal. That goal must then
be further clarified by defining the objectives which will make accomplishing it possible. I call these, for obvious reasons, defining objectives.
(I originally wanted to call them “big buckets of stuff” but was overruled by my wiser colleagues.)
Defining objectives are the general categories of activity required to
achieve the thematic goal. Like the thematic goal, defining objectives
must be qualitative, temporary, and shared by the leadership team. They
provide a level of specificity so that the thematic goal isn’t merely a
slogan but rather a specific and understandable call to action. In most
cases, there are between four and six defining objectives, depending on
the nature of the goal itself.

Mail Priorities
We were working with the leadership team of a large freight
and logistics company that was doing very well. However,
among the various challenges that the leaders were discuss-

124

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

ing was a problem with having no excess capacity to take
on the growing volume of business that was coming their
way. After discussing this and various other topics competing for their attention, we posed the big question: If you
accomplish just one thing in the next nine months, what
should it be?
Within just a few minutes, the team agreed that “if we
don’t solve the capacity issue, we’re in huge trouble.”
So “solve the capacity problem” became their thematic
goal. Not sexy, but clear and correct. And just as important,
there was no ambiguity that this thematic goal would become
the top priority of every team member, regardless of their
specific functional responsibilities.
The next step was to define exactly what they would
need to do to address the problem and achieve the thematic
goal. After less than an hour of discussion and debate, they
came up with the following defining objectives:

Thematic Goal

Defining Objectives

Solve the capacity problem

Accurately assess
and forecast the
capacity shortfall

Hire and train
more employees

Expand and modify
current facilities

Acquire additional
equipment

Better utilize
systems and
software

(We use the graphic above to depict thematic goals and
defining objectives because it is easier for leaders to remember and display for future reference.)

125

The Advantage

As obvious as this may seem in retrospect, had the
executive team not had this conversation, they would have
gone back to work and continued working on whatever
projects and responsibilities they usually attended to, treating the capacity problem as just another of a long list of
important objectives. Instead, they ended the conversation
ready to talk about what they should stop working on, and
how they would reallocate less-critical resources in the organization to accomplish the thematic goal.
But the team wasn’t done.

Standard Operating Objectives

Once teams identify their defining objectives, they have to take on the
next, and last, step in the thematic goal process: identifying their standard operating objectives. These are the ongoing and relatively straightforward metrics and areas of responsibility that any leadership team
must maintain in order to keep the organization afloat. I like to refer
to these responsibilities as the “leaders’ day jobs.”
Coming up with standard operating objectives is not terribly
difficult because they are usually somewhat obvious. In for-profit
companies, they usually include categories like revenue, expenses, customer retention or satisfaction, product quality, cash flow, morale,
or any other issues specific to a given industry. In a hotel, it would
certainly include room occupancy, in a school it would include
graduation rates and test scores, and in a church it might well include
attendance and financial giving. Whatever the case, few leadership
teams need more than fifteen minutes to identify and agree on their
standard operating objectives, which are already a big part of their daily
focus.
In the previous example, the freight company’s standard operating
objectives would include revenue, expenses, on-time deliveries, customer satisfaction, new customer acquisition, safety, and morale.
126

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

My small consulting firm tracks the following standard operating objectives: financial strength (revenue and expenses are included), staff
morale, book sales, product sales, consulting pipeline, speaking pipeline, client satisfaction, and stewardship. Every company will have a
slightly different set of standard objectives that it tracks, but it will be
relatively predictable and consistent depending on the industry and it
won’t change much over time.
It’s important to note that sometimes a company’s thematic
goal will be one of the items that appears on its standard operating
list. For instance, a hotel will regularly track occupancy, but in a given
period that issue may become its most critical challenge. So the leaders
would elevate it to the top of their list and make “increase occupancy”
their thematic goal for a period of time. And if the freight company
we worked with found that accidents and workers’ compensation claims
were affecting its financial viability, the leaders might well make
“improve safety” their thematic goal for a period of time, even though
it is always on their standard operating objec­tives list.
That’s not to say that most thematic goals come from the
standard list, just that it is sometimes what is called for. And, of course,
once the thematic goal has been achieved, the item goes back on the
standard list.
The One-Page Model

Different kinds of organizations have different thematic goals, defining
objectives, and standard operating objectives for a variety of reasons.
However, what they all have in common is that their goals fit on a
single sheet of paper.

Credit Card Focus
One of our consultants worked with an affiliate credit card
company that was constantly developing partnerships with

127

The Advantage

organizations to co-brand their credit cards with them. They
brought on a large and strategically critical new partner, an
airline that was going to try to migrate as many of its frequent flyer mileage credit cards over to our client.
The executives felt themselves being pulled in various
directions and pressured to constantly bring in new business,
even while they lamented the possibility of failing to adequately service the new airline partner. Finally, they agreed
on a thematic goal that would provide them with the focus
and alignment they needed:

Make the new
airline partnership work

Thematic Goal

Defining Objectives

Refocus executive
time and attention
on airline

Establish airlinespecific weekly
progress update

Train airline
employees
and other channels
to promote new card

Standard Operating
Objectives

Revenue/
expenses

Hire an executive
to focus exclusively
on airline partner

Account retention

Partner
satisfaction

Develop and market
new credit card to
airline customers

Customer
satisfaction

Accounts
receivable/default
rate

Walking away with a single sheet of paper that lists a team’s thematic goal, the defining objectives, and the standard objectives would
give leaders the clear focus they need to align their actions and avoid
distraction.
128

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

Shedding a Reputation
We worked with the leadership team of an IT organization
in a huge health care company. For years, IT had been
viewed poorly within the organization, despite the efforts of
the CIO and her team to avoid mistakes and defend the
department when things didn’t go well. The department had
been criticized for failing to deliver projects on time, not
providing levels of service adequate for the lines of business,
and being generally unresponsive to the needs of the
company.
When the team learned about the thematic goal concept,
they decided that it was time to rally around the goal of
finally shedding their reputation for underperformance. Their
thematic goal image looked like this:

Rebuild credibility
within the business

Thematic Goal

Defining Objectives

Deliver on current
key commitments

Identify plan for
new strategic
initiatives

Eliminate
intradepartmental
silos and confusion

Improve proactive
communication with
key stakeholders,
within and outside IT

Standard Operating
Objectives

System reliability
and uptime

Network security

Business unit
satisfaction and
alignment

Budget within
plan

On-time project
delivery

Staff morale
and development

129

The Advantage

Within a year of establishing this thematic goal framework, the team turned around its reputation internally, as
measured by customer surveys and stakeholder feedback
from executives. What is more, for the subsequent eight
years, the department has been able to maintain its new
reputation as successful and reliable. The CIO explained, “It
wasn’t until we made this our explicit top priority and got
clear about exactly what we had to do that we were able to
rally together and turn things around.”

The length of time that a thematic goal should live (within the
3–12 month time frame) is up to the leadership team and depends on
the reality of how much time a given issue requires addressing. Having
said that, the size of the organization and the nature of its business will
have a big impact on the time period during which a thematic goal
endures. Small companies and start-ups usually find that shorter time
periods are more appropriate because they can get more done in less
time and they have less cushion and permission to make mistakes. On
the other side of the equation, large organizations, especially schools
and government entities, usually have longer planning cycles and tend
toward lengthier thematic goals.
As the time frame for accomplishing a thematic goal grows near, a
leadership team will want to start thinking about the next one. Of
course, a measure of flexibility is important. If a team makes faster
progress than expected toward a thematic goal, then they should come
up with their next one sooner. And if, after a few weeks or months,
they decide that the thematic goal is no longer appropriate or that
something else has become more important, they should certainly shift
to a new one.
Remember, the purpose of having a thematic goal is not to restrict
the organization’s flexibility but rather to rally its leaders around what
they decide they want to achieve.
130

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

Once a leadership team has identified its thematic goal, defining
objectives, and standard operating objectives, it has one last question
to answer, and it’s probably the easiest of them all.

131

The Advantage

QUESTION 6: WHO MUST DO WHAT?
Although I just made it clear that executives must come to meetings
without their departmental hats on and that they must be prepared to
engage in achieving the thematic goal of the team regardless of their
areas of expertise, at some point the leaders need to clearly and unambiguously stipulate what their respective responsibilities are when they
go back to work to do their day jobs. The fact is, every organization of
any size needs some division of labor, and that begins at the very top.
Without clarity around that division of labor, the potential for politics
and infighting, even among well-intentioned people, is great.
There is not a great deal to be said about this particular question,
aside from warning leadership teams not to take it for granted. Although
there is often clarity among executives in most organizations about who
does what on the team, making assumptions about that clarity can lead
to surprising and unnecessary problems.
Part of the challenge is that most organizations have adopted
conventional titles for their various departments. Depending on the
industry, most have some combination of many of the following roles:
head of sales, marketing, finance, operations, human resources, engineering, IT, customer service, and legal. And while those functional
descriptions are pretty good indicators of the general responsibilities of
members of the leadership team, I’m always a little surprised when I
ask them all to quietly write down their descriptions in some level of
detail.
Often members of the team will be surprised at what they learn
from their colleagues during this short exercise. Sometimes two people
claim to be responsible for the same task or discipline: “Hey, I have
business development on my list too!” In other cases, there will be a
gap: “How come no one has strategic planning on their list?”
In many cases, it’s the leader of the executive team, often the CEO,
who presents the biggest problem. Many of these leaders take on active
132

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

roles beyond their responsibility of managing the leadership team, and
this can create confusion. For instance, in many smaller organizations,
the founder and CEO occupies two separate roles: leader of the executive team and functional specialist.

The Two-Headed CEO
One of the first organizations I consulted to was a startup fashion apparel company that operated out of a small
warehouse with five employees. The CEO was the original
product designer. As the company experienced rapid
growth and market acceptance, he promoted one of his
earliest employees to be head of products (the guy
was actually the company’s original shipping admini­
strator and janitor who turned out to be a remarkable
designer).
The problem, of course, was that the CEO continued to
function as the chief product specialist, which had the potential for creating confusion for everyone on the team, not the
least of which was the new head of products. During meetings, when the CEO weighed in on product issues, team
members didn’t push back much because they mistakenly
assumed he was speaking as the CEO and declaring his
intention to make a final decision. In reality, he was just
weighing in as a product designer and hoping to encourage
discussion.
Realizing that he was inadvertently squelching debate
and overriding the authority of his head of product deve­
lopment, the CEO decided he had to be more explicit
with his team during meetings about which role he was
playing and whether his intention was to contribute to the
conver­sation or drive closure as the organization’s chief
executive.

133

The Advantage

It’s tempting for leaders, especially those at the top of organizations,
to temporarily step into roles where they are talented or comfortable.
What they often don’t realize, however, is that others in the organization, even on their team, aren’t as clear as they are about where lines of
responsibility ultimately lie.
Regardless of how clear or confusing a company’s “org” chart may
be, it is always worthwhile to take a little time to clarify so that everyone
on the leadership team knows and agrees on what everyone else does
and that all critical areas are covered.
Okay, let’s assume a team has successfully answered each of the six
critical questions. They can still fail to benefit from the clarity they’ve
achieved if they don’t capture that clarity effectively.
THE PLAYBOOK
Once the leadership team has answered each of the six critical questions, it is absolutely critical for them to capture those answers in a
concise, actionable way so that they can use them for communication,
decision making, and planning going forward.
Leaders usually make one of two mistakes after leaving an off-site
meeting or a strategy session where they’ve agreed on something
important. Often they capture their decisions in a glossy, bound document and then place it on a shelf to gather dust. Or they do nothing
to capture their ideas, assuming that the people in the room will naturally glean the ideas that are important or relevant for their
departments.
The best alternative to these extremes and the most effective tool
for keeping key decisions alive is the creation of something we refer to
as a playbook: a simple document summarizing the answers to the six
critical questions. While every organization will, and should, create a
playbook that is customized to their needs, there are two things that
the leaders of any organization should do to make their playbook work.
134

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

First, they must keep it short. Anything more than a few pages is
unnecessary and discourages people from reviewing the playbook. In
most cases, the answers to the six questions can be captured on a single
page—two at the most. And even if a team wants to add information
from Discipline 1 (build a cohesive leadership team), like team member
profiles and results from the team effectiveness exercise, no more than
three pages will be needed.
Second, leadership team members should keep their playbook
with them at all times. And not buried in a briefcase. They
should keep it on their desks, bring it to staff meetings, and have it
available for quick reference and as a tool for communicating to
employees.
The following is an example of a company playbook. But remember
that whatever form it takes, the key is to keep the answers to the six
critical questions alive and accessible. By doing this, a leadership team
will drastically improve the odds of running the organization in an
aligned, consistent, and intentional way.

135

The Advantage

Playbook Example
Lighthouse Consulting
Why do we exist? We exist because we believe the world
needs more great leaders.
How do we behave? We behave with passion, humility, and
emotional intelligence.
What do we do? We provide services and resources for
leaders who want to make their organizations more
effective.
How will we succeed? We will differentiate ourselves by
providing extremely high-touch service, staying relatively
small and protecting our unique culture, and leveraging the
ideas of world-class subject matter experts.
What is most important, right now?

Thematic Goal

Defining Objectives

Expand our consulting practice

Start doing
free seminars

Standard Operating
Objectives

Revenue

Solicit more
referrals from
previous clients

Increase
advertising
for consulting

Hire more great
consultants

Client
satisfaction

Staff
morale

136

Improve quality
of consulting
materials

Expenses

Lead flow

Client
retention

Strength
of pipeline

Discipline 2: Create Clarity

Who must do what?
Name

Title

General Responsibilities

Michael

CEO

Executive team leadership,
company strategy, key sales
support

Dick

Consulting Ops

Consultant and project
management, content
development

Amy

CFO

Finances, IT, legal, general
administration

Matt

Sales

Standard sales, partnerships

Tom

Marketing

Standard marketing, customer
education, events

Christa

HR

Training, benefits, compensation

Team profile
Name

Type

Areas for Improvement

Michael

ENTJ

Interrupt less; follow through on

Dick

INTP

commitments
Engage more with peers; respond more
quickly to inquiries/e-mails
Amy

ISTJ

Explain things more thoroughly; speak up
during meetings

Matt

ENFP

Stay focused and on-topic during
meetings; follow through

Tom

INFJ

Don’t be afraid to disagree; be tougher on
your staff

Christa

ESTJ

Flex more to business needs; don’t be
defensive about department

137

The Advantage

CHECKLIST FOR DISCIPLINE 2:
CREATE CLARITY
Members of a leadership team can be confident that they’ve
mastered this discipline when they can affirm the following
statements:
⎯

Members of the leadership team know, agree on, and are
passionate about the reason that the organization exists.

⎯

The leadership team has clarified and embraced a small,
specific set of behavioral values.

⎯

Leaders are clear and aligned around a strategy that helps
them define success and differentiate from competitors.

⎯

The leadership team has a clear, current goal around which
they rally. They feel a collective sense of ownership for
that goal.

⎯

Members of the leadership team understand one another’s
roles and responsibilities. They are comfortable asking
questions about one another’s work.

⎯

The elements of the organization’s clarity are concisely
summarized and regularly referenced and reviewed by the
leadership team.

138

WHAT’S IT WORTH TO YOU?
Back to those two organizations.
The first is run by a leadership team whose members regularly
remind employees about the company’s reason for existence, its core
values, its strategy, and its top priority. They leave meetings clear about
what they’ve agreed to do and what they’re going to go back and tell
their employees. They also take steps to ensure that they know the
concerns and ideas of the people in their organizations so that they can
represent and consider them when making decisions.
The second has a leadership team that limits its communication to
a few events each year, and even then the focus is mainly on tactical
goals and initiatives. Their messaging after meetings is often sparse and
inconsistent, and they aren’t particularly aware of the opinions of the
employees deeper in their organizations.
The question: What kind of advantage would the first organization
have over the second, and how much time and energy would it be worth
investing to make this advantage a reality?

1.
Build a
Cohesive
Leadership
Team

2.
Create
Clarity

DISCIPLINE 3

ORGANIZATIONAL HEALTH
4.
Reinforce
Clarity

3.
Overcommunicate
Clarity

Overcommunicate
Clarity

O

nce a leadership team has become cohesive
and worked to establish clarity and alignment around the answers to the six critical questions, then, and only then, can they effectively move
on to the next step: communicating those answers.
Or better yet, overcommunicating those answers—
over and over and over and over and over and over
and over again.
That’s right. Seven times. I’ve heard claims that
employees won’t believe what leaders are communicating to them until they’ve heard it seven times.
Whether the real number is five, seven, or seventyseven, the point is that people are skeptical about
what they’re being told unless they hear it consistently over time.
That need for repetition is not a testament to
undue cynicism on the part of employees; it is the
141

The Advantage

result of the generic, almost spoof-like communication that takes place
within so many organizations. Scott Adams and his Dilbert character have
built a cottage industry around highlighting the clichés at the heart of this
phenomenon, and I wish I could say that the comic strip was way off base.
After all, just about every leader says that quality is job number one,
the customer is king, and employees are the organization’s greatest asset. It’s
almost comical how rote these messages have become. And so it’s not
surprising that employees give little credence to executive pronouncements and instead wait to see how serious those executives are. One of
the best tests of seriousness is whether they continue to repeat themselves over a prolonged period of time.
Unfortunately, most leaders I’ve worked with are hesitant to repeat
themselves. They call to mind that old wives’ tale (it really is a wives’
tale), where a woman asks her husband, “Why don’t you tell me you
love me anymore?” The husband seems a little surprised by the question
and after considering it for a moment replies, “Well, I told you I loved
you when we got married. I’ll let you know if it changes.”
Leaders inadvertently do the same thing when they walk away from
an annual all-hands meeting and think that they’ve done their job of
communicating by giving a speech outlining the organization’s strategy
or priorities. And they think they’ve been especially thorough when
they announce that the slides for the presentation can be found on the
company’s intranet site. But then they seem surprised when they learn,
a few weeks later, that employees aren’t acting on what they were told
and that most of those employees can’t even repeat the organization’s
new strategy accurately.
The problem is that lead­ers confuse the mere transfer of infor­mation
to an audience with the audience’s ability to under­stand, internalize, and
emb­race the message that is being communicated. The only way for
people to embrace a message is to hear it over a period of time, in a
variety of different situations, and preferably from different people.
That’s why great leaders see themselves as Chief Reminding Officers as
142

Discipline 3: Overcommunicate Clarity

much as anything else. Their top two priorities are to set the direction
of the organization and then to ensure that people are reminded of it
on a regular basis. So why do so many leaders fail to do this?
Many don’t enjoy the
Great leaders see themselves
reminding role because it
seems wasteful and ineffias Chief Reminding Officers as
cient to them. They’ve been
much as anything else.
trained to avoid redundancy
in virtually every aspect of
their work, so embracing it
in communication isn’t easy for them. But some leaders aren’t so much
worried about the wastefulness of overcommunication; they fear that
repeating a message might be insulting to their audience. They assume
that employees don’t need to be told something more than once and
that they’ll feel patronized if they are.
What those leaders fail to realize is that employees understand the
need for repetition. They know that messaging is not so much an intellectual process as an emotional one. Employees are not analyzing what
leaders are saying based solely on whether it is intellectually novel or
compelling, but more than anything else on whether they believe the
leaders are serious, authentic, and committed to what they are saying.
Again, that means repetition is a must.
Finally, many leaders fail to overcommunicate because they get
bored saying the same things over and over again. This is understandable. Intelligent people want to be challenged with new messages and
new problems to solve, and they get tired of revisiting the same topics.
But that doesn’t matter. The point of leadership is not to keep the leader
entertained, but to mobilize people around what is most important.
When that calls for repetition and reinforcement, which it almost
always does, a good leader relishes that responsibility.
Repetition is more than just a matter of communicating something
again and again in the same way. Effective communication requires
143

The Advantage

that key messages come from different sources and through various
channels, using a variety of tools. This includes assorted electronic
media, from e-mail to videoconferencing to whatever funky new communication technology is being introduced to the market when this
book goes to print. However, the most effective means of communicating a message, even in a large and far-flung organization, has nothing
to do with technology and has been around since the beginning of time.
What I’m referring to is word of mouth.
CASCADING COMMUNICATION
Someone once told me that the best way to ensure that a message gets
communicated throughout an organization is to spread rumors about
it. Therefore, they concluded, leaders simply ought to go out and tell
“true rumors.” As silly as that
If the best way to ensure
may sound, it is the basis for
the most important means
that a message gets
of communication within a
communicated throughout an
healthy organization.
organization is to spread
The most reliable and
rumors about it, then leaders
effective way to get an organisimply ought to go out and
zation moving in the same
tell “true rumors.”
direction is for members of a
leadership team to come out
of their meetings with a clear
message about what was decided, promptly communicate that message
to their direct reports, and have those direct reports do the same for their
own direct reports. We call this “cascading communication” because it
begins the structured but interpersonal process of rolling key messages
down through the organization directly from the leadership team.
If this sounds ridiculously simple, that’s because it is. And yet it
doesn’t happen in the vast majority of companies in spite of the fact
144

Discipline 3: Overcommunicate Clarity

that it is so effective. Part of the reason for its effectiveness has to do
with its contrast to more formal means of communication. Over the
past fifteen or twenty years, employees have grown accustomed to
inconsistent, untimely, and manufactured electronic communication
from their leaders. That’s not meant to sound cynical; it’s just a reality.
Most leadership teams are more than adept at sending out e-mail messages and giving presentations, and yet they still struggle with effective
communication because employees wonder about the authenticity of
what they are reading and hearing.
Cascading communication provides a great opportunity to
change all that. Amazingly, when employees in different parts of an
organization hear their leaders saying the same things after meet­
ings, they actually start to believe that alignment and clarity might
be possible. This allows a leadership team to get a quick and
meaningful win, one that creates momentum for executives and
employees alike.

Consistent Messaging
One of my earliest clients was a global software company
that had offices in just about every part of the world. Unsurprisingly, employees in different offices felt disconnected
from one another, regardless of how many e-mail announcements, videoconference messages, and company T-shirts
they received.
And then the executive team started doing cascading
communication, leaving their meetings and going back to
their direct reports with a common set of messages. Those
direct reports were then charged with relaying those same
messages to their teams.
I remember the day that the woman who headed HR in
Australia called her colleague in Germany to tell him about
something her boss had just told her that was happening at

145

The Advantage

corporate. Shocked, her German colleague said, “Hey, my
boss just told me the same thing!” They felt a greater sense
of alignment because of that one simple instance of consistent, informal messaging than they did after receiving any of
the other more produced forms of communication.

There are three keys to cascading communication: message consistency from one leader to another, timeliness of delivery, and live, realtime communication. This starts toward the end of leadership team
meetings, a time when executives are usually trying their best to get out
the door. That’s when someone needs to ask the sixty-four-thousanddollar question: “Hey, what are we going to go back and tell our people?”
For the next few minutes, sometimes longer, leaders need to review
their discussions from the meeting and decide which of their decisions
are ready to be communicated and which are not. We refer to this as
“commitment clarification,” for obvious reasons. Often it’s during this
process that they discover that they were not on the same page about
what they thought they had decided. Only then can they get real clarity
by settling on the decisions they’ve made and agreeing to go out and
spread true rumors about them. This will certainly take more time, but
the cost of not doing it is often great.

Postmeeting Confusion
I worked for a company early in my career that was struggling and needed to cut costs. After a long executive staff
meeting, it was decided that there would be a freeze in hiring
new employees until the revenue situation at the company
had been improved.
The head of human resources left the staff meeting and
sent out a worldwide e-mail message announcing the hiring
freeze. Within five minutes, two of her peers who had been
in the meeting were in her office protesting the new policy.

146

Discipline 3: Overcommunicate Clarity

“I didn’t think the freeze applied to sales!” pleaded one
executive. The other executive chimed in. “And there’s no
way that we’re going to cut back on engineers, are we?”
The team was put in the position of having to retract its
announcement and amend its policy, which created tension
among team members, not to mention a loss of credibility
in the eyes of employees. All of this because they didn’t take
a few minutes to get clear about what they were really committing to at the end of a staff meeting.

As important as alignment is, what teams shouldn’t do is wordsmith those messages to death and make themselves sound like robotic
leaders going out to read from the same exact script. Instead, they need
to get clear on the main points to communicate and then go to their
teams to explain those points in their own words.
It’s critical that leaders do this during a short and consistent time frame.
If one member of the team goes back to her staff to convey the messages
right after the meeting and someone else waits a week to do so, there will
be understandable confusion and disappointment among employees. That’s
not to say that it has to happen in the same moment. However, a twentyfour-hour period following a meeting is not a bad standard.
Many executives ask if they can communicate the results of a
meeting using e-mail or even voice mail. The answer is no. Although
these tools are certainly more efficient than having to communicate
live, they are drastically less effective. For one, employees don’t have a
chance to ask questions for clarification. Moreover, when employees
read an e-mail or listen to a voice mail, they can’t help but wonder
how the message was edited, and they try to read between the lines to
discern the underlying meaning.
The best way to do cascading communication is face-to-face and
live. Seeing a leader and hearing the tone of his or her voice is critical
for employees, as is being able to ask a question or two. Having said
147

The Advantage

that, the realities of virtual teams and geographically dispersed employees sometimes make face-to-face communication impossible. That’s
when a telephone call or a videoconference is a good idea. The key is
that the discussion is live and interactive.
Another good idea when doing cascading communication, whenever it’s possible, is to do it with an entire group of direct reports at the
same time instead of one by one. Aside from being more efficient, it
ensures that they hear the same message at the same time and benefit
from one another’s questions and observations.
As I write this, I’m all too aware that the advice I’m giving might sound
extremely basic. But then again, most organizations are unhealthy precisely
because they aren’t doing the basic things, which require discipline, persistence, and follow-through more than sophistication or intelligence.
Beyond the simple discipline of doing cascading communication
after every leadership team meeting, leaders can ensure that key messages are effectively disseminated throughout an organization in a few
other ways. The first and most important is to incorporate the answers
to the six critical questions in any situation that calls for leaders to be
communicating with employees—everything from recruiting, interviewing, orienting, managing, rewarding, training, to even dismissing
people from the organization. We’ll cover many of these in the next
chapter on reinforcing clarity.
But before doing that, let’s review a simple framework for understanding the various ways in which communication flows in a healthy
organization.
TOP-DOWN COMMUNICATION
This is the most common direction that critical information travels in
an organization, and the various tools used to do it include all-hands
meetings, employee newsletters, regular e-mail announcements, social
media, and, of course, cascading communication. I won’t go into detail
148

Discipline 3: Overcommunicate Clarity

about these here, because there are plenty of books and articles, not to
mention consulting firms, that have more information and knowledge
than I do about these various forms of basic communication.
What I will say is that the reason most organizations fail to communicate to employees is not
that they don’t know how to
The world is full of
build an intranet site or write
organizations where
a blog or design a Poweremployees feel uninformed
Point presentation, but that
and in the dark even though
they don’t achieve clarity
they have access to more
around key messages and
glossy newsletters, interactive
stick with them. The world
Web sites, and overly
is full of organizations where
produced employee meetings
employees feel uninformed
and in the dark even though
than they need or want.
they have access to more
glossy newsletters, interactive Web sites, and overly produced employee meetings than they need
or want. What they don’t get is consistent, authentic, and relevant
communication.

Keeping It Real
One of the best exemplars of effective top-down communication that I’ve seen was the CEO of a large health care
company who sent out a one- to three-page e-mail message
to all employees every Friday. What was particularly amazing
was not the volume of his communication but the authenticity, directness, and relevance of his messages.
As the organization went into a difficult period, the CEO
used those Friday e-mail messages to keep employees
focused and motivated around the difficult job ahead of
them. Any employee at the company, regardless of their

149

The Advantage

department or level, had access to the unedited and often
vulnerable insights of their leader. The company was able to
weather the storms they faced, and the overcommunication
of their CEO was a big reason for this success.

Of course, it’s worth repeating that the success of top-down communication starts with Discipline 1 (build a cohesive leadership team)
and Discipline 2 (create clarity). Without these, no amount of communication is going to be effective.
UPWARD AND LATERAL COMMUNICATION
Providing employees with a means of communicating upward to their
leaders is important in any organization. However, it’s not the panacea it’s
often presented to be. That’s because noncohesive leadership teams that
have not aligned themselves around common answers to critical questions
are not in a position to respond adequately to employee input and requests.
In fact, getting more input from employees often only exacerbates frustration in an organization when that input cannot be digested and used.
Still, there is something to be said for providing people in an organization with channels for upward communication, whether that takes
the form of employee surveys or roundtable discussion forums. What
is key to making these effective is that leaders not give the impression
that they are abdicating responsibility for decision making by giving
employees a vote. Great organizations, unlike countries, are never run
like a democracy.
It’s also critical for leaders to realize that no upward communication
program will ever take the place of a manager who understands and represents the views of his or her employees. It shouldn’t be used to overcome
the shortcomings of leaders who are out of touch with their people.
One of the most common complaints in unhealthy organizations
has to do with breakdowns in communication across departments or
150

Discipline 3: Overcommunicate Clarity

divisions. And as much as leaders might want to implement special
communication programs to alleviate this, the only good way to address
it is to attack the root cause: unresolved issues among the leaders of
those divisions. The most well-intentioned, well-designed departmental
communication program will not tear down silos unless the people who
created those silos want them torn down.
Finally, it’s worth noting here that some of the healthiest organizations
I’ve known don’t do a lot of formal upward or lateral communication, and
some of the least healthy ones are mired in employee surveys, executive
listening forums, and departmental conferences. This is a testament to the
fact that without cohesiveness and clarity at the top, no amount of communication will suffice, and that with true clarity and cohesiveness, even
a little formal communication will go a long, long way.

CHECKLIST FOR DISCIPLINE 3:
OVERCOMMUNICATE CLARITY
Members of a leadership team can be confident that they’ve
mastered this discipline when they can affirm the following
statements:
⎯

The leadership team has clearly communicated the six
aspects of clarity to all employees.

⎯

Team members regularly remind the people in their departments about those aspects of clarity.

⎯

The team leaves meetings with clear and specific agreements about what to communicate to their employees, and
they cascade those messages quickly after meetings.

⎯

Employees are able to accurately articulate the organization’s
reason for existence, values, strategic anchors, and goals.

151

WHAT’S IT WORTH TO YOU?
Those two organizations one final time.
The first has simple, practical processes for recruiting, hiring, and
orienting the right people based on its core values, for managing those
people’s performance around the organization’s most important priori­
ties, and for rewarding and training them based on the company’s
culture, strategy, and operations. Moreover, managers embrace those
processes and find them to be helpful tools for succeeding in their jobs.
The second has plenty of processes and human systems, but most
of those are generic and cumbersome and not customized to the unique
culture and operations of the company. As a result, managers find them
largely frustrating and irrelevant to their work.
The question: What kind of advantage would the first organization
have over the second, and how much time and energy would it be worth
investing to make this advantage a reality?

1.
Build a
Cohesive
Leadership
Team

2.
Create
Clarity

DISCIPLINE 4

ORGANIZATIONAL HEALTH
4.
Reinforce
Clarity

3.
Overcommunicate
Clarity

Reinforce
Clarity

A

s important as overcommunication is, leaders
of a healthy organization cannot always be
around to remind employees about the company’s
reason for existing, its values, and so on. In order
to ensure that the answers to the six critical ques­
tions become embedded in the fabric of the orga­
nization, leaders must do everything they can to
reinforce them structurally as well. The way to do
that is to make sure that every human system—
every process that involves people—from hiring
and people management to training and compensa­
tion, is designed to reinforce the answers to those
questions.
The challenge is to do this without adding too
much structure. Or as someone once said to me,
“An organization has to institutionalize its culture
153

The Advantage

without bureaucratizing it.” There is a delicate but critical balance
between too much and too little structure in an organization, and the
people responsible for creating that balance are its leaders.
Unfortunately, all too
often leaders don’t take an
An organization has to
active role in designing hu­
institutionalize its culture
man systems. Instead, they
without bureaucratizing it.
delegate responsibility to oth­
ers in the organization, usu­
ally to their HR department
or legal staff. It amazes me that they later complain about the bureau­
cracy in their organizations, like having to do onerous and tedious
performance reviews.
Blaming HR and legal for all this is neither fair nor helpful. The
problem can be solved only by the leadership team taking an active role
in building human systems that reflect and reinforce the uniqueness of
the organization’s culture and operations. They must ensure that hiring
profiles, performance management processes, training programs, and
compensation systems are relevant, and the only way to do that is to
design them specifically around the answers to the six questions.
NON-GENERICS
Many well-intentioned executives will argue that HR professionals have
more expertise and experience in building human systems than members
of the leadership team do, and therefore they should take responsibility
for it. While that is true, those HR folks can’t be expected to fill the
role that their leaders must perform in these areas.
Don’t get me wrong. HR and legal professionals play important
roles in the creation and administration of human systems. But the
initial design of those systems must be driven by the people who set
the direction for the organization in the first place and have the author­
154

Discipline 4: Reinforce Clarity

ity to guard against the bureaucracy that turns a useful human system
into an administrative distraction. When leadership team members
abdicate responsibility for this, they are often left with more generic,
rote systems and processes than they wanted.
Some leaders actually embrace this in the name of efficiency and
standardization, believing that if a performance review system or com­
pensation plan “is good enough for General Electric or PepsiCo, then
it’s good enough for us.” The problem is, they aren’t leading GE or
Pepsi. (Anyone working for GE or Pepsi can ignore this.)
The fact is that the best human systems are often the simplest and
least sophisticated ones. Their primary purpose is not to avoid lawsuits
or emulate what other companies are doing but rather to keep managers
and employees focused on what the organization believes is important.
That’s why a one-page, customized performance review form that man­
agers embrace and take seriously is always better than a seven-page,
sophisticated one designed by an organizational psychologist from the
National Institute for Human Transformation and Bureaucracy (there
is no such thing).
This point cannot be
Human systems give an
overstated. Human systems
organization a structure for
are tools for reinforcement of
tying its operations, culture,
clarity. They give an organi­
and management together,
zation a structure for tying
even when leaders aren’t
its operations, culture, and
around to remind people.
management together, even
when leaders aren’t around
to remind people. And be­
cause each company is differ­
ent, there are no generic systems that can be downloaded from the
Internet.
Let’s take a quick look at the most important human systems that
an organization needs, according to the logical life cycle of an employee.
155

The Advantage

RECRUITING AND HIRING
Bringing the right people into an organization, and keeping the wrong
ones out, is as important as any activity that a leadership team must
oversee. Though few leaders will dispute this, not many organizations
are good at doing it, for a variety of reasons.
First and foremost, too many organizations have not defined
exactly what the right and wrong people look like; that is, they haven’t
clarified a meaningful set of behavioral values that they can use to
screen potential employees. I addressed this when I discussed core
values, but it’s worth repeating. Hiring without clear and strict criteria
for cultural fit greatly hampers the potential for success of any organiza­
tion. And even for organizations that have identified the right set of
behavioral values, a host of other problems keep many of them from
hiring well.
For all the talk about hiring for fit, there is still too much emphasis
on technical skills and experience when it comes to interviewing and
selection. And this happens at all levels. When push comes to shove,
most executives get enamored with what candidates know and have
done in their careers and allow those things to overshadow more impor­
tant behavioral issues. They don’t seem to buy into the notion that you
can teach skill but not attitude.
And even organizations that have defined their core values and
really do believe that those values should trump everything else some­
times lose their way when it comes to ensuring cultural fit because they
don’t have the right kind of process for hiring. I’ve found that most
companies fall into one of two categories on opposite sides of the
structural scale for hiring.
Gut Feel Versus Structure

Many leaders, especially those who run smaller organizations, believe
that they have the natural skills they need to choose good people
156

Discipline 4: Reinforce Clarity

without any real process. They look back at their careers and remember
the good employees they’ve hired and give themselves credit for having
recognized those people’s potential. However, they seem to block out
the memories of the unsuccessful hires they’ve made, or they justify
those mistakes based on the hidden behavioral deficiencies in the people
they later had to fire. Whatever the case, they persist in the belief that
they know a good person when they see one and that they can go about
the hiring process without much structure.
The screening, interviewing, and evaluation process that exists in
these leaders’ organizations tends to be not much of a process at all.
Although résumés may be closely scrutinized before bringing a candi­
date in for interviews, the interviews themselves are often unstructured
and unplanned. There is little preparation, if any, and no real strategy
for identifying the critical signs that indicate a candidate will be
successful.
It’s truly stupefying to think that the most important decision a
leader can make—who to invite to become a part of the organization—
is often handled in such a cavalier way. One of the reasons this persists,
I think, has to do with the considerable time lag between when a bad
hiring decision is made and when everyone realizes the problem.
Somehow leaders fail to make a cause-and-effect connection between
their initial lack of a rigorous interviewing process and the spotty record
of quality hiring that comes about as a result. I’ve become convinced
of this because I’ve seen too many leaders who, even after admitting
that they made a bad hire, fail to change their approach.
The other extreme, though slightly less common, doesn’t yield
much better results. When organizations overstructure their hiring
process by adding layers of bureaucratic forms and approvals and analy­
sis, they often diminish the role that judgment must play in the selec­
tion of good people. This is more common in larger organizations,
where an overemphasis on administrative processes seems to hinder
the ability or desire of hiring managers to use common sense and
157

The Advantage

discernment. Often it is a well-intentioned human resource or legal
department that drives these efforts.
Like all subject matter experts, HR departments often try to employ
the most sophisticated, state-of-the-art processes, which often leads
them to adopt an overly complicated or academic approach to hiring.
This might make sense theoretically, but it is usually difficult to teach
managers to adhere to such a process on a large scale. Legal depart­
ments, for their part, are usually and understandably focused on avoid­
ing lawsuits that can arise as a result of the interview process or even
afterward in the event that an employee is terminated. So they do their
best to eliminate subjectivity, which often means judgment, by adding
more and more structure. In both cases, the insistence on too much
process overshadows the real goal of any effective hiring program:
finding people who fit the culture and have the best chance at success.
The best approach to hiring is to put just enough structure in place
to ensure a measure of consistency and adherence to core values—and
no more. That’s right. When it comes to the continuum of hiring,
ironically, I find that it is better to be somewhere closer to having a
little less structure than more. I believe this because too much structure
almost always interferes with a person’s ability to use their common
sense, and because it is far easier to add a little structure later to a fairly
bare system than it is to deconstruct an already overcomplicated process.
What might this more balanced approach look like? First, it should
probably take no more than one page, front and back, to describe and
apply. One side explains the process, along with a description of the
core values and related behaviors that indicate a person is a good fit
for the organization. This provides interviewers and hiring managers
with a list of the observable and discernible traits that must be con­
firmed or denied in the interview and selection process. The other side
of the page can be used for taking notes about the candidate during
the interview.

158

Discipline 4: Reinforce Clarity

Second, all of this should be consistent across departments within
an organization. Sure, engineers and marketers and sales­people are
going to have different technical requirements for employees in their
areas, which may require them to have another page or two for their
unique criteria. But when it comes to overall cultural fit—by far the most
important hiring priority for the leaders of any organization—using a
single, simple, consistent process across departments is critical.
Interviewing

Once the values and the forms and any other simple collateral have
been created, a process must be put in place for using them. And again,
that process must have some structure for the sake of consistency, but
more important, it must be simple and flexible.
When it comes to the actual practice of interviewing, many
leaders still make the same mistakes that they did forty years ago. First,
they have the candidate sit across a desk from them while they ask
questions about their résumé. Second, they don’t do enough joint plan­
ning with other interviewers and end up asking many of the same
questions that everyone else is going to ask. Third, they don’t debrief
thoroughly with the other interviewers but instead just send a vague
and cursory “thumbs up” or “thumbs down” to whoever is organizing
the process.
Because the purpose of an interview should be to best simulate a
situation that will give evaluators the most accurate view of how a
candidate really behaves, it seems to me that getting them out of the
office and doing something slightly more natural and unconventional
would be a better idea. Heck, even taking a walk or going shopping is
better than sitting behind a desk. The key is to do something that
provides evaluators with a real sense of whether the person is going to
thrive in the culture of the organization and whether other people are
going to enjoy working with him or her.

159

The Advantage

Hiring for Fit
One large company that is legendary in its hiring practices,
as evidenced by its bottom-line performance and the long
line of candidates who want to work there, took a unique
approach to weeding out people who wouldn’t fit the culture.
That culture was built around a healthy sense of selfdeprecation and humility.
In the process of interviewing a group of people for a
job that requires great responsibility and technical ability, the
candidates (all of whom happened to be men) were asked
to exchange their formal suit pants for a pair of khaki shorts.
This meant they would be spending the rest of the day
walking around the corporation’s headquarters wearing suit
jackets, ties, dress shoes, dark socks, and shorts! They looked
silly, to say the least.
A handful of those candidates found the situation
beneath them and insulting. Some were visibly uncomfortable, and a few others decided to leave and opt out of the
process. The company’s reaction to all this was relief; they
had successfully identified those people who, though technically qualified, did not fit the culture. While some might
consider this process to be humorously cruel, it is actually a
great service to the job candidates and the organization. It
prevented a number of people from having to endure a
painful and unsuccessful employment experience, and it prevented the happy employees who already worked at the
organization from seeing the culture they love diluted. And
that’s to say nothing of the money it saved the organization
by avoiding unnecessary turnover.

Of course, the only way to make all this work is for evaluators to
get together after interviewing candidates to hash out what they
observed and what collective conclusions they’ve come to.
160

Discipline 4: Reinforce Clarity

There are plenty of books that delve into specifics about hiring and
interviewing, so I don’t need to go into any more detail here. However,
I will repeat, yet again, that
Without a clear understanding
without a clear understand­
ing of what a cultural fit—or
of what a cultural fit or misfit
misfit—looks like, without a
looks like, and without the
proper mix of consistency
active involvement of the
and flexibility, and without
leadership team, even the
the active involvement of the
most sophisticated hiring
leadership team, even the
process will fail.
most sophisticated hiring
process will fail.
ORIENTATION
The most memorable time of an employee’s career, and the time with
the biggest impact, are his or her first days and weeks on a new job.
The impact of first impressions is just that powerful, and healthy com­
panies take advantage of that to move new employees in the right
direction. That means orientation shouldn’t revolve around lengthy
explanations of benefits and administration but rather around reinforc­
ing the answers to the six critical questions.
When employees get the opportunity to hear their leaders
talk about why the organization they joined exists, what behavioral
values were used to select them during the hiring process, how
the organization plans to succeed, what its top priority is, and who
does what at the executive level, they can immediately see how they
will contribute to the greater good of that organization. This often
sets the tone for their behavior and attitude during their entire
tenure with the company and sends them home from work boasting
about the professionalism and promise of the company they’re now a
part of.
161

The Advantage

Contrast this with the way so many organizations handle orienta­
tion. Rather than seeing it as the first opportunity to reinforce the most
important messages of the firm, they delegate responsibility to admin­
istrative functions that will naturally focus on, well, administrative
functions. And while that may help the new employee understand how
to fill out insurance paperwork and use the new e-mail system (both
of which are surely helpful), it tends to be a disappointment to anyone
who joins an organization because they’re excited about having the
opportunity to make a real difference in some way.
Leaders of organizations, even very large organizations, need to
understand the value of bringing in new employees with clarity, enthu­
siasm, and a sense of their importance. It is an opportunity that disap­
pears within days or weeks of a new employee’s arrival and should never
be wasted.
There are many ways to handle orientation, and I don’t need to go
into them here because there is no one right way to do it. What is
key is that it is built around the six questions and that leaders take an
active role in its design and delivery. That’s probably enough about
orientation.
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
Nothing has the potential for bureaucracy and wonkiness like perfor­
mance management systems. Even the term itself is fuzzy and generic
enough to send a busy manager into a process coma. And so I suppose
it needs to be defined.
Essentially performance management is the series of activities that
ensures that managers provide employees with clarity about what is
expected of them, as well as regular feedback about whether or not they
are adequately meeting those expectations. That may be a bit simple,
but that’s the heart of the idea, and it really ought to be simple. Unfor­
tunately, few organizations are good at performance management,
162

Discipline 4: Reinforce Clarity

mostly because they are confused and inconsistent about why they do
it in the first place.
Over the years, as the litigiousness of society has grown, leaders
have become more fearful that employees who are fired will sue
the company and bleed them of scarce financial resources. This is
understandable when we consider the exorbitant cost, in time and
money, of having to mount a legal defense, even if we eventually
win. So legal departments have tried to use the performance manage­
ment process to protect the company legally. They’ve insisted that
managers master the art of detailed documentation and record keeping,
something that can be used to derail a lawsuit before it gets too
expensive.
As logical as this might seem, the unintended consequences have
been devastating. Most important, employees and managers alike have
come to see the performance management process as a largely adver­
sarial activity, fraught with nervous negotiation rather than clear com­
munication. Ironically, this has probably exacerbated the legal problems
of organizations more than mitigated them. When employees focus
more on the official “grades” they receive from managers, and managers
focus on documentation more than coaching, inevitably trust is dimin­
ished and management and communication suffer.
Healthy organizations believe that performance management is
almost exclusively about eliminating confusion. They realize that most
of their employees want to succeed, and that the best way to allow them
to do that is to give them clear direction, regular information about
how they’re doing, and access to the coaching they need. Healthy orga­
nizations also realize that even the most rigorous systems cannot prevent
all lawsuits and that sacrificing the real purpose of their performance
management system to prevent them, even if that were possible, is a
bad trade-off.
The best performance management programs—you guessed it—are
simple. Above all else, they are desi­gned to stimulate the right kinds
163

The Advantage

of conversations around the right topics. Those topics are some of
the same ones I have addressed in achieving organizational clarity:
goals, values, and roles and
responsibilities. When orga­
The best performance
nizations build simple,
management programs are
straightfor­ward performance
designed to stimulate the right
management programs, they
kinds of conversations around
make it much easier for
managers to use them more
the right topics. That’s all.
frequently. This is a good
thing because it provides
regular reminders for empl­
oyees about what is important and builds greater trust by preventing
too much time from passing between meaningful conversations.
Another part of the overall performance management system has
to do with corrective action and documentation of warnings before an
employee can be terminated. This is messy and nasty and, unfortu­
nately, necessary. I’ll leave this topic for the lawyers and HR folks who
understand it best. However, I will say that it is critical that organiza­
tions separate corrective action processes from the regular performance
management system, because the last thing an organization wants is for
its good employees to feel as if they’re being interrogated and prepared
for dismissal.
COMPENSATION AND REWARDS
Don’t worry. I’m not going to go into much detail about this subject.
Again, there are many books on the topic and consultants who know
much, much more about the technical aspects of compensation and
rewards systems than I do. The point that needs to be made here is that
the single most important reason to reward people is to provide them
with an incentive for doing what is best for the organization.
164

Discipline 4: Reinforce Clarity

Yes, this sounds patently obvious, but somehow most companies’
compensation and rewards programs get divorced from this purpose,
and take on a disconnected life of their own. When that happens, they
lose their value and actually become sources of distraction rather than
tools of focus and motivation.
Members of a leadership team must take responsibility for ensur­
ing that compensation and rewards programs are simple, understand­
able, and, most important of all, clearly designed to remind employees
what is most important. This is especially true at the executive
level because the way that leaders themselves are rewarded and com­
pensated will inevitably have an impact on how they motivate their
people.
At the core of any of these systems must lie the answers to the
six critical questions. For instance, when employees are given a
raise, they need to understand that they are being rewarded for
behaving or performing in a way that is consistent with the organiza­
tion’s reason for existing, core values, strategic anchors, or thematic
goal. And when employees are denied a raise or a bonus, they need
to understand that it is because they did not behave or perform in a
way that is consistent with all those things. These are great moments
of truth for leaders to demonstrate that they are really committed to
what they say is important. To fail to make the connection between
compensation and rewards and one or more of the six big questions
is to waste one of the best opportunities for motivation and
management.
I realize that not every compensation decision is easy to connect
to a specific performance or behavior that ties to one of the six big
questions. And I realize that sometimes an employee gets a two percent
raise because that’s all that his or her manager could get for that person.
In those situations, it is critical that leaders are clear with employees
about the disconnect between performance and financial reward and
that they work to eliminate that disconnect.
165

The Advantage

RECOGNITION
As important as compensation and rewards are, they aren’t the most effec­
tive or important means of motivating people in a healthy organization.

Real-Time Recognition
One of our consultants was working with the leadership
team of a nonprofit company that was focused on finding
ways to reinforce the company’s values through rewards and
recognition, both formal and informal. As the leaders were
discussing the various employees in the organization, one
woman, a very junior employee, was mentioned for her
amazing work on a big project and how she had clearly
demonstrated the company’s values.
Our consultant asked the company’s leadership team,
“So, have you told this woman that she’s doing a great job
and that you think of her as an example of what you want
from other employees?” Much to the consultant’s surprise,
the executives sheepishly shook their heads.
“Okay, let’s bring her in here.” The executives in the room
wondered if he meant what he said, so he continued. “I’m
serious. Go get her right now, and tell her the things that you
just told me about her.”
A few minutes later, the woman came into the room
where the executive team was meeting. She seemed confused, and even a little petrified, about why her presence
had been so urgently requested, especially when they asked
her to take a seat in the front of the room facing the
entire team.
For the next few minutes, the team asked her questions
about what she had done and gave her a chance to explain
the project and her role in it. Then they began telling her how

166

Discipline 4: Reinforce Clarity

much they appreciated her actions and how she had been
a real role model for the rest of the organization in living the
values.
Clearly emotional, the woman almost cried. After she
collected herself, thanked the team, and left, our consultant
didn’t need to say much. He just asked the leaders if they
thought that woman would continue to be a champion of
the values. Of course, they agreed she would, and they
committed to doing more direct, informal recognition in the
future.

I like to explain to clients that when leaders fail to tell employees
that they’re doing a great job, they might as well be taking money out
of their pockets and throwing it into a fire, because they are wasting
opportunities to give people the recognition they crave more than
anything else. Direct, personal feedback really is the simplest and most
effective form of motivation.
So why isn’t this more common? For one, many leaders convince
themselves that employees are motivated primarily by money. As a
result, they discount the impact of authentic and specific expressions
of appreciation and focus
Many leaders convince theminstead on financial rewards
like raises and bonuses.
selves that employees are
Additionally, I think many
motivated primarily by money.
leaders are a little embar­
As a result, they discount the
rassed by giving praise and
impact of authentic and
are afraid that employees will
specific expressions of
discount it as a cheap replace­
appreciation.
ment for financial rewards.
What leaders need to
under­stand is that the vast
majority of employees, at all levels of an organization, see financial

167

The Advantage

rewards as a satisfier, not a driver. That means they want to receive
enough compensation to make them feel good about their job, but
additional money doesn’t yield proportionate increases in their job
satisfaction. And while they’re not going to turn down an offer of more
money, that is not what they’re really looking for. In fact, gratitude,
recognition, increased responsibilities, and other forms of genuine
appreciation are drivers. That means an employee can never really get
enough of those and will always welcome more.
Most organizations simply assign too much importance to financial
compensation and too little to the other side of the equation. They
often do this because they believe that people who leave their organiza­
tions are doing so because they want more money. This is an under­
standable mistake because that is what many employees say during exit
interviews when they’ve already made up their mind to leave. However,
almost no employees willingly leave an organization where they are
getting the levels of gratitude and appreciation that they deserve just
to make a little more money, unless, of course, they are so grossly
underpaid that they can’t justify staying in the job for the sake of their
livelihood.

Anything for Retention
A friend of mine worked for a management consulting firm
for about six years. He was paid well, but after putting up
with as much neglect and politics as he could stand, he finally
decided to leave.
When he was called in for his exit interview with a senior
manager who had never taken an interest in him before, he
was asked, “What could we have done to keep you here
longer?”
My friend was a little stunned by the hollowness of the
question. After a moment, he just smiled and replied,
“Anything.”

168

Discipline 4: Reinforce Clarity

I tell this story not only because it demonstrates the
importance of nonfinancial factors in job satisfaction, but
also because I think it’s funny.

The lesson for leaders is not that they should be cheap, but rather
that they understand that the healthiest organizations in the world
are not necessarily the highest-paying ones and that throwing money
at a problem that would be better solved through improved man­
agement is a true waste of resources. What is more, unsatisfied employ­
ees who receive greater financial compensation as an incentive to
stay in an unhealthy organization feel cheapened by the gesture. And
they are usually just as determined to eventually find a better place
to work.
FIRING
When I think about firing as a human system, I’m not thinking about
it so much in terms of the administrative process that an organization
goes through to let someone go. That’s not to say that this isn’t impor­
tant; the way people are treated as they leave an organization is critical
because of how it affects their life and because of the message it sends
to the rest of the organization about how its leaders view people.
But when it comes to building a healthy organization, the most
important part of the firing process is the very decision to let someone
go. That decision needs to be driven, more than anything else, by an
organization’s values.
In a healthy organization, a leader who is thinking about letting
someone go will evaluate that person against the entirety of the
company’s values, paying special attention to the core and permissionto-play varieties. If an employee’s behavior is consistent with the core
and permission-to-play values, there is a good chance that it would be
a mistake to let him go. Essentially he has the raw material to fit into
169

The Advantage

the organization and be successful. Instead of firing him, the company
should take a closer look at how he is being managed and find a way
to give him a chance to succeed.
But if the leaders of an organization are clearly convinced that an
employee does not fit the core or permission-to-play values, even if he
meets basic performance criteria, they would be advised to gracefully
help that person find employment elsewhere.
Keeping a relatively strong performer who is not a cultural fit
creates a variety of problems. Most important of all, it sends a loud and
clear message to employees
that the organization isn’t all
Keeping a relatively strong
that serious about what it
performer who is not a cultural
says it believes. Tolerating
fit sends a loud and clear
behavior that flies in the face
of core values inspires cyni­
message to employees that the
cism
and becomes almost
organization isn’t all that
impossible to reverse over
serious about what it says it
time. When leaders take the
believes.
difficult step of letting a
strong performer go because
of a values mismatch, they
not only send a powerful message about their commitment to their
values, they also usually find that the performance of the remaining
employees improves because they are no longer being stifled by the
behavior of their former colleague.

Addition by Subtraction
Years ago before I started my own consulting firm, I hired a talented
guy to join my department. My staff and I were overwhelmed with
projects, and I was relieved to have found someone who could lighten
the load. He proved to be both competent and hard working, but it

170

Discipline 4: Reinforce Clarity

was apparent that he didn’t share my department’s values
of teamwork and selflessness. Still, buried with work, I made
one of the worst mistakes of my career: I promoted him!
Fortunately, my staff members weren’t afraid to tell me
that I had blatantly violated our values by rewarding someone
who wasn’t a cultural fit. I couldn’t deny the boneheadedness
of what I had done, and decided that I would have to manage
the guy to become a better team player.
In just a few weeks, it became clear that he just wasn’t
interested and that his need for attention was a fundamental
part of his personality. Still, he was a talented and productive
worker. So I helped him find another job within the larger
organization, in a department where his personality and
values would be a fit.
Beyond restoring my credibility with my staff members,
something very powerful happened: the performance of my
team improved substantially. Without that one colleague,
someone who clearly didn’t fit the department’s humble,
selfless culture, the rest of the team’s excitement and commitment soared. It was a profound lesson, one that I won’t
forget.

Finally, keeping someone who clearly doesn’t fit culturally is almost
always a disservice to that person, who knows that he doesn’t belong
and is usually as frustrated as his colleagues are. Letting him go is
putting him in a position to find an organization where he does belong
and where he’ll be able to thrive.

171

The Advantage

CHECKLIST FOR DISCIPLINE 4:
REINFORCE CLARITY
Members of a leadership team can be confident that they’ve
mastered this discipline when they can affirm the following
statements:
⎯

The organization has a simple way to ensure that new hires
are carefully selected based on the company’s values.

⎯

New people are brought into the organization by thoroughly teaching them about the six elements of clarity.

⎯

Managers throughout the organization have a simple, consistent, and nonbureaucratic system for setting goals and
reviewing progress with employees. That system is customized around the elements of clarity.

⎯

Employees who don’t fit the values are managed out of the
organization. Poor performers who do fit the values are
given the coaching and assistance they need to succeed.

⎯

Compensation and reward systems are built around the
values and goals of the organization.

172

The Centrality
of Great
Meetings

A

n organization that has embraced each of the four disciplines will
certainly become healthy, making success highly likely. But one
activity, more than any other, will be central to maintaining those
disciplines, and sustaining health, over time.
No action, activity, or process is more central to a healthy organization than the meeting. As dreaded as the “m” word is, as maligned as
it has become, there is no better way to have a fundamental impact on
an organization than by changing the way it does meetings.
In fact, if someone were to offer me one single piece of evidence
to evaluate the health of an organization, I would not ask to see its
financial statements, review its product line, or even talk to its
employees or customers; I would want to observe the leadership team
during a meeting. This is where values are established, discussed, and
lived and where decisions around strategy and tactics are vetted,
made, and reviewed. Bad meetings are the birthplace of unhealthy
173

The Advantage

organizations, and good meetings are the origin of cohesion, clarity,
and communication.
So why in the world do
If someone were to offer me
we hate meetings? Probably
one single piece of evidence to
because they are usually
evaluate the health of an
awful. More often than not
they are boring, unfocused,
organization, I would want to
wasteful, and frustrating.
observe the leadership team
Somehow we’ve come to
during a meeting.
accept this—to believe that
there is just something inherently wrong with the whole idea of meetings. It’s almost as though we
see them as a form of corporate penance, something that is inevitable
and must be endured.
Well, I am utterly convinced that there is nothing inherently bad
about meetings, nothing that can’t be fixed if we confront the problems
we’ve allowed to grow and calcify over the years. I wrote about those
problems in a fictional way in my book Death by Meeting.1 In that book
I addressed a concept at the heart of the problem with meetings, something I call “meeting stew.”
MEETING STEW
A good way to understand meeting stew is to imagine a clueless cook
taking all of the ingredients out of the pantry and the refrigerator and
throwing them into one big pot, and then wondering why his concoction doesn’t taste very good. Leaders do the same thing when they put
all of their issues into one big discussion, usually called a “staff meeting.”
All too often they combine administrative issues and tactical decisions
and creative brainstorming and strategic analysis and personnel discussions into one exhausting meeting. And like that cook, somehow they
are surprised when the result doesn’t turn out so well.
174

The Centrality of Great Meetings

The fact is that the human brain isn’t meant to process so many
disparate topics in one sitting. There needs to be greater clarity and
focus, which means that there needs to be different kinds of meetings
for different kinds of issues. And, yes, that means there will be more
meetings, not fewer.
That’s right. Leaders who want healthy organizations cannot try to
eliminate or reduce time spent in meetings by combining them or
cutting them short. Instead, they have to make sure that they are having
the right kinds of meetings, and then they must make those meetings
effective. As a result—and trust me when I say this—leaders actually
come to look forward to their meetings, even enjoy them. In fact, they
get real work done during those meetings which makes their lives, and
the lives of their employees, better as a result.
THE FOUR MEETINGS
So what kinds of meetings does the leadership team of a healthy organization have? There are four basic types:

Content

Timing

Administrative

Daily
Check-In

5−10 minutes

Tactical

Weekly
Staff

45−90 minutes

Strategic

Adhoc
Topical

2−4 hours

Quarterly
Off-Site Review

1−2 days

Developmental

175

The Advantage

1. Daily Check-Ins

The first category of meetings is the least important but certainly worth
doing when it is practically possible. Essentially, it’s about the team
getting into the habit of gathering once a day, for no more than ten
minutes, to clear the air about anything administrative that would be
helpful to know. Schedules. Events. Issue alerts. That kind of stuff.
There are no agendas and no resolution of issues, just an exchange
of information. To make sure that these meetings don’t morph into
something they shouldn’t, it’s even best if people don’t sit down. The
purpose of these daily administrative check-ins is simply to get the team
accustomed to talking on a regular basis and to provide a forum for
addressing the uber-tactical kinds of issues that get in the way of more
important issues at staff meetings.
Plenty of leadership teams will protest having to do daily check-ins.
Some of their reasons are valid, others not.
A good reason not to do daily check-ins is that members of the
team are so spread out geographically that it isn’t practical to expect
them to get together every day. That’s not to say that some virtual teams
don’t find a way to do this by phone. But when it takes heroic efforts
on the part of people in multiple time zones to make a daily conference
call work, it can become just another form of drudgery. In those cases,
not doing them is fine.
When team members work in the same location, there are no good
reasons for rejecting the daily check-in. But what if some team members
are out of the office? Have the session without them and let them know
they can call in if they’re able. No pressure. What if people have other
meetings during that time? First, don’t schedule meetings during that
ten-minute period, but in the odd event that it is inevitable, don’t worry
about it. Everyone else can meet. What if people feel they are too busy?
That’s a bad excuse. Here’s why.
The most powerful impact of having teams meet every day is the
quick resolution of minor issues that might otherwise fester and create
176

The Centrality of Great Meetings

unnecessary busywork for the team. For instance, when teams members
don’t see each other more than once a week, or even less often, they
end up trying to resolve the endless administrative issues that surface
every day with an e-mail here and a voice mail there and a hallway
conversation in between. That sets off a flurry of more e-mails, voice
mails, and hallway stops as the situation changes and more people on
the team need or want to be looped in. It would be fascinating to
actually track and calculate the amount of time and energy that
leaders spend chasing down issues that could be sorted out in a thirtysecond conversation if everyone were in the same room for a few
minutes every day.
A big part of the beauty of the daily check-in is that leaders know
they’re going to see their colleagues within twenty-four hours, so rather
than firing off an e-mail or a voice mail or interrupting someone in
the course of their day, they simply make a note to bring up a small
issue at the next day’s meeting. There is something undeniably efficient
and liberating about this, which makes the protests I hear from executives all that much more absurd. It’s as though they’re saying, Do you
realize how busy we are trying to solve problems that result from our lack
of communication? We can’t possibly spend ten minutes every day prevent­
ing them!
Once teams get used to the daily check-in, they’re hooked.

Disconnected
The leadership team at a Silicon Valley company implemented the daily check-in begrudgingly at first. Then, after
a few weeks, they got used to the activity and did it gladly
without complaint. Still, they didn’t completely understand
the value of it.
Then, during one particular period when a large
number of leadership team members were on vacation, the
daily check-ins came to a halt. As so often happens, when

177

The Advantage

everyone came back to work, the discipline of the daily
meeting didn’t get reestablished.
After a few weeks, team members felt strangely disconnected, and after talking about it, they realized that the cause
was not having the daily sessions. The president of the
company explained what happened: “We never realized how
much closer we were to each other, and how much we were
able to avoid wasting time and energy, until we stopped
having the daily check-ins.”

Getting used to doing the daily meeting will probably take a few
weeks or a month. But once it happens, leaders find that they’re building stronger relationships with their peers much more quickly than they
thought was possible. Moreover, they’re able to address minor issues
quickly so they can be more focused on the right topics during the
other three kinds of meetings they need to have.
2. Tactical Staff Meetings

When executives complain about meetings, many of them are probably
thinking about their weekly or biweekly or monthly staff meetings. This
is where meeting stew is usually served.
The truth is, there is no more valuable activity in any organization
than the regular staff meeting of a leadership team. But if they are not
effective, there is little or no chance of building a cohesive team or a
healthy organization.
There are a few critical keys to making staff meetings work, many
of which I’ve already discussed in this book. For instance, if there are
too many people on a team, or if the people in the room don’t
trust each other and aren’t willing to engage in productive conflict, then
no matter how you reorganize your meetings you won’t see much
impact.

178

The Centrality of Great Meetings

However, assuming that a leadership team has bought into and is
working on making their team small enough and behaviorally cohesive,
they then need to change a few things about what they do before and
during their staff meetings to make them compelling, useful, and yes,
even enjoyable.
Real-Time Agenda
The first thing a team must do to improve their staff meetings is really
about what they should stop doing before the meeting. I’m referring to the
dreaded agenda. Putting together an agenda before a staff meeting is like
a marriage counselor deciding what issues she’s going to cover with a couple
prior to meeting with them. The fact is, you don’t know what you need to
discuss until you’ve come together and assessed the situation.
Instead of putting together an agenda ahead of time, team members
need to come together and spend their first ten minutes of a meeting
creating a real-time agenda. That involves two steps.
First, the leader needs to go around the room and ask every member
of the team to take thirty seconds to report on the two or three
key activities that they believe are their top priorities for the week.
Notice that I said “that they believe are their top priorities.” See, it’s
possible that after everyone explains what they’re doing and the team
assesses what’s going on in the organization, people are going to have
to reorder their priorities.
Once everyone has taken their thirty seconds to list off, not expound
on, their top priorities—most will use only ten or fifteen seconds—the
leader moves on to the second part of creating a real-time agenda. This
entails reviewing the one-page scorecard or chart that the team created—
the one that includes their thematic goal, their defining objectives, and
their standard operating objectives. I covered that simple structure in
Discipline 2 when I discussed the question, What is most important,
right now?

179

The Advantage

Tactical Meeting Scorecard
Rebuild credibility
within the business

Thematic Goal

Defining Objectives

Deliver on
current
commitments

Standard Operating
Objectives

System
reliability

Identify
strategic
initiatives

Network
security

Eliminate
intradepartmental
silos

Business
unit
satisfaction

Improve
communication
with stakeholders

On-time
project
delivery

Staff
morale

Green = open circle Yellow = medium-shaded circle Red = dark-filled circle
Lime green = light-dotted circle Orange = heavy-dotted circle

Essentially this part of the meeting is about stepping back and
asking, How are we doing against the things we said are most important?
And the way teams evaluate themselves is by using an easy and digestible means of assessing progress: colors. That’s right. No matter how
much data an organization has at its disposal, no matter how intelligent
and sophisticated the members of a team may be, the key to quickly
sizing up the organization’s progress and deciding where to spend scarce
resources is by keeping the evaluation process as simple as possible. I
don’t know of a better system than green for “things are good, we’re
ahead of schedule,” yellow for “we’re doing okay, but we’re not yet
where we ought to be,” and red for “we’re way behind on this one.”
(Okay, we allow teams to use lime green and orange for those inbetween evaluations.)
It should take a team only five or ten minutes to go through the
items on their scorecard, assigning a color to each item. Different
people will influence each decision based on their perspective, and that’s
good. In fact, leaders always learn a great deal about what is happening
when they hear their colleagues’ assessments. “I’d give us a green on
180

The Centrality of Great Meetings

revamping our marketing message,” says one executive. “Are you
kidding?” says another. “Did you see the results of that focus group last
week?” The first executive’s eyes go wide. “No, I didn’t. What did they
say?” The second exec explains, “They threw up all over our ideas. We’re
back to square one.” And everyone agrees that the color is red.
After the team has assigned their colors—a process that really is as
enjoyable as it is informative—then and only then can they agree on
what their agenda should be. Basically they will probably focus on the
areas on the chart that are red or orange or perhaps one or two others
that are particularly critical.
The beauty of this real-time agenda system is that the team will
avoid the all-too-common problem of sitting through a presentation or
a discussion of something that everyone knows is of little importance
to the organization. When leaders put together agendas ahead of time,
they’re often influenced by people in the organization who do a good
job lobbying them for face time at the next staff meeting. Before anyone
knows what’s happening, they’re sitting in a forty-five-minute multimedia presentation about how the HR department selected a vendor
for the benefits program, even when the company’s benefits program
is nowhere near being worthy of making it on the scorecard. Of course,
if the company is experiencing employee turnover because of benefits
and that is one of the critical issues facing the team, then by all means
they should bring in the director of benefits. But leaders must make
that decision because it warrants the time and energy of the leadership
team, not because it seemed like a considerate thing to do for someone
who wanted some extra attention.
A challenge that many leadership teams struggle with during
staff meetings is the distraction that occurs when someone raises a
compelling and important topic that shouldn’t be taken on during
tactical meetings. While this may seem like a relief to executives who
are always thirsty for something new and interesting, it presents two
problems.
181

The Advantage

First, it derails the discussion of the more tactical issues that must
be addressed during staff meetings. Second, it causes the team to take
on critical topics in an environment where they don’t have enough time
to achieve resolution and when they are not as informed or prepared
as they need to be. That’s why leaders of a healthy organization must
also have a third kind of meeting.
3. Adhoc Topical Meetings

Probably the most interesting and compelling of all meetings is the
third type: the adhoc topical meeting. In fact, it may be the most fun
that leaders can have at work.
The purpose of this kind of meeting is to dig into the critical issues
that can have a long-term impact on an organization or that require
significant time and energy to resolve: a major competitive threat, a
disruptive industry change, a substantial shift in revenue, a significant
product or service deficiency, or even a troubling drop in morale,
among many others. Any of these issues would warrant more time,
energy, and preparation than could ever be given during a regular staff
meeting. In fact, it’s difficult to imagine addressing any of them in less
than a few hours. It easily takes that much time to frame up an issue,
present even a cursory overview of basic research, brainstorm possible
solutions, debate the merits of those solutions, and then come to a
decision with real commitment.
And yet leadership teams rarely carve out enough time for this.
Instead, they try to resolve important issues in fifteen-minute increments in between more tactical and administrative topics during a
staff meeting. The result is not only suboptimal decisions, but an
immense sense of frustration among leaders. That frustration is
most directly the result of knowing that they’re making bad decisions,
but also a vague sense that they’re not getting to do what they thought
they were going to be doing when they chose their careers in the
first place.
182

The Centrality of Great Meetings

Let me make this a little clearer. When most people decide to go
into business, they envision themselves sitting around a table with a
group of colleagues, wrestling with difficult issues, and doing their best
to make the right decisions by tapping into everyone’s knowledge,
experience, and intuition. This is what happens during case studies in
business school, and there’s no denying that it’s fun. The only problem
with case studies is that they’re not real, and they leave people looking
forward to the day when they can take on real issues and make real
decisions with real consequences.
And then something bizarre happens: executives in the real world
find themselves so inundated with daily e-mail and voice mail and
administrative requirements that they rarely, if ever, set aside enough
time for thorough, challenging, tense, dramatic, and fun conversations.
It’s really quite absurd.
It’s like a baseball player working all his life and finally making it
to the Major Leagues, and then spending all his time at batting practice
without ever stepping up to the plate during a game. Or better yet,
when he finally does come to bat in a game, he rushes through it so he
can get done quickly and get back to batting practice. The high point
of being a baseball player is playing in the games, and the high point of
being a leader in an organizaThe high point of being a
tion is wrestling with diffileader in an organization is
cult decisions and situations.
wrestling with difficult
Truncating those high points
decisions and situations.
just doesn’t make sense.
What makes this particTruncating those high points
ularly tragic is that it is
just doesn’t make sense.
simply the result of executives mistakenly convincing
themselves that meetings are inherently bad. Thinking they’re being
efficient, they reduce the time they spend in meetings by cramming
every discussion into one big staff meeting. What they’re really doing
183

The Advantage

is ensuring that those staff meetings are going to be ineffective and that
the most important conversations they should be having—topical,
strategic ones—are cut short.
What leadership teams need to do—and this may be the single
most important piece of advice for them when it comes to meetings—is
separate their tactical conversations from their strategic ones. Combining the two just doesn’t work and leaves both sets of issues inadequately
addressed.
As for the timing of topical meetings, there is no prescriptive
answer. After all, critical issues don’t come up on any schedule. However,
if a leadership team goes more than a month without a strategic meeting,
something is probably wrong. Of course, when a team first adopts this
new model of having separate meetings for specific strategic topics,
there will almost always be a big backlog of issues that need to be
addressed, so there will be an initial flurry of these kinds of meetings.
Which is okay because, by definition, the topics warrant attention. And
besides, no one is going to complain about spending too much time
discussing critical issues.
4. Quarterly Off-Site Reviews

The fourth type of meeting that every leadership team needs to have is
often known as the “off-site.” The problem with these meetings is that
too often they are nothing more than an expensive and extended
version of the unproductive staff meeting. The purpose of them, like
each of the others, should be unique and focused. In this case, that
focus is all about stepping back from the business to get a fresh perspective, which is why it is best done away from the office.
Activities that should be addressed during these meetings include
reviewing the organization’s strategic anchors and thematic goal, assessing the performance of key employees, discussing industry changes
and competitive threats, and of course, reviewing the behaviors of the
team members in regard to cohesiveness. In essence, the off-site review
184

The Centrality of Great Meetings

is where the leadership team needs to step back and revisit the four
disciplines covered in this book: team, clarity, communication, and
human systems.
The timing of these meetings, unlike the others, is not really negotiable. Unlike the tactical staff meetings, which might take place weekly
or biweekly, or the topical ones, which need to happen whenever an
issue arises, off-site review meetings should occur quarterly. There is
just something about doing this four times a year that makes sense.
More frequently than that doesn’t give a team enough time to make
progress on critical issues and identify meaningful trends in the market
or in the company. Less frequently usually means that people are going
to forget about what they talked about at the previous meeting, which
makes continuity difficult and progress unlikely.
Finally, of the four types of meetings, the quarterly review is
probably the one that might call for the use of an outside consultant.
It’s often nice for the leader of the executive team to participate as
a member and leave the organizing and facilitating to a trusted
consultant.
TOO MUCH TIME IN MEETINGS?
Whenever executives challenge me about the practicality of having four
different meetings on a regular basis, I ask them to add up all the time
that they would spend in those meetings in a given month.
If we apply the model in the most time-intensive way possible (a
full 10 minutes each day in check-in meetings, 2 hours each week
in tactical staff meetings, 6 hours each month in topical meetings, and
2 days each quarter in developmental review meetings), the grand total
of time amounts to about 1,560 minutes, or 12 hours per month.
Assuming a 50-hour workweek, that amounts to just 13 percent
of our time. If you work just 45 hours per week, then it’s 14 percent.
That means even when we’re spending the maximum amount of time
185

The Advantage

at each meeting, something few teams need to do, more than 85 percent
of our time is still available for whatever else we do.
Some leaders will point out that they are often on more than one
team, which they believe would make this kind of model unworkable.
Well, even if a person were on as many as three teams and if all three of
those teams spent the maximum amount of time in their meetings
(something that is highly unlikely), that would still amount to less than
half their time. And when we factor in the amount of time they’ll avoid
wasting because they are actually focused on the right issues during their
meetings, and eliminating all the interruptions that happen because
they’re out of sync with one another, the value they get from having more
meetings, not less, increases.
Finally, it’s worth asking, What else should leaders be doing besides
going to meetings? E-mail? Analysis? Customer visits? Okay, there are
certainly times and places for those activities. But a leader’s first priority
is to create an environment where others can do these things and that
cannot happen if they are not having effective meetings.
But what about management? Don’t leaders need to allocate a lot of
their time to managing their people? While it’s true that the single most
important activity that a leader must do (outside of being a good team
member) is managing his or her direct reports, much of that actually
happens during meetings. Sure, they need to do some one-on-one mentoring, but that isn’t usually what executives are hoping to do when they’re
arguing about having to spend too much time in meetings. The truth is,
if executives are having the right kind of meetings, if they’re driving issues
to closure and holding one another accountable, then there is much less
to do outside meetings, including managing their direct reports.
The thesis behind all of this is worth repeating: a great deal of the time
that leaders spend every day is a result of having to address issues that
come about because they aren’t being resolved during meetings in the first
place. That’s why it’s really hard for executives to make a credible case for
spending less time in meetings, assuming those meetings are good ones.
186

The Centrality of Great Meetings

Old Dog, New Tricks
A church-related services organization was experiencing
problems internally and seeing that those problems were
affecting their clients. Among the many things the leader did
to make his organization healthier, he cited the restructuring
of his leadership team’s meetings as a key part of their overall
organizational transformation.
“I’m fifty-eight years old, and I would never have thought
that having more meetings would help productivity, but it
actually did. The meetings have made converts out of us all.”

Of all the recommendations my firm makes to clients, the one that
is most consistently embraced and touted as having an immediate
impact on an organization is the adoption of the meetings model outlined here.
Finally, it’s important to remember that at the end of every meeting,
with the exception of the daily check-ins, team members must stop and
clarify what they’ve agreed to and what they will go back and communicate to their teams. This is called Cascading Communication and
it is covered in detail in the Discipline 3 section.

187

The Advantage

CHECKLIST FOR MEETINGS
Members of a leadership team can be confident that they’ve
mastered meetings when they can affirm the following
statements:
⎯

Tactical and strategic discussions are addressed in separate
meetings.

⎯

During tactical staff meetings, agendas are set only after
the team has reviewed its progress against goals. Noncritical administrative topics are easily discarded.

⎯

During topical meetings, enough time is allocated to major
issues to allow for clarification, debate, and resolution.

⎯

The team meets quarterly away from the office to review
what is happening in the industry, in the organization, and
on the team.

188

Seizing the
Advantage

T

he power of organizational health is undeniable. Even the most
skeptical executives I meet don’t dispute the advantage they could
achieve if they could make their leadership teams more cohesive, align
them around the answers to the six questions, and get them to communicate and reinforce those answers incessantly. Indeed a number of
healthy organizations have already proven this. Yet the fact remains that
organizational health is largely untapped in most companies. But that’s
going to change.
As more and more leaders come to the realization that the last
frontier of competitive advantage will be the transformation of
unhealthy organizations into healthy ones, there will be a shift in the
mind-set of executives away from more technical pursuits that can be
delegated to others and toward the disciplines outlined in this book.
Whether that takes place over the next five, ten, or twenty years, I don’t
know. But it’s coming.
189

The Advantage

For the early adopters of organizational health, the advantages that
they will reap will be amplified as they achieve even greater differentiation from their lagging competitors. But there are a couple of factors
that they must embrace in order to avoid experiencing false starts and
undue cynicism. For one, they’ll have to begin the process with a few
activities that will give them the initial momentum they’ll need to see
it through. Even more important, the individuals who lead this process
will have to understand exactly what’s in store for them.
THE LEADER’S SACRIFICE
By now I’ve made the point numerous times that many of the ideas I
advocate in this book are simple. Well, this next statement will rank
right up there with the most obvious piece of advice yet: the person in
charge of an organization’s leadership team is crucial to the success of
any effort to build a healthy organization.
As ridiculously simple as that may sound, I can’t help but believe
that many leaders still don’t fully understand it. All too often they see
the tasks related to organizational health as a set of activities that others
can handle. Some do this because they want to demonstrate to their staff
members that they trust them to do their jobs. That is noble. Others do
it because they’d prefer spending time on things that they enjoy more.
That’s not so noble. In either case, the result is the same: an unhealthy
organization.
There is just no escaping the fact that the single biggest factor
determining whether an organization is going to get healthier—or
not—is the genuine commitment and active involvement of the person
in charge. For a company, that’s the CEO. For a small business, it’s the
owner. For a school, it’s the principal. For a church, it’s the pastor. For
a department within a company, it’s the department head.
At every step in the process, the leader must be out front, not as a
cheerleader or a figurehead, but as an active, tenacious driver.
190

Seizing the Advantage

When it comes to building a cohesive team, leaders must drive the
process even when their direct reports are less than excited about it
initially. And they must be the first to do the hardest things, like
demonstrating vulnerability, provoking conflict, conThere is just no escaping the
fronting people about their
fact that the single biggest
behavior, or calling their
factor determining whether
direct reports out when
an organization is going to
they’re putting themselves
get healthier—or not—is the
ahead of the team.
genuine commitment and
The leader must also be
active involvement of the
the driving force behind
person in charge.
demanding clear answers to
the six big questions, even
when everyone else wants
to end the discussion and just agree to disagree. They must be constant,
incessant reminders to the leadership team about those answers, challenging them about everything from their behaviors in relation to the
organization’s values to their commitment to the team’s rallying cry.
As tempting as it may be, leaders must not abdicate or delegate
responsibility for communication and reinforcement of clarity. Instead,
they have to play the tireless role of ensuring that employees throughout
the organization are continually and repeatedly reminded about
what is important. And they must be on guard against contradictory
and inconsistent processes that can confuse employees and against
bureaucracy that can creep into an organization when people get
complacent.
If all of this sounds daunting, that’s because it is. People who lead
healthy organizations sign up for a monumental task—and a very selfless one. That is why they need to relinquish their more technical
responsibilities, or even their favorite roles, that others can handle.
Because when an organization is healthy (when the leader at the top is
191

The Advantage

doing his or her most important job), people find a way to get things
done. When an organization is unhealthy, no amount of heroism or
technical expertise is going to make up for the confusion and politics
that take root.
The truth is, being the leader of a healthy organization is just plain
hard. But in the end, it is undeniably worth it.
FIRST CRITICAL STEPS
In order to give their organizations the best possible chance of succeeding in these efforts, a team must engage in a few vital initial steps to
get momentum started.
The first of those is setting aside time to launch the process. What
I’m talking about is an initial off-site, a couple of days away from the
office—productive, intense, non-touchy-feely days—working on the first
two disciplines of building team cohesion and creating clarity. At the
end of those days, the team will emerge with a heightened sense of trust
and collaboration (trust me, they will), as well as some solid, if not
completely refined, answers to the six critical questions.
After that initial off-site, the team will need to put together a playbook, a short summary of those answers and a few other items related
to how the team behaves and how it will go about working together
going forward. And once the information in the playbook has been
finalized and the answers fully agreed on by the team, the next step will
be to properly communicate it to the rest of the organization. This
will require some kind of initial communication, followed by ongoing
reminders from leaders using every form of communication at their
disposal. And finally, the leadership team will need to spend time,
probably a fair amount of time, designing systems to reinforce the information from the playbook by embedding it into every process that
involves people.

192

Seizing the Advantage

Every team, every organization, will go about the organizational
health process in slightly different ways. And that’s a good thing. A
rigid, one-size-fits-all approach usually ends up fitting no one and
makes it likely that teams will abandon a program because it becomes
too onerous. However, these initial steps, which take anywhere from
one to six months depending on how much time and energy leaders
allocate, are absolutely essential. Once the leaders get through these
steps, they will have created so much momentum that it will be hard
for them to grow complacent and let the process atrophy.
Of course, their work is not over. It never is. Like a marriage, it
requires ongoing attention and effort: maintaining a cohesive team,
revisiting the answers to the six questions, overcommunicating and
reinforcing them. But leaders in healthy organizations rarely lament
having to invest time and energy in that effort. In fact, they almost
always come to enjoy it because they see the extraordinary benefits it
produces regardless of how simple or unsophisticated it may seem at
first glance.
ULTIMATE IMPACT
Finally, it’s certainly worth acknowledging that the impact of organizational health goes far beyond the walls of a company, extending to
customers and vendors, even to spouses and children. It sends people
to work in the morning with clarity, hope, and anticipation and brings
them home at night with a greater sense of accomplishment, contribution, and self-esteem. The impact of this is as important as it is impossible to measure.
At the end of the day, at the end of our careers, when we look back
at the many initiatives that we poured ourselves into, few other activities will seem more worthy of our effort and more impactful on the
lives of others, than making our organizations healthy.

193

CHECKLIST FOR
O R G A N I Z AT I O N A L H E A LT H

M

embers of a leadership team can gain a general sense of their
organization’s health and, more important, identify specific
opportunities for improvement by completing the following
checklist.
Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team

⎯
⎯
⎯
⎯
⎯
⎯

The leadership team is small enough (three to ten people) to be
effective.
Members of the team trust one another and can be genuinely
vulnerable with each other.
Team members regularly engage in productive, unfiltered conflict
around important issues.
The team leaves meetings with clear-cut, active, and specific
agreements around decisions.
Team members hold one another accountable to commitments
and behaviors.
Members of the leadership team are focused on team number
one. They put the collective priorities and needs of the larger
organization ahead of their own departments.
195

Checklist for Organizational Health

Discipline 2: Create Clarity
⎯
⎯
⎯
⎯
⎯

⎯

Members of the leadership team know, agree on, and are
passionate about the reason that the organization exists.
The leadership team has clarified and embraced a small, specific
set of behavioral values.
Leaders are clear and aligned around a strategy that helps them
define success and differentiate from competitors.
The leadership team has a clear, current goal around which they
rally. They feel a collective sense of ownership for that goal.
Members of the leadership team understand one another’s roles
and responsibilities. They are comfortable asking questions about
one another’s work.
The elements of the organization’s clarity are concisely
summarized and regularly referenced and reviewed by the
leadership team.

Discipline 3: Overcommunicate Clarity
The leadership team has clearly communicated the six aspects of
clarity to all employees.
⎯ Team members regularly remind the people in their departments
about those aspects of clarity.
⎯ The team leaves meetings with clear and specific agreements
about what to communicate to their employees, and they cascade
those messages quickly after meetings.
⎯ Employees are able to accurately articulate the organization’s
reason for existence, values, strategic anchors, and goals.
⎯

Discipline 4: Reinforce Clarity
⎯

The organization has a simple way to ensure that new hires are
carefully selected based on the company’s values.
196

Checklist for Organizational Health

New people are brought into the organization by thoroughly
teaching them about the six elements of clarity.
⎯ Managers throughout the organization have a simple, consistent,
and nonbureaucratic system for setting goals and reviewing
progress with employees. That system is customized around the
elements of clarity.
⎯ Employees who don’t fit the values are managed out of the
organization. Poor performers who do fit the values are given the
coaching and assistance they need to succeed.
⎯ Compensation and reward systems are built around the values
and goals of the organization.
⎯

Meetings
Tactical and strategic discussions are addressed in separate
meetings.
⎯ During tactical staff meetings, agendas are set only after the team
has reviewed its progress against goals. Noncritical administrative
topics are easily discarded.
⎯ During topical meetings, enough time is allocated to major issues
to allow for clarification, debate, and resolution.
⎯ The team meets quarterly away from the office to review what is
happening in the industry, in the organization, and on the team.
⎯

197

MORE RESOURCES

I

f you’d like more information about the advantage of organizational
health, visit our Web site at www.tablegroup.com/theadvantage.
You’ll find the following resources there:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Video clips about organizational health
Complimentary organizational health survey
Glossary of key terms
Downloadable images for reference
Road map for implementation
Other dynamic tools and resources

If you’d like someone to help you implement any of the con­
cepts in this book, please contact us at The Table Group by calling
925–299–9700, or visit www.tablegroup.com.

199

NOTES

Introduction
1. The Five Temptations of a CEO, 1998; The Four Obsessions of an Extraordinary Executive, 2000; The Five Dysfunctions of a Team, 2002; Death by
Meeting, 2004; Silos, Politics, and Turf Wars, 2006; The Three Signs of a
Miserable Job, 2007; The Three Big Questions for a Frantic Family, 2008; and
Getting Naked, 2010 (all San Francisco: Jossey-Bass).
Discipline 1: Build a Cohesive Leadership Team
1. P. Lencioni, The Five Dysfunctions of a Team (2002) and Overcoming the
Five Dysfunctions of a Team (2005) (both San Francisco: Jossey-Bass).
2. J. Katzenbach and D. Smith, The Wisdom of Team (Harper Business, 1994).
3. C. Argyris and D. Schön, Organizational Learning: A Theory of Action
Perspective (Reading, Mass: Addison Wesley, 1978).
4. E. E. Jones and V. A. Harris, “The Attribution of Attitudes,” Journal of
Experimental Social Psychology, 1967, 3, 1–24; L. Ross, “The Intuitive
Psychologist and His Shortcomings: Distortions in the Attribution Process,”
in L. Berkowitz (Ed.), Advances in Experimental Social Psychology (Orlando,
Fla.: Academic Press, 1977).
Discipline 2: Create Clarity
1. J. Collins and J. Porras, Built to Last (Harper Paperbacks, 2002).
2. P. Lencioni, “Make Your Values Mean Something,” Harvard Business Review
(July 2002).
201

Notes

3. M. Porter, Competitive Strategy (Free Press, 1998).
4. M. Porter, “What Is Strategy?,” Harvard Business Review, 1996.
5. P. Lencioni, Silos, Politics, and Turf Wars (San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 2006).
The Centrality of Great Meetings
1. P. Lencioni, Death by Meeting (San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 2004).

202

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

T

he first person I want to acknowledge here is Tracy Noble, who
has been deeply involved in shaping this book from day one. Your
ability to jump from the big picture to the tiniest detail and back again
is astounding, and your complete dedication is as appreciated as it is
constant.
I also want to thank the rest of my colleagues and friends at The
Table Group—Amy Hiett, Karen Amador, Jeff Gibson, Lynne Fiorindo,
Alison Knox, Jackie Collins, Michele Rango, and Kim Loureiro—for
their involvement, support, and passion. Working with you every day
is a blessing in so many ways. And I want to acknowledge the Table
Group Principal Consultants who add so much to our experience and
to the impact that our firm is having in the world. You blow me away
every time I see you and learn what you’re doing out there.
Of course, most of all, I thank my wife, Laura, for her tireless
dedication and commitment to me and our four boys. As the years go
by, managing the family seems to get more challenging, and yet
somehow you keep rising to that challenge. I really love you for that
and for so many other reasons.
And I thank my four sons—Michael, Casey, Connor, and Matthew.
I am so proud of the young men you’re becoming, and I pray that I
am being the dad you need and deserve.
I thank our many clients and customers who allow us to come into
their organizations. Whether we’re facilitating an executive off-site,
203

Acknowledgments

delivering a speech, providing advice, or shipping you a product, know
that we appreciate the trust you show us and honor what you are doing
to improve your organizations.
A big thanks to my wonderful agent, Jim Levine, for your immersion in our world and your unsolicited ideas and suggestions that make
us better every time we talk to you.
Thanks to my long-time editor, Susan Williams, and all her colleagues at Jossey-Bass and Wiley who have entered the fray with us
again and again over the past fifteen years to ensure that we’re delivering
the best books we can.
I thank my many friends, especially John Beans, Father Daniel
Massick, Jeff Gibson, Father Paulson Mundanmani, Matthew Kelly,
Daniel Harkavy, and Ken Blanchard, for investing yourselves in me
without counting the cost.
And of course, I thank my mom, for the birth thing and for still
being a mom after so many years.
But above and beneath, around, and through all of this, I thank
God—Father, Son, and Holy Spirit—for blessing me in so many ways
and bringing me ever closer year after year. Your mercy endures forever.

204

ABOUT THE AUTHOR

P

atrick Lencioni is founder and president of The Table Group, a
firm dedicated to helping leaders improve their organizations’
health since 1997. His principles have been embraced by leaders around
the world and adopted by organizations of virtually every kind including multinational corporations, entrepreneurial ventures, professional
sports teams, the military, nonprofits, schools, and churches.
Lencioni is the author of nine business books with over three
million copies sold worldwide. His work has appeared in the Wall Street
Journal, Harvard Business Review, Fortune, Bloomberg Businessweek, and
USA Today.
Prior to founding The Table Group, Lencioni served on the executive team at Sybase, Inc. He started his career at Bain & Company and
later worked at Oracle Corporation.
Lencioni lives in the San Francisco Bay Area with his wife and their
four sons.
To learn more about Patrick and The Table Group, please visit
www.tablegroup.com.

205

INDEX

A
Accidental values, 93, 98–99
Accountability, 54–64; about, 54;
behaviors vs. measurable, 59–60;
challenges in peer, 58; conflict vs.,
60; exercises for, 55–56, 60–62;
as key behavioral principle, 26;
leaders modeling, 56–58;
peer-to-peer, 54–55; public vs.
private meetings about, 63–64;
team members’ resistance to,
62–63
Activity system mapping, 111
Advantages: contributed by
leadership teams, 72; created with
organizational health, 18,
189–190; of meetings, 185–187;
of organizational clarity, 140; of
overcommunicating clarity, 152;
undermining organization’s, 8–10

Advocacy, 22
Alignment: defining thematic goals,
121–122; determining defining
objectives, 124–126, 128;
developing priorities, 120–121;
identifying standard operating
objectives, 126–127, 128;
requirements for, 76–77. See also
Thematic goals
Argyris, Chris, 22
Artificial harmony: conflict
continuum and, 42, 43; negative
impact on decision making,
44–45
Aspirational values: confusing core
and, 95–96; illustrated, 93; using,
96–97
Avoiding conflict: effects of, 39–40,
43; techniques to overcome, 46;
trust vs., 38, 43–45, 47

207

Index

B
Bain & Company, 5
Barriers to entry, 115
Behavior: determining
organizational values for, 91–92;
difficulties addressing personal,
59–60; principles of cohesive
team, 26; profiling tools
illuminating, 30–32. See also
Values; and specific behaviors
Biases against organizational health:
adrenaline, 3–4; quantification, 4;
sophistication, 3
Building leadership teams:
accountability in, 54–64;
achieving commitment, 48–53;
advantages in, 72; checklist for,
71, 195; commitment to
vulnerability in, 35–37; errors in
inclusivity when, 23; focusing on
results, 65–70; importance of,
19–20; mastering conflict, 38–47;
overview, 15; sharing common
objectives, 25–26; sharing
responsibility collectively, 25,
123–124; trust building and,
27–37; using behavior profiling
tools, 30–32
Built to Last (Collins and Porras),
82, 91
C
Cascading communication:
including in meetings, 187; live

and face-to-face, 147–148; using,
144–146; when to implement, 147
CEOs: defining role in leadership
team for, 133–134; sacrifice made
by, 190–192. See also Leaders
Checklists: building leadership
teams, 71, 195; creating clarity,
138, 196; meeting, 188, 197;
overcommunicating clarity, 151,
196; reinforcing clarity, 172,
196–197; summary, 195–197
Clarity. See Creating clarity;
Overcommunicating clarity;
Reinforcing clarity
Cohesive leadership. See Building
leadership teams
Collins, Jim, 82, 86, 91, 92
Commitment, 48–53;
acknowledging dysfunction in
meetings, 52; answering critical
questions for team, 77–78; as key
behavioral principle, 26; needed
to identify corporate purpose,
83–84; passivity undermining,
48–51; reviewing and clarifying
group, 51; to vulnerability by
leaders, 35–37
Commitment clarification, 146
Communication: cascading,
144–148; initiating cohesive
team, 192–193; need to repeat,
141–144; top-down, 148–150;
upward and lateral, 150–151. See
also Overcommunicating clarity

208

Index

Community-focused purpose, 88
Compensation and rewards,
164–165
Competitive Strategy (Porter), 107
Conflict: accountability confused
with, 60; achieving commitment
with, 48–49; allowing in trusting
environment, 38, 43–45, 47;
continuum in, 42–43; demanding
from team members, 51;
discomfort caused by, 38–40;
effects of avoiding, 39–40, 43;
integral in disagree-and-commit
philosophy, 48; as key behavioral
principle, 26; mining for, 45–46;
rules encouraging, 46; trust
building and, 38, 43–45, 47
Core values: about, 93–95;
confusing aspirational and,
95–96; identifying, 102–104;
isolating, 99–100; naming,
100–101; permission-to-play vs.,
97, 99
Corporate culture: clarifying
performance management,
162–164; compensation and
rewards in, 164–165; determining
organizational values for behavior,
91–92; difficulties addressing
behavioral accountability, 59–60;
firing employees who don’t fit,
169–171; leadership teams’
creation of, 161; orientation to,
161–162; recruiting and hiring

for cultural fit, 156–161; testing
applicant’s fit in, 160. See also
Human systems
Courage, 57, 59
Creating clarity: aligning
organizational goals, 119–131;
avoiding perfection paralysis,
79–80; categories for analyzing
purpose, 86–89; checklist for,
138, 196; critical questions for,
77–78; defining reason for
existing, 84–90; delineating
division of labor, 132–137;
determining behavioral values,
91–92; developing company
playbook, 134–137; difficulties
developing values, 92–93; finding
corporate purpose, 83–84;
focusing organization’s purpose,
82–90; mission statements vs.,
75–77; overview, 15, 73–75;
requirements for, 76–77; strategic
anchors for, 109–118; thematic
goals for, 121–131; weighing
advantages in, 140. See also
Overcommunicating clarity;
Questions for clarity; Reinforcing
clarity
Customer-focused purpose,
86–87
D
Daily check-ins, 175, 176–178
Death by Meeting (Lencioni), 174

209

Index

Decision making: allowing conflict
in, 44–45; avoiding misalignment
in, 52; effects of avoiding conflict
in, 39–40; passive agreements and
effect on, 49, 50–51; strategic
anchors influencing, 108–109;
using classic business signs, 6,
7–8; waiting for consensus in, 48
Defining objectives, 124–126, 128
Disagree-and-commit philosophy, 48
Dunder Mifflin, 76, 82
E
Employees: adding to leadership
teams, 23–24; allowing upward
and lateral communication
among, 150–151; clarifying
organizational purpose for,
82–90; communicating clearly to,
148–149; compensation and
rewards for, 164–165; effect of
organizational health on, 13;
face-to-face communication with,
147–148; firing, 169–171;
focusing purpose on, 88–89;
impact of conflict avoidance in,
40–41; internalizing company
priorities, 142–143; interviewing
potential, 159–160; making
passive agreements, 49, 50–51;
misalignment’s effect on
empowerment of, 74–75;
orienting new, 161–162;
participating in meeting agendas,

179–182; performance
management for, 162–164;
providing clarity for, 77–78;
recognizing work of, 166–168;
recruiting and hiring policies for,
156–161; retaining, 168–169;
testing fit in culture, 160
Empowerment, 74–75
F
Fear: of confronting people, 57, 59;
difficulties addressing behavioral
accountability, 59–60
Firing employees: leader’s fear of
confronting vs., 57, 59; who don’t
fit, 169–171
Five Dysfunction of a Team
Assessment, 57–58
Five Dysfunctions of a Team, The
(Lencioni), 20
Four disciplines model: about,
14–16; building cohesive
leadership team, 15; creating
clarity, 15, 73–140; illustrated,
14; overcommunicating clarity,
15, 141–152; reinforcing clarity,
16, 153–172. See also Checklists;
and individual disciplines
G
Goals: achieving team, 65–66;
aligning organizational, 119–131;
setting collective, 66–68. See also
Thematic goals

210

Index

Greater cause as organizational
focus, 87–88
Guilt, 46
H
Harvard Business Review, 93
Hiring employees, 156–161
How do we behave?, 91–105
How will we succeed?, 107–118
Human Resources: developing
human systems, 153–154;
separating corrective action from
performance management, 164.
See also Human systems
Human systems: clarifying
performance management,
162–164; clarifying recruiting
and hiring policies, 156–161;
developing, 153–154; financial
rewards and motivation in,
167–168, 169; firing employees
who don’t fit, 169–171; initial
design of, 192; orientation of new
employees, 161–162; recognizing
work of employees, 166–168;
retaining employees, 168–169;
simplicity in, 154–155; structuring
interviews for, 159–160; testing
applicant’s cultural fit, 160
I
Ideal Conflict Point, 42–43
Industry: assessing strategic durability
in, 115; focusing purpose on, 87

Innovation and strategic anchors,
115
Inquiry, 22
Integrity: organizational, 5; as
permission-to-play value, 97–98
Intel, 48
Intolerance in organizations, 91
K
Katzenbach, Jon, 21
L
Leaders: addressing behavioral
accountability, 59–60; avoiding
perfection paralysis, 79–80;
benefits of surviving conflict,
43–45; biases against
organizational health, 2–4;
clarifying and communicating
commitments, 147–148;
commitment to vulnerability by,
35–37; delineating roles among,
132–137; demonstrating
accountability for others, 56–58;
effects of avoiding conflict,
39–40, 43; faith in classic
business signs, 6, 7–8; handling
hiring decisions, 156–161; hiding
weaknesses from others, 36–37;
identifying core values embodied
by, 102, 103; identifying
corporate purpose, 83–84; impact
of misalignments among, 73–75;
mining for conflict, 45–46;

211

Index

multiplying organizational
intelligence, 10–11; need for
repetitive communications by,
141–144; providing employee
clarity, 77–78; revealing
tendencies with behavior profiling
tools, 30–32; sacrifice made by,
190–192; telling own personal
history, 28–30; wrestling with
difficult decisions, 182–184. See
also Leadership teams; Team
members
Leadership teams: accountability
exercises for, 55–56, 60–62;
acknowledging dysfunction
among, 52; advocacy and inquiry
in, 22; agreeing on top priorities,
122; avoiding meeting stew,
174–175; behavior profiling tools
for, 30–32; creating company
playbook, 134–137; critical
questions for, 77–78; daily
check-ins by, 175, 176–178;
defined, 21; defining business
done by organization, 105–106;
defining reason for corporate
existence, 84–90; delineating roles
within, 132–137; determining
defining objectives, 124–126,
128; developing collective
mentality of, 68–69; developing
synergy in, 69–70; employee
recognition by, 166–168; errors
of inclusivity on, 23; hiring and

interviewing by, 161; identifying
core values, 102–104; identifying
standard operating objectives,
126–127; initiating off-site
meetings, 192–193; leading
orientation to culture, 161–162;
measuring achievements, 65–66;
misalignment among, 52–53;
misconceptions of, 20–21; Noah’s
Ark approach to, 23–24;
organizational advantages
contributed by, 72; peer-to-peer
accountability in, 54–55;
performance management by,
162–164; public vs. private
accountability meetings for,
63–64; quarterly off-site reviews
by, 175, 184–185; resistance to
accountability, 62–63; reviewing
and clarifying commitments of,
51; setting collective goals,
66–68; sharing common
objectives, 25–26; sharing
personal histories in, 28–30;
sharing responsibility collectively,
25, 123–124; size of, 21–23;
vulnerability required in trust
building, 27–28. See also Team
members
Love, 57
M
Marketing, 85
Meeting stew, 174–175, 183–184

212

Index

Meetings: acknowledging
dysfunction in, 52; advantages of,
185–187; checklist for, 188, 197;
clarifying commitment at end of,
146–147; daily check-ins, 175,
176–178; initial off-site, 192–
193; meeting stew, 174–175,
183–184; observing
organizational health in, 173–
174; quarterly off-site reviews,
175, 184–185; rules encouraging
conflict, 46; tactical staff, 175,
178–182, 185; topical strategic,
175, 182–184; types of, 175
Mining for conflict, 45–46
Misalignment, 52–53
Mission statements, 75–77
Motivation: direct feedback as, 167;
financial rewards and, 167–168,
169; recognition as form of,
166–168
Multiplying organizational
intelligence, 10–11
Myers-Briggs Type Indicator, 30, 31,
34
N
Naming core values, 100–101
Noah’s Ark management teams,
23–24
O
Off-site reviews: initiating, 192–
193; quarterly, 175, 184–185

Office, The, 76
Organizational health: advantage of
creating, 18, 189–190; biases
against, 2–4; contributions by
leadership teams to, 72; costs of
poor, 12–13; developing collective
mentality for, 68–69; first steps
toward, 192–193; four disciplines
model of, 14–16; impact of, 193;
importance of, 4; multiplying
organizational intelligence,
10–11; overlooked by media,
11–12; reflecting in meetings,
173–174; smart and healthy signs
required for, 5–6; successes based
on, 8–11; summary checklist for,
195–197
Organizations: acquiring accidental
values, 98–99; aligning goals of,
119–131; aspirational values of,
93, 95–97; avoiding silos in, 120;
cascading communication within,
144–148; changing strategic
anchors, 114–116; clarifying tasks
of, 116–117; conflict avoidance
in, 39–40; core values of, 93–95;
costs of poor health, 12–13;
creating company playbook,
134–137; defining business of,
105–106; delineating leadership
roles in, 133–134; developing
human systems for, 153–155;
difficulties developing and
applying values, 92–93; finding

213

Index

purpose of, 83–84; focusing
purpose of, 82–90; identifying
strategic anchors, 107–114;
impact of organizational health
on, 193; intolerance required in,
91; making classic business
decisions, 6, 7–8; naming core
values, 100–101; permission-toplay values of, 97–98; result of
passive agreements within, 49–51;
size of leadership teams for,
21–23; stating reason for existing,
84–90; success in healthy, 8–11;
undermining advantages in
dysfunctional, 8–10. See also
Corporate culture
Overcoming the Five Dysfunctions of
a Team (Lencioni), 20
Overcommunicating clarity:
allowing upward and lateral
communication, 150–151;
checklist for, 151, 196; overview,
15; repetition in communications,
141–144; taking time to clarify
commitments, 146; top-down
communication, 148–150; using
cascading communication,
144–146; weighing advantages of,
152
P
Passive agreements, 49–51
Patton, Gen. George, 79
Peer-to-peer accountability, 54–55

Perfection paralysis, 79–80
Performance: addressing behavioral
vs. measurable, 59–60; passivity
undermining, 48–51; public vs.
private addresses to, 63–64. See
also Results
Performance management,
162–164
Permission to play, 8–9
Permission-to-play values: about,
97–98; confusing core and, 99;
illustrated, 93
Porras, Jerry, 82, 86, 91, 92
Porter, Michael, 107, 111
Praising employees, 166–167
Profiles: including in playbook, 137;
revealing tendencies with, 30–32
Purpose, 82–90; defining reason for
existing, 84–90; finding
corporate, 83–84; types of,
86–89. See also Goals
Q
Questions for clarity: about, 77–78;
applying to compensation and
rewards, 165; demanding answers
to, 191; how do we behave?,
91–105; how will we succeed?,
107–118; including in company
playbook, 136; what do we do?,
105–106; what is most
important, right now?, 119–131;
who must do what, 132–137;
why do we exist?, 82–90

214

Index

R
Real-time permission, 45
Recognition, 166–168
Recruiting and hiring policies,
156–161
Reinforcing clarity: checklist for,
172, 196–197; compensation and
rewards, 164–165; developing
human systems for, 153–154;
firing employees who don’t fit,
169–171; leader’s role in, 191;
orientation policies, 161–162;
overview, 16; performance
management, 162–164; providing
recognition, 166–168; recruiting
and hiring policies, 156–161;
retaining employees, 168–169;
simplicity in human systems,
154–155
Repetition in communications,
141–144
Resentment, 40–41
Resignations: due to accountability
building, 62–63; resulting
from core value clarification,
100–101
Responsibilities: defining, 132–133;
listing in playbook, 137; sharing
collectively, 25, 123–124
Results: creating from collective
mentality, 68–69; developing
from team synergy, 69–70; as key
behavioral principle, 26;
measuring achievements with,

65–66; setting collective goals,
66–68
Retaining employees, 168–169
Rewards, 164–165
S
Silos, 120
Silos, Politics, and Turf Wars
(Lencioni), 121
Smart vs. healthy equation, 6, 7–10
Smith, Douglas, 21
Southwest Airlines, 87–88
Standard operating objectives,
126–127
Strategic anchors: changing,
114–116; clarifying organizational
strategies, 107; delineating tasks
and agreements with, 116–117;
identifying, 109–114; making
decisions using, 108–109; reason
for three, 117–118; Strategic
Amoeba for outlining, 110, 112
Success: based on organizational
health, 8–11; clarifying strategies
for, 107–118
T
Table Group, 58, 199
Tactical staff meetings, 175,
178–182, 185
Team members: building trust
among, 35; conflict among, 38,
45–46, 51; effect of conflict
avoidance in, 40–41; impact of

215

Index

common objectives on, 25–26;
peer-to-peer accountability
among, 54–55; recognizing
conflict continuum, 42–43;
sacrifices made by, 25
Teams: defining, 20–21; size of,
21–24; working groups vs.,
21, 25. See also Leadership
teams
Thematic goals: defining objectives
for, 124–126, 128; examples of,
127–130; identifying standard
operating objectives, 126–127,
128; illustrated, 125; isolating,
121–122; purpose of, 131; setting
meeting priorities with, 179–180;
as team’s collective responsibility,
123–124; time frame for,
130–131
Top-down communication,
148–150
Topical strategic meetings, 175,
182–184
Trust: exercise for building, 55–56;
as key behavioral principle, 26;
overcoming fundamental
attribution errors, 32–34;
revealing personal tendencies,
30–32; role of conflict in, 38,
43–45, 47; sharing personal
history with team, 28–30;
vulnerability required in, 27–28,
35–37

U
Upward and lateral communication,
150–151
V
Values: accidental, 93, 98–99;
aspirational, 93, 95–97; clarifying
personal and professional, 91–92;
core, 93–95; difficulties
developing, 92–93; permissionto-play, 97–98; steps for
identifying core, 102–104; types
of, 93
Vulnerability: allowing in peer-topeer accountability, 54–55;
conflict requiring, 41; heart of,
28; leader’s commitment to,
35–37; overcoming fundamental
attribution errors with, 32–34;
required in trust building, 27–28,
35–37; sharing personal histories,
28–30; too much, 35
W
Wealth-focused purpose, 89
What do we do?, 105–106
What is most important, right
now?, 119–131
Who must do what, 132–137
Why do we exist?, 82–90
Wisdom of Teams, The (Katzenbach
and Douglas), 21
Working groups, 21, 25

216

The Table Group is dedicated to helping organizations of
all kinds function more effectively through better leadership,
teamwork, and overall health.

Visit our website, and explore:
Consulting: Table Group Consultants
provide practical, fast-paced consulting and
training sessions to leaders and their teams.

Speaking: Patrick Lencioni brings
his models on teamwork, leadership, and
organizational health to tens of thousands
of leaders each year.

Books: Patrick Lencioni’s nine bestselling books have sold over 3 million
copies worldwide and tackle topics
surrounding organizational health,
leadership, and teams.

Products: The Five Dysfunctions of a
Team and The Three Signs of a Miserable Job
products were developed to help managers,
leaders, and their teams address issues
around teamwork and job fulfillment.

www.tablegroup.com 925.299.9700

