VALUE-BASED

FEES

How to Charge—and Get—

WHAT YOU’RE WORTH
A Guide for Consultants
Second Edition

ALAN WEISS, PH.D.
Author of The Ultimate Consultant

The U L T I M A T E
C O N S U LTA N T
Series

ffirs.indd iii

7/1/08 2:53:13 PM

ffirs.indd ii

7/1/08 2:53:13 PM

VALUE-BASED

FEES

ffirs.indd i

7/1/08 2:53:12 PM

ffirs.indd ii

7/1/08 2:53:13 PM

VALUE-BASED

FEES

How to Charge—and Get—

WHAT YOU’RE WORTH
A Guide for Consultants
Second Edition

ALAN WEISS, PH.D.
Author of The Ultimate Consultant

The U L T I M A T E
C O N S U LTA N T
Series

ffirs.indd iii

7/1/08 2:53:13 PM

Copyright © 2008 by Alan Weiss. All Rights Reserved.
Published by Pfeiffer
An Imprint of Wiley
989 Market Street, San Francisco, CA 94103-1741
www.pfeiffer.com
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form
or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as
permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior
written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee
to the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, 978-750-8400, fax
978-646-8600, or on the web at www.copyright.com. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be
addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030,
201-748-6011, fax 201-748-6008, or online at http://www.wiley.com/go/permissions.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best efforts
in preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy
or completeness of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied warranties of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales
representatives or written sales materials. The advice and strategies contained herein may not be suitable
for your situation. You should consult with a professional where appropriate. Neither the publisher nor
author shall be liable for any loss of profit or any other commercial damages, including but not limited to
special, incidental, consequential, or other damages.
Readers should be aware that Internet websites offered as citations and/or sources for further
information may have changed or disappeared between the time this was written and when it is read.
For additional copies/bulk purchases of this book in the U.S. please contact 800-274-4434.
Pfeiffer books and products are available through most bookstores. To contact Pfeiffer directly call our
Customer Care Department within the U.S. at 800-274-4434, outside the U.S. at 317-572-3985, fax 317-5724002, or visit www.pfeiffer.com.
Pfeiffer also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that appears in print may
not be available in electronic books.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Weiss, Alan, 1946–
Value-based fees : how to charge—and get—what you’re worth : a guide for consultants/
Alan Weiss.—2nd ed.
p. cm.—(The ultimate consultant series)
Includes index.
ISBN 978-0-470-27584-9 (cloth)
1. Business consultants—Fees. I. Title.
HD69.C6W466 2008
001—dc22
2008014816
Acquiring Editor: Matthew Davis
Director of Development: Kathleen Dolan Davies
Senior Production Editor: Kelsey McGee
Editor: Bruce Emmer
HB Printing

ffirs.indd iv

Editorial Assistant: Lindsay Morton
Manufacturing Supervisor: Becky Morgan
Printed in the United States of America

10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

7/1/08 2:53:13 PM

Dedicated to the heroic people
in our police and fire departments,
whose value will always exceed anything
any of us could ever afford to pay.

ffirs.indd v

7/1/08 2:53:14 PM

Other Works b y Ala n Wei s s
Books
Best-Laid Plans
Breaking Through Writer’s Block
Getting Started in Consulting
Good Enough Isn’t Enough
The Great Big Book of Process Visuals
Great Consulting Challenges
How to Acquire Clients
How to Establish a Unique Brand in the Consulting Profession
How to Market, Brand, and Sell Professional Services
How to Sell New Business and Expand Existing Business
How to Write a Proposal That’s Accepted Every Time
The Innovation Formula (with Mike Robert)
Life Balance
Managing for Peak Performance
Million Dollar Consulting
Million Dollar Consulting® Toolkit
Money Talks
Organizational Consulting
Our Emperors Have No Clothes
Process Consulting
The Second Great Big Book of Process Visuals
The Ultimate Consultant
The Unofficial Guide to Power Management
Booklets
Doing Well by Doing Right
How to Maximize Fees
Leadership Every Day
Raising the Bar
Rejoicing in Diversity
Audiocassettes, CDs, Albums
MBA (Mentored by Alan), Vol. I
MBA, Vol. II
MBA, Vol. III
MBA, Vol. IV
MBA, Vol. V
Million Dollar Consulting® Skills
Peak Performance
The Consultant’s Treasury
The Odd Couple® (with Patricia Fripp)
Winning the Race to the Market
Video
Alan Weiss’s Make-a-Million Marketing
Newsletter
Balancing Act®

ffirs.indd vi

7/1/08 2:53:14 PM

About the Author

A

lan Weiss is one of those rare people who can say he
is a consultant, speaker, and author and mean it. His
consulting firm, Summit Consulting Group, Inc., has attracted
clients such as Merck, Hewlett-Packard, GE, Mercedes-Benz,
State Street Corporation, Times Mirror Group, the Federal
Reserve, the New York Times Corporation, and more than five
hundred other leading organizations. He serves on the board
of directors of the Trinity Repertory Company, a Tony Award–
winning New England regional theater; Festival Ballet; and is
the chairman of the Newport International Film Festival.
His speaking typically includes thirty keynote addresses
a year at major conferences, and he has been a visiting faculty
member at Case Western Reserve University, Boston College,
Tufts, Saint John’s, the University of Illinois, the Institute of
Management Studies, and the University of Georgia Graduate
School of Business. He has held an appointment as adjunct
professor in the Graduate School of Business at the University
of Rhode Island, where he taught courses on advanced management and consulting skills. He holds the record for selling out the highest-priced workshop (on entrepreneurialism)
in the twenty-one-year history of New York City’s Learning
Annex. His Ph.D. is in psychology, and he is a member of the
American Psychological Society, the American Counseling

vii

ffirs.indd vii

7/1/08 2:53:14 PM

Association, Division 13 of the American Psychological Association, and the
Society for Personality and Social Psychology. He serves on the board of governors of Harvard University’s Center for Mental Illness and the Media. He
has keynoted for the American Psychological Association on two occasions.
He is a 2006 inductee into the Professional Speaking Hall of Fame and
the concurrent recipient of the National Speakers Association Council of Peers
Award of Excellence, representing the top 1 percent of professional speakers
in the world.
His prolific publishing includes more than five hundred articles and
twenty-seven books, including his best-seller, Million Dollar Consulting
(McGraw-Hill). His newest is The Global Consultant (Wiley). His books have
been on the curriculum at Villanova, Temple University, and the Wharton
School of Business and have been translated into German, Italian, Korean,
Arabic, Spanish, Russian, and Chinese.
He is interviewed and quoted frequently in the media and is an active
member of the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists. His
career has taken him to fifty-six countries and forty-nine states (he is afraid to
go to North Dakota). Success Magazine has cited him in an editorial devoted
to his work as “a worldwide expert in executive education.” The New York
Post calls him “one of the most highly regarded independent consultants in
America.” He is the winner of the prestigious AXIEM Award for Excellence
in Audio Presentation.
In 2006, he was presented with the Lifetime Achievement Award of the
American Press Institute, the first ever for a nonjournalist and one of only
seven awarded in the sixty-year history of the association.
He has coached the former and present Miss Rhode Island and
Miss America candidates in interviewing skills. He once appeared on the
popular American TV game show Jeopardy, where he lost badly in the first
round to a dancing waiter from Iowa.

viii

ffirs.indd viii

About the Author

7/1/08 2:53:14 PM

Contents

Introduction
Preface to the Second Edition
Acknowledgments

CHAPTER

1

The Concept of Fees

xv
xvii
xix

1

Will People Actually Give Me Their
Money for My Advice?
The Ethical Nature of Capitalism
The Mercedes-Benz Syndrome
The Importance of Buyer Commitment,
Not Compliance
Critical Steps for Buyer Commitment
The Buoyancy of Brands:
How Brands Help Fees
Creating Shared Success
Chapter ROI

Interlude: A Case of Bottom-Line
Blindness

2
5
9
11
12
15
18

21

ix

ftoc.indd ix

7/1/08 2:54:52 PM

CHAPTER

2

The Lunacy
of Time-and-Materials Models

23

Who Wants to Be as Dumb as a Lawyer?

CHAPTER

3

Supply-and-Demand Illogic
Ethical Conflicts of Interest and Other
Small Matters
Limiting Profits, or Why Not Just Forget
Domani?
Why Lawyers and CPAs Do So Poorly
Educating the Buyer Incorrectly
Chapter ROI

32
35
37
39

The Basics of Value-Based Fees

41

4

28

It’s Better to Be an Artist Than to Be an
Engineer
Focusing on Outcomes, Not Inputs
The Fallacy and Subversive Nature of
“Deliverables”
Quantitative and Qualitative Measures
and Criteria
Measuring the Unmeasurable
Serving the Client’s Self-Interest
The Subtle Transformation: Consultant
Past to Client Future
Perpetual Motion, Perpetual Progress
Chapter ROI

CHAPTER

25

42
45
49
52
54
56
58
60

Interlude: The Case of the Annoying
Accountants

61

How to Establish
Value-Based Fees

63

If You Read Only One Chapter . . .
Conceptual Agreement: The Foundation
of Value

x

ftoc.indd x

64

Contents

7/1/08 2:54:53 PM

Establishing Your Unique Value
Creating the “Good Deal” Dynamic
The Incredibly Powerful “Choice of Yeses”
Some Formulas for the Faint of Heart
Chapter ROI

CHAPTER

5

68
72
75
79
82

How to Convert Existing Clients 85
Correcting Your Own Mistakes
Setting Priorities Among Existing Clients 86
Offering New Value
90
Finding New Buyers Within
Existing Clients
94
Finding New Circumstances
97
What If Clients Resist Conversion?
99
Abandoning Business
101
Chapter ROI
103

CHAPTER

6

Interlude: The Case of the
Loaded Loading Dock

105

The Fine and High Art of
Using Retainers

107

It’s Just the Smarts, Stupid
Optimal Conditions for Retainer
Arrangements
Choosing Time Frames and
Creating Realistic Expectations
Organizing the Scope and Managing
Projects Within the Retainer
Capitalizing on Retainer Relationships
Aggressively Marketing Retainer
Relationships
Chapter ROI

Ethics and Fees, Fees and Ethics:
A Midbook Practicum
Contents

ftoc.indd xi

108
113
116
119
121
124

127
xi

7/1/08 2:54:53 PM

CHAPTER

7

Seventy Ways to Raise Fees and/
or Increase Profits Immediately 141
Act Today and Receive the
Bass-o-Matic Free of Charge!
Chapter ROI

159

Interlude: The Case of the Rebounding
Retainer

CHAPTER

8

161

How to Prevent and Rebut Fee
Objections
163
Since You’ve Heard Them All Before, How
Can You Not Know All the Answers?
The Four Fundamental Areas of
Resistance
165
Maintaining the Focus on Value
170
Boring In on the Subject
173
Offering Discounts
176
Using “Smack to the Head” Comparisons 177
Ignoring the Competition
179
Chapter ROI
181

Interlude: The Case of the Perverse
Purchasing Agent

CHAPTER

9

183

Setting Fees for Nonconsulting
Opportunities
185
How to Make Money While You Sleep,
Eat, Play, and Make Money Elsewhere
Keynote Speaking: Don’t Charge for Your
Spoken Words
186
Highly Leveraged Practices for Working
with Bureaus
190
Products
192

xii

ftoc.indd xii

Contents

7/1/08 2:54:53 PM

CHAPTER

10

Exploring New Lucrative Fields
And Now for Some Perspective
Chapter ROI

196
202
204

Fee Progression Strategies

205

Why You Fall Behind When You
Stand Still
Entry-Level Fees
Transition to a “Going Concern”
Transition to Word-of-Mouth
Transition to the Brand Phase
Transition to the Ultimate Consultant
The Book’s ROI: Alan’s Axioms for the
“Good Deal”

206
209
211
213
217
219

Interlude: The Case of the Fee Feng Shui 225

CHAPTER

11

Technology and Fees
The Service Enhancement
The Publishing Prerogative
The Remote Consultant
Passive Income
The Bottom Line
Chapter ROI

APPENDIX

APPENDIX

Contents

ftoc.indd xiii

227

Greater Wealth in the Brave New World
227
230
233
236
238
240

A:

Questions for Qualifying the
Economic Buyer

241

B:

Questions for Establishing
Business Objectives

243

xiii

7/1/08 2:54:54 PM

C:

Questions for Establishing
Measures of Success

245

D:

Questions for Establishing
Value

247

APPENDIX

E:

Questions for Assessing Personal
Value Contribution
249

APPENDIX

F:

The Difference Between
Inputs and Business Outputs

251

Index

253

APPENDIX

APPENDIX

xiv

ftoc.indd xiv

Contents

7/1/08 2:54:54 PM

Introduction

T

he Ultimate Consultant series is intended for successful practitioners who are seeking to scale still loftier
heights. I’m happy to be among them.
This book is probably on the topic most eagerly anticipated of any I’ve written about in consulting. For the first
time, I’ve recorded everything I know about the techniques
that have worked best for me in raising fees, obtaining fees
from unlikely sources, and supporting continuing fees. Yet
this is by no means a mercenary book.
I believe in two aspects of consulting very strongly. First,
you can’t help others until you help yourself. Consequently,
unless you’re at least comfortable and secure financially, it’s
difficult to engage in pro bono work, to contribute to charities,
and to help others to achieve their goals. Second, the basis for
any successful client relationship is a win-win dynamic, the
“good deal” you’ll read about throughout this book. Therefore,
you have to be treated well financially, and the client has to
appreciate your value.
And when you come right down to it, there’s a third aspect:
clients truly believe that they get what they pay for. No buyer
ever bragged about being successful in capturing the cheapest consultant available, someone sitting by the phone with
no business who took on the assignment in return for food.

xv

fbetw.indd xv

7/1/08 3:19:23 PM

No, buyers—and their egos—revel in telling people that they snagged a
consultant impossible to obtain, had to pay dearly, and expect everyone to
listen closely.
After I worked on a project for a total of about six hours, the CEO asked
his top officers what they would have charged had they been I. They guessed
about $2,000 or less, having multiplied and divided by the $150 or $200 hourly
rate that they charged.
“Well,” said the CEO, “he’s charging us $18,000, so listen up!”
Dizzy Dean said once, “If you can do it, it ain’t braggin’.” As you read
on, you might want to listen up.
Alan Weiss, Ph.D.
East Greenwich, Rhode Island
March 2008

xvi

fbetw.indd xvi

Introduction

7/1/08 3:19:25 PM

Preface to the Second Edition

T

his book has proved to be the most popular of the
Ultimate Consultant series. Small wonder. Consultants
endure great risk and plow through tough work to create a successful practice, much less a thriving brand. Yet they all too often
undermine themselves by overdelivering and undercharging.
Today more than ever, in an age of increased ethical focus
and corporate scrutiny, I believe that hourly and per diem billing are unethical and antithetical to clients’ best interests. I’m
proud to have pioneered the concept of value-based billing in
the late 1980s for solo practitioners, and I’m delighted to be
furthering that cause today. You’ll find herein my latest techniques and approaches, which embrace the new technology,
globalization, competition, and societal changes affecting our
world today.
The client is best served by rapid resolutions and improvements in a changing world. The consultant is best served for
the contribution made to the client’s success. That’s as perfect
an equation as there is in nature, and it is what made me the
Million Dollar Consulting® expert. Please read along and join
the club.
Alan Weiss, Ph.D.
East Greenwich, Rhode Island
March 2008

xvii

fpref.indd xvii

7/1/08 3:21:53 PM

fpref.indd xviii

7/1/08 3:21:53 PM

Acknowledgments

M

y thanks go to the people who have made the
fees possible, the wonderful clients with whom
I’ve had the good fortune to work over the past two decades. I
immodestly think that they’re better off, and I know that I am.
They are wonderful people.
Who says that nice guys finish last?
Here’s to the most enduring clients: Dr. William Winter,
Keith Darcy, George Rizk, Art Strohmer, Jarvis Coffin, Marilyn
Martiny, Wayne Cooper, Lowell Anderson, Roseann Strichnoth,
and Jerry Arbarbanal.
Deep appreciation goes to the wonderful editors at
Jossey-Bass/Pfeiffer, headed by Kathleen Dolan Davies, the
only human who speaks even faster than I do. It has been a joy
to work with them all.
My thanks also go to Matt Davis for suggesting and
assisting in this new edition.
Once again to L.T. Weiss, my love and affection—I know
you hear me.
A.W.

xix

flast.indd xix

7/1/08 3:23:46 PM

flast.indd xx

7/1/08 3:23:47 PM

VALUE-BASED

FEES

flast.indd xxi

7/1/08 3:23:47 PM

flast.indd xxii

7/1/08 3:23:47 PM

C H A P T E R

1

The Concept of Fees
Will People Actually Give Me
Their Money for My Advice?

A

fee is remuneration provided in return for perceived
value received. I’m now tempted to write, “End of
Chapter One.”
The concept of providing a fee for services rendered is a
very old one that probably began in earnest with the end of
subsistence farming. Once people had the knowledge and
the primitive technology to grow more food than they could
personally consume, they created the first medium for a
fee: surplus goods of perceived value (food, of course, being of
immense value to people who are hungry). The farmer could
now acquire goods and services that could not be produced
personally due to lack of time, lack of knowledge, and lack
of tools.
Consequently, a class of people arose who could not or
chose not to farm but could earn their food by providing such
goods and services. Some people provided things directly relevant to farming: tools, seeds, animals. But others provided

1

c01.indd 1

7/1/08 2:41:04 PM

for more personal needs: furniture, clothing, medicines. Still others, however,
provided for the more conceptual needs: education, amusement, art.
It was only a matter of time before consultants were offering advice in
return for food. You don’t believe me? Every early potentate and satrap had
court advisers, ranging from astrologers to fortune-tellers, from high priests
to military experts. Some day archaeologists will unearth the pyramid that
housed the thousands of consultants who guided that entire construction
project. Their fees just might have been immortality.
My point is that people have been receiving fees in return for advice in
one way, shape, or form for millennia, so we shouldn’t be tentative or hesitant
about the process here in the twenty-first century.

T H E E T H I C A L N AT U R E O F C A P I TA L I S M
We live in a capitalistic society. It is apparently a creaky system that happens
to work far better than others, since in our lifetimes we’ve seen it grow to
be the dominant economic configuration in the world. The exchange of
goods and services for some form of remuneration, with a minimum of government interference or arbitrary regulation, is the system within which
we live.1
Capitalism is based on a highly ethical set of premises: You agree to
deliver a product or service of an agreed-on quality at a certain time and in
a certain condition; in return, I agree to provide certain remuneration in a
specified amount on a particular date. That sounds simple, but it’s actually
the basis for all of our transactions involving the exchange of value for compensation.
Russia has failed at capitalism not because of an underlying or lingering communist belief system and not because of a lack of resources (it has
oil and natural gas wealth, which could finally enable it to dictate terms to

1

Of course, capitalism is far better for generating wealth than for distributing wealth, which is
why communism, socialism, and other mechanisms of state control have been popular (or at
least tolerated) at various times. But they wind up creating an even worse class system, a fact to
which any communist state, from the old Soviet Union to the lingering Cuba, can attest.

2

c01.indd 2

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:41:05 PM

western Europe) or an unwilling populace. It has failed because the ethical
basis required for the system to work is not firmly in place. There is still too
much of an attitude of “Can I get away with this?” and “How can I take
advantage of the other party?” We can also see this situationally in some professions, in certain industries, and in some organizations.

Fees are actually dependent on only two things: is there perceived
value for the services provided that justifies the fee, and do both
parties possess the intent of acting ethically?

For a consultant, the questions are about value, not fees. Fees are dependent on value provided in the perception of the buyer and on the intent of the
buyer and the consultant to do the right thing—to act ethically. The consultant,
who provides what is often nothing more than advice—whispers in the buyer ’s
ear—must be diligent to ensure that the buyer perceives the value of the advice
and will act properly upon receiving it (pay the bill, preferably promptly).
The mistakes consultants make about fees at the conceptual, strategic,
and 50,000-foot level are these:

• Failing to understand that perceived value is the basis of the fee and
consequently attempting to manage (lower) the fee rather than manage
(raise) the value.
• Failing to translate the importance of their advice into long-term gains
for the client in the client’s perception and therefore believing that they
must base their value on deliverables, time, and materials, which are
actually low-value commodities.
• Failing to create a relationship with a legitimate, economic buyer,2 meaning that the client may not do the right thing ethically (delay payment,
argue about your value, arbitrarily change objectives).

2

See my Million-Dollar Consulting, Getting Started in Consulting, and The Ultimate Consultant for
more discussion of identifying and reaching economic buyers.

The Concept of Fees

c01.indd 3

3

7/1/08 2:41:05 PM

• Failing to have the courage and belief system that support the high value
delivered to the client, thereby reducing fees to a level commensurate
with the consultant’s own low self-esteem. That’s right, consultants, not
clients, are the main cause of low consulting fees.
• Failing to listen to modern consulting business advice and immersing
themselves amid the old guard, who foolishly believe that you take your
annual income need, divide it by hours available, and thereby establish
an hourly fee. Even the atavistic legal profession, which recently introduced $1,000-per-hour fees, seems to recognize that this is a good tactic
to drive clients to a project-billing system.
• Failing to “push back” at the client and explain that it doesn’t matter that
every prior consultant charged by the hour (or day or parsec), but
that value-based fees are more ethical and productive for the client.
One of the main causes for failing to create a perception of value is that
the consultant doesn’t appreciate that value. Since there are no “consulting
schools” (with the immodest exception of my own Million Dollar Consulting®
Colleges and Graduate Schools) and not even an objective certification or
licensing process for consultants, there is also no canon of consulting performance or behavior. Over 80 percent of the consultants I’ve met 3 fail to obtain
a statement of value from the buyer relative to the success of the project. In
other words, consultants are focused on the input side of the equation, trying
to determine numbers of billable hours and just what that hourly rate can be,
rather than focused on the output side: What will the project accomplish in
terms of business goals? What is my contribution to that lasting benefit? and
What is the proper fee to be paid in exchange for that large contribution,
which the buyer has already stipulated?
The absence of conceptual agreement with an economic buyer on the
value of the project to the organization is the primary cause of an inability to
calculate return on investment (ROI), thereby forcing the buyer to look at cost
and not results.

3

I’ve conducted a formal mentoring program for consultants around the world for more than
a dozen years, so my experience base here is rather comprehensive. I’ve also consulted with
some of the largest consulting firms in the world and scores of boutique firms, especially in
Europe.

4

c01.indd 4

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:41:06 PM

I suspect that in the old days, the farmer would say to the teacher, “If
you tutor my children once a week, I’ll give you a chicken and a bag of grain.”
Even today, the government says to the teacher, “Teach the community’s children, and here’s what we’ll pay you” (not really much more than a chicken
and a bag of grain, taking into account inflation over several thousand years).
But a consultant—the ultimate business teacher—should be saying to the
client, “Here’s the value we will create together, and here’s your share, and
here’s my share.” The problem is that too many consultants are still working
for chicken feed.

Establishing value with the client is key. If the focus is on fees and
not on value, the client has taken control of the discussion, and the
client’s focus will never be on maximizing your fees.

Ethically, the transaction should be based on fair remuneration for fair
value delivered. That early teacher wasn’t providing a morning a week of
teaching but rather the opportunity for the farmer ’s children to escape the
daylong drudgery of farming and the limited life it afforded (especially after
technology made the need for children on the farm less vital and transient
workers provided extra labor in exchange for food). What is the value of one’s
children escaping their parents’ lowly lot, avoiding an impoverished life, and
building a better future (and perhaps taking care of their parents with their
future fortunes)? It’s got to be worth at least two chickens and maybe a pig.

THE MERCEDES-BENZ SYNDROME
People believe they get what they pay for. Moreover, emotion makes them act,
while logic only makes them think. Put those two immutable theorems together,
and you have what I’ve termed the Mercedes-Benz syndrome (MBS).
When people enter an auto showroom today, no matter at what economic
stratum, the salespeople don’t launch into intricate pitches about the electronic fuel injection or the wonders of rack-and-pinion steering. They encourage the potential buyer to sit in the car and then mention, with a straight face,

The Concept of Fees

c01.indd 5

5

7/1/08 2:41:06 PM

“You really look cool in that car!” Yes, and the more expensive the model, the
cooler we tend to look.
No one needs a Mercedes-Benz for transportation. Not at that price
level, they don’t. But a car purchase is, after all, a lifestyle statement, and a
Mercedes can begin to look quite reasonable in that light. When women try
on a new frock, the sales help always say, “That was made for you; it brings
out your eyes!” Despite the fact that I’ve never understood why a woman
wants her eyes brought out, this ploy is always effective, even though it’s
repeated 26,000 times every day in the same department. When a man orders
wine at dinner, the captain always says in response, “Excellent choice!” as the
guy preens in that complimentary glow. (Never mind that he ordered Wild
Coyote Road Kill or that May wasn’t such a good month.)
Fees are based on perceived value. That perceived value is in the eyes and
the cerebellum of the buyer. Consequently, the buyer ’s perception of value
is the first point of attack for a consultant who wishes to maximize income.

Psychologically, people believe they get what they pay for.
Consequently, there is tremendous power in helping the buyer
stipulate his or her perceived value from the project and then
working to maximize that perception.

Consultants are almost always remiss when it comes to obtaining some
agreement from the buyer on the value of the results of the project. Sometimes
the consultant is too anxious to attempt to close the sale; sometimes the relationship isn’t yet strong enough to do it; many times the consultant feels inferior and not enough of a peer to suggest it; sometimes the skills are missing;
and often it’s plain sloth.
Here are some basic questions to use to help the buyer arrive at
some measure of value for any given project. You don’t need to ask these
interrogation-style, but it is a good idea to have them written somewhere and
work them conversationally into the discussion until you’re comfortable that
you’ve obtained a clear expression of value.

6

c01.indd 6

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:41:06 PM

Thirteen Questions for Establishing Value with the Buyer4
1. What will be the difference in your organization at the conclusion of this
project?
2. What if you did nothing?
3. What if this project failed (or have these attempts failed in the past)?
4. What will you be able to do that you can’t do now?
5. What will be the effect on revenues (sales, profits, market share, and
so on)?
6. What will be the difference for your reputation (image, standing, stature,
and so on)?
7. What are the three greatest impacts of the result of this project’s success?
(People love to think in threes.)
8. What will your boss’s reaction be to this success? (Even economic buyers
have a boss; sometimes it’s the board.)
9. What will this mean to you personally?
10. What peripheral and secondary value do you see accruing to this
project?
11. What will you be proudest of at the conclusion of the project?
12. What will be the legacy of this project?
13. What will it mean to be on the leading edge, the thought leader in the
field?
You can create another bunch of questions if you like. My point is that
you have to be prepared to discuss value with the buyer very early, prior to
discussing methodology, options, timing, or, heaven forfend, fees.
Another fascinating aspect of MBS is that buyers have egos, which
can greatly affect the buying process if you allow them to (and you want to
allow them to, believe me). No buyer in my experience has ever said, “OK,
we’ve managed to secure the cheapest consultant we can find for our sales
development. He was sitting at home with nothing to do, waiting to go to his

4

I’m tired of “top ten” lists, so here’s an extra 33 percent of value from me to you. Also note
that these questions are useless unless applied with the economic buyer—the person capable
of writing the check.

The Concept of Fees

c01.indd 7

7

7/1/08 2:41:06 PM

normal day job, but I’ve persuaded him to work with us for $250 a day. We
can afford that much, so let’s use him as best we can.”
Buyers are much more apt to say this to the troops: “Listen up. I’ve hired
the finest consultant in the country on sales development. She graciously
agreed to postpone a vacation to be with us. She’s very expensive but worth
every cent if we use her right. Now pay close attention, and plan to work with
her closely.”
When a CEO is in trouble, that person will call either someone who has
clearly helped in the past or, if no one comes to mind, a “name” or a “brand”
such as McKinsey or Andersen. No CEO wants to appear before the board
and introduce a consulting firm without a track record or without a recognizable name. The executive ego will not permit it (“This person is taking advice
from someone I’ve never heard of?”). The same holds true for every buyer.
People believe they get what they pay for—and with their careers and businesses, they want the best.
Consequently, does your image fit the MBS? Do your materials bespeak
a successful consultant? Are you proud of your Web site? Is your appearance
professional and that of a peer to the buyer ’s? Intellectually, are you able to
interact and even “push back” to demonstrate value in the earliest meetings?
Are you building a brand and cementing your position as an expert? You
can’t start this too early, and you can never stop doing it.

Value is often a function of not agreeing, not being supportive, and
not being a “yes person.” How willing are you to disagree, question
basic premises, and refuse impossible expectations?

Finally, the MBS creates rising expectations, which means that the buyer
is prone to improve his or her condition through perceived high-value assistance. Why purchase a less expensive model when the (perceived) better one is
only a few hundred dollars more per month on the lease payment? Why take
a basic consulting approach when a more sophisticated one is available?
That presupposes that a more sophisticated one is available, meaning
that higher fees will always depend on the buyer ’s seeing a set of options.

8

c01.indd 8

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:41:07 PM

The ultimate consultant always provides options for the client’s review so
that the buyer can determine just how much value is available in terms of
differing investments.
Offering options—a choices of yeses—moves the buyer psychologically
from “Should I do this?” to “How should I do this?” You’ve just increased
your odds of a high-fee sale by at least 50 percent.
A consultant once asked me, “Aren’t we ethically compelled to provide
every possible assistance to meet the client’s objectives?” Unequivocally
no. We must meet the client’s objectives. But if the client’s objective is, say,
“increasing sales closing rates,” then conducting industrywide benchmarking studies or longitudinal analyses for two years or 360-degree feedback on
four levels of management represents value above and beyond merely meeting the objective of “increasing sales closing rates,” for example.
Offer a client various “value packages” that help the buyer ascend the
MBS ladder. Over the course of my career, buyers have chosen my least
expensive option less than 10 percent of the time and my most expensive
option over 35 percent of the time.
How much money are you leaving on the table? If it’s $50,000 a year, in
ten years that’s half a million dollars that can never be recovered. If it’s $100,000
annually, just $10,000 on ten projects a year, you are going to lose millions.

T H E I M P O R TA N C E O F B U Y E R
C O M M I T M E N T, N O T C O M P L I A N C E
I can prove anything on a double-axis chart,5 but the matrix in Figure 1.1.
happens to hold true. As you can see in the figure, the ideal relationship
occurs when buyer commitment to the project (and to you) is high and your
fee is high. If buyer commitment is high and your fee is low, you are wasting
an opportunity. If buyer commitment is low and your fee is low, you will, at
best, create an indifferent sale. And when fees are high but commitment is
low, you will be shown the door.

5
In fact, my Great Big Book of Process Visuals bears the subtitle Give Me a Double-Axis Chart and
I Can Rule the World.

The Concept of Fees

c01.indd 9

9

7/1/08 2:41:07 PM

Commitment

Fee
Low

High

High

Wasted
Opportunity

Reciprocal
Value

Low

Apathy

No Sale

Figure 1.1 The Relationships Between Fees and Buyer Commitment.
My estimate is that most consultants’ approaches (whether or not they
actually get the business) are in the bottom left quadrant about 25 percent
of the time, in the bottom right quadrant about 10 percent of the time, in the
upper left quadrant about 60 percent of the time, and in the upper right quadrant only about 5 percent of the time!
That’s right: most consultants, including most of you reading this, habitually undercharge for your services and deliver far more than you are receiving
in remuneration, considering your contribution to success. You are undercharging and overdelivering, and lest you consider that an exalted position, consider
trying to pay your mortgage or IRA contribution with that combination.
Most buyers comply. That is, they are willing to go along with the
“expert,” even if it’s sometimes against their better judgment. Or they will
delegate you to someone they believe has the technical ability to evaluate
your proposition, typically in the human resource department, finance, or
legal. (Put these together, and they are an anagram for “no business here.”)
Buyers who merely comply may be seen at first blush as easy to work with,
but they are actually land mines waiting for some weight to trigger them.
That’s because they hold the consultant responsible for everything. They
believe that you are doing something to them or for them or at them, but certainly not with them.
Compliance is dangerous because the buyer usually takes no inherent
responsibility for the project but rather abdicates to the consultant. I’ve never
found a project that a consultant can unilaterally implement successfully, since
consultants have responsibility but no real authority. (When that dynamic is
reversed, it’s the sign of a very poor implementation scheme.)

10

c01.indd 10

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:41:07 PM

Consulting projects should be true partnerships between the consultant and the economic buyer. This begins prior to the proposal’s being signed
and is an integral aspect of obtaining high fees. A merely compliant buyer
will grudgingly or apathetically go along with the implementation but will
do so at the lowest possible fee. The head is involved but not the gut (logic
makes people think, but emotion makes them act). Large fees are dependent
on emotional buy-in, and that must be achieved in the relationship aspect of
the consulting sequence, well prior to the actual closing of business.
This is why patience in formulating the right relationship is more important than attempting to make a “fast sale.” The former is a partnership where
fees are academic; the latter is a unilateral benefit where fees are often the
main point of contention.

The buyer’s commitment to outcomes and to his or her role in the
partnership being formed to reach those outcomes is the key determinant of high fees. Buyers who are too willing to go along with
your recommendations are as potentially fatal as those who dig in
their heels after you’ve said hello.

CRITICAL STEPS FOR BUYER
COMMITMENT
It’s worth repeating here briefly the sequence of events in the consulting business acquisition process that engenders the highest-quality commitment, the
first three shown in the graphic in Figure 1.2.

• Shared Values: Those common business beliefs that will allow you to
work effectively with the prospect—for example, a mutual antipathy for downsizing or a common belief in the importance of ongoing employee feedback
• Relationship: That level of a trusting interaction in which you and the
buyer are comfortable with each other, can be honest (even in disagreeing),
and share insights and assistance with each other on a mutual basis

The Concept of Fees

c01.indd 11

11

7/1/08 2:41:08 PM

Results

Implementation

Proposal
Accepted
Conceptual
Agreement
Relationship
Shared
Values

Figure 1.2 Consulting Business Acquisition Sequence.

• Conceptual Agreement: Agreement between you and the buyer on the
objectives for the project, expressed as business outcomes; metrics, measures of
progress toward those objectives; and value, the buyer ’s stipulation of how
he or she and the organization will be better off as a result of those objectives
being met
These three critical steps, each dependent on the prior step being successfully in place and addressed in detail in Chapters Three and Four, will garner
buyer commitment. The absence of conceptual agreement will result in either a
lost sale or a lousy sale (and the latter is often more damaging than the former).
Fees are dependent on buyer commitment well before a proposal is ever
tendered. Note that fees are not even on my chart.

T H E B U O YA N C Y O F B R A N D S :
HOW BRANDS HELP FEES
The second book in this series was dedicated to branding for consultants.
One of the key reasons for effective branding is to enhance fees.

12

c01.indd 12

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:41:08 PM

Fees are (or should be) based on value. That value is always in the eye
of the beholder—in our case, the economic buyer. Hence the more value
conveyed to that buyer by the most powerful means, the less downward
pressure on fees. Effective branding actually creates a fee “buoyancy.”

There is actually one thing better than a buyer impressed by you
and respecting you on sight, and that is the buyer impressed by
you and respecting you before ever laying eyes on you.

No CEO ever said, “Get McKinsey in here,” when strategy work was
needed, then followed up by saying, “I think they’re too expensive.” As they
say in the Ferrari showroom when someone asks about gas mileage or insurance costs, “If that’s your concern, you really shouldn’t be here.”
Ferrari is a brand that evokes certain immediate understandings on the
part of the potential individual buyer:

• High cost
• Top status
• High maintenance
• High insurance
• High repair costs
• Unique image
• Personal ego needs met
You know those things going in, and they are not points for discussion
when dealing with a salesperson.
Similarly, McKinsey is a brand that evokes certain immediate understandings on the part of the potential corporate buyer:

• High cost (fees will not be negotiable)
• Top status (no one can say we’re giving this short shrift)

The Concept of Fees

c01.indd 13

13

7/1/08 2:41:09 PM

• High maintenance (a lot of junior partners will appear)
• High insurance (the board can’t complain about quality of the help)
• High repair costs (they will recommend tough interventions)
• Unique image (the cachet alone will raise expectations)
• Personal ego needs met (only the best for the best)
You get my point. The mere power of a brand is sufficient to overcome
any resistance to fees and in fact often elevates fees merely by dint of association with such brand images as quality, reputation, client history, and media
attention.
There is no brand as powerful as your name, although strong company
brands can also serve quite well. When a potential client says, “Get me Jane
Jones” or “Get me the Teambuilder,” that client is articulating a clear imperative: don’t go shopping, don’t compare prices, and don’t issue a request for
proposals; just get me that person I’ve heard so much about. (That is far superior to the buyer saying, “Get me a great leadership consultant” and your
name is one of several in the hat.)
As noted in our discussion of the Mercedes-Benz syndrome, brands
create an upward expectation of both quality and commensurate fees. No
one expects an outstanding person to come cheap. In the MBS, you usually
have to convince the buyer of that quality through careful relationship building. But a strong brand shortcuts that process considerably. The relationship
building still needs to be done (for reasons of commitment, as noted earlier),
but the time required is significantly reduced. The buyer wants to be a partner, wants to follow your suggestions, and wants to participate because your
credibility has preceded you.

Brands are accelerators of credibility and therefore of relationships.
They immediately justify higher fees in the mind of the buyer,
and that is the only mind that counts on that matter. Brands are
expressions of uniform quality. The ultimate brand for most solo
consultants is their name, as in: “Get me Joan James.”

14

c01.indd 14

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:41:09 PM

It’s not the intent of this book to explore how to create a brand.6 However,
it is vital to understand brand importance in the fee-setting process. Like bank
loans being hard to acquire when you need them and easy to obtain when
you no longer need them, high fees are most difficult when no one has ever
heard of you and you desperately need the income and easiest when you’re
well known and business is rolling in.
The crime here is that many successful consultants either don’t bother
to use their past success to create effective brands or have created brands that
they don’t properly leverage for higher fees. Tom Clancy has never written a
book nearly as good as his original, The Hunt for Red October, but he’s certainly
been paid far more for every subsequent work than for that first effort. He
has been a smart marketer and a hugely successful “brand” (to the extent that
he hasn’t even written some work but simply inserts “Tom Clancy” on the
cover and it’s sufficient, with due writing credit to another author).
Brands create higher fees. And higher fees enable you to solidify the
credibility of your brand. That’s a great cycle.

C R E AT I N G S H A R E D S U C C E S S
Many consultants take the position (out of arrogance or ignorance) of “Let me
show you how I’m going to improve things around here.” The success is the
consultant’s, a sort of largesse provided for the lucky client. There is a certain
power in being “the expert” without whom all goes to hell, but there is a huge
risk, although not the one that might be apparent.
The apparent risk is that the client might not benefit as desired or, heaven
forbid, might actually suffer a reversal of fortune. Remember the physician’s
sage credo, “First, do no harm.” It’s no accident that large consulting firms are
being sued right and left in this litigious society. They have not “delivered”
the desired results.
However, the greater risk is that even with demonstrable success, the
buyer feels alienated, disenfranchised, and apart from it. The fee in this case,

6
But do feel free to read the prior book in this series, How to Establish a Unique Brand in the
Consulting Profession.

The Concept of Fees

c01.indd 15

15

7/1/08 2:41:09 PM

despite success, will be paid grudgingly. For one thing, the client is now fearful
of long-term dependence and doesn’t want to incur huge costs each time the
consultant’s “expertise” is required to solve another problem. For another,
the buyer does not feel the intrinsic ownership and sense of well-being that
would emotionally overwhelm any reservations about costs. Third, from an
ego perspective, the buyer will feel the need to insert some leverage into the
relationship to retain the perceived upper hand and emphasize that the consultant serves at the buyer ’s pleasure (especially if the results are so visible
that others in the organization are talking about them).

True partners never begrudge each other their proper due. In fact,
there’s an implicit trust that neither partner will take advantage of the
other and that terms, conditions, and time frames are innately fair.

Fee pressure decreases with a sense of shared investment, shared accountabilities, and shared success. Figure 1.3 shows the difference between a focus
on a buyer and seller (top) who are locked into a battle over costs with only
vague benefits established and two partners (bottom) who have agreed on tangible results where the fee is simply an intelligent and economical investment.

Clear
Costs

Uncertain ROI

Vague
Benefits

Clear
Investment

Strong ROI

Clear
Results

Figure 1.3 Costs from the Expert Versus Investment from the Partner.

16

c01.indd 16

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:41:10 PM

When the buyer simply views the consultant as another vendor providing
certain expertise, the cost of acquisition becomes the key focus, because this is a
commodity purchase (Who can provide the cheapest computer monitors per our
specifications?). However, when the buyer ’s self-image and role are as a partner
in the consulting process, the decision becomes one of return on investment,
and the clearer the outcomes (under the conceptual agreement discussed earlier)
and the more dramatic, the higher the investment that is justified.
This is particularly true when that investment includes the buyer and
key organization people in the partnership. Some of the most successful consulting projects I’ve landed—and the ones most impervious to fee pressure—
are those in which a “virtual consulting team” was formed comprising key
client resources and myself. No educated buyer will want to underfund or
hedge on that investment.
These are some of the key factors in shared success:

• A “we” mentality from the first contact with the prospect
• Literature, Web sites, and promotional materials that talk about partnering and shared responsibilities
• A formal description of “joint accountabilities” in the proposal itself7
• A strong focus on outcomes and business results, not on tasks or
deliverables
• Ample opportunity for the buyer and other key people to take credit and
to bask in the success
• Candor in tackling inevitable problems and setbacks
• The consultant’s being seen as an object of interest and center of expertise in the field

Err on the side of the client and buyer receiving more accolades for
success than you. But also err on the side of higher fees and faster
payment of those fees. That’s the quid pro quo.

7

See my How to Write a Proposal That’s Accepted Every Time.

The Concept of Fees

c01.indd 17

17

7/1/08 2:41:10 PM

It really doesn’t matter what the organization believes. What matters is
what the current and future buyers believe. The danger of consultants trying
to “do it alone” is that the client runs through this sequence:
1. Who’s John Adams?
2. Get me that guy John Adams.
3. Get John Adams.
4. Get John Adams if you can.
5. Get someone close to John Adams.
6. Get me a young John Adams.
7. Who’s John Adams?
In a true partnership that focuses on shared success, however, no buyer
will try to eliminate one half of the successful combination.

CHAPTER ROI

• One has to develop a philosophy about fees. They are not a “necessary
evil” or a “dirty part of the job” but rather a wonderful and appropriate exchange for the superb value you are delivering to the client. That
exchange has a long tradition and represents the highest ethical canon of
modern capitalism: agreed payment for agreed value.
• Buyers tend to believe that they get what they pay for, and higher fees
actually convey higher quality for most buyers. Higher fees also guarantee a higher level of buyer commitment, and commitment, not compliance, is key to producing a return-on-investment mentality rather than a
cost-reducing mentality.
• Brands tend to raise buyers’ perception of quality still higher, which is why
strategic marketing is an essential aspect of the consultant’s repertoire.
• The consultant must anticipate and plan to overcome objections about
how other, less enlightened consultants have charged, are charging, or
will charge. That is, literally, neither here nor there.
• Leaving money on the table is the equivalent of burning money—you
will never, ever recover it, and we are talking millions of dollars over
one’s career.

18

c01.indd 18

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:41:10 PM

• Finally, shared success—understood from the outset and achieved at the
conclusion—is vital to the belief in consultant worth as part of a partnership with the buyer.
The One Percent Solution®: Believe in your own value, and build your perceived
value in demonstrable ways every day. That is the fuel for the acceleration of fees.8

8

I’ve come up with what I call The 1% Solution®: improve by 1 percent a day, and in just seventy days, you’re twice as good.

The Concept of Fees

c01.indd 19

19

7/1/08 2:41:11 PM

c01.indd 20

7/1/08 2:41:11 PM

I N T E R L U D E

A Case of Bottom-Line
Blindness

I

was mentoring an individual, Roy, who was getting started
in the consulting business as a second career. He was a
quick learner and willing student.
He provided a proposal to a client, using my proposal
templates and methods, with an option at $72,000 and another
at $86,000. He offered a 10 percent discount for payment at
acceptance for either option.
The client replied that he clearly needed the $86,000
option but had only $70,000 he could free up. Roy came to
me proudly and said, “I’m sticking to my guns. It’s the full
amount or no deal. But I thought I should just test that with
you.” Mind you, this would be Roy’s largest client do date,
just nine months after launching his business.
“What if you asked for the full $70,000 up front?”
I responded. “That sounds like a win-win to me.”
“But that’s giving him option two at option one fees,”
protested Roy.

21

c01.indd 21

7/1/08 2:41:11 PM

Well, let’s do the math. We would be offering a $16,000 discount on
an $86,000 fee, which is 18.6 percent. “That’s way too much,” said Roy.
“A 10 percent discount would come to $77,400.”
“Right,” I acknowledged, but you get seventy grand in hand, no expenses
that aren’t reimbursed by the client, and your biggest sale to date. You’ll have
a prestige client on your list, testimonials, referrals, and a chance to hone your
consulting skills.
“Wow, I nearly blew this,” said Roy.
Yes, he did. I advocate maximizing fees but not mercenary madness.
I’ve always said that if you sell something for $100,000 but could have gladly
done it for $85,000 or happily accepted $115,000, it doesn’t matter. In my system, it’s all profit. If a client makes a reasonable request and there’s a quid pro
quo (here, payment in advance), then don’t stand rigidly by. Consider the
gestalt of the sale and the margin.
Moral: It doesn’t make sense to stick to your guns if they are too stuck to
be used.

22

c01.indd 22

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:41:11 PM

C H A P T E R

2

The Lunacy of
Time-and-Materials
Models
Who Wants to Be as Dumb
as a Lawyer?

H

istorically, consultants have billed for their services
on the basis of time units, usually hourly rates or
per diem assessments. There is no logical reason for doing
so, but the underlying reasons seem to have included the
following:

• Other professionals had set a precedent, most notably
lawyers and accountants, both of whom preceded con-

23

c02.indd 23

7/1/08 2:41:52 PM

sultants on the business stage.1 (Architects, designers, and other professionals also charge in this manner.) Recently, some New York attorneys
made headlines by moving rates to $1,000 per hour, which they readily
conceded they didn’t expect anyone to pay.
• Most of the conventional working trades—plumbers, electricians,
carpenters, and the like—have placed a premium on their time.
• Time is the universal objective, in that the client and the consultant can
agree on the length of an hour or a day. (Of course, how much of that
duration is spent on qualitative work is another matter entirely.)
• Consultants have had a ready-made lever for increasing their business
by merely increasing their time investment.
One
’s consulting worth was usually perceived as the same as one’s
•
physical presence, thereby attaching worth to “showing up.” It was easy
to attach a fee to that presumed worth: “If I’m here, I must be helping, so
I ought to be paid.”
The
uncertainty of the work required that the consultant “protect” future
•
time by charging for all time spent, since there was no firm way of predicting how much time would be required, what new and unforeseen
developments might affect the project, or what increasing demands the
client might come up with. The belief was that time spent on one client was irretrievably lost and was therefore denied another client (and
another client’s potential fee).

Seeing that consultants offer advice for long-term enrichment, why
charge for short-term visits? My recommendations are worth far
more than my company.

1
The first management consultant was probably Frederick Winslow Taylor, the founder of
time and motion studies and the author of Principles of Scientific Management (which wasn’t so
scientific at all). He worked in the early part of the twentieth century, his oeuvre being published in 1911. The first management conference was held in 1882 by the German Post Office.
No one showed up.

24

c02.indd 24

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:41:53 PM

Finally, there seems to be a widespread belief, unaccountably held to
most dearly by the larger consulting firms, that the only consulting items of
value are either time or materials (deliverables) and that clients wouldn’t pay
for anything as ephemeral as pure advice. Of course, stated that way, this
proposition is true. The point, however, is that clients will pay a great deal for
the outcomes, results, and long-term value of that advice.
And that value has nothing whatsoever to do with time.

S U P P L Y- A N D - D E M A N D I L L O G I C
One of the worst pieces of advice I ever heard was from a professional
speaker who pontificated to the audience that speakers should “raise fees
when demand exceeds supply.” That might work for soybeans or cement, but
it’s simply goofy when applied to professional services.
Demand never exceeds supply. Not only do I know of no consultants
who are booked every day of the year, but I can’t imagine one who would
want to be. The idea, I always thought, was to work a minimal amount
of time while earning a maximum amount of money. (My ideal client is
one who pays me $5 million to work for twenty minutes a year. My wife
points out that if I can work for twenty minutes, I can certainly manage
forty minutes.)
Moreover, supply and demand rest on the trembling foundation that a
single client at a single time usurps all attention. It is possible to do something
for multiple clients at any given time: research, joint meetings, newsletters,
focus groups, interviews, and a plethora of other activities can benefit numerous clients in unique ways. (The lawyers achieve this by billing different clients for an aggregate of hours that only slightly exceeds by a factor of four the
total number in any one day.)

The idea is to meet demand with a minimal supply of labor and,
in fact, meet growing demand by an increasingly diminishing
investment of time. This is called working smart, not hard.

The Lunacy of Time-and-Materials Models

c02.indd 25

25

7/1/08 2:41:53 PM

There are actually formulas that advise that consultants take the following
steps:
1. Determine the amount of money they need to support their total lifestyle.
2. Calculate the total number of hours available to consult during a year,
eliminating holidays, personal needs, and so on.
3. Determine an approximate usage rate for the remaining time (for example,
what percentage of time will the consultant probably be booked, given the
marketplace and focus?).
4. Divide the result of the usage rate applied to the net available hours by
the lifestyle needs total. This gives the hourly rate needed to meet financial goals within the given time constraints.
Now, there are only about seventy or eighty things wrong with this, but
I’ll concentrate only on the relative few needed to thoroughly debunk this
point of view.
First, it’s absolutely nuts to use your current lifestyle (or even an intended
lifestyle) as the basis for income needs. What about unanticipated expenses
(illnesses, extended family needs, unexpected opportunities to invest, and so
on)? Especially for younger consultants (or for anyone without fully funded,
totally comfortable retirement savings), why delimit yourself during your
highest potential earning years?
Second, how do you intelligently arrive at a number of hours you
think are available? The number will always go down from that estimate,
never up, meaning that your hourly rates will be inadequate and you’ll
either have to raise them or take more hours from “private time.” Time is
always usurped by the unforeseen, which, by definition one would think,
can’t be forecast. (This is the currently fashionable “black swan” phenomenon.)
Third, approximations of usage rates are absurd because high rates aren’t
necessarily good. It’s simply not smart to be booked 80 percent or more of the
time, because your flexibility is eliminated (just as any good medical consultant will tell a medical practice not to book all available hours every week
but to set aside time for emergencies and other exigencies). Wouldn’t we all
rather work less for fascinating clients who pay us well rather than more for
dull clients who pay us poorly?

26

c02.indd 26

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:41:54 PM

Fourth and finally, the resultant hourly rate in the equation has no
bearing on the market, the client need, the unique conditions, or the value
of the help delivered. It reduces the consultant to an arbitrary commodity, to
be compared to other hourly rates and other commodities, like fish or movie
tickets. When you deliberately remove market uniqueness and differentiation, you also remove the basis for high fees.

The last thing a good consultant wants to happen is for a client to
make comparisons based not on the value of the contribution but
rather on the charge per hour. Our value is simply not conveyed by
merely showing up (thank goodness).

So the very basis for a “supply and demand” dynamic is fallacious. We
do not have a limited supply of expertise, nor do we seek higher and higher
demand (not if we want to maintain a life). What we should want to accomplish is an ideal relationship of interesting, growth-oriented work and fees
based on our contribution to the client’s results.
The “Big Four” (or whatever it is at this reading, having come down from
the “Big Eight”) consultancies are the stepchildren of accounting and audit firms.
Consequently, they have been fixated on billing rates that are based on hours, fit
nicely into boxes on a spreadsheet, and can be conveyed in a no-thinking-required
fee schedule. These are, after all, descendants of the primeval bean counter. Their
dilemma, facing the tremendous overhead of multiple offices, advertising, and
huge recruiting costs, has been addressed by creating an army of inexpensive
technicians who descend on the client with an hourly billing rate that is somehow
digestible but significant enough to generate profit when multiplied by the legion
of consultants assigned to the account. This model has been adopted by smaller
firms and independent practitioners who, frankly, should know better.
Supply and demand tends to get way out of whack when the consulting
firm can produce a prodigal supply of low-level people, irrespective of the
actual client demand. And this tactic has, understandably, driven clients to
ask: “Can you do this with fewer people?” “Can you do this in fewer days?”
“Can you do this with cheaper people?”

The Lunacy of Time-and-Materials Models

c02.indd 27

27

7/1/08 2:41:54 PM

These are not the questions we want a client to be asking. I’d rather hear
a client ask: “How can we maximize the results?” “Will you work with me
on this as a partner for as long as it takes?” “Will you assure me access to you
personally?”
These latter questions represent the value of a long-term relationship,
not an attempt to get me out before I run up too much of a bill.
Leave supply and demand to the economists or the people raising
ostriches. It has nothing to do with good consulting, and it should never be
used as a basis for fees.

ETHICAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND
O T H E R S M A L L M AT T E R S
Whenever a consultant accepts work on the basis of being paid for time spent
on the project, an immediate conflict of interest arises. There is no way around
this, the problem is always present, and it is caused by the following.

The Basis for Profit
First of all, the consultant only makes money when physically present or able
to demonstrate that time is being expended somehow, somewhere for the
client. This tends to compel the consultant to do the following:

• Maximize, not minimize, the number of physical activities (focus groups,
interviews, observations, meetings, and so on)
Accept
peripheral assignments that may not be integral—or even
•
important—to the actual project
• Encourage and not discourage scope creep, since there is no penalty for
blurring the project boundaries
• Recommend nonessential tasks that don’t contribute to results but do
contribute to billable hours2

2

I know there are many of you saying, “Yes, but honorable people wouldn’t do that.” Maybe,
but honorable people regularly cheat on their taxes, cross the street against the light, and
rip off the phone company simply because an opportunity presents itself and the incorrect
action is only a brief rationalization away (what’s the government done for me lately, there’s

28

c02.indd 28

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:41:54 PM

Value-based fees are far better for the client because they remove
the ethical compromises that attend hourly or daily billing. You
want the client to make a single return-on-investment decision at the
time of the proposal, not a new ROI decision every day (or hour).

The Client Need Quandary
The client has to make an investment decision, in effect, every time the consultant may be able to offer some help. Hence a normal helping relationship
is reduced to ROI concerns on even the most minor occasions:

• The client may decide that a $10,000 issue isn’t worth $2,500 of consulting help, ignoring the fact that the consultant’s expertise could help
unearth the $400,000 issue underlying it.
• Subordinates are loath to use the consultant because approval is required
from superiors for the additional fees, and the subordinates may not
want to admit so readily that help is needed so frequently.
• Clients may forgo legitimate additional extensions of the project purely
out of cost considerations, even though work in those areas would add
immeasurably to the client’s betterment.

Conflicts with Client Purchasing Policies
Most organizations have policies for dealing with “vendors,” and once you
quote time-based fees, you will become no less a vendor than the plumber or
the computer repair guy.

• In putting yourself in the same category as other hourly vendors, you
are asking the client to treat you differently by not requiring a limit on

no traffic that I can see or can’t outrun). We need to eliminate temptations that lead to unethical
behavior, not expect that everyone will act honorably.

The Lunacy of Time-and-Materials Models

c02.indd 29

29

7/1/08 2:41:54 PM

hours or by not adhering to company hourly billing policies. (“We never
pay trainers more than $2,500 a day.” “But I’m not a trainer.” “You’re in
the same category.”)
• A good purchasing manager or vendor coordinator is paid to extract
the best possible rates from vendors. Consequently, they will always try
to minimize your time rates, and you will be in danger of pitting your
corporate buyer against his or her own purchasing function.
• If the company accepts billing for hourly units, how do you conscientiously bill for portion of hours or quick phone responses? Do you
emulate the legal practice of making everything a fifteen-minute minimum, even if the call takes two minutes? Do you aggregate them
and somehow justify them on a time sheet? This is not all that far
from fudging the numbers. (If you’re doing research that benefits two
clients, do you charge them each for the same half-day, or do you prorate it?)

Preserving Client Budgetary Limits
Almost any client will reasonably ask for some estimate of investment so that
a proper budget can be allocated. Even with the most exacting formula, these
are always only estimates, and the client’s budget is actually endangered
constantly.

• If, at a critical point in the project investigation, you and the client find an
unforeseen critical need, how can the client appropriately budget more
funds or preserve those already in place? Must you lower your hourly
rate, demand additional funds, or ignore the urgency?
• The client is too often forced into a Hobson’s choice: some priorities can
be met but not others as the hours and days build and the meter constantly ticks away at the fixed budget.
• If there is more than one budget involved among multiple buyers,
how are the funds correctly allocated? If the actions of one department demand remedial work in another, which should be properly
assessed, and by how much? Not everyone is going to be happy with
the decision.

30

c02.indd 30

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:41:55 PM

As projects unfold, something has to give: either the client will have
to come up with additional funds to pay for more hours, or the
consultant will have to leave work undone (or work free of charge).
Why on earth get into that position?

There’s one final ethical issue I want to discuss, which often doesn’t arise
as an ethical problem but actually is one: downward pressure on consulting
fees when they are based on time and materials.
The client’s natural compulsion will be to reduce one or both of the only
two variables representing the buyer ’s costs: amount of time or amount of
money per time unit. The consultant will be compelled to try to do the exact
opposite. However, since the client is the only one who can say yes or no, the
buyer ’s determination will prevail. Three bad things immediately transpire:
1. The buyer and consultant are in an adversarial position, despite working together, presumably as partners, on the same goals. One is trying
to minimize involvement, and the other is trying to maximize it. Yet the
point should be active collaboration toward goals, not concern about
the methodology or involvement to reach the goals.
2. The buyer will want to minimize time, requiring the consultant to use
fewer resources, make fewer visits, or narrow the scope. All of this may
be highly detrimental to the quality of the investigation.
3. The buyer will want to minimize hourly rates, which often forces the
consultant to make concessions. This, in turn, has two consequences:
it endangers the “magic formula” based on the consultant’s earnings
needs calculations, and it tells the buyer that the consultant has padded
the fees and prompts even the most benign of buyers to wonder, “How
low can this guy go?” (I can name that tune in two notes.)
For legitimate ethical interests, for the client and the consultant, timeand-materials billing is problematic and compromising. Not usually compromising. Always compromising.

The Lunacy of Time-and-Materials Models

c02.indd 31

31

7/1/08 2:41:55 PM

LIMITING PROFITS, OR WHY NOT
JUST FORGET DOMANI?
The very worst aspect of billing based on time is the limitation it places on
profitability. I’ve never believed in business plans, for myself or for my clients,
because the danger with a plan is that you might achieve it.3
Consultants—and this applies particularly aptly to solo practitioners—
take extraordinary business risks. Why shouldn’t they reap the commensurate
rewards? The only intelligent business proposition is to attempt to maximize
profitability. Note that I’m not saying “maximize business,” because that
might lead to harder work, longer hours, and an infringement on one’s life
balance. But I am saying “maximize profits” because we wouldn’t be very
good businesspeople or consultants if we didn’t.
Therefore, why create a straw man of an artificial business plan that
delimits growth? (Have you ever really seen managers in October still
managing against a plan created the prior June?) The mantra-like focus on
“increasing business by 20 percent” or “gaining five new coaching clients”
or “gaining 5 percent in the Canadian marketplace” is rather pointless if, in
fact, the conditions were such that you should have increased by 40 percent,
gained twelve new coaching clients, or become one of the major players in the
Canadian market.
An hourly fee is a similar delimiting factor. You will always be at the
mercy of the “cap” in your marketplace. (The best New York attorneys, senior partners, working for the best clients, are hard-pressed to go much above
$650 an hour—despite the $1,000-per-hour ego trips—and they represent a
small fraction of all attorneys, whose average income is about $88,000 in the
United States.) And the larger firms with junior help will always be able to
undercut you with junior rates.
If I estimate that I can work forty weeks a year and that I’ll be “billable”
an astonishing 80 percent of the time, that provides me with 1,280 hours
(80 percent times 40 equals 32 times 40 hours in a workweek). At a New York

3

Of course, major organizations need business plans to show the shareholders that management is fiscally responsible, but they also put out beautiful annual reports that have nothing
whatsoever to do with the actual business. No one should manage against a business plan for
fear of hitting it and missing untold opportunities.

32

c02.indd 32

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:41:55 PM

lawyer ’s healthy fee of $500 an hour, that comes to $640,000—not a bad year ’s
work (although not anywhere close to the best solo practitioner consultants).
However, a more reasonable rate is probably half that, resulting in $320,000,
and a more reasonable billing percentage might be 60 percent, not 80 percent, resulting in $240,000. Now that’s still not exactly shabby, but is that the
number that will support your lifestyle through marriage, children, tuition,
retirement, care for elderly parents, vacations, investments, unexpected emergencies, and the pure joie de vivre of it all?
I think not. I tell my mentorees all the time that $100,000 ain’t what it
used to be.

It is absolutely crazy to adapt any billing scheme that can place a
cap on your income. Time unit billing does just that. The only good
reason for deliberately making less money is the urge to work less,
and even there, I have a hard time believing that you must also
make less money if you’re smart.

Architects are famous for their hourly billing, and they are probably the
only profession that had a decrease in net income over the boom years of
the mid- to late 1990s.4 They were done in by a number of factors, all within
their own means to control, but particularly these:

• Hourly billing, which declined as hours declined due to competition
from general contractors, engineers, and others who freely “poached”
on architects’ turf
• Fierce competition and resultant pressure on prices caused by a plethora of architects, not unlike today’s burgeoning number of consultants
(In Duluth, Minnesota, no less, a focus group told me, “Stop any three

4

The American Institute of Architects was a client of mine for several years, and this was
perhaps the major concern of the association and the membership.

The Lunacy of Time-and-Materials Models

c02.indd 33

33

7/1/08 2:41:56 PM

people on the street, and two of them are architects.” I immediately
termed this the “Duluth architect syndrome.”)
• An absence of negotiation skills with educated buyers, meaning that
the only variable the architects would manipulate was their own hourly
fees, and the direction was always downward
• Blindness to the real profit margins caused by love of the profession
(Every architect wants to build a cathedral and keeps waiting for that
contract, even though architects are overwhelmingly engaged in house
extensions and garage additions. Consequently, they are always too willing to take on unprofitable projects to keep them busy “until the real thing
comes along,” and they tell you that they’ll make up the shortfall “on
volume.”)5
Consultants have been little better. The focus on “billable time” has
driven both independents and large consulting operations to focus on work,
use, and task, on the assumption that something is better than nothing—we
can’t let all those billable hours be spent sitting here at a desk, after all. This
mentality severely limits profits because, as happened with the architects,
it forces one to do work that shouldn’t be undertaken at rates that can’t be
countenanced. Something is not better than nothing. Some things are worse
than nothing because they cost you money.
Billable hours, and the formulas on which the more methodical base
them, are pernicious and insidious dampeners of profit. Moreover, the need
to be competitive on such a commodity ultimately forces downward pressure
on all time unit rates. So in the tactical application—fees based on time for
the project—the consultant will suffer from continuing downward pressure
when played off on others offering the same commodity pricing, and in
the strategic sense—using time units to create a year ’s living expenses—there
will never be enough hours or a high enough rate to dramatically improve
income.
Aside from their tactical and strategic failures, time-based fees are great.

5

One of the funniest skits I’ve ever seen was a pseudocommercial on the NBC show Saturday
Night Live in which Phil Hartman was a pitchman for a bank that only made change, nothing
else—no loans, no mortgages, no investments, only change. “I know what you’re wondering,”
he would deadpan into the camera. “How can we do it? The secret is one word: volume.”

34

c02.indd 34

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:41:56 PM

W H Y L AW Y E R S A N D C PA s D O S O P O O R LY
The problem with professions that use time-and-materials charges is that the
practitioners have no real appreciation for their own value and hence cannot
adequately (or dramatically) convey their value to the client. Let’s look at
some cases in point.

Attorneys
Lawyers have finally understood that their ultimate worth is not in their
activity but in their results. Therefore, contingency fees have begun to proliferate. It’s not uncommon for a law firm to take 30 percent or 40 percent (or
even more in some conditions) of the total client settlement.
The problem is that the attorneys often take this, as they say at the craps
tables in Las Vegas, as “betting on the come.” This means that if they lose the case,
they not only fail to collect any fee but are also out their legitimate legal expenses.
This is high-stakes gambling, and it leads to at least four ethical quandaries:
1. Pushing the case beyond the plaintiff ’s patience or commitment, because,
in for a dime in for a dollar, it’s cheaper to invest more on the hope of a
possible victory than to simply abandon all prior investment
2. Avoiding early settlements in the hope of hitting the jackpot of a huge
jury decision or a more favorable last-minute settlement in the face of a
damaging trial
3. Taking on cases of questionable legal merit or suing parties not really at
fault but who have deep pockets and wealthy insurers
4. Desperate legal tactics to try to save a case at the last minute

There isn’t one profession using time units or percentages as billing
bases that can match the potential fees of consultant using valuebased frees. Not one.

Attorneys are locked into a terrible billing system that does not represent
their true value to their clients (which is why they wind up billing $8.40 for
duplicating and postage, so desperate are they to recoup costs).

The Lunacy of Time-and-Materials Models

c02.indd 35

35

7/1/08 2:41:56 PM

Even on a more modest basis, effective and legally tight wills, estates,
divorces, house closings, partnership agreements, and the myriad of other
business aspects that lawyers undertake are worth a great deal to the beneficiary of such expertise. How much? Well, far more than a couple of hundred
dollars an hour, that’s for sure.
In one class-action lawsuit against a Fortune 500 company for some kind
of minor technical charges, the lawyers collected millions in fees, and each
member of the class action suit received $2.85.

C PA s
Since these folks are fixated on neat boxes and clear rates as a professional
pathology, it’s not surprising that they cheat themselves out of their fair
remuneration.
These are people who balance books, save tax dollars, highlight areas of
enhanced profitability, set up effective retirement plans, provide investment
advice, and generally help you exhaust every legal nook and cranny to keep
your money where it belongs—in your own pocket. For the glory of providing this value, they charge $150 or so an hour.
CPAs don’t get it (although more and more financial planners are beginning to). They see their value as tasks performed, which are tightly tied to
and choreographed by time involved. They even have fee schedules for their
various tasks, on the assumption that they can pretty accurately forecast the
amount of hours needed for each task. And they probably can, which is neither here nor there.
I love the guy who does my taxes and financial planning, who may have
saved me hundreds of thousands over the years (and kept me out of jail in
the bargain). But I’m glad he doesn’t read my books—because if he did and
decided to change his billing basis, I’d have no choice but to go along.
I’d have to pay him more. I have no fear about printing this here. I’m
sure he will never read it!

Search Firms
I include these folks because they think they’re smart and believe they’ve
devised a billing basis that overcomes time units: a percentage of first-year

36

c02.indd 36

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:41:57 PM

compensation. (And some of these firms are contingency firms, not retainer
firms, meaning they don’t get paid unless they produce.)
I ask you to simply consider this: a search firm placed Lou Gerstner at IBM
when that company was severely suffering. During his tenure, CEO Gerstner
increased the stock price, improved the value of the company, gained market
share, boosted both revenues and profitability, found new sources of lucrative business (for example, IBM consulting services), and provided a host of
other important improvements. His net contribution to IBM’s well-being is in
the billions of dollars.
And how was the foxy search firm paid that placed him at IBM? It
received about a third of his first-year total compensation. Let’s say that was
as much as $500,000, which I doubt. Even so, is a half-million fair compensation for a consulting firm that produced billions of dollars in improvement?
I wouldn’t accept it. It seems to me that $100 million or so is reasonable and
cheap at twice the price.

Taking a percentage of some arbitrary figure is no better than time
unit billing. Why not be paid for the true value you bring? If you
don’t believe that, the client won’t either.

Professions that focus on commodity billing—be they legal, financial,
architectural, search, consulting, or any other—are those that don’t believe
their own value proposition in terms of client outcome and therefore can’t
adequately make a case for it.

E D U C AT I N G T H E B U Y E R I N C O R R E C T LY
An inherent problem in the lunacy of time-and-materials billing is that we
educate the client incorrectly from the first meeting. Buyers are willing to
believe that we operate in certain ways—just as the client does—and that
those methods of operating will somehow have to be accommodated.
Yet we often show up as supplicants and fawners, obsequious in our
determination to get the business. We position ourselves as vendors and

The Lunacy of Time-and-Materials Models

c02.indd 37

37

7/1/08 2:41:57 PM

“salespeople” from the outset, not as credible peers of the buyer with our
own valuable trove of expertise.
Hear this: in true client-consultant partnerships, neither party wants to
put the other at a disadvantage. Partners simply don’t do that to each other.
But in superior-subordinate relationships, the superior usually doesn’t care,
either out of callousness, noblesse oblige, or indifference.
Our job is to educate prospects from the outset about how we operate.
That means that certain steps are important to take and others important to
avoid. Use the following as a checklist to assess your own effectiveness in
educating buyers.
Prospect Education Checklist
1. Never quote a fee before project objectives and their value to the client
are stipulated (see Chapter Four).
2. Don’t quote any time unit basis at all.
3. Explain to the client, if pressed, that single, value-based fees are in the
client’s best interests.
4. Resist comparison to other consultants by pointing out that your potential client probably also operates differently in many respects from his or
her own competitors.
5. Never commit to arbitrary amounts of time for the accomplishment of
objectives.
6. Focus on results, not tasks.
7. Never accept a prospect’s conclusion—stated or implied—that you will
constantly be onsite or that you’re available “on call.”
8. Emphasize results, not deliverables; in fact, minimize deliverables.
9. Don’t accept contingency fees or “pay for performance”; you’re not a
trained animal act. Variables are often outside your control, and besides,
you’re being paid for your best advice. It’s up to the client to implement
it effectively.
10. Provide value immediately. Shift the focus to how much value you provide, not how much work there is to be done.
I’ve found that in most cases, consultants create their own quicksand by
undermining any possibility of establishing value-based fees at initial meetings by ignoring or acting contrary to the rules just stated.

38

c02.indd 38

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:41:57 PM

If you explain to the client that you’re a performing horse, the client
will understandably ask you to jump over hurdles and stand on your
hind legs. If you explain that you’re a partner interested in helping
generate results, the client will understandably ask, “How do we do
that best?”

Two parties are concerned about maximizing results—you and the client.
But only one of you is concerned about maximizing your fees. If you emphasize the former, the latter will occur. But if you treat these as two separate
considerations with the buyer, that person will try to maximize the former
and minimize the latter every time.
Wouldn’t you?

CHAPTER ROI

• Supply and demand is for commodities, not consultants. Your supply
will always exceed demand, and that tells you something about the
inherent stupidity of this bromide.
There
are legitimate and obvious ethical reasons not to use time units for
•
billing bases.
• Profitability should not be arbitrarily delimited by finite measures of
time, materials, deliverables, or costs.
• Other professions do it incorrectly. Why would you want to emulate
them?
• The buyer is educable, and you are the teacher. Don’t abdicate that huge
responsibility.
The average attorney’s income is under $100,000 annually. Successful people
drive cars that cost more than that. What model are you using as your income paradigm, and what model car are you driving?

The Lunacy of Time-and-Materials Models

c02.indd 39

39

7/1/08 2:41:58 PM

c02.indd 40

7/1/08 2:41:58 PM

C H A P T E R

3

The Basics of
Value-Based Fees
It’s Better to Be an Artist Than
to Be an Engineer

C

lients are traditionally somewhat stunned by and
resistant to fees based on anything other than time
and materials. That’s because we, as consultants, have educated them all wrong. In fact, most consultants are somewhat
stunned and resistant to fees based on value, so it’s not surprising that the client assumes the same position!
Before we examine the components of the approach that
reverses this mentality, let’s examine a requisite philosophy:
the goal of a consulting intervention is to improve the client’s condition by meeting or exceeding mutually established
project goals that are expressed as business outcomes. If those
goals and outcomes are thus met or bettered, the resultant
improvements will justify any reasonable investment required
to achieve that particular return.

41

c03.indd 41

7/1/08 2:42:39 PM

Whether quantitatively or qualitatively, whether analytically or viscerally,
whether long-term or short-term, whether deep-water or blue-sky, we are
seeking improvements that dwarf the costs of the consultant (see Figure 1.3
in Chapter One). This is both art and science. Part of the art is that the resultant picture has to be enjoyable for the client. Some paintings are very lifelike,
some are Cubist, some are abstract. But the point is that the client likes the
resulting work. (If the client longs for landscapes, a picture of a soup can
won’t do.)
If the client is delighted, it doesn’t matter whether your fee could have
been $15,000 higher or lower so long as the client is happy and you believe
you’ve been paid fairly and well. Consequently, the point of value-based fees
is that both the client and the consultant feel well treated and are happy with
the finished picture. Engineers seek perfection of angles, lines, and support.
Artists seek happiness.
Here is some phrasing that I’m usually asked to repeat three times in
my speeches. You may reread it as many times as necessary or place a Post-it
Note here so you can find it:
Q:

A:

How can any buyer whom you have established as a peer and with
whom you have a trusting relationship possibly object to this description of your fee basis?
My fees are based on my contribution to the value of the outcomes of
this project and represent a dramatic return on investment for you and
equitable compensation for me.

FOCUSING ON OUTCOMES, NOT INPUTS
The very worst failing in relation to fees on the part of consultants has nothing to do with fees and everything to do with outcomes. If you accept the fact
that the results of a project—the client’s improved condition—will determine
the acceptable range of investment for that return, then the outcomes for the
client are the key determinant in fees.
That’s right: it’s the outcome, not the tasks, that matter.
If you don’t believe me, then please accept this challenge. Visit the
Web sites or review the printed literature of any five consultants at random.

42

c03.indd 42

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:42:40 PM

Most consultants place their value proposition at the wrong end
of the equation: they focus on their ability to do rather than on the
client’s ability to improve.

(Or at an event, engage them in conversation and ask them the reasons for
their success.) You will find that the following applies to four out of the five,
at a minimum:

• Too many words. The promotional literature will have far too much text,
using a thousand words in place of every possible picture.
• An obsession with the obvious.“We believe in the highest level of ethics and
integrity.” (Really? I was looking specifically for an unethical consultant.
Too bad.”)
• Self-aggrandizing. The material will overwhelmingly focus on what the
consultant does and how it is done.
• Smothered in technology or methodology. There will be detailed discussions of
the consulting approaches, including analogies, graphs, steps, and jargon.
• Programmatic orientation. There will be client “options” in terms of workshops, interventions, materials, and even fee ranges.
• Value secrecy. There will be precious little of value to the reader or the
listener in terms of immediate improvement.
I can make money by betting on the outcome of this test every time.
The problem is that consultants focus on task—what they do—and not on
result—what the client gets.
Not only is this a rather unappealing sales proposition (it’s nothing more
than the “billboard on a highway” approach), but it establishes improper criteria from the very earliest prospect interactions. If that prospect becomes a
client, he or she has been inculcated—by us—to appreciate our value based
on what we do and how often we do it. In other words, it’s the brushstrokes,
the framing, and the colors used in creating the painting, rather than the overall aesthetic power of the finished picture.

The Basics of Value-Based Fees

c03.indd 43

43

7/1/08 2:42:40 PM

Every intervention and activity you propose to the client must be cast as
an outcome, a result. The intrinsic value of actions is minor. Tasks are basically commodities that can be compared and contrasted. The intrinsic value
of outcomes is enormous because they meet client emotional and visceral
needs and can’t be compared to anything else. Thus the sole difference in
the client’s perception of task (commodity) versus result (outcome) is within
your power to influence. Yet most of us have abdicated that responsibility.
In the following table, the statement on the left is a task; the one on the
right represents a possible outcome.

Task

Possible Outcome

Conduct focus groups throughout the sales
division
Coach the senior vice president of finance

Determine the causes for turnover among
top sales talent
Enable the CFO to become a full partner
in the executive team during a time of
acquisitions and mergers in this company
Establish a new and aggressive strategy
for the next two years, which will fulfill
the board’s desire for double-digit revenue
growth and 10 percent gain in market share
Maximize the return on the prospective
$2 billion Acme acquisition or protect the
company from making a bad investment

Clarify understanding of strategy during
a retreat and gain senior management
consensus on direction
Analyze the feasibility of purchasing the
competitor’s Acme Division

Most of us think in terms of what we do, not in terms of how
the client will prosper. It’s absurd to base fees on things that are
important to us instead of on what’s important to the client.

This slight change of emphasis from our help to the client’s outcome is
simple to accomplish, yet is the main ingredient in preparing the client for
value-based pricing. Our job is to establish the client’s improvement, not to
harp on the efficacy of our approaches (which aren’t really efficacious anyway
unless this particular client sees improvement). I love the consultants who
claim, “My recommendations were excellent, based on outstanding focus

44

c03.indd 44

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:42:41 PM

group work. Your managers just aren’t using the findings to gain the needed
changes.” I’ve got news for you: if the changes aren’t forthcoming, the project
has failed, irrespective of the focus groups and the recommendations.
Move the prospect from what you do to how the prospect benefits as
early as possible in your contacts or discussions. Ultimately, your fees will be
based on those early moments.
Anything that is not a desirable result for the client—problem solved,
new level achieved, plan implemented—is an input that can be judged as a
commodity against someone else’s similar input. Once you change the focus
to the client’s outcome, the commodity mentality tends to disappear (“You
can do that? How much?” becomes “I can achieve that? How soon?”).

T H E FA L L A C Y A N D S U B V E R S I V E N AT U R E
OF “DELIVERABLES”
Because consultants tend to place little value on their advice and counsel
(which is a low-self-esteem issue), they have to find some device or technique
in which to vest their value. That alternative is usually the dreaded D-word:
deliverables.
I’ve seen proposals that feature deliverables as the key aspect of the entire
consulting engagement.1 Imagine this: a report, manual, class, set of recommendations, or presentation to management becomes the signal aspect of the
consultant’s contribution to results. There’s a reason why a schoolteacher
makes $40,000 for a year ’s work and General Colin Powell makes $100,000
for a forty-five-minute keynote speech. Teachers are not evaluated on results
(student admission to college, acquisition of good jobs, scores on standardized tests, and so on) and in fact have fought against just that. Former Defense
Secretary Powell was evaluated on the results of his appearance at the event
for employees, customers, management, leadership, morale, and so on. As
long as both are positioned as they are, both deserve what they get. (No one

1

A deliverable is a means to an end. It is a progress point or stop along the way to client results.
But deliverables themselves are not client results, and they should never be emphasized or
confused in that regard.

The Basics of Value-Based Fees

c03.indd 45

45

7/1/08 2:42:41 PM

would pay $100,000 for forty-five minutes of speaking, and no one would pay
only $40,000 for his or her child’s future. This is why so few of us stand out
in a crowd.)

There is no reason on earth that a consulting project can’t be sold,
implemented successfully, and concluded brilliantly without a
single mention of “deliverables”—unless, of course, that’s what the
consultant is selling, implementing, and concluding.

The key in avoiding deliverables is not to talk about them but to talk
about value and outcomes instead. Don’t underestimate the importance of
the self-esteem factor, because other consultants have probably educated the
buyer incorrectly, and the buyer might be using deliverables as a favorite criterion to assess consulting proposals.
It’s fair to give your prospect a notion of the type of methodology
you’ll be using. For example, focus groups require active client participation, whereas telephone interviews with clients require practically none.
Classroom training requires scheduling; job performance aids do not.
Observation of the client environment and conditions creates a Hawthorne
effect (changes in the behavior of the people being observed merely by dint
of being observed); sending “mystery shoppers” to the customer ’s business
does not. However, providing numbers of programs, exact participation,
reports stipulated at given junctures, and appearances at meetings is more
than the client needs to know.
You are the consulting expert. You’ve been contacted, presumably,
because the client needs help that is not available internally and hasn’t thus
far been secured externally. If the client were adept at consulting—or even at
improving the desired condition—you wouldn’t be involved in the conversation. The prospect needs help not currently accessible.
Don’t sacrifice that potential power base by acceding to client demands
that are arbitrary, anxiety-driven, and often amateurish. The answer to
“How many reports will you provide and how often?” is not “How many
do you want and how frequently?” or “About twice a month.” The answer is

46

c03.indd 46

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:42:41 PM

“The reports aren’t the point. Improvement in your retention rate is the point,
and we’ll all know that when we see it.”

VIGNETTE

I was contacted by Mercedes-Benz North America, which has an
incredibly stringent method of choosing consultants. First, Mercedes
sent a delegation to hear me speak at a client event. Second, they
invited me in to meet with another level of evaluators. Third,
they placed the few of us who survived in front of the buyer.
The buyer, a tough authoritarian figure from the German parent company, told me how the consulting project would be conducted, asked me how I would conform to those specifications, and
wanted a precise schedule of deliverables. He also demanded to
know the precise depth of my auto expertise and what I intended to
do prior to the engagement to strengthen it.
I told him that I didn’t operate that way and that it wouldn’t
help him even if I did.
He was aghast. (His subordinates ducked for cover.) I told him,
as I gestured around the room, that he was surrounded by auto
experts, and the last thing he needed was another one from the
outside. Mercedes knew how to make cars. I wasn’t going to tell the
experts how to improve the cars’ fuel injection or brake linings. But
I knew how to consult, and I wasn’t about to let Mercedes tell me
how to gather data or validate my findings. The partnership had to
be based on what each of us was good at, or else there could be no
synergy and hence no partnership.
I got the job, and the fee was never discussed until my proposal was signed. The buyer, since retired, told me much later on
that he wished his subordinates had the courage to speak to him
the way I had.

The Basics of Value-Based Fees

c03.indd 47

47

7/1/08 2:42:42 PM

In fact, we may decide, as the consulting experts, to change, add, or delete
deliverables as the project progresses, so it’s folly to base our value on the
types and volume of such things. If I brief a client by phone, a written report
may no longer be necessary. If five focus groups turn up an absolutely valid
pattern, then the other five may be dispensed with (and if all ten are inconclusive, you might have to do another ten). I’ve seen “deliverables” from consultants that were superfluous, redundant, simplistic, and superficial.2 But
they were “delivered” nonetheless, because the consultant and client both
believed that they were what the client was paying for.
A final word on deliverables, to intentionally belabor the obvious. The
absolute worst deliverable to suggest, commit to, and base fees on is your
time. When your value is based on showing up, you tend to show up whether
you’re needed or not. When the client expects to see you, the client looks
for you whether it makes sense for you to be there or not. I’ve seen proposals that quoted as a deliverable “fourteen days onsite over two months” or
“visits to every site twice a month” or “participation in every weekly executive committee meeting.”

If your fees are based on deliverables and your primary deliverable
is your time, you might as well become a plumber or an electrician.
They are booked more often than you, have clear and finite projects,
and seldom require a plane trip to fix a sink or repair an outlet.

If you employ value-based fees, the need to spend additional time on
the project—at the client’s behest or of your own volition—is harmless. Your
margins are so big that the additional time investment is of no import—and
let’s face it, you were only going to be using the extra time watching reruns
of Seinfeld anyway.

2

Heaven protect us from the “needs assessments,” which aren’t accurate assessments and
seldom elucidate needs. This is one of the greatest examples of pointless work that I know of
in the consulting field.

48

c03.indd 48

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:42:42 PM

I’ve conducted projects for Hewlett-Packard, one of the greatest and
smartest organizations on the planet, during which I never showed up once.
That’s right; everything took place by phone, fax, e-mail, research, teleconference, and other remote means. The company has been ecstatic with the
results. I’ve been ecstatic with the fees. No one has asked why they haven’t
seen me lately. Part of the key is that HP is truly a global company, with key
people at every level of management located all over the world. They don’t
expect to see each other, and they don’t expect to see me. (“I’m just trying
to fit in,” I told one startled exception in management, who couldn’t believe
I wouldn’t be spending time onsite.)
You need to get into an “HP frame of mind.”

Q U A N T I TAT I V E A N D Q U A L I TAT I V E
MEASURES AND CRITERIA
Fees that are based on true outcomes and client results require that some
metrics be established for those results so that you and the client can relate
the improved client condition to your involvement and not the fate or actions
of others. (One thing about deliverables is that the client knows when you’ve
delivered them, but that’s hardly justification for basing fees on them.)
There are two kinds of metrics to assign to the desired client outcomes: quantitative (improvement by an objective yardstick) and qualitative
(improvement by an agreed-upon subjective reference point).

Quantitative or Objective Criteria
The objective measures of client improvement are clear and obvious. They
include areas such as market share, revenues, profits, response time, customer
ratings, employee ratings, return on investment, return on sales, return on
equity, return on assets, retention of clients, retention of employees, numbers
of new sales, margin per sale, product to market time, and installed systems—
the list could go on and on. However, there are several critical aspects to even
such clear and objective measures.
First, the nature of the measurement device must be agreed on. Will it
be the monthly sales reports, the sales call sheets, the finance department’s
weekly profit report, or the six-month review of retained business? In many

The Basics of Value-Based Fees

c03.indd 49

49

7/1/08 2:42:42 PM

cases, clients will think they are measuring objective data, but they are really
relying on anecdotal reports from subjective sources. (Sales managers are
notorious for this.) It’s up to the consultant to evaluate the metric and help
the client establish a sound one if none exists or if the current one is inadequate. By assisting in the evaluation and possible development of metrics,
you are immediately adding value to the project, which should be reflected
in your fee. (That’s right: establishing the criteria for your own project’s success justifies a higher fee. This is an often overlooked aspect of providing
value and basing fees on value—helping the client recognize success.)

The direction of the result is far better—and safer—than the
specification of the exact result. There are too many variables
involved for you to rely on the attainment of a “magic number.”

Second, you cannot base your contribution on what I call a “magic
number.” Even though a 6 percent increase in sales might be highly desirable and even, in your opinion, very achievable, it’s never a good idea to
peg your success to that magic number. The reason is that there are far too
many variables that can affect that number adversely for you to take that
risk. For example, if three top salespeople are recruited away by a competitor ’s unmatchable offer or a new technology undermines the client’s older
technology or three key client customers suffer setbacks affecting the client’s
business, you can hardly be held accountable.
It’s better to state that you will assist in maximizing the sales increase
or drive attrition down to industry averages or increase profit per sale or
decrease costs of acquisition. But tying yourself to a magic number is fraught
with danger.
If you feel pressured to agree to some number by a client who is not comfortable with ambiguity, ask what a conservative improvement or achievement
would represent. Once the client arrives at it, cut that number in half. This will
ensure an unequivocal ROI ratio. Even better, ask for a range, and take the
low end of the range and cut that in half.

50

c03.indd 50

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:42:43 PM

I know what you’re thinking: what if the outcomes are far in excess of
an agreed-on number? Can’t I take a piece of that greater result? If it’s just
“progress toward,” then I’m cheating myself.
This is contingency fee theory, and the lawyers love it. But I’d warn you
about this: first, excessive results are probably not going to be attributed to
you anyway, since the client will tend to say, “We’re doing so well, we probably didn’t need you after all.” Second, the client will tend to be resentful at
paying you more and more as results climb and climb. Third, this dynamic
means that you’ll have to reduce your fee if you fail to hit the magic mark (fair
is fair). Finally, your own consulting judgment will be clouded by the conflict of true long-term progress versus short-term growth and your mercenary
stake in it.
You’re better off taking a single flat fee with a very high margin and
counting on future business if the client is hugely successful. You’re almost
guaranteed to get it under such circumstances. Consultants who provide dramatic success, in excess of expected improvements, always have their calls
returned by the buyer.

Qualitative or Subjective Criteria
In some of my most successful projects, the criteria for success were subjective,
although of very high quality nonetheless. By “high quality,” I mean that different outcomes represent very different levels of satisfaction. The beauty of
a building, the public reputation of a firm, and the comfort of office furniture
are all examples of rather subjective yet high-quality outcomes. An unaesthetic building, a lousy reputation, and uncomfortable seating are all major
problems, despite the subjectivity of one’s measure.
The key, of course, is, do we agree on who is doing the measuring and
what standards are being applied?
I don’t get involved in aesthetics or furniture comfort, but I do take on
image, reputation, stress, teamwork, communications, and a host of related
issues that aren’t very conducive to quantitative measures. (The “experts”
who claim that “if you can’t measure it, it isn’t important” are simply spouting
another bromide and are almost always academics or human resource
people.) Years ago, an organization no less august than the Harvard School of
Law undertook a major project with McKinsey & Co. to create a better feeling

The Basics of Value-Based Fees

c03.indd 51

51

7/1/08 2:42:43 PM

about the school among its graduates after surveys disclosed that students
felt their education was excellent but that the Harvard Law experience was
rather dreadful. Firms such as Andersen were also in on the bidding, which
ran to very significant numbers.

Qualitative measures can be among the most powerful and create
the highest fees if a significant buyer is doing the measuring.

“I’ll know it when I see it” may be a sufficient criterion for some members
of the Supreme Court to evaluate pornography, but it is insufficient for a consulting project. In fact, here are the parameters for creating a successful, anecdotal series of measures for a project:

• The buyer will personally judge the result.
• Determination of effectiveness will rely on observed behavior and factual
evidence.
There
will be gradations of success, not success or failure (a rheostat, not
•
an on-or-off switch).
• Reasonable time limits must be in place.
• Employees remark favorably about their perceptions of results.
• Customers remark favorably about their perceptions of results.
People will change behavior for the long term—that is, with commitment
and not just compliance—only if their rational self-interest is met. Motivation
is intrinsic, and people can motivate only themselves to change.

MEASURING THE UNMEASURABLE
The CEO of a $600 million operation told me that his objective was to
create better teamwork among his direct reports. His own total compensation package was about $2 million a year. I asked him why (the value) he
wanted to do this, and he told me that improved teamwork would achieve
the following goals:

52

c03.indd 52

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:42:43 PM

• Free him up from petty turf issues
• Allow him to focus on the board’s requirements for expansion
• Evaluate which subordinates were possible successors
• Speed cross-functional collaboration (since subordinates erected the turf
boundaries that their bosses designed)
• Reduce the high frequency and long duration of meetings that were
necessary to sort out all the conflict
This was obviously a high-value project. But how would we know that
we had achieved something? “I’ll know it when I see it, believe me,” he said,
but I didn’t believe him. “How would you prove this to the board,” I asked,
“or to a newspaper reporter doing a story on how much you and I have
improved teamwork?”
We arrived at the following measures, which he and I would agree were
present, or not, through observation and participation, which would improve
by degrees and would require about six months for complete effect:

• Meetings would reduce in frequency and duration, and agenda
items would contain fewer and fewer issues to be resolved among
departments.
Customers
would cease complaining that they were receiving conflicting
•
advice, duplicate bills, and too many sales calls from different people.
• Talent would be transferred across departmental lines for succession
planning and career development without human resources demanding
that impasses be broken by the CEO.
• Cross-functional collaboration and knowledge sharing would decline
from the top spot in the annual employee survey of “most needed”
improvements.
• The CEO would receive fewer and fewer phone calls and private visits
from direct reports demanding that he intercede with their peers.
We applied these measures at our own semimonthly meetings, judged
our progress, and made plans for next steps. The project was a great success.
The keys for all of us, when dealing with subjective and anecdotal measures,
is to agree on the specific behaviors and evidence with the buyer and to
compare notes on relative progress frequently.

The Basics of Value-Based Fees

c03.indd 53

53

7/1/08 2:42:44 PM

Qualitative and subjective measures are often the most valuable that a
buyer wants to pursue, so don’t demand that they be somehow metamorphosed into quantitative metrics and numbers.

SERVING THE CLIENT’S SELF-INTEREST
Value-based fees are most directly related to the client’s self-interest being
served. That self-interest may be organizational: higher sales, better retention,
improved image—or personal: less stress, better time use, improved effectiveness. In either case, it’s the buyer who counts.

People will only change behavior for the long term—that is, with
commitment and not just compliance—if their rational self-interest
is met. Motivation is intrinsic, and people can only motivate
themselves to change.

Prospects will often tell you what they want, but they won’t often articulate what they really need. That’s because they often don’t know. They will
want an obvious solution or alternative because they haven’t been in a position or had the advice to view the situation more dispassionately and objectively or haven’t had the frame of reference or innovative ability to create a
better response.
Don’t forget that most clients are at worst reacting to some alarm and at
best are opportunistic, trying to seize higher ground at the moment. Very few
of them have the means and inclination to take longer-term perspectives.
That’s why they need you or me. It’s the height of folly to sacrifice
that need by dutifully and mindlessly (and valuelessly) complying with the
buyer ’s stated “wants.” After all the work and intelligence required to reach
a true buyer, it’s worse than negligent to simply reply to that person’s desires
without examining them for deeper and more important needs.

54

c03.indd 54

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:42:44 PM

The key question at this juncture is a simple one: “Why?” Why does the
buyer want a sales training program? If more sales are required to compensate
for client turnover, maybe the real need is better customer service. If the buyer
wants coaching to improve delegation skills, maybe the real need is to change
a culture that is authoritarian and rejects empowerment and delegation. If the
client wants a mentoring program to improve retention of new employees,
maybe the selection process is using incorrect criteria or the competition uses
better nonfinancial incentives to lure people away.
All clients know what they want. Few know what they need. It’s imperative to explore this early and tap into the buyer ’s self-interest, which is
always going to be to find the best organizational or personal improvement.
If that improvement is more than they had envisioned, all the better, and
your method for obtaining it and compensation for your method are small
potatoes indeed.
Many consultants attempt to enlarge sales (especially those based on a
time-and-materials billing system) by “enlarging” them to include more areas,
more people, or longer durations. This is madness, since it also increases the
labor intensity of the project, which is arithmetic growth at best.
The key to geometric growth is to find that rich vein of true need and
mine it assiduously. When the buyer says, “We’ve never looked at it that way
before” or “Why, that’s counterintuitive” or “I’ve never considered that, and
I can’t imagine why not,” you’ve achieved a wonderful sale, which you can
louse up only if you don’t understand where you are.
This is why promoting how good you are, touting your methodology,
demonstrating your patents and copyrights and trademarks, and attempting to dazzle the prospect with the beauty of your intricate approaches are
all so silly. None of that is in the prospect’s self-interest. But I can sit down
without one sheet of paper (and without, thank the fates, any reference at all
to PowerPoint) and demonstrate exactly how the buyer will be better off as
a result of our partnership, including in those areas where the buyer hadn’t
even been aware of the opportunities.
That beats a slide show any day.
Figure 3.1 shows graphically what I call “value distance,” which I define
as the distance created from the mere “want” toward the true “need.” The
greater the distance, the greater your value.

The Basics of Value-Based Fees

c03.indd 55

55

7/1/08 2:42:44 PM

NEED
VALUE DISTANCE

WANT

Figure 3.1 Value Distance.

The ability to use a selected variety of interventions to interpret our past
for the client’s improved future is a rare dynamic, one shared, perhaps, with
doctors and lawyers. But the doctors seldom have our range of possible work,
and the lawyers have no idea how to charge for their value. That leaves the
field to us.

No one cares, really, about how good you are. Clients care about
how good they are going to be when you’re done with them.

T H E S U B T L E T R A N S F O R M AT I O N :
C O N S U LTA N T PA S T T O C L I E N T F U T U R E
The final major consideration to think about—or perhaps internalize—is that
we, as consultants, are engaged in a rather grand venture. We are not worth
our on-site visits, we are not worth our technology, and we are not worth our
tactical advice. Of course, you can charge for all that, but your fees will be
delimited by the very nature of the limitations of those components.

56

c03.indd 56

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:42:45 PM

Consultant’s
Past

Current
Intervention

Client’s
Future

• experiences
• education
• accomplishments
• development
• travels
• work history
• beliefs
• victories/defeats
• risks/adversity
• experimentation

• coaching
• survey
• redesign
• workshop
• retreat
• etc.

• higher productivity
• lower attrition
• higher morale
• improved image
• better performance
• greater market share
• greater profit
• more growth
• more innovation
• problems solved
• happier customers
• superior service

Process Flow

Figure 3.2 Transforming Consultant Past to Client Future.
We are actually worth the transformation that we achieve in turning our
history into the client’s future. Figure 3.2 shows the actual process flow that
all of us should bear in mind with every project.
Each of us possesses a unique background that we should accentuate,
not blend into a homogeneous “consultant hash.” The longer we work and
the more diverse our projects, the richer that background. (This is also why
I preach that academic degrees are only a small part of one’s armamentarium.)
We transfer that past to the client through a series of interventions, which
might include major interactive devices (training, focus groups), personalized
interaction (coaching, interviews), proprietary approaches (books, models),
and individual work (observations, advice).
The mistake is to attach a value and a fee to either of the first two columns in the figure. The only column that matters is the third column: the client results, which, of course, constitute the client’s future.
Yet even the best of consultants, while acknowledging project objectives
and outcomes, retrogress and assess their fees based on the number of retreats
or the size of a survey or their history in that industry or how many sites they’ll
have to visit. The worst consultants never visit the third column at all.
When I tell people to provide client options, which you’ll find discussed in
other parts of this book, they often simply increase numbers of deliverables (!)

The Basics of Value-Based Fees

c03.indd 57

57

7/1/08 2:42:45 PM

and point out that another option is to have twice as much training or three
times as many coaching contacts. That’s crazy.
I invite you to use Figure 3.2 as a template.3 The left column’s generic
headings should be replaced by your own unique past, and that column
should grow continually. (If it’s not growing after every single engagement,
then you’re taking on projects you can do blindfolded and, hence, you’re not
growing and not increasing your potential value.) The middle column should
be your particular interventions, and they might be stable or grow (or even
decline). For example, you may add “expert witness” to that column. I, for one,
have deleted “training” from that column, which I choose not to do anymore.
Generally, since we have a limited range of competencies and tend to focus on
what we do best, this column will be relatively shorter than the others.
The third column we should generate for each particular client. It should
be as long as possible and be created with the buyer ’s active collaboration
and contributions (thus stipulating to the value we’re providing). Yet overwhelmingly, our approaches, promotional material, conversations, and even
ideas about self-worth tend to focus on the first two columns and not the
third. As Marshal Ney said when told of the assassination of a rival ordered
by Napoleon, “It’s worse than a crime. It’s a blunder.”
Here’s a hint: constantly survey your past clients to determine your full
breadth and scope in that third column. We are often ignorant of what the
client feels has been the true impact of our partnership. Clients will often say,
“What surprised me is that we were able to do this in addition to what we
discussed. That was a great fringe benefit.” Fringe benefits to one party are
primary benefits to another. Record and codify such things.

PERPETUAL MOTION, PERPETUAL
PROGRESS
There is nothing magic or even new about my models. Substitute them for
others of your own design if you like. But the point not to be lost is that you
must have a conscious model for determining your value to the client, and your

3
The form in Figure 3.2 first appeared in the first book of this series, The Ultimate Consultant,
which I hope you’ll read if you haven’t already.

58

c03.indd 58

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:42:47 PM

models, whatever they are, must start with your own acceptance and buy-in.
The first sale is always to yourself.
Most consultants are unaware of their own business model.
Never view the client as a fixed position moving to another fixed position.
I’m told that the best airplane pilots are able to immediately visualize movements in three dimensions, since an airplane, even when taking off, is not moving merely forward or up but in several directions at once whenever airborne.
Similarly, a client doesn’t merely move from position A to position B but rather
moves dynamically, somewhat to the left or right, a little up or down. Client
success is a moving target, which should always be a goal, not a destination.
Therefore, our ability to influence the client’s future is an ongoing need
and a continual value. If we’re really good, the collaboration isn’t just about
reaching point B; it’s about continually describing and preparing for new
futures and the requisite journeys.
And as you accompany the client on that journey, you are constantly learning and increasing the fuel in the first column, enabling the third column to
continually be enriched. That’s right, the very work you do with a client should
make you more valuable to that client as time progresses. One of the bromides
in this business is that a consultant comes to study a problem and remains to
become part of it. I don’t doubt that many do just that. But the flip side of the
value coin is that once you’re working in partnership with the buyer to enrich
the future, and you’re constantly learning during the process—thereby further
increasing your value—why would a client want you to leave?
Don’t misunderstand. I’m not advocating clients for life or some kind
of viral approach where the client is never free of you. But I am maintaining
that we come and go too quickly, in general, and that we underestimate the
improving value we provide simply by dint of successfully working with
the client and reaching our mutual goals in real time. We leave too early
because we disengage too early, and we disengage too early because we don’t
think it’s right to market while we deliver.
This is crazy. It’s perfectly fine to continue to improve our own value
while providing the client with increasing value as a result. I worked with
Merck for twelve years in a row; with Calgon for five; with Hewlett-Packard
for over fifteen; and with the American Press Institute for over twenty. There
were and are some very smart people in all these organizations. I’d like to
think they recognized a good thing—a high value—when they saw it.

The Basics of Value-Based Fees

c03.indd 59

59

7/1/08 2:42:48 PM

This is the “good deal” to which I periodically refer. When a buyer says,
“He was a bargain,” and I say, “I was well paid,” that’s the basis for continued high value and ongoing high profits—for both parties.

The opportunity to turn our past into the client’s future is very
existential. Our past improves as our work with the client progresses.
As that value grows, so should our client relationship and the duration of our partnership.

CHAPTER ROI

• Value-based fees should reflect client results, not consultant tasks. We
tend to focus on the wrong side of that equation.
• “Deliverables” are a consultant-invented shibboleth that is easy to
describe and produce but of very little ultimate value.
Measures
of success can be quantitative and qualitative, and the latter—
•
with the subjective assessment of the buyer—can be more valuable than
the former.
• Buyer self-interest—either organizational or individual—is the key.
Consultant self-interest is merely a function of the buyer ’s needs.
• What a buyer wants and what a buyer needs are two different things in
most cases, and it’s up to the consultant to demonstrate the difference
and the greater value of that difference.
• We transform our unique past into the client’s unique future. When
stated (and believed) in that framework, it’s difficult to place a high
enough fee on that tremendous value.
• Discretionary time for a buyer constitutes tremendous wealth. Don’t
merely focus on the monetary or on the business.
Consulting is art and science. The danger is that we become excellent technicians and lose our aesthetic sense. We need to paint visions of the future—for our
clients and for ourselves.

60

c03.indd 60

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:42:48 PM

I N T E R L U D E

The Case of the
Annoying Accountants

I

had been hired to help a major consulting firm transition
just one of its practices to value-based fees. This practice was considered unusually appropriate in its subject area
and was led by a partner who fully backed the conversion. It
was hoped that the “pilot” would help countervail the ossified
culture of billing by the hour ingrained in the rest of the
company.
We worked to select those people who would be most
amenable within the practice and who had accounts or prospects most likely to be converted by a value-based approach
and its benefits to the client, such as no meter running, no
investment decisions needed daily, and so forth.
In short, we maximized our chances of success, and it
worked.
Fairly soon we had two clients converted and all new
prospects discussing solely value-based fees. New proposals

61

c03.indd 61

7/1/08 2:42:48 PM

talked only of value-based fees. Then an unexpected monkey wrench was
tossed into the works.
In the largest such project, about $460,000 in revenue, the accounting
department said they would not accept the business as earned income or
distribute the credit unless the monies were accounted for in terms of hours
applied and within the limits of hourly rates of partners, associates, and so
forth. In other words, since there were neither enough billable hours nor sufficient leeway on charges by the hour, the project couldn’t be accounted for!
The practice leader was at his wits’ end, but the head of accounting
refused to budge, citing “a terrible precedent.” Since my retirement plan
wasn’t vested in my client and I had already been paid a value-based fee up front,
it was agreed that I was the best weapon.
So I send a note to the head of the division and asked which he preferred
in terms of his bonus plan that year: a $460,000 project that accounting
would have to find new ways to allocate or a $220,000 project, which was the
maximum we could justify using allocated hours and hourly rates.
Not long after, accounting found some mysterious way to accept and
credit the revenue, though they never revealed how.
You would be surprised at how many companies are driven by their
internal bookkeeping functions. Don’t allow that mentality to enter your
office.
Moral: No airline pilot ever shouted over the public address system, “Is there an
accountant on board??!!”

62

c03.indd 62

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:42:49 PM

C H A P T E R

4

How to Establish
Value-Based Fees
If You Read Only One Chapter . . .

E

ver since I began promoting value-based pricing for
consultants (and the variety of other occupations and
professions that have sought to heed the call), I’ve been asked
one question consistently by a minority of the acolytes: “What
formula should I use?”
That, of course, is the million-dollar question. Fee setting is art and science, and mostly the former. Consequently,
the engineers, architects, and other highly structured among
us have had to be revived when told that there is no magic
formula. However, that’s not to say that there aren’t excellent
ways to create fees based on value, if you’re willing to be flexible, confident, and diagnostic.
So if you haven’t rushed to get your money back after the
first two paragraphs, I can be of considerable help. In fact, for

63

c04.indd 63

7/1/08 2:43:30 PM

the first time, I’m going to be very explicit in writing about the creation of
value-based fees. But please keep these precepts in mind:

• The idea is to create high margins, not merely high fees. That way, you
can afford to be less precise about fees, since the margins will allow for
plenty of flexibility.
• Value is in the eye of the beholder. There is no law, nor any ethical imperative, that says that you must charge two clients the exact same amount
for the same services. First, the services are rarely identical. Second, the
value to those respective clients will always be different.
• The fact that you could do something for less money or that you could
do more for the same amount of money is irrelevant. The only relevant
facts are: Are you meeting the client’s objectives, improving the client’s
condition, and delighting your buyer? To answer that, you virtually
never have to provide details of every single service, every scintilla of
information, or every day of your life to do that.
I also want to emphasize that fees are means to more important ends. Wealth,
to me, is about discretionary time. You can always make more money, but you
can never make more time. Those daily twenty-four hours are all you have.
Some of you can create wealth with less money than others. It depends
on your lifestyle, age, career trajectory, personal values, family size, and many
other factors. But never lose sight of the fact that fees are a means to create
wealth, and wealth is a function of your freedom to allocate time to important
personal objectives and needs.

C O N C E P T U A L A G R E E M E N T:
T H E F O U N D AT I O N O F VA L U E
Consulting is a relationship business. Trust is essential to relationships. When
a buyer trusts you and you trust the buyer, you are in a position to acquire the
three essential building blocks for a value-based project:
1. The business objectives to be met
2. The metrics or measures of success to assess progress
3. The value to the client of meeting those objectives

64

c04.indd 64

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:43:30 PM

A relationship with an economic buyer is always the first step in
a value-based project. You don’t need anyone else, but you can’t
make the sale with anyone else either. It’s that simple.

That’s it. That’s all you need from the client to set a fee based on value.
And you can only obtain that from the economic buyer. The sequence here is
simple and straightforward, but also ineffable (see Figure 4.1).
As you can see in the figure, our marketing efforts create leads, which
we pursue and qualify to find the true (economic) buyer—the person who
can write a check for our services. We then establish a relationship with
that buyer so that we can gain conceptual agreement about the three criteria above. Without the economic buyer, the discussion is irrelevant; without a trusting relationship, the important information is unlikely to be
shared; and without conceptual agreement, we are unable to establish the
value as perceived by the client, which is the key input to determining our
own fees.

proposal with options

conceptual agreement

relationship based on trust

economic buyer
Qualifying the True Buyer
leads

Figure 4.1

leads

leads

The Value-Based Fees Sequence.

How to Establish Value-Based Fees

c04.indd 65

65

7/1/08 2:43:31 PM

One last time, then:

• Objectives: Business outcomes (for example, higher sales, better teamwork, faster time to market) that are essential for the project to deliver
for the client
• Measures: Objective or subjective (anecdotal) criteria that will indicate
progress and, eventually, completion for client and consultant
• Value: The demonstrable organizational or personal benefit stipulated
by the client as representing the actual improvement in the client’s
condition

Setting value-based fees is both an art and science. But a key
criterion is simply this: what fee range is likely to prompt the client
to say, “That was a terrific return on my investment, and I’d like to
work with that person again,” and you to say, “I was paid very well
for my contribution, and the margin was excellent”?

I’ll provide some “formulas” for this at the end of this chapter, but it’s
imperative that you understand the underlying rationale first. The economic
buyer must agree to outcomes, measures, and value of the improvements
in collaboration with you prior to setting fees. If you accomplish this, your
proposals will be accepted more than 80 percent of the time (although you’ll
probably submit fewer proposals than you do now). If you ignore this, your
chances of having value-based proposals accepted are less than 5 percent.
Here’s an example for our purposes:
Project
• Improve retention of new employees in a zero-unemployment, highly
competitive environment
Objectives
• Current rate of new employee turnover (32 percent) lowered toward the
industry average (22 percent) over one year ’s time

66

c04.indd 66

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:43:31 PM

• Hiring process improved so that fewer poor candidates survive to the
third round of interviews
• Causes for high turnover understood and patterns traced to relevant
sources: interviews, orientation, training, mentor, supervisor, and so on
Measures
• Monthly retention report and turnover statistics
• Exit interview analysis
• Survey (to be created) for new hires to accept and reject company offer
letter
• Six-, twelve-, and eighteen-month survivor rates
Value
• Current turnover costing $545,000 annually in actual salary, benefits,
and related expenses
• Estimated cost of lost work, poor productivity, overtime, and related
costs until vacated jobs are ultimately filled by qualified and trained
replacements: $2.6 million annually
• Estimated cost of “failure work” in senior management interviewing
candidates who should have been eliminated at lower levels: $350,000
annually
In my basic example, this client is spending about $3.5 million on an
inadequate and ineffective hiring process. And that’s every year. We’ll
return to this example once we’ve establish a few more basics. But note that
the economic buyer has provided these numbers in discussions with the
consultant.1
Here’s a second example:
Project
• Coaching the president of a $450 million division

1

See Appendixes A through F for examples of the questions that can be used with the economic
buyer to establish objectives, measures, value, and so on.

How to Establish Value-Based Fees

c04.indd 67

67

7/1/08 2:43:32 PM

Objectives
• Masters the ability to influence and impress the press and outside
directors
• Creates a positive, nonthreatening environment for subordinates’ ideas
• Establishes a succession plan for officers with three-deep bench strength
Measures
• Outside directors comment favorably at meetings on communications
• Positive press stories appear monthly; negatives decline
• Regular meetings are established for purely innovation and creative
thinking
• New services and product development expand at a greater rate
• Plan are in place with candidates, and there are empty slots for outside
recruiting
Value
• More investors, stock price is higher, board approves more funding
• Growth initiatives, funded properly, provide a competitive edge
• New ideas boost market share and publicity in the media
• Decreased recruiting costs, higher retention of top people
Even with a “simple” coaching project, you can create true value-based
projects with no reliance on how many days you spend or how much access
there is to you. The results and commensurate value are the keys.

E S TA B L I S H I N G Y O U R U N I Q U E VA L U E
The examples show how to establish value in terms of buyer needs. A second
major component of value, however, can be ascertained without the buyer ’s
involvement, and that’s your uniqueness and personal contribution.
There are three questions that you should answer in every single engagement, prior to establishing fees:
1. Why me?
2. Why now?
3. Why in this manner?

68

c04.indd 68

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:43:32 PM

Why Me?
If there are hundreds of consultants who can do the work in question and
provide the value the client requests, you are less valuable to the success of
the project. But if the number of consultants who can do the work is limited,
your value increases. This is basic supply and demand mentality, but in this
limited instance, it works.
Here are some components of this question that can help you determine
whether you are uniquely valuable or simply another fish in the school:

• Is the buyer talking to other consultants? If so, to a limited range or a
great many?
• Do you possess some unique expertise or history (you “wrote the book,”
you once worked in the industry, you worked for the buyer in the past,
or the like)?
• Have you been referred to the buyer by a trusted source?
• Are you known within the industry, or do you have a unique reputation?
• Are you at the right place at the right time (you’re local, you’re available
to start immediately, and so on)?
Ask yourself whether you bring some inherent value that others can’t,
whether by design (a book you’ve written) or by accident (you’re the only
one who can begin next week). Sometimes it’s as important to be lucky as it
is to be good at what you do.

It’s easy to assess your own unique value, but most consultants
don’t bother. If you don’t do it, no one else is going to do it for you.

Why Now?
Is there some special value about this juncture that needs to be factored in?
After all, there is often a reason why the discussion is being undertaken today
and not six months ago or six months from now, and that reason is often
desperation!

How to Establish Value-Based Fees

c04.indd 69

69

7/1/08 2:43:32 PM

Here are some component questions:

• What if the client were to do nothing? Would the situation be stable or
deteriorate still further?
• Is there a limited window of opportunity during which gains must be
made or they will be lost?
• Has something occurred that has increased the urgency significantly (for
example, the CEO has said, “Get it done!”)?
• Are certain conditions in place that need to be capitalized on or they will
be lost (for example, a competitor ’s temporary misfortune)?
• Is there funding available that will disappear if not used (often the case
at the conclusion of a fiscal year)?
When a prospect contacts you, there is always an implied urgency. The
key is to determine just how great it is or to increase it through your relationship with the buyer.

Why in This Manner?
Hiring a consultant is hardly a default position, much as we all wish it were.
There must be compelling reasons in favor of such a hire if the buyer is
bothering to talk to you (irrespective of whether the buyer reached out to you
or you to the buyer).2
Here are some additional questions:

• Why aren’t they doing this internally?
• Have they tried this in the past and failed?
• Have they used other consultants in the past, and if so, with what
result?

2

I want to emphasize that my remarks pertain to true buyers. Gatekeepers, trainers, human
resource people, purchasing agents, and others will often reach out simply to “shop” and compare prices. These approaches are not designed for such contacts. The only thing to do with
those contacts is to use them to reach an economic buyer.

70

c04.indd 70

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:43:33 PM

• Why is this buyer the one sponsoring this project?
• Who else is involved in this project and why?
By determining special circumstances, you’ll be in a position to establish your
ability to contribute to those special needs.
In establishing your own unique value, you have another important input to your fee determination. (Note that many of the questions in
these three areas may be answered in your relationship building with the
buyer. Keep them in mind—even written in your notes—as your discussion
progresses.)

Whenever a client contacts you, there is the strong possibility that
the urgency and need for a resolution are greater than initially
indicated. This is why effective marketing is so important: prospects who contact you are much more inherently valuable than
prospects you contact. The value proposition is entirely different
in the two situations.

Here is a simple test that might scare you into value-based fees. Draw
three columns. Label the first one “Strengths,” the second one “Transfer
Mechanism,” and the third one “Results.” Now, in column one, write down
your five greatest strengths (good listener, M.B.A., international experience,
outstanding writer, and so on). In the second column, write down the main
transfer mechanisms you use to convey these strengths to the client (workshop, coaching, consulting, writing, facilitating, and so on). Finally, in the
third column, write down five typical results your clients derive from working with you (higher profit, less attrition, reduced stress, better image, and
so on).
Now step back and take a look. You are probably charging for the first
two columns (your credentials or your time and materials) but not for the client results. It’s time to change your focus. You are overdelivering and undercharging.

How to Establish Value-Based Fees

c04.indd 71

71

7/1/08 2:43:33 PM

At this point, you have two excellent sources or indicators of the
contribution you are providing to the client’s improvement:
1. The stipulated value that the successful completion of the project will
deliver to the client
2. The unique qualities that you, personally, bring to the equation to ensure
that those results are met and exceeded
It’s now time to appreciate the extent of this mutual “good deal.”

C R E AT I N G T H E “ G O O D D E A L ”
DYNAMIC
Customers buy cheap pens and expensive cars for the same reason: the
purchase makes sense in terms of what they care to invest at that moment.
The pen may be easily lost on the job and is used only for internal sign-offs
on inventory, so the quality doesn’t matter as long as the loss isn’t too great
when the pen inevitably disappears. In that case, 19 cents makes sense.
The car may cost $75,000, but there are few like it, you feel good in it, and
you’ve always wanted one. You can now afford it. The emotional gratification
more than compensates for the difference in the basic cost of transportation
that could be saved with a less expensive vehicle.
In either case, it’s a “good deal” for the customer. You have to make a
“good deal” for the buyer. Note that this is more than merely a return on
investment. That’s because good deals are based on visceral and subjective
needs as much as on analytical and objective needs (which is why you always
want to stay away from the obsessively detailed denizens of the purchasing
department). Focus on these “good deal” factors while building your relationship and establishing conceptual agreement (and find out which are most
crucial to your buyer):

• Responsiveness (a plus for solo practitioners)
• Referral source (the transferred trust from the person referring you)
• Speed of completion

72

c04.indd 72

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:43:33 PM

• Transfer of skills so that the client can replicate
• Using an “authority” or acknowledged “expert”
• Documentation
• Involvement of client personnel
• Confidentiality, nondisclosure, noncompete restrictions
• Use or transfer of proprietary material
• Guarantees and assurances
• Industry knowledge or experience3
• Accountability for tough decisions (you are the “black hat”)
• Ability to travel and visit sites
• Technological compatibility
• Safety (malpractice insurance, liability insurance, and so on)4
Not all of these issues will apply. But you won’t know unless you check
for them. Also, you’ll note that “fees” or “costs” are never mentioned as part
of the “good deal” evaluation. That’s because the good deal is based on value
and not on fees. At no point are we attempting to establish a good deal on the
basis of lower price, because a good deal must benefit both parties, and lower
fees do not benefit the consultant. Consequently, fees should not be a part of
this list.

Assess all the emotional and psychological factors that may prompt
a buyer to perceive that he or she is getting a really good deal. That
same process will enable you to raise fees, provided that the “good
deal” is not about lowering fees!

3

Although I’m not an advocate of industry specialization, if you just happen to have worked
in the field, you probably have an advantage if you position it correctly.
4
For example, a consultant cannot work for Hewlett-Packard without providing evidence of an
in-force malpractice insurance policy.

How to Establish Value-Based Fees

c04.indd 73

73

7/1/08 2:43:33 PM

The “good deal” equation for the buyer can include any or all of these
variables:

• Duration: The benefits of the project are annualized and forever, while
the fee is one time and fixed.
• Skills Transfer: The client’s people will be able to do this themselves in
the future, not only solving the immediate problem but also creating an
internal capability for future problems.
• Leading Edge: The client will be assuming a leading-edge position in the
industry, marketplace, community, or other environment; above and
beyond the issue, the perception and image impact are substantial.
• Control of One’s Destiny: Just by dint of doing something—hiring you—
the client has extricated the organization from the morass; almost any
action can have a positive effect,5 even if results aren’t immediately
appreciated.
Ultimately, the equation might look like Figure 4.2.
Tangible Outcomes ⫻ Expected Duration of Outcomes ⫹
Intangible Outcomes ⫻ Emotional Impact of Intangibles ⫹
Peripheral Benefits ⫹ Variables Positively Affected
Fixed Investment Required

⫽ Client’s “Good Deal”

Figure 4.2 The “Good Deal” Equation.

VIGNETTE

An attorney at one of the largest consulting firms in the world told me
that he was an advocate of value-based fees. His problem was that his
accounting department insisted that all fees be expressed on an hourly

5
The classic case being the near-legendary Hawthorne studies, which showed that raising the
lighting positively affected performance, but so did lowering the lighting. It was the attention,
not the actual light setting, that mattered in terms of productivity.

74

c04.indd 74

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:43:34 PM

basis, and the result—in this case, $2,500 per hour—was impossible
for even the most liberal and understanding client to swallow.
So even though a client company initially didn’t mind paying
$60,000 for the value of the attorney’s consulting, it balked when
the attorney’s firm, which would bill only on the basis of actual time
spent and not value delivered to the client, expressed it as a huge
amount per hour.
The attorney asked my advice for how to handle the client.
I told him not to handle the client but to handle his own operation. He had to go to his own CEO and explain that either he
could reduce the fees he generated for the consulting firm by
80 percent or the CEO could pressure accounting into changing
its procedures for recording and billing revenues. Would the CEO
prefer to stick to the current outdated bookkeeping and $250,000
of revenue or a value-based system and over $1 million for the
same work?
Not surprisingly, accounting soon found another way to record
income.
There’s no excuse for sticking to old ways that undercut profitability, either in large, bureaucratic firms or, especially, in small firms
or solo practices.

The key is this: don’t seek to lower the divisor by lowering fees; seek to
increase the dividend (the benefits and peripherals) so that the quotient—the
good deal—is maximized.

THE INCREDIBLY POWERFUL
“CHOICE OF YESES”
No client should ever have to make a “go or no-go” decision, yet that is exactly
the narrow box that most consultants force on their buyers.
How to Establish Value-Based Fees

c04.indd 75

75

7/1/08 2:43:34 PM

The psychological shift from “Should I use Alan?” to “How should I use
Alan?” is enormous. The buyer, in the latter instance, actually enters into a
collaboration with you to determine how best to apply your talents and use
your contribution. The former, a binary choice, is a sales proposition; the latter, a pluralistic choice, is a partnership proposition.

By simply providing options, you move the sale to an assumptive
close and the fees to a “migratory range” that is ever upward. Every
buyer wants to lower fees, but not one wants to lower value.

Another powerful effect of options is that they relentlessly drive fees
upward. When confronted with three options, each one promising higher
value for the client, the buyer will tend to move at least to the second and
often to the third. This can’t happen with a “take it or leave it” proposal.
Buyers may seek to lower fees, but they also seek to maximize value.
Here is a brief example of options used in a project involving gathering
employee feedback on desirable benefits to retain talent.
Option 1: We will conduct focus groups throughout the company, representing about 15 percent of the population. The value of these includes
“self-sanctioning” groups, which will separate a “one-off” opinion
from the prevailing opinions and also allow for follow-up and causal
questions.
Option 2: We will also provide one-on-one interviews with about 5 percent
of the population. This provides the opportunity to bolster the focus
groups with confidential opinions, drawn at random, without exposing
the individual to a larger group. People are often more candid in this
situation, particularly those who are relatively unassertive in groups.
Option 3: We will provide a paper-and-pencil or Internet survey for
all members of the population. This will bolster the other options,
providing every employee the opportunity to provide feedback on
a confidential and anonymous basis. Note that similar patterns that
emerge from the three diverse avenues will be highly valid and most
reliable.
76

c04.indd 76

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:43:35 PM

Option 4: We will compare the results of whatever options you choose to
benchmark studies we have conducted for other organizations, which
will also give you a relative insight into your employees’ desires and
complaints compared to a wider general population.
Option 5: We will provide a series of workshops for your key managers
on how to deal with, react to, discuss, and take action on the results
of the studies just described. It’s imperative that you have a plan in
place to respond rapidly and accurately, without committing yourself
to inappropriate solutions.
In this example, the first option (based on the overall value of the project
to employee retention) might be priced at $45,000; the second (which includes
the first) at $65,000; the third (which includes the first and second) at $95,000;
and the fourth at an additional $35,000, regardless of which of the first three
options are chosen. The fifth might be an additional $45,000. The buyer is in
a position to determine whether to take the “risk” of a single avenue of feedback (which, if only one, you determine is best as a focus group) or whether to
minimize that risk with other options, including preparing the management
team for how to deal with that feedback (option 5). The decision as to whether
to provide for management team training to accompany, say, option 2, is a far
cry from deciding whether to proceed or not.
Such is the power of options. They can be used at any point in the sale
(for example, “We can have a conference call this afternoon, I can call you
alone tomorrow, or I can visit you on Monday—which do you prefer?”) but
are especially key in the proposal when providing for a basis for fees.
Once you’ve established a general fee range for your contribution based
on the value generated (all the factors discussed previously in this chapter),
you can then spread them across a “choice of yeses” to engage the buyer in
the best outcome for the client.

Never place a buyer in a “go or no-go” dynamic, and never be
constrained by a stated budget. If you really believe it’s about value,
then any budget can be adjusted by a buyer who perceives greater
value than expected.

How to Establish Value-Based Fees

c04.indd 77

77

7/1/08 2:43:35 PM

Here’s a terrific hint for getting a fee even above the buyer ’s stated
budget. When you provide the options, cite two that are within the budget
and one—with even greater and perhaps irresistible value—above the budget.
A client who can “find” $175,000 for a project can “find” another $50,000, if
warranted. You never know until you ask. No client will ever say, “Be sure
to quote me something above my budget.” But with the “choice of yeses”
approach, you can justifiably do that by providing options within the budget
and an additional one that happens to be over the budget but also provides
far greater value.
If you don’t believe that this approach will work, consider how many
times you’ve bought extras for your car, computer, phone, garden equipment,
pool, or other possessions that you scarcely wanted at the time but then realized you couldn’t live without. If the manufacturer or catalogue or store clerk
hadn’t brought them to your attention, you still wouldn’t own them.
Here are ten guidelines for options, or the “choice of yeses”:
1. It’s OK to discuss possible options during conceptual agreement, but
never assign any fees to them, ever. Simply impress on the buyer that
he or she will have choices to make with varying degrees of value and
protection against risk.
2. Don’t “bundle.” You’re better off “unbundling.” Most consultants don’t
have options because they place every single thing they are able to
deliver in their “go or no-go” proposal, as if that’s the only way to justify
their value.
3. Keep a good distance between options. You don’t want a mere $5,000 of
separation. Each one must represent significantly more income to you.
4. Commensurately with option 3 in the example, make sure that each
option clearly provides additional unquestioned value to the buyer.
Simply promising more of something or greater frequency does not add
value; it merely adds time and materials. For instance, in the sample list
of options, there is no option for additional focus groups or interviews.
Each option is clearly distinct.
5. Some options may include prior, lower-value ones, and others may stand
alone no matter which prior option is chosen. In the example, options 1,
2, and 3 are mutually exclusive, each higher one containing the former;
but options 4 and 5 can be combined with any of the first three.

78

c04.indd 78

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:43:35 PM

6. Cite your options formally in your proposal, under a heading such as
“Methodology and Options.”6
7. Don’t attach fees to the options. Cite the fees separately in the proposal
under a heading such as “Terms and Conditions.” This is because you
want the buyer to focus solely on the value of each option and not immediately connect it with investment. Let the buyer make a mental choice
prior to introducing the fee.
8. If a buyer says, “I like option 3, but I only have the budget for option 2,”
reply, “Fine, then option 2 it is.” This is not a negotiation.
9. If a buyer asks for a slightly lower fee associated with a particular
option, reply, “Fine, but what value would you like me to remove?”
Never decrease a fee without decreasing perceived value.
10. Keep your options relatively simple. This is not rocket science. And be
prepared to show the differences in value (or the decrease in project risk)
as you work your way up the choices.

Don’t use a fixed-fee formula. But do have some guidelines that you
can apply until you’re comfortable moving away from the “science”
and toward the “art.”

SOME FORMULAS FOR THE FAINT
OF HEART
I’m always being asked, “Well, you must really estimate days, right?” Wrong.
I only estimate client value and my contribution to it.
I’m aware, however, that many of you will prefer help in the form of
analytical science until the more intuitive art kicks in. (Don’t forget that there
is nothing wrong or unethical about the art form of value-based fees so long
as the client believes that the resultant value more than justifies the investment in your help in gaining it.)

6
For a formal template and illustrations, see my book How to Write a Proposal That’s Accepted
Every Time.

How to Establish Value-Based Fees

c04.indd 79

79

7/1/08 2:43:35 PM

So for the first time anywhere, here are a formula and some other criteria
for establishing value-based fees. While the engineers in the audience won’t
be pleased (“What’s after the fourth decimal place?”) and the lawyers will be
discomfited (“What, exactly, do you mean by a ‘fee’?”), I think the rest of you
will at least be happy with the framework.
The Step-by-Step Choice of Yeses
Step 1: Establish the value with the economic buyer in the conceptual
agreement phase, after ascertaining objectives to be achieved and the
measures of progress. (Questions to ask for the conceptual agreement
components appear in the appendixes.)
Step 2: Establish your own value based on your uniqueness (why you,
why now, why in this manner).
Step 3: Create your options, clearly delineated by increasing value. They
may be cumulative or mutually exclusive.
Step 4: Given the value of the project, estimate a profound and significant return on the investment, working backward. In other words, if
the buyer has stipulated a $2 million savings annualized, then a return
of 20 to 1 on the first year alone would be represented by a $100,000
investment.
Step 5: Create your “choice of yeses” using that conservative 20-to-1
return rate as your least expensive option. Increase your other options
by a factor of a minimum of 20 percent. In this case, option 2 would be
$120,000, and option 3 would be $144,000 (20 percent above option 2).
Step 6: Now go back to step 2. If your own unique value is high on the
why me, why now, why in this manner scale, add another 20 percent
to each option. If your uniqueness is moderate, add 10 percent. If your
uniqueness is low, don’t add anything above the step 4 calculations.
Step 7: Look at the project objectives and value to the organization in their
entirety, and then review your fees resulting from the first six steps.
Ask yourself, “Is this a good deal—a bargain—for the client in view of
the value, and is it a good deal for me in terms of large margins? If not,
adjust up or down, but by no more than 15 percent. Then submit it.
Step 8: Stop worrying. You’ll close about 60 to 80 percent of these
deals, which is better than your prior rate (don’t lie) and at higher
profitability.

80

c04.indd 80

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:43:36 PM

The “formula” is simple, but the toughest part of this sale is to yourself, not the buyer.

If you must use a formula, fix it at 20 to 1 or better—in other words, 10 to
1 is just fine. Bolster your case with these beliefs (mainly for yourself):

• The client is probably spending more on warranties for copy machines
and ruined postage than for your project.
The
value to the organization, if anything, is probably understated and
•
conservative.
• Your fees are highly conservative (actually, a 5-to-1 return would be a
great investment).
• You’ve probably underestimated your own uniqueness for this client.
• The value is based on first-year returns. The annualized basis would
probably represent a return of 100 to 1.
• It doesn’t matter whether you could have done it for $20,000 less or the
client would have paid $20,000 more. The margins are still terrific for
you, and the benefits still terrific for the buyer. That is all that matters.
If it appears that the toughest sell is to yourself, you’ve read between the
lines quite accurately.
The key to even this formulaic approach is to work backward from the ultimate client value through your unique contribution to the current fee schedule
spread over options. Do not work forward, trying to calculate the amount of time,
number of days, volume of deliverables, or variety of tasks. They are commodities and, no matter what margin you add to these activities and commodities, it
will be minuscule compared to your margin for a truly value-based approach.
The most conservative and even timid value-based approach will be far
more lucrative to you, while highly attractive to the buyer, than the most
aggressive time-and-materials calculation. Stop selling yourself short.
The formula presented here is meant as a “halfway house”—enough
science to get you through until you’ve mastered the art form and it becomes
second nature.

How to Establish Value-Based Fees

c04.indd 81

81

7/1/08 2:43:36 PM

Finally, here is a strategic and conceptual “formula” for those who are
really enthused by the idea of value-based fees and ready to try them:

Tangible Outcomes ⫻ Expected Duration of Outcomes ⫹
Intangible Outcomes ⫻ Emotional Impact of Intangibles ⫹
Peripheral Benefits ⫹ Variables Positively Affected
Fixed Investment Required

⫽ VALUE

The tangible outcome and its annualized duration; plus the intangible benefits and the worth of those, emotionally, to the buyer; plus the peripheral
benefits (such as being seen as thought leaders) times the number of people
who will appreciate them—all of this divided by the investment—equals the
value. How can you not demonstrate a huge ROI?

CHAPTER ROI

• Conceptual agreement is at the heart of the value-based billing process.
Any time invested in gaining conceptual agreement, based on a trusting
relationship with a true economic buyer, will actually speed the sale at
higher margins.
• Your own uniqueness is an essential component that only you can calculate. But it’s as much based on self-esteem and self-belief as it is on any
pragmatic background or history.
• The reciprocity of the “good deal” creates the win-win dynamic. The
client deserves a good deal, but so do you. One is incomplete without
the other.
• The “choice of yeses”—options—is the key tactic in moving a buyer to
a consideration of value-based fees, and the propensity will be to move
upward through increasing value. Never submit a proposal without
options of distinctly different value propositions.
• You have an internal assessment about your own worth that you can
calculate.

82

c04.indd 82

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:43:36 PM

Use the fee formula until you get comfortable, then let the art overtake the
science. Remember that you never have to justify your fee basis to a client, and only
low-level people will usually make such a demand. You only have to demonstrate the
value of the outcomes. Fee setting is a time to be aggressive, not defensive.
If you can’t articulate your own value, you can’t very well suggest value-based
fees. Look in the mirror, and practice on the toughest buyer of all. The first sale is to
yourself.

How to Establish Value-Based Fees

c04.indd 83

83

7/1/08 2:43:37 PM

c04.indd 84

7/1/08 2:43:37 PM

C H A P T E R

5

How to Convert
Existing Clients
Correcting Your Own Mistakes

T

he most popular question I receive after “How do
I create value-based fees?” is “How do I move existing
clients from hourly billing to value-based fees?”
The answer is, “Very carefully.”
You’ve spent a considerable amount of time educating
those clients incorrectly—and you’ve been very effective at it.
You’ve also consistently enabled their behavior by replying to
their demands for hourly or daily rates, reductions in rates,
reductions in time, and perhaps reduction in numbers of people. They’ve become quite comfortable using your services in
the manner maximally beneficial to them and minimally beneficial to you.

85

c05.indd 85

7/1/08 2:44:12 PM

Furthermore, you’re highly credible! After all, your advice has been well
received, your suggestions well taken, and your plans well thought through.
Why shouldn’t your billing scheme be as adept and effective as your consulting expertise?
Fortunately, that’s the extent of the bad news. (I know, that’s sufficient!)
You’ve also developed a solid relationship with a buyer who would probably
be very loath to see you leave, no matter how vigorous the protests against
your fees and rates in the past. You also have a client base that permits you
to set some criteria for which clients may be most suitable for “transfer” to a
new billing arrangement. Finally, you’re successful enough so that you might
want to “fire” some clients rather than keep working with them on a basis
that is unfair to you.
Nothing raises fees like your willingness to walk away from business.
But remember, the first sale is always to yourself. While you don’t want to
take bread off the table, you also don’t want your time so entangled with
low-profit clients that you can’t work for more and tastier bread in the future.
We’ll deal with that contingency in this chapter as well.

SETTING PRIORITIES AMONG
EXISTING CLIENTS
The first order of business is to establish the decision criteria to determine
which clients even to approach. A general “triage” system works best:
1. High-potential clients for change to value-based projects
2. Clients who could go either way but require more work
3. Clients who will not change short of having their legs broken
To establish who’s who on your list,1 I’ve created the test in Exhibit 5.1.

1

Since this series is aimed at highly successful consultants, my assumption is that your firm has
a dozen to two dozen active clients and another dozen to two dozen periodic clients. But even
if you have fewer than that, the criteria will still apply, and you should use them to differentiate among your buyers.

86

c05.indd 86

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:44:12 PM

Exhibit 5.1 Test to Determine the Potential to Shift a Client to
Value-Based Fees.
Complete this form for those clients you might wish to convert to valuebased fees. Use the following scale: 3 ⫽ yes, 2 ⫽ maybe, 1 ⫽ doubtful.
1. Does this client represent significant long-term
business potential?
2. Has this client generally accepted your prior fee
schedule with little protest?
3. Has this client provided you with a very senior or
high-level buyer?
4. Does this client have multiple buyers you have sold
to or can sell to?
5. Is this a client you would hate to lose?
6. Has this client generated a substantial return on
your consulting work?
7. Has this client paid you promptly and never debated
charges or fees?
8. Has this client ever said or implied, “Just do it and
send us the bill”?
9. Does this client have a buyer with whom you are
especially close?
10. Does this client serve as a reference or exemplar for
other clients?
Add up your score.

Total score:

Here is the scoring key:
23 to 30: Client has high potential and deserves a change strategy.
14 to 22: Client has moderate potential; approach after first priorities.
0 to 21: Don’t waste your time trying to convert this client.

Depending on your client base, you might have as few as three or four
candidates or as many as a dozen or so. The key is to approach each one with a
clear and customized strategy (which we’ll talk about in the following sections).
But the good news is that you’ve been able to establish some parameters for
How to Convert Existing Clients

c05.indd 87

87

7/1/08 2:44:13 PM

your efforts. In essence, the top priorities can’t be lost, so while the goal is to
move them to a value-based system, the essential is not to drive them away.

It’s almost impossible to convert all current clients to value-based
billing, but it’s always possible to convert a few if you carefully
establish your targets.

Conversely, the bottom-tier companies aren’t worth your time anyway.
(One of my tenets is to deliberately abandon the bottom 15 percent of your
business at least every two years, and these are your candidates. See my book
Million Dollar Consulting for the details.) You could, theoretically, simply
announce the change in your billing to them and allow the majority to disappear. (They may well be one-time clients in any case.) Those in the middle will
require individual decisions, but their potential isn’t high enough to demand
that kind of attention at the moment. You might as well continue to collect
hourly rates until you’re ready to deal with them.
Let’s be clear: you don’t want to lose significant clients; that’s the bottom
line. You would like to transfer as many of them as possible to value-based
fees. That’s the goal. Ignore low-potential clients, and focus on increasing
perceived value to high-potential clients.
Once you’ve identified the top priorities with which to attempt conversion, you can build those plans into your normal visits. In other words, you
can lay the groundwork during your regular interactions with the buyer,
rather than spring the “new approach” on the buyer in one fell swoop.

Your best businesses are those that you don’t want to lose at
any cost but also those that you most want to convert to a true
value-based approach. Don’t abandon the latter need just because
of the former fact.

88

c05.indd 88

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:44:13 PM

That groundwork can be laid with the following dialogue, observations,
and reminders with the buyer:

• “Your people indicate they’d like to call on me more often, but they’re
justifiably sensitive to ‘running up a bill’ every time they need me,
despite the fact that I can provide immediate help.”
• “Neither one of us can estimate how much time your request is going
to require. I think we need to ’stop the meter ’ so that we can both invest
whatever is necessary.”
• “I’ve begun a new relationship with new clients, and I’d be remiss if I
didn’t offer it to my best clients. Could we put some time aside to discuss it on my next visit?”
• “I know you’ve been somewhat unhappy about a ’meter running’ and
uncapped costs. I’d like to suggest a way to change that dynamic that
will help both of us.”
• “I’d like to automatically be able to provide you with updates to my
intellectual property whenever they develop.”
• “I think we’d both feel better if I were able to perform audits on the
progress every ninety days for at least a year.”
“
• You often have board meetings on Monday or early mornings during
the week. It may be valuable for me to be available on some weekends
or late nights for you.”
Before we turn to the actual strategies, please keep these four critical
factors in mind:
1. Every piece of new and potential business should be treated exclusively
as a value-based prospect. Never offer any other kind of arrangement to
new clients. Educate them correctly from the beginning.
2. The first sale is always to yourself. You must convince yourself first of the
advantages to the buyer before you can effectively employ this change
strategy.
3. Although the idea is to retain the client at all costs, you can’t be fearful.
Enthusiasm, assurance, and absolute belief carry the day. Hesitancy, tentativeness, and uncertainty will waste everyone’s time.
4. You must provide additional value as perceived by your buyer.

How to Convert Existing Clients

c05.indd 89

89

7/1/08 2:44:13 PM

O F F E R I N G N E W VA L U E
The most important and most effective method for converting existing clients
to a value-based fee system is to offer new value. There is no reason in the
world for a client to move from your hourly or daily rate to a fixed fee for
the exact same value the buyer is now receiving. Think about it: if people
change only in accordance with their own self-interests (“What’s in it for
me?”), why abandon a clear, reasonable (that is, cheap), and long-standing
billing arrangement?
Well, you abandon it if a new system provides more value and better
appeals to their self-interest. I’m going to say that again: Clients will abandon
an old system if a new system provides more value and better appeals to their
self-interest.
If you focus on nothing else, focus on that. What new value can you offer
the buyer in the next phase of the project, in a new project, or in the negotiation of a new agreement that will encourage consideration of switching to a
value-based system? Remember our graphic from Chapter One, repeated in
Figure 5.1. We have to create a dynamic in which the buyer appreciates the
greater value inherent in a new, clear set of benefits so that the investment
seems extraordinarily reasonable.

Clear
Costs

Uncertain ROI

Vague
Benefits

Clear
Investment

Strong ROI

Clear
Results

Figure 5.1 Revisiting ROI.

90

c05.indd 90

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:44:13 PM

Here are some examples:

• I would pay more for postage if the postal service picked up at my door
or delivered in the early morning.
• I would pay more for groceries if they were delivered (as they are in
some major cities).
• I would pay more for copy services that also sent my work automatically
to chosen destinations (which Kinko’s will do).
• I would pay more for more leg room on an aircraft.
• I would pay more for technical assistance available twenty-four hours a
day by phone.
You would pay more for your own set of high-value needs. Ergo, you
must determine what your client would pay more for, since value-based
pricing must provide more income than hourly or daily work.

You can’t change your billing basis without creating a different
value basis for the buyer. So focus on the latter in order to create
the former.

Here are some generic methods to provide increased value with existing
clients (whether on new projects, which are easier, or existing projects up for
expansion or renewal). You can further modify and strengthen these with
specific details for each unique client relationship.

Unlimited Access
Provide “unlimited access” to you. That’s not as severe as it sounds. At
the moment, the client must make an investment decision every time you’re
needed (“Is this problem and Alan’s help worth $4,500?”). That’s a terrible
position for the buyer to be in. Offer access at any time, subject to mutually
convenient schedules, by phone, fax, e-mail, or in person, if needed.

How to Convert Existing Clients

c05.indd 91

91

7/1/08 2:44:14 PM

No client will abuse this privilege (just as no executive was ever prohibited from performing by too many people walking through an “open door”).
However, it does provide the immediate perception of far more extensive
interaction for a fixed fee.

New Services
Let’s say you’ve been doing executive coaching. Introduce a 360-degree
feedback intervention, and tell the buyer that you’d like to combine, in the
buyer ’s best interests, the existing coaching work and the new instrument
into a single fee for management coaching services. If you’re helping with
strategy formulation, offer a planning process that bridges to implementation. If you’re doing diversity audits, offer a training package for managers to
use the feedback properly.
New services, which might seem prohibitive on a per diem, cumulative
basis, will seem like a bargain when combined with ongoing services under a
single fee for a finite time frame.

Wider Access
Demonstrate that the results you’ve been generating for the financial area can
be readily duplicated in other support areas: human resources, MIS, legal,
and so forth. But show that the current hourly basis will be unnecessarily
severe, since a great deal of the work is repetitive.
Offer to combine as many other operations as requested under a single
fee (even if various budgets contribute to it).

Combined Buyers
If your projects typically involve several buyers who each contribute to the
budget, then suggest that by operating under a single fee, their respective
contributions are capped, they no longer have to battle about who should pay
for which aspect, and you can be responsive to all of them without additional
investment.
Value-based fees can be strong compromises for the client who is unsure
which budgets should be used, how to charge back time, and how often to
take advantage of the consultant as a resource.

92

c05.indd 92

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:44:14 PM

You are capable of offering much more value than you are currently providing. You’re probably in a rut no better than your client
in terms of your utilization. Make sure you know the total value of
offerings you can provide before approaching the client.

New Access Points
Perhaps you can provide a special set of Web pages to that client only, using a
password; or you can create a newsletter oriented toward the client’s employees; or you can arrange a special toll-free number; or you can place the client’s
logo in books that are ordered from you. As part of a value-based proposition,
find new and unique access points so that the client feels a more comprehensive relationship.
Don’t be afraid to ask the buyer what he or she would find most desirable in terms of a more comprehensive, sustained, and interactive partnership.
You may be able to provide the desired service at virtually no cost but use it
as the basis for a higher, value-based fee.
Finally, discipline yourself to unbundle the potential value propositions
that you can deliver to a client. Use an easel sheet or a spreadsheet or have
a colleague help you determine the full array of services you can deliver. I
guarantee you that (1) it’s far more than you think or (2) it’s all combined into
a single, grand alternative that you deliver each time.

“Membership” in Perceived Benefit
This can include an “insider” Web site or newsletter, automatic provision
of “best practices” regularly from around the globe, discounts from other
professional service providers, and joint bylines on articles contributed to by
the client.
Use the strength of your own community to include excellent clients in
interactions (breakfasts, teleconferences, chat rooms, and so on) only available to your elite buyers.

How to Convert Existing Clients

c05.indd 93

93

7/1/08 2:44:14 PM

PRACTICUM

List on an easel sheet a minimum of twenty services, products,
advice, and other value propositions that you are capable of
delivering. It doesn’t matter if they’re currently “bundled,” if you
never provided them before, or if your buyer has never asked about
them. Simply list everything you possibly can. Then cull them down
to the most powerful dozen (but keep more if you feel strongly
about others). These are your core value propositions, and they can
be used in any combination to help convert time-based clients to
value-based projects.

FINDING NEW BUYERS WITHIN
EXISTING CLIENTS
If you operate in the small-business, closely held market (for my examples,
under $50 million in revenues), there is probably a single buyer who is the
owner or CEO. But in larger markets, there are scores or even hundreds of
buyers. The problem is that we don’t reach out laterally while we’re effectively delivering our consulting help.
A new buyer within an existing business does not necessarily have to
undertake a project with you on the same basis as others have. The important
strategy is to refrain from educating the new buyers incorrectly, as you have
the existing buyers!
The advantages of new buyers within existing businesses include the
following:

• There are no marketing or acquisition costs.
• The buyers have heard of you or can readily become familiar with your
work elsewhere within that client system.
• They respect and know the people who have hired you in the past.

94

c05.indd 94

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:44:15 PM

• They are probably not familiar with your prior billing policy.
• It’s easy to see them and to accommodate their schedules, since you’re
onsite frequently.
• Results you’ve generated elsewhere can be made relevant for them.

Most consultants refrain from reaching out to new buyers because
of self-imposed limitations. As long as you’re doing a good job for
the current client, why should anyone object?

Remember that buyers are seldom perched solely at the very peak of the
organizational hierarchy. They need to meet only two criteria:
1. Does your value proposition enhance their goals (their self-interests)
professionally or personally?
2. Can they write a check (or cause the computer to disgorge one) to acquire
that value?
I’ve seen consultants virtually wade through groups of potential buyers
while hurriedly on their way to the cafeteria. That’s a lost opportunity. You
have to be willing to do a little marketing while you’re on the client site.
How do you do that gracefully? Well, if you believe that new buyers
within the client organization represent new sales that can be placed on a
value basis, then they deserve quite a bit of effort. Here are seven tactics to
reach them efficiently and effectively:
1. Ask your current buyer for recommendations. This is anathema to
many consultants, but a pleased buyer should have no hesitation about sharing your value in the company so long as that buyer is not shortchanged. (In
fact, in terms of self-interest, the buyer can often claim credit for “discovering” you.) The salient point here is to ask and even to seek an introduction.
This is the single most overlooked avenue of expanded business and potential conversion business (to a value basis).

How to Convert Existing Clients

c05.indd 95

95

7/1/08 2:44:15 PM

2. Seek out meetings at which to present your reports and suggest that
“interested others” and support groups attend. I’ve presented results at any
number of management meetings where people have come up to me and
asked, “Can you do that same thing for a support organization?” or “Is it
possible to do that overseas?” Guess what? It always is.
3. Listen for key names of power brokers, and when you find yourself
with them for any reason at all, introduce yourself. After a second or third
encounter, ask them for some time to discuss the ramifications of your work
in their area.
4. Publish in the organization’s house organ or, even better, allow them
to interview you and discuss the results of your work. I once received a sixpage, color spread in Merck’s in-house magazine on my ethics audits, which
brought inquiries from managers I had never even heard of. This is a very
effective, objective way to reach out to other buyers.
5. Offer to brief support units, internal customers, internal suppliers,
and any other even remotely interested parties. Explain to your client that a
synopsis of your work might help others help your client and that sharing the
work will certainly earn admiration in any case. One-on-one or small group
briefings are usually the best, since you want to focus only on potential decision makers.
6. Volunteer within the company. I’ve donated to company-sponsored
charities, attended award ceremonies, participated in picnics and recreational opportunities, and tried to become a “part of the crowd.” You never
know who you’ll wind up meeting in comfortable, social, and convivial
circumstances.
7. Monitor personal changes, promotions, transfers, and other internal
events. You never know when someone with whom you’ve had positive interactions moves into a buying position. It helps to read the house organ, bulletin boards, and other in-house media and to use things like Google Alerts to
receive any press releases sent out by your client.
Finding new buyers within existing clients is essential for any highly
successful consultant but absolutely critical for the consultant who wants
to convert existing, high-potential hourly clients into long-term valuebased clients. Start off with them as “new” clients whom you can educate
properly.

96

c05.indd 96

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:44:15 PM

We tend to view change as threatening. We must view it as
opportunity. Every client change represents a potential new piece of
business. But you can’t just sit back to see what happens. We’re not
here to put a toe in the water. We’re here to make waves.

F I N D I N G N E W C I R C U M S TA N C E S
The final tactic for converting clients to value-based pricing is to find some
new client, market, or environmental circumstance that supports the reasoning for such a change at this particular juncture.
Some new circumstances will be obvious, but others are more subtle. Yet
all can serve as your “transfer mechanism.” Here are some examples:
The Great Year. The client has had an outstanding year, not least in part
thanks to your assistance. Suggest to the buyer that this is a time to consider
a more comprehensive and more flexible relationship. Also, never neglect
the fact that at the end of any budget year, there are funds often crying to be
used or lost. It’s tough to put those funds against hourly billing that is not
based on any specific amount of hours, but it’s relatively easy to put those
funds against a clear-cut $100,000 project.
The Horrible Year. Your client might have had a disaster, not due to anything you did, of course. There might have been some client defections, unexpected costs, loss of technology, whatever. If the client is happy with your
help, however, suggest an easier and less burdensome way to work with you
next year, since the fees will be capped, fixed, and otherwise locked in cement.
That way, you can’t be part of an escalating cost problem, and you can’t be cut
in a client’s effort to address a cost problem. That’s win-win.
The New Buyer. Most consultants search for arsenic when their buyer
is promoted, fired, replaced, transferred, or otherwise misplaced. But this is
really an opportunity to educate a new buyer correctly, rather than try to
reeducate an old one accustomed to old habits. View a new buyer as an
opportunity, and don’t allow past practices to continue (hourly fees) without
strong resistance (in the form of the buyer ’s self-interest).

How to Convert Existing Clients

c05.indd 97

97

7/1/08 2:44:16 PM

The Acquisition. Chaos generally ensues when even the most orderly
acquisition is contemplated and consummated. Suggest that this is the time
to simplify everything possible, including your billing arrangements. The
acquisition might also present an opportunity in terms of the other conversion factors (such as a new buyer) we have discussed.
The Divestiture. Although not strictly within the existing client, the new
spun-off or purchased unit probably represents high potential for you because
you were familiar with it when it was still part of the original organization.
Do your best to remain in contact with current acquaintances moving into the
new configuration.
The Competition. If the competition has pulled a surprise or the competitive marketplace is heating up, suggest that the increasing demands and
uncertainties create an unfair situation for the client on any kind of per diem
basis. Since ambiguity makes it nearly impossible to calculate hours or time,
offer a set fee to create at least some order out of the uncertainty.
The New Initiative. Almost every organization regularly trots out a new initiative, hot product, reinvention of itself, or some other strategic change (often
fostered by a new leader in a key position or the latest academic’s fad). Jump on
that bandwagon, and use the initiative as an excuse to alter the past fee basis.
The Travel Need. Where travel is a necessary aspect of your project—
especially international travel—demonstrate that per diem fees often keep
running, although you’re just traveling from one place to another. (If you
don’t charge when you spend two days flying and acclimating to Europe or
Asia, you’re suffering from more than merely jet lag—you’re crazy.) A valuebased project fee, including all travel time (although, of course, not travel
reimbursement),2 will remove that unnecessary expense.

Don’t take the position that you have to “slip in” an attempt to
convert an existing client to a value basis. Use an opportunity or
event to demonstrate why it’s the perfect time to do so.

2
There is nothing wrong with including all your projected travel costs in your fee, as long
as you feel you have a firm idea of what they will be. That’s even a purer billing form, since
everything is included.

98

c05.indd 98

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:44:16 PM

Within your existing clients who are still on a time-and-materials basis,
be alert for opportunities to promote a change to value-based fees. In fact,
you can use this “new circumstances” approach with your moderate-priority
clients as well.

PRACTICUM

Take the high-priority clients you arrived at earlier in this chapter
and apply the new value, new buyers, and new circumstances
factors to each. Whichever ones offer the most opportunity in these
areas become the highest of the high priority. They should be on
your list for an immediate conversion strategy.

W H AT I F C L I E N T S R E S I S T C O N V E R S I O N ?
Don’t push so hard that you cause ill will if your clients resist converting.
Position your intent as serving their best interests, and point out that other
clients—and all new clients—have chosen to take advantage of the new arrangement. But by offering them this as an option, you’re not taking bread off the
table, since the client may still choose to continue along the current path.
If your top-priority clients resist, here is the course of action that might
still win the day later on:
1. Don’t persist, but do remind. Once a quarter, remind your buyer that
the option is still on the table. Every time one of the conversion opportunities
discussed in this chapter arises, raise the issue again as the basis for a decision
about the new project. There is too much potential profit at stake not to remain
persistent, and the more money you make from a client who is resisting a valuebased approach, the more money you are actually losing over the long term.
2. Appeal to the buyer ’s sense of fair play. If you can demonstrate a
multimillion-dollar savings or improvement (see Chapter Four for objectives,
metrics, and value), and you can show that your total hourly fees added up to
0.001 percent of that improvement (which they well may have), you do have
a case to point out that future projects should be more of a win-win endeavor.
How to Convert Existing Clients

c05.indd 99

99

7/1/08 2:44:16 PM

Many buyers will be reluctant to allow a disproportionate situation to persist
if they envision needing your help on an even larger scale in the future.
3. For some clients, you may be able to cite their own methods as a justification for how you should be treated. Does the client charge for value (everyone from automakers to restaurants actually do), or do they charge by the
hour and are themselves unhappy about their own meager profitability?
4. Try to arrive at a halfway point by influencing the buyer to commit
to a minimum amount of time, guaranteeing you some basic revenue figure.
Point out that you’ve had to put blocks of time aside in anticipation of the
client’s needs and often short-term demands and that some quid pro quo is
appropriate. It’s less of a jump from guaranteed fees based on minimum days
to value-based projects.
5. Provide the client with some independent endorsement of the value of
project fees over time and materials. Use some third-party articles, trade journals,
newsletters, and whatever else you can find that objectively demonstrate to the
client that he or she is falling out of step with the times.
6. Revisit at the proper time. The buyer may change, conditions may
change, and finances may change. Don’t take a refusal as a permanent denial.
Simply bide your time and make another attempt when the situation seems
better for you.
If you have a strong relationship with these clients and you continue
to deliver results, they have the option of continuing as they have been, and
there is only a minuscule chance of losing them by asking them to consider a
different fee basis. However, you are at great potential risk if you choose not
to do this out of fear of losing them, since the more work you obtain from
them, the more profit you are leaving on the table.

You only have 100 percent of your energy and resources to apply.
Wasting any amount of this on nonpromising and underperforming
business is negligent behavior. You must abandon a portion of
your business periodically because no one else will do it for you.
The worst clients tend to be the most loyal.

100

c05.indd 100

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:44:17 PM

ABANDONING BUSINESS
This has remained one of the most controversial concepts I’ve ever introduced
but also one of the most powerful in providing consultants with the means to
acquire higher-profit, value-based clients.
We become accustomed to certain kinds of business. We tend not to question that business but rather to allow it to accrete, like a stalactite growing
from the ceiling of our office. It’s always been there. Why fret about it now?
Unless we abandon business regularly, we give ourselves no leeway to
reach out for new and more profitable business. Our time is usurped and
our energies depleted by business that not only can’t be converted to more
lucrative arrangements but is actively impeding us from converting (or
acquiring) other, higher-potential business.
We tend to rationalize hanging on to certain business with a death grip,
reassuring ourselves with platitudes:

• They were there when we needed them. Early business that helped pay
the bills is not something we easily forget.
• The job’s easy to do. (We don’t feel we’re really exerting ourselves, so
why not? It beats working hard.)
• It’s fun. (We love the adulation or the experience or the environment.
Our ego is rewarded, and it brightens our day.)
We
have an enduring friendship. (The buyer or others have become
•
friends to whom we feel we owe an allegiance beyond mere business
considerations. We don’t want to jeopardize that relationship.)
• We’re throwing good money after bad. (We’ve been promised, time and
time again, “exposure” for our earlier, inexpensive work, and we still
haven’t cashed in. Like poker players who have gone too far in a hand
they can’t possibly win, we’re reluctant to cut our losses.)
• We have the time. (The erroneous belief that “something is better than
nothing” drives us to accept and perpetuate questionable business.)
• What if other business disappears? How can we then justify cutting this
business loose? (Actually, not cutting it loose will cause other business
not to appear.)
• We’re trapped. (Scope creep and constant concessions have built up a raft
of commitments that we honestly won’t ever be able to discharge, not

How to Convert Existing Clients

c05.indd 101

101

7/1/08 2:44:17 PM

unlike miners who, despite their pay, were forever in debt to the company
store. Remember the song “Sixteen Tons”? Okay, I’m older than you.)
• We feel it’s a personal failure to lose a client, even if we initiate the
departure. (Don’t take it personally; it’s just smart business.)

You simply have to let go in order to reach out. There is no way to
both hold on to past unprofitable business and to acquire future,
highly profitable business. Given that mutually exclusive state, is this
really that tough a decision?

Abandoning business doesn’t have to be as draconian as it sounds. First,
make an objective assessment of all of your business every eighteen months
or so. (Do it between fiscal years so you won’t be influenced by your own
planning needs.) Ask yourself these questions about each single client:

• Am I learning regularly?
• Am I still adding value that others can’t?
• Am I being paid as well and is my profit as great as with new clients?
• Am I being stretched and forced to grow?
• Am I introducing new products and services on a regular basis?
• Am I using the client as a referral or springboard into other systems?
• Am I able to experiment or use marketing leverage in this “lab”?
• Am I enjoying this project and having fun?
If the answer to two or more questions (it doesn’t matter which questions) is
no, plan to move on.
Next, contact the client and arrange for a constructive transfer to another
consultant. There is no need to leave the client high and dry. Simply point
out the answers to your own questions (“I’m not learning, and I’m no longer
contributing unique value”) and arrange for someone to take on the project
who will see it—at this point in his or her career—as thrilling, subject to further improvement, and lucrative. Remain on board for a time or until the next
renewal, or depart as soon as new introductions are made. But get out.

102

c05.indd 102

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:44:17 PM

My advice, by the way, is not to subcontract this or otherwise take a
“piece of the action,” such as a referral fee. Doing so ethically obligates you to
be accountable for the outcome and may leave you continually accessible to
the client (directly or through the new consultant). Cut the cord, forsake the
revenue, and move on.
If the client balks about “abandonment,” simply point out that it’s really
in the client’s best interest. You can’t afford the requisite time any longer, and
the client will be better served with “new blood.” You’re still around in case
of emergency, and you can continue whatever social relationships might be
in place if you care to.
Danger: If the client responds with an offer of more money, which sometimes happens (because you’ve been working so cheaply), turn it down cold.
The new amount will still be less than your new margin goals, and your
time will be usurped as much as, if not more than, before in return for an
insignificant increase in fees. Don’t be lured by the client’s guilty conscience.
Finally, remain in touch, and use the client as a reference and referral source.
Maintain a friendly relationship, although not a business one. You’re actually
doing the client a favor, and you shouldn’t feel the need to skulk out the door.
Unless you deliberately, proactively, and methodically abandon business, you’ll be unable to convert any higher-priority clients to a value-based
approach, nor will you have the time to acquire new business at the rate or
pace that makes sense.
You have to let go to reach out. Let go of those who can most easily go
their own way before more important clients let go of you.

CHAPTER ROI

• Existing clients can be converted to value-based clients, but you must set
a careful priority.
• Never take bread off the table: offer the option to continue the current
relationship or to change. Sweeten the latter by pointing out that new
clients prefer it, and you’d be remiss if you didn’t offer it to existing
important clients.
• Always offer more value, find new buyers, or look for new circumstances. The change must always be clearly perceived as in the buyer ’s
best interests.

How to Convert Existing Clients

c05.indd 103

103

7/1/08 2:44:18 PM

• You can use the test in Exhibit 5.1 to determine the highest-potential
opportunities and then devise a strategy around each particular client.
• Approach only a few clients at a time, because the process demands careful and rapt attention. The buyer must clearly see the increased value,
so be prepared to demonstrate that improved condition (for example,
“unlimited access” to your time and expertise).
• The lowest-priority clients for conversion are also those who are your
highest priority for dropping. Every eighteen months or so, you should
systematically examine your client base—again using objective templates and criteria—to determine which ones you can let go of in order
to reach out to new and more lucrative business.
• All new business should be approached as value-based prospects and
should never be given the option of a time-based or time-and-materials
arrangement. By also culling out and setting priorities among your existing business, you should be able to convert your practice to an entirely
value-based one in a few short years. That alone will represent a dramatic
increase in your profits without any substantial increase in your work.
• Don’t give up. Try at various times as conditions warrant. They can’t say
yes if you stop asking them.
Don’t try to convert every client to value-based fees, and don’t stop trying if
some balk or resist. If you convert one or two high-potential clients, you will have
created huge new margins for yourself. Life is about success, not perfection.

104

c05.indd 104

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:44:18 PM

I N T E R L U D E

The Case of the
Loaded Loading Dock

I

once worked for a training firm that charged either by
the number of boxes of training material purchased or the
number of people sitting in a room. This is the antipodal position from value-based fees, and it’s why I swore I would never
get into that business again once I left it.
Essentially, whatever the printing presses, on site long
before digital printing, could disgorge onto the loading dock,
we were to sell. As the year wore on and we were closer to yearend, the more the dock filled and the harder we sold. To give you
an idea, we sold two-thirds of our total revenue in the fourth
quarter and two-thirds of the fourth quarter in December.
As you can imagine, many of our clients caught on to our
predicament and deliberately waited to buy near the end of
the year, fully aware that we were desperate to clear the loading dock. Thus we drove our own prices down, offering “fire
sales” that our clients became conditioned to anticipate. That
meant that we had to sell even more material to make up for
the lower prices.
105

c05.indd 105

7/1/08 2:44:18 PM

It was a vicious cycle, repeated each year with the repetition and discipline of penguins marching to the pole to lay eggs that had only a 50 percent
chance of hatching.
It dawned on me at some point that we were not driven by our technology,
our clients, our markets, or even our products. We were driven by the printing presses. We were actually a production-driven outfit, no less than U.S.
Steel or International Paper. This wasn’t the professional services future I had
in mind for myself!
Don’t allow your production ability to determine what you sell or what
you charge. In the depths of oversupply of paper, the big paper companies
used to reduce prices and take deliberate losses, since that was cheaper than
shutting down the papermaking machines!
Don’t burden yourself with delivery people, software, inventory, and
other stuff that demands that you unload it, use it, or move it.
Moral: If you live to move materials, hire a moving company, but don’t go into
consulting.

106

c05.indd 106

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:44:18 PM

C H A P T E R

6

The Fine and High Art
of Using Retainers
It’s Just the Smarts, Stupid

T

here is a difference in my book (and this is, of course,
my book) between value-based fees and retainer fees.
While both are in the same ball park, the view of the field is
different in this regard.
A value-based fee is compensation paid by the client in
exchange for the consultant’s contribution to the ultimate value
(improved condition) that the client agrees will be derived.
Value-based fees concern projects of finite scope.
A retainer fee is compensation paid by the client in exchange
for access to the consultant and the consultant’s talents for a
specified interval. Retainer fees concern time periods of finite
duration.
(Just to keep the record straight, a contingency fee, which I
don’t favor for reasons cited earlier in the book, is compensation
paid by the client as a fixed percentage of a stipulated financial
outcome at a certain point in time. Contingency fees, often called
“performance fees,” concern percentages of monetary gain.)
107

c06.indd 107

7/1/08 2:44:56 PM

I’ve been engaged in retainer fee relationships frequently. I think they
make sense under the right conditions, and they can be a wonderful source
of ongoing and predictable income in a profession known for uncertain and
vacillating cash flow. However, they can also be dysfunctional and unprofitable if they are not controlled and managed properly.
One final caveat: I am not using the term retainer in the traditional
lawyer ’s sense, which is a fixed amount of money from which payment is
drawn periodically based on the lawyer ’s hourly billing rate. That is simply a
deposit against hourly bills. “We’ve retained counsel” actually means “We’ve
paid a lawyer deposit so that they’ll show up because they don’t trust us to
pay them after they show up.” If that is what you are intent on doing, go back
to Chapter One and start over.

O P T I M A L C O N D I T I O N S F O R R E TA I N E R
ARRANGEMENTS
First, understand that there is no “project” here (there is no “there” there).
The client seeks access to your smarts, pure and simple. (Thus it’s not unusual for clients who have engaged you for several successful projects to
request you on a retainer basis for the future, but it’s unusual—although not
impossible—to begin a brand-new client relationship on retainer.)
Contrary to the prior sections of this book, the results are not the key
consideration here, although they are important. It’s the access to your counsel that is the paramount issue. Do not mistake that fact. Your very relationship and the interactions resulting from it become the value, since there are
no specific project results in a true retainer relationship.
Most independent consultants find this hard to comprehend: the mere
access to your advice and counsel is of significant value to the client. Hence
the degree to which that access is used is minor compared to the comforting
knowledge that it is there. You are a life insurance policy, in a sense, and the
more important the executive life, the more there is riding on it, the higher
the premium payment.
Notice that I haven’t said that a retainer represents your time. Nor have
I positioned a retainer as the value of your presence. It’s the client’s opportunity to approach you—to approach you, not for you to approach the client—
that is the great value here. In other words, don’t worry about the nature of

108

c06.indd 108

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:44:57 PM

the issue, don’t worry about the timing, and don’t worry about any arbitrary
project scope. “If you, buyer, have need for my expertise, just call.”1

You must get comfortable with the idea that access to you is of
inherent value. If you don’t, the retainer will be an albatross, flying after
you everywhere, insisting that you show up, engage in work, clean the
tables in the cafeteria, and demonstrate that you’re doing something.

Here are my criteria for the best conditions—those optimally favorable
to the consultant—for the establishment of retainer business.

Te n C r i t e r i a f o r L u c r a t i v e R e t a i n e r
Agreement Conditions
1. The Client Is Educated That Access Is the Value. The client has no intent
to use you as a de facto marketing vice president or chief of staff. Nor does
the client believe he or she is entitled to see you three days a week, regardless
of need. Nor is this a “make work” exercise if you’re not actively engaged for
a time. The client is paying for your availability and your smarts on an “as
needed” basis, no more and no less.
2. The Client Understands That Access Is Not Instantaneous. You cannot be
instantly available. (Try getting your doctor or attorney to be there the moment
you need them.) The idea is to create reasonable expectations of access. In my
case, I return all calls within ninety minutes, all e-mail within a day, and all
correspondence within a week. Onsite work is subject to mutually agreeable
scheduling, although appointments planned in advance will always have top
priority and are unshakable in my retainer work. The key aspect of “access”
is “responsiveness,” not omnipresence.

1

We are going to discuss a little later how to handle retainers that magically begin to generate
projects that would otherwise engender a value-based fee. So if that’s on your mind, just be
patient and read on.

The Fine and High Art of Using Retainers

c06.indd 109

109

7/1/08 2:44:57 PM

3. There Is Agreement About Who Has Access. In most cases, retainers are
with a single person. However, there may be times when a team has the access
(which costs more; we’ll get to that shortly). The people with access must
be designated in advance. Otherwise, you can find yourself with a dozen
members of the management team demanding your help at all hours and the
dreaded “scope creep” has become a demon in what had once appeared to be
a very effective retainer arrangement.
4. Access Must Be Unlimited for the Client. You can’t position some times
as more important or convenient than others or declare a block of time “off
limits.” You would then be driving the client toward certain restrictions,
which devalues your access. Actually, when an occasional client calls me on a
Sunday night with a special request for advice before an important Monday
morning meeting, I’m quite pleased. First, I’m providing tremendous realtime value, and second, I’m doing it from the comfort of my home, not having
to make a trip to the client. What could be better than that?

If you don’t equate “access” with physical presence, you can
actually accommodate quite a few retainer clients at once. Why
can’t consultants telecommute?

5. Payment Must Be in Advance of the Time Frame. The quid pro quo for unlimited access is payment in advance. If your retainer is for a month, get paid on the
first of the month (not thirty days net); if it’s quarterly, get paid at the beginning
of the quarter. You cannot run the risk of unlimited access for any significant
length of time without payment in your pocket. (The longer the time period, the
greater the discount offered. For example, if the monthly retainer is $10,000, a
quarterly retainer option for that client might be $27,000, providing a 10 percent
discount; a half-year might be $50,000—but of course, paid in advance.)
6. Boundaries Are Established. You and the client agree on access but nothing beyond that without further compensation. For example, expenses are
extra, as would be any subcontracting required. If the client asks that you
conduct a survey or run focus groups or serve in court as an expert witness
during the course of the retainer, all of those services and the resultant value
demand additional fees. While access to you is unlimited, what you will provide after being accessed clearly is not.
110

c06.indd 110

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:44:57 PM

7. The Time Frame Is Finite and Not Turned On and Off. If the client doesn’t
access you for two weeks, that’s life. You’re providing access during a given,
finite time frame, not a cumulative time frame of access. The client can’t
extend the current retainer by saying, “But we didn’t use you last week.” You
may, at your discretion, provide the client with the ability to formally request
a “freeze” or “timeout” if business or personal demands preclude access to
you, but I would do this very sparingly, as in “never.”
8. The Procedure for Renewal Is Clear. Repeat business always beats new
business (no cost of acquisition), and that holds true in retainer relationships
as well. Establish a time frame (for example, the end of the second month of a
three-month retainer or the third week in a one-month retainer) during which
you and the client can mutually decide to continue for another time frame (or
even a more extended one) or either of you can end the arrangement at the
conclusion of the current time frame. It’s mutual continuance or unilateral
discontinuance. The key here is to allow you to bail out if you wish but also
to guarantee the next time frame and advance payment if all is going well for
both of you. Do not wait for the end of the retainer period to do this.
9. Carve Out High-Priority Potential Areas for Collaboration. You might
indicate to the buyer that you’ve both agreed that sales retention or commercialization in R&D or acquisition evaluation will be the primary focus of
your collaboration. In this way, you have the ability to follow up and pursue
certain issues with the buyer. Although it may seem ideal, receiving a retainer
and not being accessed at all will guarantee just one thing: no renewal business. So if access to you isn’t being taken advantage of, you need a basis for
“priming the pump.” That can be established at the outset so that you have a
reasonable premise for contacting the buyer on occasion.
10. Always Stress That This Is a Collaboration. A retainer arrangement
generally represents a pure counseling role, an advisory relationship, and a
partnership. It is far more like coaching than consulting in that regard. It’s
about ongoing advice, not temporary wins and losses. Keep your eye (and
your client’s eye) on the larger picture. A retainer does not fail because a new,
highly sought employee leaves for the competition, but it does fail if the client
either doesn’t access your advice or ignores your advice about a strategy for
finding and retaining top talent in a competitive market.
Here is a summary of the points just made, distilled down to the three
key dimensions for pricing retainers and one prime directive for successfully
implementing them.
The Fine and High Art of Using Retainers

c06.indd 111

111

7/1/08 2:44:58 PM

Retainers can select a variety of time frames, but they shouldn’t
be too short or too long. Both extremes weaken the value of the
relationship.

Three Key Dimensions
1. Time Frame. The length of the retainer must be stipulated. The client
may renew, but there has to be some understanding of the extent. I suggest
a three-month minimum, with a decision to renew or not midway through
the third month. But you may choose shorter or longer retainers based
on the client’s confidence, needs, and comfort level. Always try to be paid at
the outset of the time period.
2. Numbers. Usually you are on retainer to the buyer. However, the
buyer may decide to include his or her team or a few colleagues or a trusted
subordinate. You must make clear exactly who has access to you. You don’t
want the client’s secretary calling you to review a memo that’s going to be
sent out. It’s difficult to be on retainer to more than three or four people in one
company, and try not to accept lower-level people, who will tend to contact
you for tactical decisions and problems.
3. Scope. What are the conditions of your access? Is it during East Coast
U.S. business hours, Monday through Friday, or also West Coast business
hours? Does it include after-hours and weekend consultations? Is it solely by
phone and e-mail, or will it include mutually convenient onsite visits? You
get the idea. What is the extent of your involvement and your availability?

The Prime Directive
You cannot allow guilt or poor self-esteem to enter this picture. In other words,
if the client doesn’t use your help for a month, don’t go begging for work.
Never feel that you owe more than you are providing. An insurance policy
is valuable because it’s there, not because it’s used daily (presumably, life
insurance is used only once, and not happily). Understand that your availability and potential access are the value, and you are fulfilling that every day,
112

c06.indd 112

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:44:58 PM

whether or not you are engaged with the client. While that is nirvana to me, it
seems to create overwhelming guilt for far too many consultants.

C H O O S I N G T I M E F R A M E S A N D C R E AT I N G
R E A L I S T I C E X P E C TAT I O N S
Retainers are not ideal for very brief or very long durations unless they are
periodically renewed, and even those relationships have problems caused by
their longevity.
First, retainers that are too short don’t give the buyer enough time to
access your help under a variety of conditions, to allow truly valuable applications for your advice to arise, or to let you become adept at this particular
arrangement with this particular buyer. I believe that the absolute minimum
time frame for a retainer is a month, but two months is far better, and a quarter
is ideal. For a single month, the buyer could encounter an event that usurps
all of his or her time, and you might not be called on at all. (Even though you
could choose to extend the retainer “on the house,” it sets a bad precedent.)
Second, however, overly long retainers cause the buyer to question the
value if you’ve become so successful at advising (and transferring your skills
to the buyer) that toward the end of the arrangement there is much less contact and much less perceived value on the buyer ’s part.
I believe that the fairest retainers are probably for ninety-day periods,
and they can renew at the end of that time on the same terms (if the client
demurs but then wants to renew after the retainer is completed, you’re perfectly justified in raising the retainer fee—that’s why the sixty-day option is
there—as part of the client’s benefit). If you feel strongly about six months,
so be it; there’s nothing written in stone here. But you are probably far better
off with two years’ worth of retainer that has renewed every quarter or every
half-year than you are with attempting two annual ones.
The problems, however, with even long-term, frequently renewed retainers include the following:

• You become perceived as the buyer ’s “hit man” (or “hit person”) and
not as an objective observer.
You
have come to represent a single interest and a single point of
•
view. You’ve probably developed a social or at least personal relationship with the buyer.
The Fine and High Art of Using Retainers

c06.indd 113

113

7/1/08 2:44:58 PM

Long-term retainers can turn you into a member of management,
which immediately devalues your role as a consultant and therefore
ultimately undermines your fee structure.

• One of your initial high-value components, objectivity, is lost when you
become so familiar with and immersed in one client that your nose is
pressed too tightly against the glass.
• The retainer account may actually become eligible for that bottom
15 percent that requires jettisoning (see Chapter Five) because it’s no
longer interesting, you’re no longer learning, and you no longer bring
energy and innovation to the equation.

Q u i c k Ti p s f o r G a i n i n g H i g h - Va l u e ,
High-Profit Retainers
Here are some guidelines to use to set the optimal conditions for success with
a buyer in a retainer relationship:
1. Define access. It doesn’t mean constant availability (recall our earlier
discussion of scope).
2. Provide unique value to the access. You might provide your home, cell,
and car phone numbers, which are normally never provided (nor should
they be) to conventional clients.
3. Set your calendar to intervene in silences. If you haven’t heard from a
buyer in, say, ten days, I’d make a call or send an e-mail, just to remind
the buyer that you’re there if needed. That gesture can help substantiate
your value, even if the client hasn’t called you. But don’t beg for work.
Simply say, “How are you doing?”
4. Ask the client for unique access. Is there a way to circumvent a secretary
or voice-mail? Might you have the buyer ’s home number? Is there an
unscreened e-mail address?
5. Go above and beyond in an obvious manner. Let the client know you’ll
reschedule something noncritical to meet the buyer ’s urgent schedule.

114

c06.indd 114

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:44:59 PM

Review a lengthy report overnight, even though it’s an imposition. Talk
to a client’s customer whom the client is afraid of losing, even if it’s not
an agreed part of the deal.
6. Don’t promise too much. You can’t really reduce turnover, improve sales,
or increase market share on this basis. (You can take on projects in those
areas, but in the next section of this chapter you’ll find advice on the
best ways to accommodate—and charge—for that.) What you can do is
give the buyer peace of mind and improved skills, as well as validation
for the buyer ’s thinking.
7. Remember that as a consultant, you seldom surprise people who know
what they’re doing. In other words, merely verifying that a position or
course of action makes sense to you as an objective outsider is often sufficient. You don’t have to help the client reinvent the fax machine.
8. Do some studying. Although I’ve stated often that consultants are process experts and not necessarily industry or content experts, it nonetheless helps when you become more proficient in the type of business that
has hired you on retainer. Read the trade magazines and do an Internet
search periodically. Learn your client’s lingo, and study your customer ’s
customers.
9. Push back as needed. You’re not there to salve the buyer ’s ego but rather
to help make the buyer successful. Take risks. Jeopardize the relationship if it means saving the buyer from himself.
10. Finally, be willing to walk away. It’s unethical to sit back and keep the
money if you believe that a long-term retainer isn’t working. Sometimes
you and the buyer made a mistake. Think of future business and future
referrals, and suggest that the current arrangement be ended with a prorated refund or credit toward future projects. This is the height of professionalism, and it justifies high fees.

Not all retainers will work out well, even when undertaken with
great respect and mutual investment in the relationship. If it’s not
working, it’s much better for you to suggest that it end. Always
think of future business, not your current bank account.

The Fine and High Art of Using Retainers

c06.indd 115

115

7/1/08 2:44:59 PM

ORGANIZING THE SCOPE AND MANAGING
P R O J E C T S W I T H I N T H E R E TA I N E R
One of the most common problems with retainer assignments is that more
traditional consulting projects “crop up” in their midst, like mushrooms after
a thunderstorm. One day you’re on retainer, and the next you’re surrounded
by projects.
Consultants generally worry that their retainer has become a “catch-all”
for projects that in and of themselves would represent more lucrative assignments if taken on in a value-based billing system. And they’re right.
You have to make clear to the client that any discrete projects that may
arise during the retainer ’s time frame are not included in the fee for the
retainer itself, and this is easier said than done. The major problems and challenges follow, and they shouldn’t be taken lightly because they impinge on
your effectiveness for the client and, quite realistically, your income.
The client will tend to view you as a resource—almost as an employee—
who can be “assigned” as the client sees fit, if you don’t counter that notion
early in your retainer education. That’s why I’ve stressed that access is the
value you are selling (the ability to “pick your brain”), not projects. The client
must not be allowed to think that the retainer is showing a return on investment only if you are actively engaged in some activity. You have to draw a clear
line in the sand from the outset. For example, if you choose to take on an early
project within the retainer at no additional fee “just to get things under way,”
you’re setting a precedent and creating an expectation that will kill you.
As you hear of and/or advise on projects that should be undertaken (for
example, something the buyer has asked your advice on indicates that the
human resource function needs to be audited and overhauled), and the buyer
understands that any projects you undertake are in addition to the retainer,
it can be construed that you’re actually trying to leverage your retainer into
more business. My solution: as you identify potential projects and initiatives
that the client should consider, always suggest ways that the client could
accomplish them internally or with external resources other than yourself.
Don’t recommend yourself, but don’t rule out that eventual option either.
(Some consultants refuse to enter into project work with a client while on
retainer, which I find as ridiculous as including projects within the retainer.)
If the client wants you even after being presented with alternative resources,
you can then legitimately accept the work, for a project fee.
116

c06.indd 116

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:44:59 PM

You can lose money on retainers if you consider yourself a one-person
“SWAT team” who is all things to all people. Retainers, like projects,
have limits and parameters. If you don’t establish them and articulate
them, you can be sure the client won’t think about them at all.

If you accept project work under these circumstances, you’re best served
if you set out a policy before you begin, and this also has a financial benefit
for the client.2 For example, stipulate at the outset that the project will have
the following characteristics:

• Clear objectives, measures, and value (conceptual agreement) to be
achieved during a finite interval
• A separate proposal signed off by the buyer and the consultant
• An agreement that the project and retainer work will complement, and
not compete with, each other
• A separate payment schedule, which will feature a strong discount for
the project work in view of the ongoing retainer project. (My advice
here is to give increasingly steep discounts for longer retainer periods.
In other words, a project during a quarterly retainer might justify a
20 percent discount, but a project during an annual retainer might justify
a 33 percent discount.)
You want to create a win-win dynamic for projects undertaken while a
retainer is in force, causing the client to appreciate that the project required
additional investment but that the investment is reduced thanks to the retainer
relationship.
Because a retainer usually symbolizes an excellent relationship with the
buyer and strong mutual trust, it won’t be unusual for the client to suggest

2
Obviously, these aren’t major concerns for short-term (for example, one-month) retainers. But
a project can surface at any time and almost surely will during a ninety-day or six-month
period.

The Fine and High Art of Using Retainers

c06.indd 117

117

7/1/08 2:45:00 PM

project work during the retainer period. In fact, the retainer arrangement
might be the natural result of several highly successful buyer-consultant collaborations. Consequently, it’s all the more important to separate the two
efforts, lest the buyer simply (and logically) conclude that it’s far less expensive to pay you a single fee to work on multiple projects than it is to pay
you for each project! If you don’t take pains to correct this impression—or
better, to prevent it—a retainer arrangement can actually ruin what was a fine
relationship engendered by those projects.
Retainer scope is also an important consideration. In other words, it’s
proper to define the parameters of the retainer ’s “reach.” Are you on retainer
to the sales department, which your buyer heads, or to anything the sales
vice president is charged with (for example, a special acquisition project) or
is mulling over (for example, personal advice and coaching on seeking the
senior vice presidential position).
The extent to which you are confined to a single buyer (or single source
if a buyer has asked you to work with someone) is critical. If your buyer and
presumed single source says, “I want to let Ann borrow you over in R&D
because she has some people issues that I know you can help with,” you’re
in trouble. There are probably scores of managers whom you can help with
“people issues,” and you can’t afford to be the “people handyman.”
Unless you have a “freeze” option on the retainer, the client has to realize that the retainer ends at a certain point, irrespective of the amount of use
or lack thereof. Educate the client that a few highly valuable interactions are
far better than daily idle chatter. And don’t be bashful about bringing it to
the client’s attention when the retainer is about to end. (This is why I advocate formally discussing the extension or termination of the retainer a month
or so prior to its scheduled end date. That way, there are no blurred lines as
the end approaches.)
By the way, there’s nothing wrong with any project work undertaken
extending beyond the conclusion of the retainer period. But keep them
separate, so that the client doesn’t continue to use you as a retainer resource
while you continue to work on the project or as a project resource after the
project is over and you continue on retainer.
In brief: you can have simultaneous retainer and project relationships with
the same buyer. Keep your criteria clear for which is which, for your benefit
and the client’s. A retainer that includes unlimited project work will kill you.

118

c06.indd 118

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:45:00 PM

The longer the retainer period, the more critical the need for
clarity on potential project work, retainer scope, and other areas
of ambiguity. It’s a good idea to have a simple, one-page document
that outlines the parameters of the retainer arrangement.

C A P I TA L I Z I N G O N R E TA I N E R
R E L AT I O N S H I P S
Because referral business is so important in our profession, referrals citing you
as an excellent retainer resource can be golden. Although it may require several
successful projects for a client to be comfortable enough to enter into a retainer
arrangement with you, it won’t take more than a heartbeat for that client to
recommend you to others on that same basis. If you enjoy retainers and the
relative freedom and margins they provide, this is a perfect opportunity.
As you become accepted on a retainer basis with new clients, you should
continually perfect the relationship so that it makes sense for you and your
style. For example, you may want to simply remain on retainer, or you might
seek to use retainers to leverage into additional project work. Both are legitimate strategies.
I suggest that if you do frequent retainer work, you develop a one-page
“working agreement” in addition to your proposal that you and the client
approve after the deal is signed but prior to work beginning. Doing this
has the advantage of keeping the simple document out of the potentially
trivializing grasp of the legal department and allows it to serve as an informal template that you and the buyer use to guide the retainer relationship.
An example of such a letter is presented in Exhibit 6.1, but it’s meant only as
a guide and not as the last word. Customize it to your particular comfort and
situation.
With the current power of modern technology, retainers are far easier,
more realistic, and less labor-intensive, yet more effective, than ever before.
You can, as your career progresses, move exclusively into retainer work while
significantly reducing your travel. This is no small matter for veteran consultants. Here is how to market that service.

The Fine and High Art of Using Retainers

c06.indd 119

119

7/1/08 2:45:00 PM

Exhibit 6.1

Sample Letter of Agreement for a Retainer Relationship.

Letter of Agreement for the Retainer Relationship Between Alan Weiss
on Behalf of Summit Consulting Group and Grace Jones, Vice President of
Marketing for Acme Corporation
1. The retainer is for the six-month period from July 1 to December 31, 2008.
2. Your access to me is unlimited during the retainer period and under
our single fee. My business and personal contact information (phone,
fax, e-mail, street address) appear below for your exclusive use. You will
provide me with personal and direct contacts to you to expedite our
communications.
3. The retainer fee will be paid upon commencement and is nonrefundable
for any reason. However, you may request a “freeze” of the calendar at
any time in intervals of thirty days, which will be added to the end of the
retainer period. The ultimate limit of the retainer period will be March
31, 2009, under any circumstances.
4. The retainer fee represents access to my advice, counsel, and coaching
for you, personally, in your capacity as vice president of marketing and
also for your special assignment to choose a new advertising firm.
5. Any specific projects that you and I agree I might undertake on behalf
of the company shall be in addition to this retainer arrangement and
will require a separate set of objectives, metrics, and fees expressed in
a separate proposal. We agree that a specific project is represented by
an initiative that requires more than my advice and counsel to you, as
indicated by a clear set of business objectives (for example, improved
retention of sales talent) to be achieved. I will always suggest alternative

A simple working agreement, tailored to your style and
preferences, is an ideal discussion point at the outset of the
retainer relationship. I often call the points in the agreement
the “rules of engagement.”

120

c06.indd 120

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:45:00 PM

methods to engage in such projects with internal resources or other
third-party resources at your request.
6. During the month of November, we will discuss the potential of extending the retainer for a similar period at its conclusion. Either of us may
decline. If we both decide to proceed, that decision will be made by
November 30, 2008, so that I can allocate proper time. The new start
date would be January 1, 2009, or at the conclusion of any “freeze” time
we have agreed on.
7. You and I will periodically review this working agreement as the retainer
progresses and we learn from our work together. We will remain flexible,
but we agree that any revisions or changes must be agreed on by both
of us.
8. Any expenses incurred during the course of the retainer will be billed at
the end of that calendar month as actually accrued and will be due upon
receipt of the invoice.
9. The value of our relationship is in our personal, trusting, and unrestricted
contact, not in frequency or onsite visits. Let’s maximize our efficiency
by phone and e-mail, and meet personally only at times when we can
best accomplish our objectives in person. This will reduce your expenses
as well as maximize the flexibility of our interactions.
10. Trust is the essential element. I will regard all of our discussions as strictly
confidential, covered by nondisclosure agreements, and not to be
repeated without your explicit permission. In return, you will keep me
apprised of the effectiveness of my help and advice and suggest ways to
improve our partnership at any time.

AGGRESSIVELY MARKETING
R E TA I N E R R E L AT I O N S H I P S
Once you have the experience of several retainers under your belt, you may
want to include the service as a focal point of your marketing. (Don’t forget
that if you engage in executive coaching on a value-billing basis, you may
well have created a retainer arrangement without realizing it.) This means
that you may want to undertake the following marketing efforts:

The Fine and High Art of Using Retainers

c06.indd 121

121

7/1/08 2:45:01 PM

• Include testimonials in your press kit and on your Web site that stress
the benefits of your having been on retainer (in addition to your overall
quality).
• Place “typical results” achieved from your retainer work, specifically, on
the Web site and in your press kit.
• Conversationally mention your retainer work in speeches. For example,
“When I was on retainer to the executive vice presidents of several trade
associations, I found that their common challenge was increasing membership in a strong economy when they were all attending to their own
businesses.”
Write
articles on the value of retainer relationships, or mention those
•
relationships (as in the speech example) in your other articles.
• Where appropriate, include a retainer option in your proposals—
generally most effective when the prospect “doesn’t know what he or
she doesn’t know” and realizes that help is required to begin sorting out
the numerous challenges and opportunities facing the organization.

You have the option of occasionally, frequently, or solely engaging
in retainer relationships. This is not a client, market, or competitive
factor. It’s a question of how you choose to structure your practice.

• Consider structuring some of your pro bono work on a retainer basis,
even though you’re not being paid; that is, become an adviser to the pro
bono client, rather than engaging in a particular project or serving in a
particular capacity.
• Become an “authority” on retainers so that others seek you out; if the
profession considers you an expert, clients will too.
How many retainers can you take on at one time? I don’t know, and
the answer really isn’t important or even necessary to know, for the same
reason that it’s dangerous to have a business plan of “25 percent growth” or
“$5 million in revenues.” The danger is that you stop aspiring when you hit
it, even if you could have done much better.

122

c06.indd 122

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:45:01 PM

I’ve been engaged in three major retainers at once, on top of project work
for other clients. I found that not only was it not taxing, but the retainers provided a nice change of pace from my more traditional project-oriented work
(not to mention a nice fixed source of income). The longest retainer I was
ever involved with was for five years with Calgon, and I think that was an
aberration resulting from an exceptional CEO, terrific chemistry, and a surfeit
of needs in a very tough, competitive marketplace.
My experience and observations indicate that a consultant can develop a
pure retainer practice, with project work the exception, rather than the other
way around. This is much more likely and appropriate when one’s career is
in a mature stage, but it’s certainly something that can be anticipated and
planned for at any stage.
To conclude, here are the traits and abilities that I think are important for
the consultant who wants to foster and build more retainer relationships, above
and beyond those traits we need in any case merely to be effective consultants.
Traits of a Successful Retainer Consultant

• Rapid Framing Skills. The ability to recognize patterns, universal challenges, and common problems expressed by your client enables you
to use relatively few pieces of advice to resolve what may seem like a
myriad of issues.
• Nonjudgmental Stance. You must be able to refrain from commenting on how you would do something or why your client is his or her
own worst enemy, and instead focus on clear evidence and observed
behavior, which can be validated and confidently addressed.
• Empathy but Not Sympathy. Sympathy is feeling what the other party
feels, while empathy is understanding how the other party feels. You
need to empathize in order to gain trust, not sympathize and merely
commiserate about misfortune or bad rolls of the dice. You must provide avenues toward success and not rationalizations for failure.
• Rapid Responsiveness. Although you’re not on immediate call and
don’t need to carry a pager, you should be able to respond to phone
requests within a couple of hours and e-mail requests the same day.
Some issues really can’t wait, and if you have a particularly hyper or
type A client, you may be able to save a great deal of grief by responding as promptly as possible—heading things off at the pass rather
than waiting around the bend.

The Fine and High Art of Using Retainers

c06.indd 123

123

7/1/08 2:45:01 PM

• Push back. Your client will sometimes be wrong, based on the facts. Tell
the client in a straightforward manner (this is why it’s so much better
to be paid in advance). Don’t equivocate. Tough love is better than
pity or cowardice. Confront the behavior and help change it. A little
of this will go a long way.
• Expertise. Easily identified expertise makes the investment desirable
rather than dubious. “I have one of the best consultants in the business on retainer” is what the client should be telling anyone who asks.
That’s why retainers are easier to obtain by veterans who have built a
brand than by newcomers entering the profession.

Not every consultant is an effective retainer consultant. Consulting
on retainer is not simply an elongated project. It’s a more intense
and personal relationship, requiring a higher degree of communication skills.

CHAPTER ROI

• Retainers are not always the best alternative, but they make a great deal
of sense when the client wants access to your smarts. The key is to position having that access as the value you are providing.
• Projects may arise that will require a separate proposal and fee. Don’t
confuse a retainer with the responsibility to accept every project that
might come along as a part of that retainer.
• Establish realistic expectations with the buyer early, and stipulate them
in a letter of agreement before the actual work begins. That way you can
establish “rules of engagement” short of the legal department.
Quarterly
and semiannual time frames are probably ideal, although
•
monthly and annual retainers can work well in specific circumstances.
Anything longer or shorter is problematic.
• Make sure you create conditions that are maximally supportive of the
retainer arrangement. Organize the scope and the parameters so that
they are crystal-clear.

124

c06.indd 124

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:45:02 PM

• Exploit and capitalize on the retainer success—you may choose to move
your practice partially or predominantly in that direction.
Arrange
for retainer renewals well before the period is over. Either party
•
can unilaterally end it, but both are required to extend it.
• If you don’t include retainer work as a service offering, you aren’t providing a full range of opportunities for your client and your practice.
• Retainers are often the least labor-intensive of all client work and relationships; they are also highly profitable.
Your mind and your talent are assets that represent value in themselves. Why
not charge for access to those assets? After all, the ultimate brand is you.

The Fine and High Art of Using Retainers

c06.indd 125

125

7/1/08 2:45:02 PM

c06.indd 126

7/1/08 2:45:02 PM

Ethics and Fees, Fees
and Ethics
A Midbook Practicum

S

ince the first edition of this book was published and more
and more practitioners and firms have adopted valuebased fees, I’ve been receiving thousands of inquiries about
ethical considerations. These are encouraging, since they are well
thought through and very well intentioned. I’ve summarized
the most frequently asked questions here. Since I believe ethics
are a central issue of our work, I thought it would be appropriate
to place this in the middle of the revised book.
Q:
A:

Can I charge different fees for the same work to different
clients or even within the same client organization?
You can and you should. Value-based fees are based on
the value being delivered to the client. Let’s suppose you
are using a common coaching methodology without any
change at all (although that’s rare; we’ll use an extreme
for our example), with two different people.

127

c06a.indd 127

7/1/08 2:45:41 PM

Q:
A:

The first is a call center manager with ten subordinates, no direct
budget responsibility, and call content dealing with general inquiries for directions and basic technical problems. The goal is to improve
her talents for providing employee feedback and reducing average call
response time. The annual improvement is estimated at about $100,000
and higher morale.
The second is a vice president of sales with 150 people in the operation and a sales goal of $24 million. He has a budget of $4 million, and
the goals are to improve his ability to retain and develop top talent.
The estimated impact on the business of achieving those objectives is
$1 million on an annualized basis.
Using the same methodology and perhaps the exact same time
investment, you’re achieving far different results for the organizations.
There is nothing unethical about charging based on your contribution
to that larger return,1 and the client’s return on investment will still be
superior. The problem with hourly billing is that you’d be receiving the
exact same rate for vastly different client results.
When do I exceed high value and simply become very expensive, seeking
“whatever the traffic will bear”?
When the client’s ROI becomes so low that there is a question about
the wisdom of the investment, you’re probably overcharging (or underestimating value—be careful). I think a 10-to-1 return on a conservative
estimate of value is very powerful, and don’t forget that the buyer has
agreed to that estimate of value during the conceptual agreement stage.
I’ve worked with consulting firms in the manufacturing field that believe
that a 3-to-1 return is very significant for their clients, so you can see that
this is very persuasive ground.
There are few places, if any, where the client is generating 10-to-1
returns. So long as you can demonstrate that kind of dynamic, quantitatively or qualitatively, you’ll never be accused of “gouging.”

1

Here’s the phrasing I use: “My fee represents my contribution to the value you receive from
the successful completion of this project, providing a dramatic return on investment for you
and equitable compensation for me.”

128

c06a.indd 128

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:45:41 PM

Q:
A:

Q:
A:

Q:
A:

Aren’t I obligated to choose the lowest fee that I feel comfortable with
while meeting the client’s objectives?
No, not at all. The only thing that matters is whether the client feels
well served. If your accepted fee is $140,000 and you could have charged
$155,000 or would gladly have done it for $125,000, it doesn’t matter. It’s
all profit (it had better be if you’re doing this correctly). So long as the
buyer is happy, you’re under no ethical, moral, or legal obligation to
provide the lowest possible fee.
Market conditions and buyer emotions determine fees, which is
why some people look for the best deal with a new car, some people pay
the full sticker price, and some pay over sticker price for a car they want
to own before anyone else.
If I’m on retainer and the client barely calls me, shouldn’t I extend it or
offer to do other work?
Only if you believe your client is a child and doesn’t understand the
business. Do you expect your insurance company to extend your coverage for free just because you haven’t made a claim?
A retainer is paid for access to your smarts on an as-needed basis.
Once again, you can’t allow yourself to be caught in the time trap.
The buyer is an adult. He or she may access you regularly or rarely or
merely take solace in the fact you’re there if needed, which by itself is a
good investment. Understand what you are being paid for. You are not
obligated to perform when someone simply wants to ensure access.
Isn’t there actually a law that mandates equal fees for equal services?
You can’t discriminate in terms of a buyer ’s ethnicity or height, but you
can be discriminatory about the fee you charge for differing value as
perceived by the buyer, which is why people are paid disparately in
all kinds of jobs (Diane Sawyer made considerably more than Charles
Gibson for a long time as they sat next to each other cohosting Good
Morning America on ABC).
What most people are confused about is the Robinson-Patman Act,
advanced by Congressman Wright Patman in the 1930s, which forbade
different prices for commodities used in interstate commerce if the
result was to decrease effective competition. That has nothing to do with
consulting services based on value delivered to the customer.

Ethics and Fees, Fees and Ethics

c06a.indd 129

129

7/1/08 2:45:42 PM

Q:
A:

Q:

A:

Q:
A:

130

c06a.indd 130

My client has asked me for a sort of “frequent flyer” discount, since
we’ve done business before. Is this proper?
It’s proper to set whatever fees you like in terms of preferential treatment
for repeat customers, high volume, pilots, tests, and so on. I wouldn’t go
around offering reduced fees, but if a client makes a legitimate request,
you should consider it for the sake of the long-term relationship.
For example, I always offer a 10 percent courtesy discount if the
full fee is paid upon acceptance. I find that a good business practice: it
guarantees that the money is in my pocket and I have use of it, and I’m
much freer to speak my mind without the threat of a future check being
withheld.
The client tells me that state tax must be withheld from my fee, under
a new law being phased in, and that to fail to do so would be unethical
and not in keeping with the spirit of the law. What do I do?
First, see your tax attorney, and make sure he or she is superb. This is no
place to look for bargain rates.
There is a movement to try to tax out-of-state services, which is
already assessed on products in some but not all states. The idea is that
there would be reductions in tax in your home state, but my impression
is that the overall burden would increase for all of us.
At this writing, there is no such requirement in place, and no such
interstate agreement has been concluded nationally. Educate yourself
about the law and your home state’s regulations. I suspect that you do
not have to pay such a local tax legally or ethically. California is currently
the toughest state in this regard, and I’ve never had a client attempt to
withhold any taxes from my consulting or speaking fees in that state.
There are other criteria, such as whether you have a local office or representation, so obtain an expert opinion.
A long-time consultant has told me it’s not ethical to charge and accept
money for work not yet completed, much less begun. Is that true?
No. Let me say it another way: NO. All kinds of organizations accept
deposits and advance payments all the time, from catering companies
to law firms (it’s called a “retainer” there, albeit a different kind). The
way you account for money will depend on whether you are on a cash or
accrual basis and what your financial adviser recommends for your particular circumstances, but you can take money from anyone at any time.

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:45:42 PM

Q:

A:

Q:

A:

That’s a long-time, but not a highly successful, consultant giving
you that advice. Always consider the source.
What is my ethical obligation for a client who has paid me but keeps
canceling or postponing services and events? How much of a liability
do I have to carry and for how long? Must I return the money at some
point?
No, never return money. I would provide the client with great leeway—
say, a year—subject only to your availability. But it’s quite proper to tell
the client that he or she has six months left before the fee is forfeited.
As I’ve pointed out before, clients are adults, and sometimes they
sacrifice plans because other priorities have arisen. The best you can do
is remind them, be flexible, but also be businesslike in creating an end
point. It’s quite proper to put into your proposal wording to this effect:
“You may cancel and reschedule this project and its components without penalty, subject to mutually agreeable dates. However, we cannot be
accountable for the original objectives in the event of more than a ninetyday delay, and all obligations on our part will cease after a six-month
delay unless otherwise agreed in writing by both parties.”
I hate boilerplate, but those lines are very effective, especially when
you have a limited window of opportunity to make a project work.
Isn’t the client really better served—with a clear idea of ongoing
expenses—by an hourly rate that can be tallied at any given point in
time?
Au contraire. The most unethical aspect of fees are time-based, because
the client is best serviced by quick resolution and the consultant is
best compensated by slow resolution. It’s a conflict that I’m astounded
continues to exist and is most egregious with the large, production
capability–driven firms, which make money with scores of consultants
billing maximum hours every week for years.
If you can solve the same problem (or improve the same situation)
in twenty minutes as you can in a month, the client is best served by
the twenty minutes, since the gains start sooner and the disruption in
minimized. Therefore, and this is counterintuitive to many people, the
consultant should be paid more for less work. That’s because work is an
input and is unimportant in the fee equation; business results are the
output, and they determine value.

Ethics and Fees, Fees and Ethics

c06a.indd 131

131

7/1/08 2:45:42 PM

Q:

A:

Q:

A:

I’ve found that the consultants who have the hardest time moving
away from time-based billing are those who have the least confidence
and belief in the value they deliver. Hence they look for a substitute,
which turns out to be the clock and the calendar. And that’s simply
pathetic.2
What happens when my buyer changes? I had one who was fired, and
his replacement demanded that the project cease and all payments be
refunded for work not performed.
A deal is a deal. Your proposal should state that the agreement is “noncancelable for any reason.” Not only can you keep what you’ve been
paid, but the new buyer has an obligation to honor the contract for any
payments due in the future.
If the buyer insists that you stop work, you should still demand the
rest of the payments. Though it may be awkward to sue, you can take
a small business to small claims court or have your attorney fire a shot
across the bow. Write to the CEO of a larger business and indicate that
it may be embarrassing that a new manager has decided unilaterally
not to honor a legal contract and is taking advantage of a small business.
You have nothing to lose, and the ethical obligation here is your client’s,
not yours.
What do I do with a client who is in deep financial trouble, has gone to
120-day payments to vendors, or has asked that I “be patient” until the
company gets back on its feet?
Ignore the request and the policy (and this is why you should never have
a friend for a client). You can’t pay your mortgage with an IOU, and the
gas station is unconcerned with promises.
Inform your client that you are a small business, very vulnerable
to cash flow, and you expect all your clients to conform to agreements,
contracts, and proposals. Hence, while you sympathize with the client’s
plight, you must insist on payment as agreed.

2

The big firms, on the other hand, are calcified in their accounting methodology and audit
backgrounds and continue to take advantage of their clients while—improbably—denying
themselves the true revenues they could be demanding if “billable hours” weren’t their
mantra.

132

c06a.indd 132

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:45:43 PM

Q:
A:

Q:
A:

Whatever you do, stop work until you are paid. Do not feel bashful
about pressing the matter and involving your attorney. There is always
money (the owners and executives are paying themselves). If you’re not
ethically bound to give money to every charity that approaches you,
you’re certainly not ethically bound to provide charity to your clients
who are screaming poverty.
Am I ethically bound to provide lower fees to nonprofits?
Let me say this about that: No. Nonprofits have money, sometimes, a
great deal of it. And although they are proficient at sobbing and crying
about the paramount nature of their cause and the difficulty in supporting it, you’ll concurrently find that they are spending a huge amount of
the cash they generate on administration, not the cause they espouse. I’m
not being cruel, just pointing out a simple fact: nonprofits must spend significant money to support the infrastructure that generates new funds.
You are a part of that support and deserve to be paid for your value.
Peter Drucker was fond of saying that the Girl Scouts was the best run
organization in America, for-profit or nonprofit. The CEO of the United
Way at one point was paid $450,000 a year. Teachers’ union officers are
paid six figures, sometimes four times what the average teacher in the
union makes.
Don’t go soft on nonprofits. You’re helping them reduce costs or
increase revenues just as you are for anyone else. If you want to contribute to charity, write a check.3
When a buyer pays the fee for me to coach someone else, who is my
client?
This is an important and often misunderstood issue. When a buyer asks
you to work with someone else, you must establish whether the buyer
wants feedback from you, wants feedback from the coaching subject, or
does not require feedback. You must then make this clear with your subject. That is, you cannot report on progress (or lack of progress) to your
buyer without the consent of the subject. There must be full disclosure of
the nature of the project and reporting. The ideal situation is to provide

3

This is additionally important because donated time or reduced fees are not deductible under
IRS standards, whereas monetary contributions are.

Ethics and Fees, Fees and Ethics

c06a.indd 133

133

7/1/08 2:45:43 PM

Q:

A:

Q:
A:

Q:
A:

Q:

no feedback to the buyer and allow the buyer to judge progress from
observed behavior.
When a government entity states that it will only accept request for proposal (RFP) responses that cite hourly rates, can I be successful if I tell
them that I feel that this is not an ethical approach for me?
Probably not. My basic advice is not to respond to RFPs because they
present predetermined alternatives (“We seek a three-day leadership
training program featuring role plays delivered by someone with experience in military environments . . .”) and are evaluated by low-level
people paid to conserve money. And in triplicate.
However, if you feel you must act, respond to the RFP as best you
can using hourly rates, but also attach your own proposal, exceeding the
value sought by the RFP and providing value-based fees.
The ideal is to become a sole source provider—by dint of a book,
intellectual capital, travel, unique experiences, or some other advantage—and to avoid competitive bidding and RFPs altogether.
Am I ethically obligated to meet or beat a lower fee from a competitor
offering the same services?
No. First, the services may be the same, but the value each of you is providing is different by virtue of your being different people. Second, if you’re in
a close race, your relationship with the buyer should carry the day.
Even in government, something called the Farr Act allows purchasers to choose a more expensive alternative if the value is deemed proportionally greater than that of lower bids.
Is it ethical for a prospect to show my proposal to other consulting firms
being considered and theirs to me?
No. You should stipulate in your proposal that it is for the buyer ’s use
only and may not be shown to nonorganizational personnel without your
written consent. Moreover, you should put a copyright notice on your
proposal if you even suspect that this may happen.4
Can I ethically raise fees for the same client and the same service due to
inflation or increases in materials costs?

4
Technically, under the law, anything you write is automatically copyrighted and owned by
you, but the written © symbol may remind the buyer of this fact and prevent others from
spreading your property around.

134

c06a.indd 134

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:45:43 PM

A:

Q:

A:

Q:
A:

Q:
A:

Of course. You can increase fees at any time without a reason for renewal
or new business (but not, of course, during a contractual assignment),
just as the phone company or postal service does.
However, beyond ethics, always keep pragmatics in mind. Ideally,
current clients should get the best deal you offer, and newer clients
should be paying more. Older clients should not be subsidizing your
new business, and a veteran client who finds that you are offering better
fees to newer clients will bail out on you faster than a skydiver in a jump
zone. (And you will not have a chute.)
When a client says, “If you can lower your fee right now, I can shake
hands with you,” is it right for me to do so, especially when I desperately want the business?
Sure—but always arrange a quid pro quo. You’ll be glad to lower your
fees if the client pays 100 percent of the discounted fee up front or allows
you to remove some value from the project or throws in some value
for your benefit, such as referrals and introductions, or takes on more
of the labor with client personnel—you get the idea. If we merely lower
fees, the client will wonder, “How low will this guy go?” and press
onward. Demand concessions, and you’ll get the business and retain the
respect.
Is it an ethical obligation to tell subcontractors what fees I’m being paid
and what percentage I’m paying them?
Is it your obligation to tell the plumber what you earn each year and
adjust plumbing fees accordingly? I don’t think so.
Subcontractors are hired hands, almost always people who love the
work because they are inept at marketing and creating their own work.
Treat them as hired help, and pay an hourly or daily rate. This is a buyer ’s market, since there is a plethora of competent delivery capability all
over the place.
I tell subcontractors that my books are pretty bad and that they
shouldn’t waste their time on them. So far, so good.
Must I file and pay taxes in each state in which I do business?
Not as of this writing, though that may change. Try not to have any kind
of permanent presence, such as an office or alliance partner whom you
visit regularly, and use your financial adviser ’s help. The state in which
you are incorporated or reside may have an influence. But thus far, I’ve

Ethics and Fees, Fees and Ethics

c06a.indd 135

135

7/1/08 2:45:44 PM

Q:

A:

Q:
A:

Q:
A:

136

c06a.indd 136

never had reason to do this, and all my clients have happily complied
and never assessed or withheld taxes.
Is it OK to charge for expenses that are agreed on but not actually
expended? For example, can I charge for airfare even though I used frequent flyer miles?
Absolutely not. For some reason, many professional speakers feel that
this is an alternative way to raise money, probably because their fees are
so low and they have no idea how to raise them, with the result that they
have low self-esteem and cheat on their expenses.
Let’s be clear: you shouldn’t ask for an expense reimbursement for
anything that didn’t cost you money. If you stay with a friend, don’t charge
for a hotel; if your spouse drives you to the airport, don’t charge for a cab;
and if the airplane ticket is free, don’t lie and try to be reimbursed.
Charge for your value, not by cheating on your expenses. In cases
when you’ve agreed on a fee that is inclusive of expenses, you need not
make any changes, since there is no specific expense reimbursement. But
even then, if you’re using free air miles or driving instead of taking a
plane, my advice is to reimburse the client. When you feel you have to
augment your income by deception—which this is, have no doubt about
it—then you’re committing fraud and undermining your own worth.
Is it proper to accept bartered services instead of a fee or in lieu of part
of a fee?
Yes, but. You can accept tickets from United Airlines if that is a client of
yours, or rental cars from Hertz, or televisions from Samsung. However,
these are taxable forms of compensation and must be reported. If you fail
to do so, you are violating the law intentionally, which is also unethical
(let alone subject to fines and even imprisonment).
This is why you may deduct charitable giving only in excess of
the goods and services received in return and why charities provide
documentation to that effect for the IRS. The underlying premise is
the same: if you receive something, it’s worth something, and that’s taxable income.
Is there anything wrong with accepting cash in return for a discount?
My immediate question is “Why the discount?” I assume it’s because
you’re not going to deposit and declare the money in standard fashion,
thereby attempting to avid taxation on it.

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:45:44 PM

Q:

A:

Q:

A:

See the preceding response. Cash is a messy form of payment, since
there is no paper trail. (What if the client claims, for tax purposes, that
you were paid $25,000 in cash, and you claim, for tax purposes, that you
received only $10,000? Who’s lying, and how do you prove it?)
There is no legitimate reason to accept cash unless you are selling
products at the back of a room during a speaking engagement. And even
then I’d recommend that you accept payment only by credit card and
check. In many such instances, you’re also responsible for the payment
of sales tax, and the revenues, including cash, must be accounted for.
(Note: Providing a fee discount for full payment in advance is quite
different and acceptable. In this case, you have immediate use of all of
your money, and you’ve ensured that problems with the client beyond
your control will not impede your cash flow.)
Surely there can’t be anything unethical about raising fees when people
pay by credit card, since I’m paying a processing fee, which I may pass
on to the customer, right?
It’s not unethical and it’s not illegal, but it is tacky. Paying 2 to 3 percent
for credit card processing is a cost of doing business. You’re talking $2
or $3 on every $100. If you have a $25,000 project, it’s $500, but you have
$24,500 profit, and the client has been accommodated.
Credit cards are becoming increasingly common, and it’s no longer
unusual to be paid for speaking engagements, expense reimbursements,
and even modest consulting work by credit card. I’d suggest that you
obtain merchant accounts for all the major cards, find the best (lowest)
interest rates that you can, and get on with your business. You’re running a consulting practice, not a candy store.
What about assessing penalty fees when payments are overdue? Many
companies charge me 1.5 percent per month for overdue amounts or
slap on a flat $35 charge.
If you have a strong relationship with the buyer, you shouldn’t have to
worry about overdue payments. Similarly, if you secure full payment in
advance, you’re home free, except for expense reimbursement.
Here’s a hint: make all invoices “due on receipt” and not “thirty
days net” or some such silly thing. Next, send your invoices well in
advance of the due date for installment payments. Also, have in your
proposal that “expenses will be billed as accrued at the end of each

Ethics and Fees, Fees and Ethics

c06a.indd 137

137

7/1/08 2:45:45 PM

Q:

A:

Q:
A:

138

c06a.indd 138

month and are due on the presentation of our statement.” I’ll give a client a thirty-day grace period on expenses—because I’m not looking at
expense reimbursement as a revenue source, nor am I dependent on it
for my cash flow—but after that, I go right to my buyer and say, “We
have a problem.”
Can I set up payment terms beneficial to me for taxes? For example, near
the end of the year, can I deliberately defer payments into the next year
if I don’t want to increase this year ’s income? Is that ethical?
It’s both ethical and legal, usually. Check with your financial adviser,
who can examine what it means for your personal accounting structure (cash versus accrual basis, for example). You can always arrange
deferred payments or installment payments or, even easier, just delay
work or billing until the next year.
Having said that, let me remind you that payment in hand is always
a better alternative, even if it means higher taxes. Paying higher taxes
on increased revenues is a pleasant problem. (It’s when you’re paying
higher taxes on the same income as last year that you have to throw the
rascals out of office.)
A great many things can happened to interfere with even the bestintentioned and most tightly constructed agreements. Every time you
forestall payment, you are risking no payment. The probability may be
low in your estimation, but I can guarantee you that the seriousness is
quite high. I’ve dealt with a great many desperate consultants, speakers,
and coaches who had relied on “secure” contracts—and in many cases
had already spent the expected money—who found themselves washed
up on the shore of reneging clients. In this business, in the end, a client
determined not to pay you will not pay you, and the cost of trying to
recoup is prohibitive.
My advice: always take the money as soon as you can.
Is it ethical to abandon long-standing clients who cannot or will not pay
higher fees, especially when their fee basis originated many years ago?
I advocate dropping at least 15 percent of your business every two years,
and this is one major reason. Cast it as being in the client’s best interest:
“We’ve been together a long time. I don’t feel I can raise your fees, but
neither can I continue to give you the priority attention you deserve.

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:45:45 PM

I want to recommend someone else to you who can fit within your
budget and do a great job.”
And everything I just said is absolutely true. You can’t reach out
until you let go, and you’re not going to attain the next fee level as long
as you’re carrying all that low-fee baggage from your past. Do both the
client and yourself a favor and move on.

Ethics and Fees, Fees and Ethics

c06a.indd 139

139

7/1/08 2:45:45 PM

c06a.indd 140

7/1/08 2:45:45 PM

C H A P T E R

7

Seventy Ways to Raise
Fees and/or Increase
Profits Immediately
Act Today and Receive the
Bass-o-Matic Free of Charge!

A

fter six chapters on strategy, rationale, and largescale tactics for improving your fees, I thought it
would be nice to examine some street-level tactics that can be
employed immediately. (With apologies to all those excellent
“guerrilla” and “street fighter” books, I don’t believe that fee
setting is a matter of ambushing clients in alleys or garroting
them from the rear.)
You might want to use the techniques in this chapter as
a template, to test your aggressiveness in setting fees. Or you
might view them as a buffet, from which you can draw the

141

c07.indd 141

7/1/08 2:46:24 PM

nourishment that best augments your current diet. Or think of them as an
exercise ritual . . .
That’s enough of that. The point is that none of us, despite our smarts
and successes, is doing everything we can to maximize our income commensurate with the value we are providing. And while the preponderance of this
book deals with the longer term, there is a high probability that you may
be leaving money on the table today—right now, as you’re reading this—in
terms of proposals that are too modest, negotiations that aren’t handled assertively, and opportunities that are being lost.
If you leave $50,000 on the table each year, that’s a half-million dollars
over a decade that you will never, ever be able to recover. If it’s $100,000 a
year, . . . You get the picture. Now is the time to plan for that extra million in
the not-too-distant future.
So if you were to review this book twice a year to ensure that your fee
strategies are moving in the right direction, you might also review this chapter monthly to ensure that you are not missing something right under your
nose. (If you have staff of any kind, it’s important that they familiarize themselves with this chapter, because it has implications for everyone, from business acquisition people to receptionists.)
Since I’ve been working on the art and science of fee setting for over
twenty years and I didn’t want to provide anything less than a comprehensive array in this chapter, some of the material has appeared in part and in
different forms elsewhere. The two primary sources are the first book in this
series, The Ultimate Consultant, and my booklet (which started it all) How to
Maximize Fees in Professional Service Firms.

If you follow my philosophy of the 1% Solution,® you only need
apply one technique to raise fees every day for seventy days to have
potentially doubled your income in that period.

And now, on to the techniques. You might want to read a batch at a time
and think about them, or highlight or take notes as you go through them.

142

c07.indd 142

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:46:24 PM

Overlaps and partial duplications are deliberate, since I don’t want to miss a
nuance that might apply to some consultants and not to others, depending on
how I present them and in what context.1
1. Establish Value Collaboratively with the Client. It’s imperative to reach agreement with the buyer as to the real worth to the organization of achieving the business outcomes specified in the objectives. This should be done interactively (that
is, not by e-mail or letter) and result with the buyer literally nodding in agreement as you summarize the quantitative (retention improvement) and qualitative (better teamwork) worth, which you can then reiterate in your proposal.
2. If Value Differs, Fees Can Differ. Just because you’re doing the exact
same thing for two different clients doesn’t mean the fee must be the same.
Coaching a vice president running a $200 million division and coaching a
manager running a $350,000 sales center have two vastly differing outcomes,
even if the coaching regimen is the same in each case.
3. Base Fees on Value, Not on Task. Never base a fee on your doing something. Always base it on the client’s achieving something. Tasks (surveys)
are commodities. Value (market share) is a unique client improvement. Also,
never base fees on per capita (number of people in a workshop or survey)
basis, which tends to drive the client to limit participation.
4. Forget About What’s Happened Before. It doesn’t matter if the client has
always paid by the day for a certain type of help or if the client places limits
on fees for consultants. No one needed a fat pen until Mont Blanc produced
one. If you allow yourself to be guided by the client’s history, you’re helping
neither the client nor yourself.
5. Never Use Time as the Basis of Your Value. The toughest obstacle for
consultants to overcome is to disregard their time. They tend to believe that
the client will abuse their time or that the time a client demands is time lost
elsewhere. In truth, clients don’t abuse time if there are clear, delimiting
objectives, and the time you would be spending with your feet propped up

1

I have a friend, Greg Godek, who wrote a book called 1001 Ways to Be Romantic. Someone
mentioned to me that he thought there were really only 987, because of fourteen purported
duplications. I told him that if he were able to master the 987, he probably wouldn’t miss the
other fourteen, nor would his wife.

Seventy Ways to Raise Fees and/or Increase Profits Immediately

c07.indd 143

143

7/1/08 2:46:25 PM

watching a Seinfeld rerun doesn’t count. Conversely, you can’t feel guilty just
because you only had to show up four times to complete a $74,000 project
(which has happened to me frequently). You must shake the “time ghost.”
Your value is in your talent, not in your showing up.
6. Practice Stating High Fees. That’s right, practice saying, “It will be
between $150,000 and $225,000” out loud. When you say these things matterof-factly, the client assumes that he or she is out of step if the amount sounds
high. If you giggle or turn red, you lose a certain amount of credibility.
7. Think of the Fourth Sale First. Fees are cumulative, not situational.
Don’t be greedy. Even on a value basis, the goal is to develop a relationship
and implement successful projects that will lead to years of work. View your
larger clients strategically, and anticipate how you can be of help over years
on a variety of projects, not just for the present on a single project. Over
80 percent of my business has been repeat business, and most of the rest has
been by referral. The cost of acquiring new business from scratch seriously
decreases margins.
8. Don’t Use Round Numbers, but Don’t Be Ridiculous. It’s probably best
not to position options at $100,000, $125,000, and $150,000, but it’s also ridiculous to cite $123,687.90. The client is going to want to see the worksheet that
generated that kind of precision. Remember, if the client walks away thinking
that the value was a bargain and you walk away feeling that you were paid
well, there is no third consideration.
9. Engage the Client in the Diagnosis; Don’t Be Prescriptive. The client perceives much greater value when you and the buyer are jointly diagnosing
the issues, instead of you prescribing some off-the-shelf medicine. Internists
make much more money than pharmacists because they are so much more
valuable in diagnosing illness. And when the patient is involved in the diagnosis and the ensuing course of treatment, the quality and success of the treatment are greatly enhanced. One simple way to do this quickly is to provide
a “process visual” and let the buyer decide where the organization belongs.
See Figure 7.1 for an example.2 Ask the buyer to profile the organization for
each factor.

2
See my book The Great Big Book of Process Visuals and its successor, The Second Great Big Book of
Process Visuals, for examples of such visuals and potential joint diagnostic tools.

144

c07.indd 144

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:46:25 PM

Strategic Profiling
Competitive
maintains
competitiveness

Distinct
gains
competitive edge

Breakthrough
achieves
dominance

Product
tangible
purchase
Service
intangible
purchase
Relationship
intangible
non-purchase

Figure 7.1 Strategic Profiling in which the Buyer Joins in the Diagnosis.

There is an intrinsic value in merely involving the client in discussions of how to approach the project. Value is based not just on
what you contribute but also on your embrace of the ideas and
desires of others.

10. Never Voluntarily Offer Options to Reduce Fees. In a frenzied attempt
to close business rapidly, many consultants build in automatic fee reductions,
based on numbers, multiple assignments, and other factors. The only option
I ever recommend is a small discount if the client pays the entire fee up front,
at the time of project acceptance, and that’s mainly for two reasons: you have
use of your money from the outset, and the client cannot cancel the project.
11. Never Deal with a Purchasing Manager or Accounts Payable. If the buyer
suggests that “finance will take it from here,” insist that you and the buyer absolutely agree on the fees and the payment terms. Emphasize that the handoff is fine if “finance” merely implements the paperwork and generates the

Seventy Ways to Raise Fees and/or Increase Profits Immediately

c07.indd 145

145

7/1/08 2:46:25 PM

checks but that in your experience, such people often try to show their worth
by pressuring for a “better deal.” Obtain firm agreement on your agreement
while you and the buyer are together.
12. Add a Premium If You Personally “Do It All.” Often a contract will have
a provision that says the consultant will do everything required, but if subcontractors are used, the fee will increase to accommodate the extra expense.
Presumably, the extra help will speed project completion. I do just the opposite. I tell the client that the fee is for the entire project and I’ll decide whether
subcontracted help is needed. However, if the client wants me to do all of the
work myself in order to keep a single “filter” in place or guarantee a single
qualitative source, there is a 10 percent premium on the fee. In other words, it
costs more if I’m the only one to work on the project, not less. I’m the talent;
the subcontractors are not.
13. Remove Fees from All Printed Materials. Purge any reference to fees in
your printed, Web, and other promotional materials. Make sure that old testimonials do not inadvertently provide a fee schedule (for example, “Joan was
expensive at $5,000 per day but a bargain in the long run!”).
14. If Forced to Consider Fee Reduction, Reduce Value First. Sometimes
reduction of fees is a reasonable request. On those occasions, never reduce
fees without making a commensurate decrease in value. Take out the international part of the study or remove the post-survey discussions with management or eliminate the written reports. Sometimes a client will say, “We can’t
afford to lose that” and will concede the fee, but in any case, you don’t want
to be seen as someone who has a padded fee awaiting reduction.
15. Always Make It Clear That Expenses Are Extra. Except in cases where
you are deliberately including expenses in the fee, state orally and in writing
that the quote is “plus expenses.” Many clients will claim that they thought
the fee included everything, whether they did or they didn’t, and you might
be salivating sufficiently on the edge of a yes that you agree. Don’t. It could
cost you thousands on the bottom line.
16. Always Provide an Option That Exceeds the Budget. Sometime you’ll
be told the budget, and it’s reasonable, so always provide one option that is
above the limit. There will still be two or more options within the budget limitation, so you’re not risking anything but just may be laying the groundwork
for higher profits. I lost a piece of business once to a competitor who came in

146

c07.indd 146

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:46:26 PM

VIGNETTE

“I’m told you’re very expensive by my colleague who referred you,”
said the buyer I had just met at a New York bank.
“I’m not that expensive,” I replied, “if you consider the return
on investment that this project will provide. It’s no different from
the returns you seek for your investors.”
“Well, we boast about being the best, so I guess that means
we’d better acquire the best help around, right?”
There’s nothing like a referral system that already educates a
prospect about what to expect or a prospect who is already positioned to appeal to his or her own clientele as a high-value choice.

over budget but offered far more than the buyer had specified. I didn’t have
to learn that lesson twice.
17. As Early as Possible, Ask the Question Guaranteed to Result in Higher
Fees, or QGTRIHF: “What Are Your Objectives?” Always begin with objectives,
because they focus the buyer on results (not on costs) and give you the opportunity to pursue real needs (not wants). There is nothing easier, or more valuable, than starting the process by asking, “Can we begin with what you’d like
to accomplish as a result of this project?”
18. Broaden Objectives as Appropriate to Increase Value. If a buyer says, “We
need better market share in the Northeast,” I always ask, “Wouldn’t you want
greater market share everywhere?” If the buyer says, “My team needs better
delegation skills,” I inquire, “What about the skills of their reports in accepting delegation and the culture of the organization in supporting empowerment?” It’s relatively easy to broaden the objectives—and, consequently, raise
the fees—by asking a few innocent questions.
19. Ensure That the Client Is Aware of the Full Range of Your Services.
Prospects will sometimes jump to a conclusion about your “specialty,” or they
may have been misinformed by a reference source. If you’re talking about a

Seventy Ways to Raise Fees and/or Increase Profits Immediately

c07.indd 147

147

7/1/08 2:46:26 PM

customer survey, for example, don’t be reluctant to drop into the conversation
that “one survey we conducted took place immediately before we ran a strategy
retreat, which provided contemporary feedback for the strategy process.”

Few things limit fees as much as stereotyping. That’s why the concepts of “develop a niche” and “specialize or die” are so constricting. The fewer competencies you yourself promote, the fewer the
client’s opportunities to pay you.

20. If Something Is Not on Your Playing Field, Subcontract. A good rule of
thumb is this: if the predominant aspects of the project are not within your
competencies, refer it elsewhere. But if the predominant parts are within
your competencies, subcontract what you can’t handle. It’s the overall
relationship that counts, not individual mastery of every implementation
element.
21. Always Ask Yourself, “Why Me? Why Now? Why in This Manner?” If the
buyer has a raft of choices, you’re less valuable, but if you’re one of the few
with the expertise or reputation, you’re much more valuable; if the client can
wait without a problem, that’s one thing, but if the window of opportunity is
closing, that’s quite another; if the client can do this internally, that’s easy, but
if an external consultant is mandatory, that’s different. By asking these questions, you’ll know your intrinsic value in setting the appropriate fee.
22. Use Proposals as Confirmations, Not as Explorations. Don’t submit a proposal until you have conceptual agreement on objectives, measures of success,
and value to the organization. Otherwise, the proposal becomes a negotiating
document, and the options you have listed will be the point of departure to
negotiate downward. I hit over 80 percent of my proposals, but I send out far
fewer than most consultants because of my method of using them.
23. When Asked Prematurely About Fees, Reply, “I Don’t Know.” Don’t be
cornered. Simply tell the buyer that you can’t quote a fee until you have more
information—in fact, it would be unfair to the prospect to do so—but you can
have the options ready within twenty-four hours. When consultants allow

148

c07.indd 148

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:46:26 PM

themselves to be forced into fee quotes prematurely, they almost always quote
too low, and the prospect expects to negotiate down from there.
24. If You Must Lower Fees, Seek a Quid Pro Quo from the Buyer. In the real
world, you’ll sometimes want a piece of business and will accept a lower
fee to get it. Even then, suggest an accommodation whereby the client guarantees to provide referrals or videotapes one of your presentations for your
use or provides products and services free of charge or at cost or places you in
front of a related trade association. There is usually some barter arrangement
that is attractive to both parties.

Don’t use other people if you don’t have to. There is no inherent
benefit in numbers or bodies. No matter how much you charge,
every additional employee or subcontractor on a project will reduce
your profit margins.

25. Don’t Accept Troublesome, Unpleasant, or Ugly Business. A prospect
who is unethical, ornery, nasty, or otherwise unfriendly won’t magically metamorphose as a client. Bad prospects are bad clients, and the only thing worse
than no business is bad business. No matter what the fee, these clients will
cost you more than you keep.
26. When Collaborating, Use Objective Apportionment. You may divide the
client business into acquisition, methodology used, and delivery, for example.
That means that if I sell the client, my technology is used but you deliver; I get
two-thirds and you get one-third. Use whatever formula you like (some people
feel the acquisition aspect deserves more weight), but use one that’s clear and
objective so that everyone understands the ground rules for revenue sharing.
27. Any Highly Paid Employee Must Bring in New Business. Whether on
salary, bonus, or commission, high pay is justified for new business acquisition. Delivery, research, and support are commodities for which you should
subcontract. In fact, it’s a buyer ’s market, since those abilities are in huge supply. Don’t pay people for delivering your business acquisition unless it’s on a
pay-for-performance basis.

Seventy Ways to Raise Fees and/or Increase Profits Immediately

c07.indd 149

149

7/1/08 2:46:27 PM

VIGNETTE

A prospect kept gently inquiring about costs during our initial
two meetings, and I parried each time by pointing out that I didn’t
know enough yet (we hadn’t reached conceptual agreement). Her
continual gentle pressure was met by my continual but firm resistance.
Finally, I had gathered enough information and commitment
to put together a proposal. The buyer again inquired about fees,
and I said that she would have my proposal, options, and fees within
forty-eight hours.
On a whim, I then said, “You’ve been very curious about the
fees. Is there a budget you want me to stay within, so that I can
formulate my proposal accordingly?”
“Well, yes,” she admitted. “We’ve allocated only $150,000
for this project.”
I had estimated that my options were going to range from
$75,000 to about $110,000. “I’ll do my best to stay within that
allocation,” I responded with all the calmness I could muster.
I provided improved and even more effective options at
$128,000, $141,000, and $172,000. She chose the second one.
She was relieved, and I was probably $31,000 to $66,000 wealthier
for the commensurate increase in value.

28. Seek Out New Economic Buyers Laterally During Your Projects. This is
part of the “springboard” from Chapter One. The time to market is always now,
so be on the lookout for opportunity as you are implementing. This is neither
unethical nor illegal. It’s simply smart business.
29. Respond to “Scope Creep” with “I’ll Send a New Proposal.” Whenever
the client requests work clearly outside the objectives of your original agreement, accept it graciously provided that you can send a new proposal—with
new objectives and new fees—to cover the additional work. Regard your

150

c07.indd 150

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:46:27 PM

original project objectives as “lines in the sand,” and don’t allow them to
be blurred.
30. It Is Better to Do Something Pro Bono Than to Do It for a Low Fee. Don’t
ever be pegged as a low-priced option. If there’s something you’re dying to
do or a cause you feel more than merits your attention, do it free of charge as
part of your pro bono work. Don’t allow yourself to be pegged as a “cheap
resource.” Rule of thumb: never do pro bono work for a profit-making entity.
31. If You Do Something Pro Bono, Send an Invoice. Show the pro bono
client what your actual fee would have been, and then waive it, showing a
net of nothing due. That way you’ve established your fee for that particular
project in the mind of that “buyer” and of anyone else on the board, on the
committee, or in the room. (Note: This does not constitute a “donation” or
a tax-deductible item under current IRS rules, so don’t attempt to use the
invoice to justify a deduction.)
32. Fees Have Nothing to Do with Supply and Demand, Only with Value.
Don’t listen to the “experts” who tell you that you can raise fees when demand
exceeds supply, which is a formula to work harder, not smarter. You want to
work smarter, not harder. Every year, ask your trusted advisers and clients
to help you assess the value you’re providing. You may be the worst judge
and the biggest impediment to raising your own fees.
33. Raise Fees at Least Every Two Years. Actively and aggressively increase
your fees for the same kind of value you’ve provided in the past about every
two years or so. Your customers, clients, and suppliers are doing the same.
Even in times of low inflation, other expenses mount. If you use occasional
base fees—for a keynote speech or a strategy retreat, for example—raise these
by at least 10 percent every two years.
34. If You Are Unaware of the Current Range of Market Fees, You Are
Undercharging. When you network and talk casually to clients, try to find out
what the general ranges are for a variety of projects. This kind of market intelligence will help you implement your strategy, whether you choose to be the
Mercedes of the market or the Volkswagen. Just don’t choose to be the Tata,
the baby Indian car that costs less than many wristwatches.
35. Stay Acutely Sensitive to Margins. It’s not what you make but what you
keep that’s crucial. You may actually be increasing your fees while increasing your expenses at a faster clip. (This tends to happen as we become flush
and invest more in marketing and client acquisition.) Analyze how much you

Seventy Ways to Raise Fees and/or Increase Profits Immediately

c07.indd 151

151

7/1/08 2:46:27 PM

are keeping, and adjust your fees or your expenses accordingly to maximize
margins.
36. Psychologically, Higher Fees Create Higher Value in the Buyer ’s Perception.
(I’ve called this the “Mercedes-Benz syndrome elsewhere in this book.) Buyers
believe they get what they pay for, which is why McKinsey, IBM, Rolex, and
Ferrari don’t enter into price negotiations. No one says, “This is the cheapest
consultant I could find, and I’m proud to have him!” Instead they say, “This
person is costing us a fortune, and we were lucky to get her, so listen up!”
37. Value Can Include Subjective as Well as Objective Measures. When an
executive says to me that a given result would be “priceless” or “invaluable,”
I move on. That’s good enough. A high-level buyer ’s relief from stress, anxiety, unpleasant situations, poor image, safety concerns, and similar pressures
is worth a great deal. Go with that.
38. Use Other People Only When Absolutely Necessary. Use subcontractors
if (a) you don’t have a requisite skill, (b) you need “legs” because you can’t
interview all over the country on the same day, or (c) you’re bored with the
nature of the work. But don’t use them as a show of force or because you
think doing so adds credibility. What it does is decrease profit, no matter how
much you’ve boosted the revenue line.

The higher-level your buyer, the more you can afford to include
subjective measures and the buyer’s personal metrics. The lower-level
the buyer, the more you must seek quantifiable measures and
commit them to writing.

39. Introduce New Value to Existing Clients to Raise Fees in These Accounts.
Suggest that a client consider using the traditional customer and employee
surveys as a device to get customers together with employees who never otherwise see them to create a greater sense of accountability. Offer to combine the
annual performance evaluation process directly with the periodic succession
planning system. Don’t simply sit back and do the same thing every year.
40. Do Not Accept Referral Business on the Same Basis as the Referring Source.
If a colleague refers business to you from a client paying by the hour or the

152

c07.indd 152

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:46:27 PM

day, don’t accept the same terms. Immediately educate the buyer that you
work differently and so your arrangements will be somewhat different. This
will protect your fee ranges, avoid your having to refuse the work, and prevent you from being branded as a per diem consultant.
41. Ask the Comparison Question. When a prospect says, “That’s more than
we intended to spend” or “We never imagined it would cost that much,” point
to a copy machine or computer and ask, “What’s your annual cost for warranties on this equipment? It’s more than the sum total of this project. Are you
really so willing to invest more in preventive maintenance than you are in
human development?” (Of course, you should make whatever case it is that
benefits your project.) Do some homework, and work out these comparisons in
advance—you can use ruined postage, cafeteria subsidies, carpet cleaning, all
sorts of things. It works wonderfully for putting your fees into perspective.
42. When Forced into Phases, Offer Partial Rebates to Guarantee Future
Business. When the client insists on a phased approach to a complex project
(for example, needs analysis, design, pilot, implementation, or monitoring)
that the client won’t buy into all at once, offer a rebate from the fee for the
prior phase on the succeeding one if the buyer commits before the prior phase
is completed. This tends to dissuade buyers from looking for alternatives at
every new phase, using your work from the prior phase.
43. Cite a Time Frame for the Proposal’s Acceptance. Tell the buyer that
the fees—and any discounts you may be offering for one-time payment, for
example—can be honored for thirty days, after which a new proposal will be
required. After all, you have the right to manage your business and your time
investment, and the client can’t suddenly determine, ninety days from now,
that you should proceed full steam ahead. Force the client to make a decision
within a reasonable time if his or her investment is to be protected.
44. At Least Every Two Years, Consider Jettisoning the Bottom 15 Percent.
All of us are burdened by business that made sense at one time but no longer
does, business that is accustomed to too much service for too little money,
and business that is comfortable but unchallenging. We can’t reach out unless
we let go, and we must let go of nonproductive, low-potential business. I’ve
seen large firms dragged down by these anchors. Refer the business to someone who will appreciate it and handle it even better than you.
45. At Year-End, Always Emphasize Early Payment. Clients will often have
“money to burn” in the fourth quarter of their fiscal year, which is returned

Seventy Ways to Raise Fees and/or Increase Profits Immediately

c07.indd 153

153

7/1/08 2:46:28 PM

to the corporate coffers if unused. Make it clear that your accounting system allows for advance payments in the current fiscal year to be applied to
future business. This is an ideal way for a client to tap the budget for next
year ’s work, thereby improving next year ’s margins (a return at no expense).
Remember that some clients operate on a fiscal year that differs from the calendar year, so you should find that out very early.
46. Practice Saying, “I Can Do That for You.” When a buyer trusts you, the
buyer will often remark about things that have to be accomplished outside
of your project. For example, it might concern a facilitator for a strategy
retreat, a mediator in an acquisition, or a presenter for an awards dinner.
If the need matches your competencies, casually suggest that you could
do it if needed. But don’t do it for free. As always, provide the buyer with
some options. Often the buyer won’t realize that you are as multifaceted as
you are.
47. Start with Payment Terms Maximally Beneficial to You Every Time. For
example, explain that your policy is to receive the full fee paid in advance. If
the client finds that unacceptable, offer 50 percent on acceptance and 50 percent in forty-five days (no matter what the length of the project). If you start
with nothing down and gradual payments, I can guarantee that you’ll wind
up searching for your fees well after the project is over, which means you’ve
received much less money than someone else getting the same fee paid in
advance. Beneficial terms to you equal higher profits.
48. Suggest Key Objectives Beyond the Project. One of my buyers began
talking to his own staff about how to use my help in the next year, well beyond
the current retainer. I realized that I had offered sufficient inducement to have
him think long term. Don’t be blatantly self-promotional. Simply suggest,
“Here are three things to accomplish next year that would exploit current successes still more” or “You’re not in a position to assign some resources against
this new market in the months ahead.”
49. If Payments Are Late, Pursue the Buyer. Don’t fool around in accounts
payable if a scheduled payment or expense reimbursement isn’t received.
Immediately go to the buyer and state, “We have a small problem.” The
buyer will always be in a better position to expedite things internally than
will you from the outside. Consider this a joint problem, not your personal
misfortune.

154

c07.indd 154

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:46:28 PM

VIGNETTE

A participant in my mentor program was having a very tough
time raising fees for his sales skills workshops and training. We had
practiced all of the right moves, all of the rebuttals, and all of the
value propositions.
Then I noticed that he had in his briefcase a set of promotional
materials that I had never seen. “Oh,” he said, “I didn’t want to
bother you with this. It’s just the stuff I send out to initial inquiries.”
As I glanced through it, I found a fee schedule based on type
of workshop and days. He had forgotten that it was in there.
Check your materials, Web pages, and all other promotional
sources to ensure that you are not inadvertently providing a constricted payment schedule.

50. Offer Incentives for One-time Full Payments. You never know until you
ask. By offering a modest (5 to 10 percent) discount for payment on acceptance,
you just may put a six-figure check in the bank tomorrow. (Note: Some organizations have rules in their accounts payable department that any accepted
proposal or contract that offers a discount mechanism must be accepted with
the discount.)
51. Be Clear on What the Client Owes for Expenses. I had created a $3,500
slide presentation for a sophisticated workshop based on my consulting results before it dawned on me that the client was responsible for that
expense. I’m glad I had the breakthrough before the project ended! If you’ve
created something unique that was required for that client and did not simply use your generic materials or equipment, chances are that it might be
reimbursable.
52. Send in Expense Reimbursement Requests Promptly. I actually had
to counsel a consultant with dreadful cash flow problems who had nearly
$100,000 in outstanding expense reimbursements unsubmitted going back

Seventy Ways to Raise Fees and/or Increase Profits Immediately

c07.indd 155

155

7/1/08 2:46:28 PM

over a year. Send these in every single month, and never agree to a period
longer than a month. If you don’t like detail, too bad—I don’t like wasting
time at the dentist, but I prefer that to my teeth rotting. Hire a bookkeeper
by the hour if you must, but submit reimbursement requests zealously, with
receipts, to avoid questions and delay.
53. Read the Fine Print; Then Push Back. Many clients will send you a
generic contract accompanying their approval to begin the project per your
proposal. The problem is that the contract will often supersede your proposal by demanding the right to cancel on short notice, pay expenses within
120 days, and set other conditions beneficial only to the client. Read the fine
print, and respond to your buyer (not the purchasing people or the legal
department, who may have actually sent the offensive document). Tell the
client that you have just learned that the two of you have a few unexpected
conflicts to work out. At worst, you can probably compromise on the most
odious parts.
54. Never Accept Payment Subject to Conditions to Be Met on Completion.
Conditions change. Buyers get hit by beer trucks. The project is never quite
finished. If you allow yourself to fall into this trap, you deserve what you get
(or what you don’t get). You don’t buy an oven with the agreement that you’ll
finish paying after it has cooked its last meal. Don’t allow yourself to be fried
in this dilemma.

Manual laborers get paid when their work is done, knowledge
workers when their work is beginning. You don’t pay for a
book after you’ve completed reading it, and you don’t pay for
software after you’ve mastered it. You’re not even paying the car
manufacturer or house builder over time; you’re paying the bank.
Do you really want to be in the loan business?

55. Focus on Improvement, Not on Problem Solving. Everyone can solve
problems, and problem solving is a commodity. But few people can systematically raise the bar and improve the performance of already stellar operations.
Yet that’s where the value is. It’s a question of the all-stars improving still

156

c07.indd 156

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:46:29 PM

further. Orient yourself to innovation, not problem solving, and the worth of
your project will be commensurately higher.
56. Have the Client Absorb Expense Billing. Explore whether the client will
establish a master bill at a frequently used hotel, provide tickets through the
client’s travel agent, and provide limo service for local pickups. Many clients
will, and an administrative assistant can take care of everything. Not only
does this help cash flow by preventing payments and waits for reimbursement, but it also reduces the number of invoices a client sees and reduces the
total costs associated with your project (since the expense amounts are usually absorbed within corporate accounts). Consequently, you improve your
cash flow, and you look better as well.
57. Provide Proactive Ideas, Benchmarking, and Best Practices from Experience.
Don’t become “industry-bound.” Demonstrate value to the buyer by bringing
to bear experiences in other industries and under other conditions that can
contribute to improving the current client’s condition. Allow your “weaknesses” to become your actual strengths.
58. Quote in U.S. Dollars Drawn on U.S. Banks. If you are an American
based in the United States, whenever you propose any overseas business—
even for a U.S. company—stress that all funds are to be paid in U.S. dollars drawn on U.S. banks and that your fees are quoted in U.S. dollars. If
you don’t, not only will the currency translation hurt you severely, but U.S.
banks often charge as much as 25 percent to convert foreign checks issued in
non-U.S. funds.
59. Practice Stating and Explaining Your Fees. Practice your responses so
that you’re neither sweating profusely nor losing eye contact. Like a basketball player who bounces the ball three times before every foul shot to get into
a “routine” or a baseball batter who take five practice swings, you need to get
into a “groove” that allows you to conversationally say, “It’s $75,000. Can we
proceed?”
60. Always Be Prepared to Walk Away from Business. Few tactics increase
your fees as much as this one. Never be anxious. If you’re at an impasse, simply say, “I’ve enjoyed meeting with you, but I don’t think I can undertake
the project, given what you’re offering. Let’s stay in touch.” Often you’ll be
stopped before you’re even out of your chair. But just as the client can say
no, so can you. Don’t be afraid to reject business that’s not in the form most
advantageous for you.

Seventy Ways to Raise Fees and/or Increase Profits Immediately

c07.indd 157

157

7/1/08 2:46:29 PM

VIGNETTE

While playing hooky from a boring speakers’ convention poolside
at a Dallas hotel, I met a woman whose husband was a speaker. She
said he travels constantly, having worked 220 days the prior year.
“If I may ask,” I said, “what does he charge?”
“Oh, $1,100 dollars a day.”
“Well, if he doubled his rate, he would make the same amount
but could work just half the time.”
“Oh!” she said, worried. “He could never demand that high
a fee!”
If that’s what they both believe, then they’re absolutely right.

61. Make Sure Your Fee Increases Exceed the Inflation Rate. A great many
consultants forget that even in periods of modest inflation, there is inflation.
You are allowed to raise fees if you so desire, just as ExxonMobil or Siemens
might.
62. Push Toward Being the Bentley of Your Field. At the beginning of your
career, it’s fine to be more competitively priced to draw business. But as
your career trajectory continues, you should be building the contacts, referrals, and expertise to demonstrate that you are the class act in the field.
63. Build Strong Brands and Nurture Them. People are attracted to brands
and pay far less attention to price. You’ve all heard, “If you have to ask how
much it is, you can’t afford the purchase.” Brands draw clients who don’t care
about the fee, only the results and being associated with you. Never forget
that the strongest brand is your own name.
64. If You Are Active Globally, Consider Both Differential Rates for Overseas
Work and Being Paid in Local Currency If That Helps. Right now, for example,
the dollar happens to be very low against the euro and pound sterling. If you
were doing business in London, it might pay to open an account and be paid
in pounds or in Paris in euros. On the East Coast of the United States, for

158

c07.indd 158

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:46:29 PM

example, you might add 50 percent to all fees for Europe and Latin America
and 100 percent for Asia and the Pacific Rim. Do the reverse if you’re located
in Sydney or Hong Kong.
65. Never Allow Local Taxes to Be Deducted from Your Fees. Consult your
attorney and financial adviser, but in 90 percent of the cases, there is no justification for the withholding of local taxes.
66. Accept Wire Transfers from Clients. Credit cards carry interest charges,
and cashing foreign checks takes time and often has a fee attached. If you
accept fees via wire transfers, there is usually a small charge from the bank,
but you will get the money faster and have use of it.
67. Use Multiple Invoicing If a Client’s Level of Authority Is Surpassed by
Your Proposal. There is nothing unethical, illegal, or immoral about sending
two $50,000 invoices instead of one $100,000 invoice.
68. Keep Boilerplate Out of Your Proposals. Once “the third party shall hold
harmless in the original jurisdiction” appears, the proposal is going to the
legal department, and your entire project and fee basis could be challenged.
Use plain language and rely on your relationship with the buyer for honorable behavior.
69. Never Allow Accounts Payable to Do Anything but Send You the Check.
Don’t let yourself be relegated to the accounting staff to be “set up in our
system.” Never fight with them over terms. Their job is to enforce existing
procedures, not to help exceptions. Have your buyer sign off on everything,
and ask the buyer to expedite the payment.
70. Look in the mirror and say, “The fee is $176,000.” When you can do that
without giggling, you just may be there.

CHAPTER ROI

• Maximizing your profits means improving the top line and controlling
the expense line. What you keep, not what you make, is the key.
• Use the guidelines in this chapter as a template that you can apply to your
business on a periodic basis. There will always be room for improvement
because none of us do all things equally well or apply them uniformly.
If you have a staff, use this list as a conversation point at meetings and
strategy sessions.

Seventy Ways to Raise Fees and/or Increase Profits Immediately

c07.indd 159

159

7/1/08 2:46:30 PM

• We control much more of the profit dynamic than we think we do, but
the way we educate the buyer, insist on our rights, and have the confidence to forge our own policies will determine how successful we are at
protecting our bottom line.
• Remember that you are providing value, not “taking business.” Your
contribution to that value justifies an equitable payment to you. There is
a name for this: it’s called “capitalism.”
• Whether or not you believe you are worth the fee, you’re right.
If you can’t find several ways to increase profits from these seventy suggestions
for raising fees, you aren’t really interested. If you haven’t highlighted and noted at
least a few of the options, you may just be reading and not learning—which is never
enough.

160

c07.indd 160

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:46:30 PM

I N T E R L U D E

The Case of the
Rebounding Retainer

F

or several years, I was on retainer to the CEO of a $600
million subsidiary of one of my largest clients. The
CEO had access to my smarts, if you will. He could call at any
time and ask about anything on his mind, providing it was
within my competency. Nutrition, for example, was off-limits,
since my life is the quest for the perfect cheeseburger.
The president would call me about once a week or less.
On occasion, he would call me on Monday night during halftime of Monday Night Football. He didn’t like football, but he
knew that I did!
Once or twice a year, he would call on a Sunday, apologize
to my wife for the intrusion, and ask a question that had arisen
and was urgent for a board meeting the next morning. One
Thursday he called about a critical violation of company ethics
and asked if I could possibly facilitate a retreat that weekend
since he was bringing in the entire field force to address the
issue. I dropped what I was doing, reoriented my schedule,
and took care of it.
161

c07.indd 161

7/1/08 2:46:30 PM

Every year around November 1, we would casually discuss the next
year ’s retainer and agree on a handshake to continue it on the same basis:
$10,000 per month or $100,000 total if paid in one sum on January 2. Each
year, he paid the $100,000 right after the New Year.
In the fourth year of the agreement, we chatted as usual on November 1.
“Same deal?” I asked nonchalantly.
“No, not next year,” he said, not looking me in the eye.
I was stunned and immediately began desperately thinking about what
I had taken for granted or missed or trampled. I was literally speechless.
Stepping into the silence and clearly enjoying himself, the CEO continued, “Make it $130,000, because you’ve been far more valuable than the
present retainer.”
The buyer has unilaterally raised my retainer by 30 percent! I had neither the intent of raising or lowering it. But that’s the amount of value he
perceived from our infrequent discussions and occasional emergencies. Like
an insurance policy, he was happy to pay just to know I was there.
Moral: How many of your clients perceive that degree of value, to the extent
they want to pay you more than you charge, and how can you best achieve it?

162

c07.indd 162

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:46:30 PM

C H A P T E R

8

How to Prevent and
Rebut Fee Objections
Since You’ve Heard Them All
Before, How Can You Not Know
All the Answers?

I

’m constantly aghast at salespeople who wring their hands,
rend their garments, and give up the fight when a prospect
reacts with the quite normal reaction of “I don’t think I need
that.” If you’ve been in the sales arena for longer than a month
and haven’t heard every imaginable objection, you’ve been
embedded under a rock.
We, as consultants, know what our prospects’ objections
are going to be. There is no excuse not to be prepared for them.
That doesn’t mean that we’ll be able to convert every single
contact into a sale, but it does mean that we should be able to
engage the buyer in a more prolonged dialogue and provide

163

c08.indd 163

7/1/08 2:47:10 PM

Buyer’s “yes” decision

Providing a Proposal with Options

Create the
“choice of yeses”

Gaining Conceptual Agreement

Establish objectives,
measures, and value

Overcoming Objections
Establishing a Relationship
First Contact

Overcome four
resistance points
Achieve trust
Reach economic buyer

Figure 8.1 Filters to Be Overcome to Reach a Buying Decision.

ourselves with more opportunities with the decision maker to influence his
or her ultimate choice.1
There is a succession of “filters” (see Figure 8.1) that we must negotiate
to achieve a positive buying decision. Some require “footwork” and maneuvering, such as getting through or circumventing feasibility buyers and committees to reach the economic buyer. Some require careful questioning and
discerning listening in order to reach conceptual agreement.
But one of the most critical and most often bungled steps is dealing
with early buyer resistance in the form of quite natural objections and rejections of the consultant’s value or potential impact. The reasons include the
following:

• We tend to take rejection personally and strive to avoid placing ourselves in a position of possible rejection.
• We provide a sales spiel or other selling retort instead of a true response
to the buyer ’s real objections.

1
Once again, I must emphasize that this chapter and its techniques apply only when dealing
with the economic buyer.

164

c08.indd 164

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:47:10 PM

• We don’t recognize the generic nature of the objection and offer rebuttals
that address our comfort areas and not the client’s discomfort areas.
• We panic.
• We actually believe the buyer may be right.

It makes as much sense to ignore the buyer’s discomfort to focus on
our own areas of comfort in rebutting objections as it does to focus
on how well the project suits our own needs instead of the buyer’s.

T H E F O U R F U N D A M E N TA L A R E A S
O F R E S I S TA N C E
There is a wonderful apocryphal story of a man encountering a friend on the
street, searching the ground under a streetlight. “What are you doing,” asks
the man.
“I’m looking for my lost car keys,” responds the friend.
“How did you happen to lose them here?”
“Oh, I didn’t lose them here. I think I lost them a block away when I
entered the restaurant.”
“Then why are you searching here?”
“The light is better here.”
It doesn’t matter where your light is better when you’re trying to find
the reasons for the buyer ’s resistance. What matters is where the buyer actually lost your reasoning and value.
There are four major generic areas of prospect resistance and potential
objection. We know what they are.2 We might as well get good at responding
to them.

2
The origins of these four areas are murky, and many people take credit. I first heard them from
Larry Wilson, the founder of Wilson Learning, in the early 1970s. His collaborator, I believe,
was Dr. David Merrill.

How to Prevent and Rebut Fee Objections

c08.indd 165

165

7/1/08 2:47:11 PM

R e s i s t a n c e P o i n t 1 : I D o n ’ t Tr u s t Yo u
Perhaps the most common and most fundamentally understandable resistance
is that the buyer has no reason to trust the consultant. The credentials might
not be strong, the route of entry might be problematic (for example, direct
mail or cold call), or the consultant might have other traits that undermine
credibility: poor appearance, lack of maturity, poor vocabulary, inadequate
promotional materials, and so on.
I don’t trust people who call me on the phone at night to try to sell me
securities. I do trust my accounting firm, which was referred to me by a
trusted third party and which carefully considered whether we were right for
each other. We’ve now worked together for fifteen years, and I have referred
other potential clients to the company.
This is the primary reason that I’ve advocated “marketing “gravity”3
for all consultants, so that they are known to potential clients, are referred by
current clients, and possess an inherent level of trust from a cohesive body of
work in the field. Not only is the creation of a name, brand, and reputation
a quick route to establishing trust with any potential buyer, but it also considerably shortcuts the process of negotiating the various “filters” between
consultant and potential buyer.
When the buyer has no inherent trust—and it’s important to understand
that this is not created by something the consultant does but rather is the
default position unless you actively change it—it is folly to provide “benefits”
about money, timing, or value. The client won’t listen. And it’s impossible to
reach conceptual agreement without trust.
It is mandatory for a consultant to establish a trusting relationship with
the economic buyer. That will never occur if you choose to work through
middlemen.

R e s i s t a n c e P o i n t 2 : I D o n ’ t N e e d Yo u
This obstacle means that the prospect may very well trust you and even like
you, but there doesn’t appear to the buyer to be any need. That might mean

3

See the first book of this series, The Ultimate Consultant, for details on creating marketing
gravity.

166

c08.indd 166

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:47:11 PM

that the prospect doesn’t see anything requiring fixing or improvement. This
is the most common plight of consultants who are merely introduced to a
buyer without any specific reason other than “You two should spend some
time together.” A friendly buyer does that based on the advice of a third party
but sees no intrinsic need to be filled by the consultant.
This is also why so many consultants have come to me with the same
fundamental question: “What do I say after I’ve said hello?” They’ve managed
to meet a buyer but haven’t managed to move the buyer. In fact, many people
who don’t understand these dynamics make statements such as “I can’t
understand it—we get along fine, but he doesn’t seem to want to hire me!”

It’s not the buyer’s job to tell you about “needs.” In well-run
organizations, there may well be no pressing issues. It’s the
consultant’s job to demonstrate need in improving the client’s
condition though new and better performance.

What’s not to understand? If there is no perceived need, working on
greater trust doesn’t help. It’s incumbent on consultants not to launch arbitrary torpedoes of methodology, technique, approaches, and alternatives,
hoping to hit a moving target. It’s far better to listen carefully and to ask
precise, prompting questions to discover need (see Appendix B), to suggest
need, and to create need.4
This phenomenon is why I’ve strongly suggested that the major value
of consultants is to raise the bar to new heights, not just to fix problems. Even
the best of organizations can steadily improve; thus there is always a need
that can be created, even if there is nothing obvious to be fixed.
The consultant must be able to identify preexisting needs, create needs,
or anticipate needs. This is why a “sales pitch” (elevator speech) about an
alternative is completely ineffective.

4

No one “needed” frequent flyer programs, global positioning systems, or drive-through
banking and burgers, but we certainly need them today. A luxury tends to become a necessity
after just one successful use!

How to Prevent and Rebut Fee Objections

c08.indd 167

167

7/1/08 2:47:11 PM

Resistance Point 3: I Don’t Feel Any Urgency
This is the near-legendary excuse that “the timing isn’t right.” Every consultant
has had hot prospects that could have closed immediately if only the timing
had been better. And many of those consultants keep those prospects in their
forecasts—or, worse, actually spend the money they’re anticipating from the
project—for quite a long time.
But the timing never gets better.
If a client doesn’t feel a sense of urgency, then enhancing trust levels or
heightening need isn’t the logical response. After all, I may like you, believe
in the fact that we have room to improve, or have a condition that needs
remediation. But I’ve lived with this condition for a long time, and I don’t see
why I have to do anything (that is, spend money) at this juncture.
Prospects typically resort to “no urgency” or “poor timing” for three
reasons:

• When they are afraid of disrupting the organization (“Let’s leave well
enough alone”)
• When the return doesn’t justify the investment (“I can’t see justifying
that expense until the problem is costing us far more than it is”)
• When the perception is that everyone has to put up with this and the
prospect is not unique (“This is a ‘necessary evil’ that would be impossible to eliminate”)
In this general resistance area, the consultant must create urgency. This
can be accomplished by these methods:

• By pointing out competitive actions that will threaten the client
• By identifying a unique and limited window of opportunity to address
the issue
By
• showing that the prospect is incurring far more damage than
perceived
• By demonstrating a far greater return on investment than the prospect
believed possible
By
• showing that the prospect is not on a plateau but that the condition is
actually causing a decline that is increasing in its degree and speed

168

c08.indd 168

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:47:12 PM

When prospects tell me “the timing isn’t right,” I tell them the
timing is never going to be right. There is no ideal time to intervene
in most organizations. So what’s the real nature of the reluctance?

“Not the right time” is a specious argument because there is always time
to devote to business matters—the issue is where it is invested. Time is never
a resource issue; it is always a priority issue.

Resistance Point 4: I Don’t Have the Money
t o P a y Yo u
This is the most commonly cited rejection by consultants, and it’s mistakenly
assumed as the primary objection of most buyers. It is not.
If you’ve been reading carefully to this point, you’ve probably come
to agree that most resistance is not about money; it’s about trust, need, and
urgency. If there is trust, perceived need, and sufficient urgency, money can
almost always be found. After all, few buyers wake up in the morning and say,
“What a beautiful day. I wonder if I can hire Alan Weiss?” And few budgets
contain discretionary funds for consultants to be hired for concerns unanticipated, unappreciated, and unheard of.
Most consulting budgets must therefore be created, meaning that the
money originates in other areas. It is appropriated from other budgets and
other sources. There is never any money, in the sense of quickly available,
earmarked funds, for consultants.
So the money objection is the easiest, most common, and most misunderstood. It is almost always an excuse, a cover-up for one of the first three
areas not being satisfied. Yet consultants, upon hearing “I’d love to, but we
have no budget,” quietly and complacently fold up their tents, leave their
cards, mutter “Let’s keep in touch,” and disappear into the night.
It’s time to have some backbone and buy some floodlights. When a client does say, “We need to do this and I want you to do it for us but I don’t
have budget,” the consultant can help the client find the funds. When the
first three needs (or possible objections) have truly been addressed, the client

How to Prevent and Rebut Fee Objections

c08.indd 169

169

7/1/08 2:47:12 PM

and consultant can collaborate on finding funds and developing payment
terms that are mutually satisfactory (for example, pay half in this fiscal year
and half in next or provide stock as partial compensation or take the funds
from the annual convention budget and hold the meeting locally rather than
overseas).

We’re going to discuss some techniques to counter specific points of objection
and demurral, but keep them in the context of the four major areas. Your
approach should be determined by which of these areas is causing the buyer ’s
resistance at any given time. There may be occasions when all four are working
against you, but that is relatively rare. The probability is that one or perhaps
two are most on the buyer ’s mind and that the fourth—no money—is rarely
an objection in actuality (although it may be the one verbalized).
If a prospect admits to need, trusts you as a professional and competent resource, and believes the time is right to act, the money will be found.
Consequently, the budget is always the worst place to start, because it
derails the conversation from the actual and pivotal reasons for the client’s
rejection.
Worse, focusing on the budget prompts the consultant to lower fees
rather than address the true issues behind the resistance. If that’s not a double
whammy, I don’t know what is.
“No money” is as specious as “no time.” There is always money—the
question is, will it go to you? This, too, is a priority issue, not a resource issue.
Remember that objections are signs of interest. A truly apathetic, uninterested prospect would ignore you or refuse to return calls or have an intermediary stall you. But objection is a sign of interest and provides a springboard
for you to catapult into an investigation of the prospect’s reasoning.
Treat objections as opportunities, not threats. And think about this: if
there is no time, how did the buyer find the time to talk to you?

M A I N TA I N I N G T H E F O C U S O N VA L U E
Here’s an ironclad rule: if you’re in a discussion about fees and not value,
you’ve lost control of the discussion. Prospects often want to go immediately to a discussion of costs. It’s important to understand the psychology of

170

c08.indd 170

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:47:12 PM

this tropism. The buyer wants to deal with fees—costs—early because they
provide the easiest excuse to be rid of you. You’re not dealing with a real
objection but instead with a very effective technique (if not correctly countered) to immediately end further discussion.
The rebuttal to this immediate focus on fees is not to do it. Once you
agree to talk about fees, you have enabled and empowered the prospect to
focus on the cost side of the equation, not the outcome or value side. If you
become a willing accomplice to this tactic, you might as well leave your card
and disappear into the night. It ain’t going to get better. You must create clear
results so that ROI is readily apparent, not ambiguous results where only fees
are readily apparent.
Here are the major rebuttals to use when the prospect immediately wants
to know what you charge:

• “I don’t know what the fees would be, since I don’t know what you
need or even if I’m the right consultant. Can we spend some time talking
about your situation first? That will put me in a better position to answer
that question.”
• “It would be unfair to you to attempt a response. We’ve just met, and
both of us need to explore and learn a few things first. Let’s table that
issue until I can provide a thoughtful proposal, which won’t take long if
I can ask you a few questions now.”
• “It would be unethical for me to give you a response this early in
our talk. I don’t know what you need or whether I have the competency to respond to those needs. Let’s explore those areas, and then we
can talk about value and investment when the scope of the project is
clear.”
“
• The range will be from $5,000 to $1,000,000. Seriously, I have no idea.
Let’s explore what’s involved and see whether a relationship even makes
sense for both of us. If it does, I’m sure we’ll find some mutually beneficial way to work together.”
• “What’s your budget? [The prospect doesn’t know or won’t say.] Of
course you can’t say, and neither can I. We both need to learn more if
we’re going to have a responsible and cost-effective solution to the issue.
So why don’t you begin by telling me what you’re trying to accomplish,
and I’ll see how I can help.”

How to Prevent and Rebut Fee Objections

c08.indd 171

171

7/1/08 2:47:13 PM

The prospect can’t discuss fees if you refuse to do so. No prospect
that I’ve ever met has ended the conversation at that point. This
dynamic is controlled by the consultant, not the buyer. But the
consultant usually surrenders the field as soon as the dreaded
“How much do you charge?” is uttered.

The key for the consultant is to sidestep this issue using one of my
suggested rebuttals or a combination of rebuttals. Under no circumstances
should you agree to discuss fees before all the following steps have been
completed:
1. You have met the economic buyer.
2. A trusting relationship has been formed.
3. The four generic resistance factors have been overcome.
4. Agreement has been reached on objectives, measures, and value.
5. Agreement has been reached to entertain a written proposal with a
“choice of yeses.”
It may seem that this postpones the discussion for a very long time,
but believe me, the refusal to discuss fees any sooner always leads to
higher fees.

Alan’s fourth theorem of fee dynamics: the earlier a fee is quoted, the
lower the ultimate fee will be; the later a set of fees is quoted,
the higher they will be.
Corollary: when a set of fees is quoted at the ideal moment in
the sales process, the buyer will tend to migrate up the set to higher
fees in return for perceived higher value.

172

c08.indd 172

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:47:13 PM

BORING IN ON THE SUBJECT
It’s embarrassingly common for a consultant to negotiate all the shoals and
rapids of project negotiations and arrive at the proposal stage only to find
the buyer with a near-fatal case of sticker shock. That occurs when the client,
despite having stipulated to seeking several millions of dollars of savings and
improvements in the project results and believing in the consultant’s ability
to achieve them also believes—quite seriously—that the fee will be around
$5,000, while the consultant’s most inexpensive option, which the consultant
considers a “good deal,” is $55,000.
How can this happen so far into the discussions and after conceptual
agreement? The cause is twofold:
1. Some consultants fail to develop a sense about the client’s philosophy of
return on investment and overall spending.
2. Some clients are totally out of touch with investment needs.
The reasons for the second condition are these (which you can use as red flags
should you want to test for willingness to invest early):

• The client has never used consultants in the past and so is totally unfamiliar with investing in external help.
• The client used very inexpensive and inexperienced consultants in the
past, which has caused an incorrect “education” and precedent.
• The client has tight cost controls and a zealous focus on the expense side
of the business; doesn’t see ROI, only costs.
• The client tends to focus overwhelmingly on the short term.
• The client’s firm is losing money and in desperate straits.
• The client is a small business owner, weighing personal and business
expense needs.
• The client sees the consultant as “too new” or not totally credible and
feels that the consultant is getting a chance to prove himself or herself,
so the fee can be commensurately low.
When these signs are present, you need to ascertain what the buyer ’s
budget expectations are. Don’t forget, few buyers have set aside funds for

How to Prevent and Rebut Fee Objections

c08.indd 173

173

7/1/08 2:47:13 PM

consultants, so the money has to be found somewhere. And if you’re not skilled
in determining the budget conversationally, you must find out formally.

Some clients are hard to read. Others are deliberately deceptive.
When you’re the least bit uncertain, find out what the budget is.
You won’t die, but you might be shocked.

Here’s how to do that. After conceptual agreement is reached but before
the proposal is even created, ask the buyer a variation of the following question: “You’ve been very kind, and I’m in a position to offer a proposal with
some investment options for you. Since there are options for achieving these
goals, is there a budget amount you’d like me to stay within?”
Another approach is this: “We’ve made fine progress, and I don’t want
to waste your time or mine as we go forward. Is there a budget—or even a
rough amount in your mind—that represents the limit of your investment in
this project?”
And here’s one more, which I call the New York (direct) approach: “We’re
ready to move to a proposal, but before we do, my experience has shown that
it’s important to understand any constraints on our approach. What is the
budget you’ve allocated, now that we’ve reached this level of agreement?”
My suggestion is to ask these questions after conceptual agreement
because you will have the best chance to convince the buyer that a significant
investment is justified at that point. But do it before the proposal so that you
don’t waste your time if the buyer ’s expectations are simply ridiculous.
There are three common responses to my three questions, and they in
turn deserve certain reactions from you:
Common Response 1: “What is this? The wedding reception approach?
So the more money I have, the better the reception? I don’t want to disclose
what I’m prepared to spend.” This usually indicates that you don’t have a
very trusting relationship. You should respond, “I’ve come to respect you
and don’t want to waste your time. My judgment at this point is that the
investment range is going to be $35,000 to $65,000, depending on how much
certainty you’re seeking. Is that in the ballpark?”

174

c08.indd 174

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:47:14 PM

If the client tells you to go ahead, then you’ve prepared the buyer, and
there can’t be sticker shock. If the buyer says the range is too high, part as
friends.
Common Response 2: “Our expectation is that the project should cost somewhere around $20,000.” If that’s realistic, respond, “We can work within that,
and I’ll get the proposal to you tomorrow.” If it’s unrealistic, say, “I don’t think
we can do it for that amount. We’re probably talking about $35,000 at the low
end to $65,000 at the high end. Do you want to discuss this further?”
This allows for total honesty. The client might say, “OK, I’m prepared for
a slightly worse case, go ahead.” If not, part as friends.

Note that any discussion of budget at this point is always based on
the investment, since the objectives and their values are already
established. This is far superior to discussing fees at the outset, when
they are simply isolated costs.

Common Response 3: “We’re willing to spend whatever is reasonable
to make this happen.” Your reply here should be, “Thanks, I’m sure you’ll
find the investment well within reason in view of the benefits we’ve already
detailed. The proposal will be here tomorrow.”
Asking about the budget is perfectly fine, provided that you do it at the
right time and are prepared for the three types of responses. Here are the
conditions:

• You have been talking to the economic buyer all along.
• You have achieved conceptual agreement with the economic buyer.
• You are uncertain of the buyer ’s understanding of the level of investment
required.
Note that if you are speaking professionally in addition to your consulting and a prospective buyer asks about your appearing at an event, ask very
early what the budget is. Many infrequent or novice buyers of speaking services have no idea about fees, which vary tremendously in the field.

How to Prevent and Rebut Fee Objections

c08.indd 175

175

7/1/08 2:47:14 PM

OFFERING DISCOUNTS
I offer discounted fee under certain circumstances, and I’m not talking about
returning a coupon or buying a special appliance. I offer discounts when
I find that the project calls for phases (not options, which I always provide)
and I want to encourage the client to use my help through all of the phases.
A phase is a timed step or sequence, each succeeding one dependent on the
successful completion of the prior one. Typically, a project might require an
information-gathering phase, then recommendations for intervention, then
creation of the interventions, then the implementation, and then follow-up
and monitoring. While I’d prefer to include all phases in one project, it’s
sometimes impossible to do so, since you can’t predict needs further down
the line until earlier steps are completed.
In this case, I suggest offering the client another form of a good deal.
Offer the client the rebate of a percentage of the phase 1 fee if you’re hired for
phase 2, and so on down the line. What’s the right percentage? Who knows?
But I keep it to 50 percent or below. (The higher the fee for phase 2, the higher
the percentage rebate—don’t make the mistake of looking at the fee for phase
1 for the rebate percentage!)
Example: The client has agreed to a phase 1 needs analysis among
customers for a $35,000 fee. The second phase would be the development
of a better customer response system, based on the customer feedback and
priorities. You’re estimating that phase 2 would be in the range of $125,000 to
$175,000. You tell the client that should you be chosen to implement phase 2
of the project, you will rebate 50 percent of the phase 1 fee. That means that
you’re still netting $90,000 to $140,000 on phase 2 while greatly reducing the
chances of another consultant being brought in or the client deciding to do it
internally.
Of course, if you think that you’re a “lock” for the continuing phases,
there’s no need to offer a rebate, or you can offer just a token one. But I always
like to “think of the fourth sale first,” so I believe rebates are a good idea in
these situations, particularly with new clients with whom you don’t have
a track record. If you think of the totality of the several phases as the real
project, then the rebates can be reasonable reductions against the very large
total investment.

176

c08.indd 176

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:47:14 PM

Don’t give rebates unless phases are in the best interests of the
project and the client. When they are, offer the potential rebate in
the proposal itself so that it’s committed to writing in the same
document that the client is accepting as the basis for phase 1 work.

You might want to use the designation rebate or discount or professional
courtesy. The key is, it’s a tool to be used when appropriate. I find that I tend
to offer rebates relatively rarely, but with great effect when I do.

USING “SMACK TO THE HEAD”
C O M PA R I S O N S
There are times when the client will balk at a fee, even when you know darn
well that the fee is entirely reasonable and the good deal is terrific. You’ll also
be certain that the buyer can afford it, and the reluctance will sometimes start
to get on your nerves. This often happens after a proposal has been presented
and you believed that all such contingencies were long since dealt with.
You’ll be very frustrated. So the answer is to get a metaphorical large
board and smack the buyer upside the head. Here’s how you do that. Find
comparisons that will embarrass the buyer into giving up his or her resistance. Some buyers are simply maneuvering for a deal; some have an ego
that won’t be sated until they get a concession; some are transferring other
issues in their life (a fight with a spouse, a lost promotion) to you. No matter.
Whatever the cause, don’t fall for it. Fight back.
I’ve found the best comparisons to be the following, but any imaginative
consultant can easily add to my list (in fact, it’s fun to do so):

• Point out that the client is spending more on copy machine warranties
and repair than the total cost of your proposal.
Demonstrate
that spillage and ruined product cost ten times the propos•
al’s most expensive option.

How to Prevent and Rebut Fee Objections

c08.indd 177

177

7/1/08 2:47:15 PM

• Ask what one lost customer a week is costing.
• Ask what the cost of a very bad hire is.
• Cite the cost of each talented employee who leaves the organization
(including replacement, lost business, training, succession planning,
and so on); don’t skimp.
• Ask the cost of the client’s most recent gaffe in connection with a failed
new office or a poorly received new product.
Cite
what the savings would be if R&D commercialization time were cut
•
by 25 percent.
• Ask what the board of directors’ reaction would be if the board considered the cost of the current problems versus unwillingness to make this
investment to solve them.
You get the idea. Have these ready, because you never know when you’ll
need them. The most agreeable and friendliest client can spring an unexpected
fee objection, even after conceptual agreement and receipt of the proposal. It’s
your own fault if you’re not prepared to fight back.

Most embarrassing comparisons will hold true from organization
to organization, so the preparation of a few “beauts” will serve you
reliably over the course of time.

There are several sources to use to develop your “smacks upside the
head”:
1. In your preliminary discussions leading up to conceptual agreement,
make some gentle inquiries into the costs the prospective client is incurring in some of these areas. Listen for voluntary disclosures (for example, “Do you know we’re spending $175,000 just on software ‘fixes’?”).
2. Use Internet search engines to turn up statistics and facts on common
issues. For example, find out the average costs of turnover, lawsuits,
recruiting, and so on.

178

c08.indd 178

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:47:15 PM

3. Tear relevant items out of your daily reading. The Wall Street Journal and
BusinessWeek are forever publishing information on the costs of accounting, legal, computers, and other areas.
4. Remember that many of these are generic, and you can use them from
client to client. Save your best ones to use in key situations. I’m forever
pointing to the copy machine “culprit” sitting in a corner as an example
of the client’s being willing to spend more money on equipment maintenance than on human development.
5. Use your prior client engagements as examples of investments and ROI.
The closer to your current prospect in type or situation, the better.
6. Provide a calculation of what’s lost if no action is taken. Steady bleeding
can kill the patient as surely as trauma can.
7. Demonstrate that attempting to resolve this internally is impractical and
even more expensive (and it always is) because of time taken away from
other tasks, turf battles, lack of external best practices, lack of residual
talent, and so on.
The embarrassing comparison will take care of most of the flimsy and
capricious objections to fees. Sometimes you just have to pack a strong metaphorical weapon.

IGNORING THE COMPETITION
I’ve often stated that if you don’t know what the competition is charging,
you’re probably charging too little. But I don’t mean to imply that you should
peg your fees to those of the competition. The former is merely market intelligence. The latter is simply foolhardy.
Don’t allow any buyer to tell you that the competition is charging so
much and that you should come in below that. Don’t listen to the argument
that “this is what we’ve paid in the past and expect to continue to pay” for
consulting services.
The whole point in developing a relationship prior to conceptual agreement is to ferret out these kinds of (sometimes) legitimate expectations and
(sometimes) devious devices to depress fees. You are not like past consultants
(which is why you’re there), and you don’t do what the competition does

How to Prevent and Rebut Fee Objections

c08.indd 179

179

7/1/08 2:47:15 PM

(which is why you’re there). Telling a Mercedes dealership that the Buick
place down the street charges much less will get you an uncomprehending
stare or a firm “So what?” Telling an airline that you’re accustomed to paying
the amount of tolls on the New Jersey Turnpike to drive from New York to
Philadelphia and that you expect an equivalent airfare will get you escorted
away. Telling a theater that your budget only permits you to pay $2.50 will
not gain you admittance to the show. So why should you listen to similar
irrational arguments regarding your services?
Educate your buyer immediately and repeatedly that what’s gone before
is history and what goes on around you is irrelevant. The only thing that matters is the “good deal”: Is the client achieving a great return on a reasonable
investment? You’ll be happy to demonstrate that via a proposal at the appropriate time, if the buyer can cooperate with some information at the moment.
But you’re not interested in comparisons and arbitrary parameters.
After all, this must be a win-win relationship. What if you told the buyer
that prior buyers paid a minimum of $600,000, that consultants who do what
you do receive an average of $450,000 per contract, or that you’re simply not
prepared to accept anything less than $475,000 because that’s your expectation? You’d be thrown off the property, probably under armed guard. So why
allow the client to express equally absurd expectations?

Reverse the client’s logic about expecting low fees—that you’re
expecting high fees—and you’ll hear equally moronic lines of
argument. Point that out and move on.

Don’t dignify bizarre positions. Educate the buyer correctly from the
outset. Ignore the competition and the competition’s poor strategy. Now is
the time to be your own person.
The only person deciding what your profit level is should be you. It’s a
mistake to allow the buyer to do that, and it’s insane to allow the competition
to influence it in any way at all. So stop doing that.

180

c08.indd 180

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:47:15 PM

CHAPTER ROI

• There are four fundamental resistance points: no need, no trust, no
urgency, no money. You must address the correct one. Seldom do all four
come into play, and lack of trust is usually the fundamental problem.
Lack of money is usually a red herring.
Always
focus on value, not fees; otherwise you’ve lost control of the
•
discussion. Don’t hesitate to ask about the buyer ’s intended budget,
especially if certain red flags appear during early conversations.
• Offer rebates or discounts on multiphase projects, when such phases are
truly called for and are in the client’s best interests.
• Prepare yourself with embarrassingly harsh comparisons for times
when an otherwise agreeable buyer has fee issues that you know should
be brushed aside.
• Remember that an objection is a sign of interest and provides you with
an opportunity to further your progress.
• Ignore the competition, since neither the buyer nor the competition
should establish your profitability levels.
• Remember that most of the fee-setting dynamic is actually under our
control and influence, and you should guard against sacrificing this
strength.
• The best way to support high fees is first to believe in the value you’re
providing and then to convince the buyer of it.
There is no such animal as a “new” objection. We’ve heard them all before, every
one. If the prospect has successfully rebutted your position, the buyer is simply better
prepared than you are, and you haven’t established a “good deal.”

How to Prevent and Rebut Fee Objections

c08.indd 181

181

7/1/08 2:47:16 PM

c08.indd 182

7/1/08 2:47:16 PM

I N T E R L U D E

The Case of the
Perverse Purchasing
Agent

I

had concluded a deal with a handshake with Tom, the
general manager of a division of a Fortune 25 company.
He told me to start in two weeks and meanwhile he’d put
through the paperwork to get the deposit we had agreed on.
I summarized our discussion in an e-mail that afternoon.
Two days later, I received a call from Margaret, who identified herself as the purchasing manager for the site and said
she was calling to negotiate my contract.
“You must be misinformed,” I said. “I already have an
agreement with Tom.”
“No, you are misinformed,” she corrected, “since he is
not empowered to negotiate terms with vendors.”
“I’m not a vendor; I’m a consultant.”
“You’re a vendor to me, and you will provide me with an
hourly rate that I’ll compare against the average hourly rates
183

c08.indd 183

7/1/08 2:47:16 PM

of the consultants we’ve used over the past year. If your rate exceeds it by
more than 10 percent, you’ll be asked to reduce it by that amount.”
“I’m not doing that.”
“Then you won’t work here.”
I hung up and dialed Tom. I told him that we had a problem.
“What is it?” he asked. “Do you need more money?”
I thought about that for a few seconds and then decided to tell the truth
about Margaret.
“I’ve heard prior rumblings about her, but never so specific,” he acknowledged. “I’ll take care of it; you just proceed as planned.”
When I turned up two weeks later, Margaret had been fired. I had no
regrets. Her job was to support top management, not enforce bureaucratic
rules to impede relationships and progress.
Moral: Never argue or debate with anyone in accounts payable, purchasing,
human resources, or other low-level support functions. Always go back to your
buyer, with whom you have a peer-level relationship.

184

c08.indd 184

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:47:16 PM

C H A P T E R

9

Setting Fees for
Nonconsulting
Opportunities
How to Make Money While You
Sleep, Eat, Play, and Make Money
Elsewhere

I

’m constantly surprised at how stupid I was two weeks
ago. Once upon a time, I would have said “two years
ago.” I like to think that today’s shorter time frame is not so
much a sign of my increasing dementia as it is one of exploding
opportunities in this profession. (A speaking buddy of mine,
Joe Calloway, told me he wants to call his original clients and
just cry, “I’m sorry for that nutty advice I gave you years ago,
but it was the best I had at the time! I want to return your
money!” I’m with him until that last sentence.)

185

c09.indd 185

7/1/08 2:48:00 PM

There is nothing wrong with the position that holds that one is a
consultant and not interested in the peripheral and tangential activities that
may distract one from the work at hand. Fair enough. But if you’re at all
like me and you believe that consulting is simply an input to a much greater
end—our lives, loved ones, and legacy—then why not explore the myriad
opportunities that a successful consulting practice can generate?
Remember, wealth is about discretionary time. Money is important
because it is the prime determinant of discretionary time.
Basically, there are a lot of ways to make money in the profession, but
like the nature of our consulting fees, there are also a lot of ways to charge
incorrectly and shortchange ourselves in terms of receiving fair compensation for our value. It’s not unusual for a consultant in my mentor program to
ask whether he has a right to charge a high fee for speaking to an organization
that has been attracted to him by a book he has written. “After all,” he (incorrectly) reasons, “they can get most of this out of the book, so I don’t think I’m
bringing much extra value.”
If that’s what you believe, then you’re right.
If you’re of the “pure” consulting philosophy, you might want to skip this
chapter. On the other hand, you might want to read on and see what you’re
missing. And if you’re a big believer in maximizing your income, especially
in non-labor-intensive pursuits, then pick up your highlighter.

KEYNOTE SPEAKING: DON’T CHARGE
FOR YOUR SPOKEN WORDS
The intent of this discussion is to provide help in how to set fees for speaking
activities. If you’re interested in how to begin a professional speaking career,
or how to craft a speech and get onto the lucrative speaking circuit, see my
book Money Talks.

No one is worth very much for an hour of his or her time. As in
consulting, it’s the value that you provide during that one hour that
will support your speaking fee.

186

c09.indd 186

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:01 PM

A keynote speech is usually forty-five to ninety minutes in length. It is
ordinarily a general session speech, delivered to the full assembly and not to
concurrent sessions or breakout groups. Technically, only the opening speech
is the keynote speech (sounding the “key note” for the conference); the others
are plenary speeches delivered during the course of the conference.
The least expensive speakers delivering keynote speeches are paid about
$3,500 by major trade associations and large organizations, and the most
expensive are paid from $75,000 to $200,000. These latter people have included
Colin Powell, Norman Schwarzkopf, Bill Clinton, and certain athletes.1 The
typical highly regarded noncelebrity keynote speaker is paid between $7,500
and $15,000 at this writing.
At the lower end of that scale, speaking just once a month generates
nearly $100,000 a year of what is essentially pure profit. Speaking twice a
month at the higher end yields well over $300,000. Do I have your attention?
There are also more traditional training opportunities, which may
involve concurrent sessions, workshops, and so on and may take several
hours or several days. I favor keynotes, since they are the least labor-intensive
and command the highest fees, but longer training sessions are also viable
options for any consultant.
In terms of your fees, I think there are three main considerations.

F a c t o r 1 : E s t a b l i s h Yo u r Va l u e
Your materials, Web site, conversations, and other promotional efforts should
focus on value—not on topic, not on delivery, and not on methodology. Recall
the value package concept from Chapter Three (repeated here in Figure 9.1).
Your speaking approach must accentuate the client’s future. The more of
your past that is relevant, unique, interesting, and attractive, the more you can
potentially contribute to the client’s future. The intervention—the speech—is
merely the transfer point.
If you can keep this process in mind, you’ll have no reluctance charging
for your worth. If you concentrate solely on the nature of your intervention

1
I believe that the unofficial record was set by former President George H. W. Bush, who in
exchange for delivering a speech in Tokyo accepted stock options that subsequently generated
several million dollars for about an hour’s work.

Setting Fees for Nonconsulting Opportunities

c09.indd 187

187

7/1/08 2:48:01 PM

Consultant’s
Past

Current
Intervention

Client’s
Future

• experiences
• education
• accomplishments
• development
• travels
• work history
• beliefs
• victories/defeats
• risks/adversity
• experimentation

• coaching
• survey
• redesign
• workshop
• retreat
• etc.

• higher productivity
• lower attrition
• higher morale
• improved image
• better performance
• greater market share
• greater profit
• more growth
• more innovation
• problems solved
• happier customers
• superior service

Process Flow

Figure 9.1 Transforming Consultant Past to Client Future.

(a speech, workshop, seminar, or training session), you’ll constantly wonder
how you can charge more than a modest amount. And you’d be correct.
Be crystal clear on the value you provide in your speeches. Educate the
prospect. Do you help improve sales, increase retention, deal with culture
changes, enhance customer service, develop strategies for growth, or foster
teamwork? Those are certainly more valuable objectives than “providing a
speech” or “helping motivation.”2

The best “motivational speakers” provide pragmatic techniques
for people to apply in order to improve their lives and their jobs.
The worst provide empty aphorisms and “affirmations,” which
evanesce in the cold light of day.

2

In fact, “motivational speakers” have a justly deserved poor reputation for much froth and
little substance. We had all better be motivational in our talks, but we had all better be providing solid techniques for improvement as well.

188

c09.indd 188

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:01 PM

A perfectly fine speech can be crafted based on your consulting experiences, challenges, and results.

Factor 2: Develop Options
The “choice of yeses” extends to professional speaking. For example, I can
turn virtually any keynote speech into a solid five-figure assignment by
providing options to the buyer such as these (I’ve made up the numbers just
to provide a comparison):

• Deliver the keynote according to the buyer ’s objectives: $8,500
• Talk to selected participants first by phone to include their observations
in the remarks and customize my approach to their issues: $2,500
Talk
to the division executives (corporate officers, board of directors,
•
trustees, others) to include their views, remarks, and further tailor the
presentation: $3,000
• Conduct a brief survey to compare industry practices to the client’s
practices and highlight the distinctions: $5,000
• Appear at subsequent workout sessions with smaller groups to respond
to their questions and interpret the keynote remarks down to operational
concerns: $2,000
Provide
a copy of my book (tape, other product) for every participant to
•
bridge the remarks and their application: $1,000
• Create a page (with pass code) on my Web site just for attendees: $2,500
• Provide a CD of the speech to all participants: $1,000 (for one hundred
people)
• E-mail coaching of selected participants for up to ninety days: $7,500
You might create more and better options. But these alone add up to
$33,000. Any combination will land you somewhere in the teens or twenties. And since you’re a consultant to begin with, you can provide and complete these options much better than a pure speaker, who does nothing else
for a living. In other words, the options allow you to build on your innate
strength.
Most speakers will not offer these options. Some buyers will tell you they
can’t afford them. So what? This is a sideline for you, and one that you can

Setting Fees for Nonconsulting Opportunities

c09.indd 189

189

7/1/08 2:48:02 PM

embark on within your own parameters. And you’d be silly not to build on
the very value that you bring to the equation.

Factor 3: Use Speakers’ Bureaus
O n l y o n Yo u r Te r m s
Bureaus are brokers between the client and the talent (you) for which they
expect 25 percent of the deal (some want 30 percent and more, indicating that
there are still a lot of people who don’t connect fees and value). Bureaus can
be highly effective, since they bring business you would not ordinarily have
acquired, and your own marketing cost is nil. However, they can be deadly
and dangerous for consultants.
Bureaus will want a “fee schedule.” For example, your keynote fee may
be $7,500, your half-day fee may be $9,000, and your full-day fee may be
$12,000. This is what bureaus market. That’s OK if they allow you to negotiate further with the client, providing options as I’ve suggested. But many
bureaus won’t allow you to do that out of a general paranoia, and your fee
would be restricted to the $7,500 less the 25 percent commission, or $5,625
net. That means that the annual revenue from speaking just once a month
drops to $67,500—still a decent figure, but considerably less than the $90,000
it might otherwise have been.

A bureau relationship should be like a client relationship: mutually
trusting, mutually beneficial, and mutually supportive. If it’s not,
walk away. You don’t need bureaus; they need you.

HIGHLY LEVERAGED PRACTICES
FOR WORKING WITH BUREAUS
If you’re going to deal with bureaus, and you’re a professional consultant
who is speaking, not a professional speaker who can’t and doesn’t consult,
then follow these guidelines in your bureau relationships:

190

c09.indd 190

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:02 PM

• Don’t pay more than a 25 percent commission. Commissions on
“spin-off” business (subsequent business generated by your appearance)
should provide the same commission to the bureau for a finite period (one
or two years, for example), although some bureaus reduce commissions on
spin-off business. However, never pay that amount for spin-off consulting
business. For this, pay a maximum of 10 percent.
• Demand to speak to the buyer and negotiate the actual fee yourself.
Bureaus almost always deal with meeting planners, who are rarely economic
buyers. Consequently, their demand is to conserve money, not to invest in
value. (Obviously, this is a middleman dealing with a middleman.) After all,
the higher the fee you negotiate, the higher the bureau commission.
• Develop a relationship with the bureau principal. If the two of you
can’t work together as peers, walk away.
• Be clear that subsequent consulting work that might arise out of your
speaking is not subject to the bureau’s speaking commission. You might agree
to pay 10 percent or less, but the thought of paying the bureau 25 percent
of a $200,000 consulting fee is not fair, justified, or sane. Make sure that this
is clear before you speak, as most speakers’ bureaus do not understand
consulting at all.
• Do not invest in bureau promotional initiatives. The reason bureaus
get 25 percent, ostensibly, is to market you. If they also insist that you pay for
placement in their catalogue, on their Web site, or in special mailings, take
a hike.
• Do not allow any money to be held in escrow. When the client pays
the (typically) 50 percent deposit to hold the date, the bureau should keep
half (the 25 percent commission) and send the other half to you. The final
50 percent should be paid directly to you no later than the presentation date
itself. Any other arrangement is simply unfair to you.
The most desirable professional speaking will come directly to you
(avoiding bureau fees) via your normal “marketing gravity.” (I speak about
thirty times a year—and used to speak fifty times annually—which is the
rate I’ve sought to maintain, with only five or six assignments coming from
bureaus.) That requires that you educate prospects about your availability as
a speaker in your promotional materials, Web site, articles, networking, and

Setting Fees for Nonconsulting Opportunities

c09.indd 191

191

7/1/08 2:48:02 PM

so on. You will always be more valuable as a consultant who speaks than as
a speaker who consults.
Keep your fees high. This is not your main source of income, and people
believe they get what they pay for. The more unique you are as a consultant
(book published, international work, media interviews, and so forth), the
more valuable you are as a speaker. Finally, like consulting, speaking is about
marketing, not methodology. You can always improve your platform techniques (and there are only 57,000 coaches who will be happy to help you), but
unless you market yourself, you’ll be speaking to yourself.
I once addressed a small group for six hours, and before I began, the
CEO asked his assembled team what they believed I was charging him. They
hemmed and hawed and arrived at a range of $2,500 to $5,000. “He’s charging me $18,500,” bellowed the CEO, “so listen up!” Buyers have egos too.

PRODUCTS
One of the biggest errors I made when I first published Million Dollar Consulting
in 1992 was to advise that products should wait until the consultant has a
firmly established reputation. Actually, products can help branding and the
creation of that reputation.
However, since I’m talking here primarily to successful consultants,
products are an important part of the repertoire in any case. And they possess the wonderful attribute of providing income while also promoting your
consulting.

The buyer said to me while walking out of the room, “By the way,
can you send along four hundred copies of your book with an
invoice?” I managed to say, “Yes, sure,” before I realized that I didn’t
know which book the buyer wanted.

Here is a brief description of some of the product options available to
successful, innovative, and aggressive consultants.

192

c09.indd 192

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:03 PM

Commercially Published Books
You can buy your books at a discount not from the publisher (who offers
about 40 percent off) but rather from one of the book wholesalers, such as
Ingram.3 In this way, you can qualify for more than 40 percent off, get another
2 percent off for prompt payment, and generate royalties for yourself (since
the wholesaler buys from your publisher). If your hard-cover book retails for
$30, you can net $12 to $15 on your own sales using this route. (Always sell
at full retail.)

Self-Published Books
This is where the serious money resides, but two factors are absolutely critical: First, the book must be good. Most self-published books are terrible, and
they look as though they were produced by someone who can’t even use a
computer properly. Second, they should be expensive, not inexpensive. While
I have some booklets that sell for $7, they are also used as free marketing vehicles when necessary. However, my large margins come from books that sell
for $75 to $150. Value-based pricing can apply to books (as you’ve probably
understood when paying for one of those large, gaudy “coffee table” editions). You can self-publish a hard-cover book with an initial print run of two
thousand copies for about $8,000, and subsequent press runs will cost about
half that. That means that you’re making about $25 on a $30 book. You’re better off with low volume and a high margin than with high volume and a low
margin, since you’re not in the book fulfillment business.

CDs and Albums
Plan some of your speeches with the intent that they will be recorded for
a possible product offering. (In other words, don’t use the client’s name
repeatedly, don’t cite the date, and refrain from using contemporary but transient examples.) You can offer the client free copies if you need cooperation.

3

Ingram Book Company, P.O. Box 277616, Atlanta, GA 30384; (615) 793–5000).

Setting Fees for Nonconsulting Opportunities

c09.indd 193

193

7/1/08 2:48:03 PM

Record the audience reaction as well through careful microphone placement.4
These single CDs are ideal marketing devices as well as potential products.
Keep each to about sixty minutes (the maximum is usually eighty minutes
or so), which is “drive time” for a commuter. Edit them with professional
introductions, elimination of “dead spots,” and so on. They cost about $2
apiece to duplicate. However, once you have several on related topics, you
have a four- or six- or eight-CD album, which you can accompany with a
workbook, set of pamphlets, or manual, and a product emerges that can
sell for $150 or more. Don’t record tapes in a studio; they sound stilted and
demand perfection. Talks taped live are more fun, more energetic, and forgiving of errors because they are live. You can also create analogous MP3 downloads for purchase from your Web site or by providing download links. The
iPod has made these very popular. Streaming audio can be used on your Web
site for demonstration purposes, marketing, and so on.

DVDs and Albums
I’ve found that video is less desired than audio, which is less desired than
print. However, video can augment your product offerings nicely, costs only
about $10 for duplication, and can be created during your normal speaking
endeavors. Sometimes the client will make the recording for the client’s own
purposes, and you can get a master by waiving any fee for agreeing to the
arrangement.5 This, too, always needs a live audience. In addition to what
you talk about, make sure your dress is conservative and doesn’t betray a date
or time. I sell videos on marketing, product development, and actual samples
of one of my keynote addresses. You can combine these with audio, print,
and related materials to build quite impressive—and expensive—products.
You can also use this as streaming video on your Web site. You can find audio
and video to sample at my site, http://www.summitconsulting.com.

4

Hire a professional recording firm. It will cost you less than $1,000, and the resulting quality
will be well worth that small investment.
5

I always allow audio- and videotaping free of charge, provided that I’m given two master
copies with permission to use them for product purposes after the client name and proprietary
information have been removed. If you prefer to do it yourself, a professional video team can
be hired for less than $2,500, using two cameras.

194

c09.indd 194

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:03 PM

The key to product sales is margin. This is not a business in which you
want “loss leaders”—you’re not Kmart. Moving $40,000 of product
is just silly if it earns you a paltry $2,000.

Other Stuff
Focus on high-margin, relevant materials. I’ve actually seen consultants sell
all kinds of tchotchkes, such as T-shirts, coffee mugs, bumper stickers, paperweights, and assorted dust collectors (although professional speakers are far
more prone toward this nonsense than professional consultants). However,
even items such as calendars, daily planners, and project templates are suspect,
because they don’t command high prices and are generally not terribly practical. If you have manuals, templates, worksheets, and related guides, which
have an intrinsic and immediate application, these can be valuable products.
For example, a brief pamphlet or set of instructions on behavioral interviewing,
assessing recommendations, rebutting the most common objections, or using
PowerPoint might be very well received among the appropriate client groups.
There are at least seven questions regarding potential products for sale
that should always be answered in the affirmative before you proceed:
1. Is there sufficient margin per sale?
2. Can I sell this product to both existing clients and nonclients?
3. Will this product reinforce my marketing plan?
4. Can I create this product cost-effectively and kill it cost-effectively if it
proves to sell poorly?
5. Can I fulfill orders expeditiously and efficiently?
6. Will this product remain relevant and timely for at least a few years?
If you’re selling products, accept credit cards and plan for lost shipments as
a cost of doing business. Use an International Standard Book Number (ISBN)6

6

You can apply for an ISBN number through W. W. Bowker at http://www.bowkerlink.com.

Setting Fees for Nonconsulting Opportunities

c09.indd 195

195

7/1/08 2:48:04 PM

so that you can distribute via Amazon.com, other Web sources, bookstores, and
other retail outlets. Create a separate secure and user-friendly section of your
Web site just for product sales.

E X P L O R I N G N E W L U C R AT I V E F I E L D S
You’ve heard me say before that there are a lot of ways to make money. I just
never imagined how many there were. Actually, we’re presented with them
almost every day, but we fail to set fees for them for a variety of reasons:

• We don’t take the time to recognize their intrinsic worth.
• They’re things we do “naturally” and unthinkingly.
• The positioning is wrong.
• We assume that a fee is our only source of remuneration.
I’ve never written about these elements before because they best apply to
mature, successful consultants whose name, brand, stature, and positioning
have created a powerful attraction. Like a bank loan that becomes available only once you’re so successful you don’t need it or a speaker ’s bureau
that wants to represent you only after you’ve made a name for yourself on
the speaking circuit, these alternative sources of income arise when you’re
already doing well financially.
However, you’re still willing to accept the bank’s line of credit and the
speaker ’s bureau’s business, so why not embrace new sources of income that
can provide for retirement, kids’ college tuition, vacations, charitable donations, or simply discretionary income?

If you are providing any kind of service, help, or advice on a
continuing or even periodic gratis basis, ask yourself, “Why am
I not charging for this?” There will often be a completely spurious
reason (or no reason at all, other than your own lassitude).

196

c09.indd 196

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:04 PM

Here are some alternatives for assigning fees to activities ranging from
the unmistakable to the unlikely.

Remote Consulting
I used to receive calls all the time for “informal” help. They were sometimes
from managers I had never met in nonclient companies, sometimes from
other consultants, and sometimes from, well, unanticipated sources (such as
the person trying to patent an adhesive device I couldn’t even begin to fathom
but who needed an entrepreneur ’s assessment of whether he was receiving
competent legal help; he wasn’t). The easy problem was one of time. I could
just turn these people away when I was very busy—and take time with them
when I wasn’t.
The tough problem was quality. Very few of these issues could be resolved
(or sometimes even understood) within the bounds of a single phone call. My
ethical quandary was whether to give incomplete advice on a quick basis or
provide a more qualitative response at the sacrifice of still more of my time.
I decided that the best interests of the callers were served by the close
attention required for a highly qualitative response, accompanied by a relationship of some duration allowing for trial and error, feedback, and further
fine-tuning of the resolution.

VIGNETTE

An individual called me last week who represents the quintessential
dilemma I once had but now address quite easily.
“I’ve read your book on speaking [Money Talks],” he said,
“and I want you to be my mentor. I’m calling you because I’m
determined to make this happen.”
“You mean you’d like to join my formal mentor program?” I
asked.
“No, money is tight. But I’m willing to work for you, help you,
do whatever it takes under your terms. You haven’t met anyone as
determined as I am. I need to work with you to accelerate my career.”

Setting Fees for Nonconsulting Opportunities

c09.indd 197

197

7/1/08 2:48:04 PM

“I don’t have employees, I don’t need help, and my conditions
are simple: you can join the program as others have in your position. That’s it. No options.”
“But,” he yelled, “you don’t know me. Give me a chance.”
“That’s exactly the point,” I said. “I don’t know you. Why
should I favor you and not someone else? That’s why there is an
objective set of criteria for joining my program. But there are free
articles, indexed, on my Web site, and a free newsletter. You’re
welcome to avail yourself of those resources.”
The conversation took two minutes. I know that I helped
him by not enabling his entitlement and victim philosophy or the
mistaken notion that passion alone justifies free help. And I know
I helped myself.

Remote consulting can take various forms; let’s look at three of them.

Coaching
Coaching is designed for managers and professionals working for organizations. In other words, they are not independent entrepreneurs. They usually
require help with a single issue, although sometimes they are seeking longerterm career advice.
My suggestion is that you provide coaching help for set intervals
(for example, thirty-day periods) during which the individual can phone
or e-mail you. Meetings are never in person. Phone calls are at mutually
convenient times or on the basis of your returning the call within some
satisfactory time frame (for example, twenty-four hours or less). You might
choose to limit contact to no more than one phone call a week or some other
standard if you wish (or provide options at different fee levels). You assess a
fee for the time interval, rather than each transaction, so that the individual
has in fact “retained” you for a limited duration and with certain restraints.

198

c09.indd 198

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:04 PM

Coaching is a very hot topic, partly due to real need and partly due
to pure ego (“Of course I have my own coach!”). But it’s often done
best on an anonymous basis and when certain situations present
themselves. That’s why coaching by phone and e-mail can be so
effective for the process, economical for the client, and lucrative for
the consultant. (You don’t need to go to any “coaching university”
to be an effective coach. Who certifies the certifiers?)

I’ve promoted the coaching option on my Web site so that I could refer
people to it easily without long discussion. Payment is always in advance. If
you were to charge even $500 for a thirty-day interval and had three people
being coached a month, that’s $18,000 of pure profit annually derived during
your “down time” that can pay the mortgage on a vacation home or tuition
at a fine school. Of course, if you were to charge $1,000 and averaged four
coaching clients a month, your annual profit would be $48,000, which could
pay for your home mortgage or send two kids to college.

Mentoring
I define mentoring as providing rather intimate, one-on-one assistance to
other entrepreneurs. (If you were an actuary, it would be for other actuaries,
or if you were a pottery maker, for other pottery makers. There has actually
been a farrier in my mentoring program who has mentored other farriers.)
You might find that coaching and mentoring are similar or identical, and
that’s fine. But I’ve made the separation for the purposes of differentiating
my services and assigning proper fees for the value provided.
As you’ve become more and more successful, greater numbers of people
come to you for advice. Sometimes you see yourself as “giving back to the
profession,” sometimes as doing a good deed, sometimes as harried, and
sometimes as unfairly imposed on (see the preceding vignette). No matter
how great our ego, the luster of being sought out as a “star” begins to dim
when people insist on free advice and intrude on our time.

Setting Fees for Nonconsulting Opportunities

c09.indd 199

199

7/1/08 2:48:05 PM

Hence mentoring. Many executive coaches have set up coaching “certification” programs. I’ve seen facilitators do the same, as have people in quality
control, expert witnessing, and technology consulting. I’ve tried to create a
broad program to encompass entrepreneurs of all kinds, but about 75 percent
of the participants have been consultants of one stripe or another.7
I also believe that mentoring takes place over a longer period of time
(my program is six months). You can charge a considerable amount of money
for your remote involvement, which the participants nevertheless consider a
bargain. I’ve tried to structure my fees so that they can be charged on a credit
card and so that the client can recover them easily through higher fees or
additional business so as to recoup the expense fairly quickly.
My particular program requires an investment of $3,500, payable at the
outset (and more sophisticated and more expensive versions of the program
have emerged). That’s an extremely reasonable fee for my kind of highpowered help, and it hasn’t been unusual for participants (who are at every
level of the profession, some just beginning and some already earning in the
high-six- to low-seven-figure range) to double and triple their income.

The key to any remote relationship is a “good deal” for both parties.
I’ve found that the removal of a personal interaction can be more
than compensated for by rapid responsiveness and adaptations to
learning styles.

You may choose to mentor one or two people at a time or a dozen at
a time, depending on your own objectives and work schedule. But since this
is truly remote consulting, you can always return a mentor ’s call or e-mail from
the road. At this writing, more than six hundred people have been through
my program at $3,500 each; about 30 percent have reenrolled between one and

7

I actually now hold an annual mentor summit, open to all present and past participants in
the program. It’s averaged more than seventy people per meeting, all of whom pay their own
expenses.

200

c09.indd 200

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:05 PM

ten times; and another hundred people have been through either my guided
program at $6,500 or my total immersion program for $9,500. These are fees
I’ve kept constant from inception in 1996 or whenever the newer programs
were introduced. I’m sure some of you are doing the math at this point.8

Situational Consulting
I’ve been called by people for a long time who have an immediate and urgent
need for help on a very clear and well-defined issue. They don’t need coaching, and they don’t need mentoring. They just need some quick answers.
I used to do this for free, but I came to resent it. After all, I was helping
people make hundreds of thousands of dollars, avoid legal problems, attract
new clients, and improve their image, and often as not, they were calling on
my toll-free number!
I now tell people that I can’t do justice to their issue with a quick response
to a rapidly stated quandary. I explain that there’s a modest fee, in return for
which we spend up to an hour on the phone (cumulatively) and exchange
unlimited e-mail for up to five business days.

VIGNETTE

A guy I’ll call “Roy” whom I barely knew from a professional
association we both belonged to phoned me out of the blue. He
was working on a major proposal, had heard that I was the consulting guru, and asked for my opinion about the work and his fees.
His fees were ridiculous, under $200,000, and we quickly
moved them to $410,000 over two years (I’ll never forget that
figure). I helped him with the reasoning and how to present the
proposal.

8

People ask how I arrived at $3,500. At the time, it was the monthly payment on my Ferrari.
I figured that a dozen mentorees a year would pay for the car. Today, my Bentley costs $4,500,
but I’ve held the original price on the mentor program because I’m a sentimental guy.

Setting Fees for Nonconsulting Opportunities

c09.indd 201

201

7/1/08 2:48:05 PM

He called two weeks later to tell me he got the business. He
said that something was in the mail for me. I subsequently received
a gold star paperweight with one of his aphorisms on it.
Although I refrained from throwing the paperweight through
my window, I didn’t refrain from committing to myself that I would
never provide such help gratis ever again. And I haven’t.
If you were to charge $1,000 for this value and provide it twice
a month, you’d bring in $24,000 a year, which would pay the lease
on many luxury cars. You will also, perhaps even more important,
drive away the “energy suckers” who want to “pick your brain” until
they have every last crumb consumed.

Charging for your value, no matter how brief in duration or
confined the issue, not only serves to gain pure profit but also
drives away the parasites. Such cleansing is important in nature.

AND NOW FOR SOME PERSPECTIVE
I’m not saying that you should abandon all pro bono work or refuse to offer
free assistance to anyone you please. I am saying that there’s no need to
give away the store, that success does not demand self-immolation, and that
people realize that there is no free lunch. Or at least they should realize that,
and we can help them. I speak at least a dozen times a year for free to professional trade association chapters in my profession.
You may choose not to take a personal fee but to suggest other forms of
remuneration. Here are some alternatives that I use:

• Make out the check to a favorite charity or cause
• Provide a favorable review of one of your books to be posted online
202

c09.indd 202

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:06 PM

• Volunteer for a cause you are leading or backing
• Return the favor with referral business
• Return the favor by helping with some tedious work
• Participate in a sample taping you’re doing for a product
• Promise to help another person develop business, skills, or marketing
when he or she is ready
• With permission, use the opportunity to test new material and approaches
I’m not mercenary, but I am pragmatic. I’ve found that most people
who seek and accept free advice seldom put a premium on it and rarely fully
implement it. They know that if they screw up or need further help, there’s
always more to be had at the original price.
Consequently, I can make a case that you’re helping people more when
you require that they invest—no matter how modestly—in their own success
and take some accountability for implementing your help. There’s nothing like
paying money to force someone to analyze the return on that investment!
When we are successful, it’s too easy to enable others who simply want
the “shortcut” version of our success without the hard work, the dues, and the
discipline. I tell people all the time that I can’t control their discipline or their
talent. I’ve found that those who want things for free usually can’t control
those factors either.
One more criterion: when you are doing work that you dislike and wonder how you got “roped into it,” it’s time to start charging. Just as you’re justified to charge more for difficult and fractious clients, you’re certainly justified
to charge for previously free work that is now driving you nuts. If the other
party refuses to pay, you have ample cause to walk away. I’ve had to tell too
many people in my life that I was helping them out of my good nature and
that I didn’t expect argument and debate as a result. (The people who tend to
complain most bitterly in the aftermath of elections are ineluctably those who
didn’t bother to vote.)
There are a lot of ways to make money. You may not choose to make
money doing all of them, but you owe it to yourself to at least examine
them in terms of your overall life goals and business objectives. You could
probably, right now, be making another $100,000 to $500,000 on your bottom
line if you intelligently engaged in nonconsulting activities and remote
consulting.

Setting Fees for Nonconsulting Opportunities

c09.indd 203

203

7/1/08 2:48:06 PM

At least once a year, examine your business and your talents for
the potential of additional nonconsulting and remote consulting
income. If you don’t do that, no one else will do it for you. Yet it
is a huge area for lifestyle improvement.

CHAPTER ROI

• There are a lot of ways to make money, whether for yourself or for a
cause or charity that is important to you.
• In addition, charging fees for nonconsulting services often provides the
relief needed from those who constantly bang on your door wanting
your expertise for free.
• Speaking is a primary money generator in addition to being a wonderful
marketing tool. For those interested, it can be a second profession and a
very lucrative source of income. But fees here, too, should be based on value
and assigned over options. Training and workshops are allied endeavors.
• Products provide wonderful passive income, as well as additional branding. They also yield excellent marketing advantages.
• Nonconsulting services and remote consulting provide as much or as
little opportunity as you care to pursue. Their great power is in generating income during “down time” without travel, wear, and tear. The
probability is that you’re already doing a great deal of this for free, which
is fine if it’s a conscious choice but deadly if it’s a “necessary evil.”
• Diversifying your income also provides flexibility to weather economic
ups and downs, client defections, and your own wish to decrease labor
intensity.
• The bottom line: even a modest amount of nonconsulting income can
make a tremendous impact on your life goals.
Passive and remote income will keep you off airplanes and remove the burden on
your retirement planning. This is because it tends to be an annuity that persists long
after you elect to reduce your activities. In the trajectory of your career, you should be
implementing passive income opportunities now.
204

c09.indd 204

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:06 PM

C H A P T E R

10

Fee Progression
Strategies
Why You Fall Behind When You
Stand Still

I

t’s fascinating how we rigorously update our computer
software, seek out the latest cell phone technology, and constantly improve our Web sites and press kits but tend to ignore
our fee practices as if they were fossils best left undisturbed.
This chapter is intended to provide a holistic view of fees
and when and how to raise them. We’ve been through the tactics, the rebuttals, the options, and the preparation. Now we’re
going to examine the process as an ongoing strategy. Although
we’ll start with early career planning to provide continuity—
and this might appeal to newer consultants—it’s difficult to
engage in a comprehensive strategy early in one’s career when
putting food on the table seems more important than negotiating with a client. (In the early days, a closed deal of any kind
is a successful negotiation!) I’m also anticipating that some

205

c10.indd 205

7/1/08 2:48:41 PM

sophisticated, mature, and successful people from other careers are reading
this book as they enter the consulting profession and intend to use the successful practices of others.
I think it’s critical for the successful consultant to view fees as part of a
process that continues throughout one’s career. For example, you don’t raise
fees when times are good and lower them when times are bad, any more than
you would increase marketing when times are bad and abandon marketing
when times are good. Successful consultants embrace and apply pervasive
strategies, not short-sighted tactics.

VIGNETTE

A member of my mentor program who successfully added
professional speaking to his offerings was asked by a client to
speak for one hour on each of two consecutive days in San Juan,
Puerto Rico.
“What kind of a deal should I give my buyer?” he asked.
“What do you mean?” I responded.
“Well, should I give a discount for the second day or apply it
to both days? Or should I waive expenses? Or should I do one day
for free if the buyer pays for my wife’s expenses?”
“What kind of deal has the client requested?”
“Oh, the client hasn’t asked for anything.”
“Then send the buyer a bill for the full fee for both days and
for your expenses after the event. And keep your mouth shut except
when you’re actually addressing the conference.”

E N T R Y- L E V E L F E E S
One of the worst strategies that I’ve ever encountered at entry level is to price
low in order to get business. Since this book is for advanced consultants and
flourishing practices, I won’t spend too much time on this, but since early fee

206

c10.indd 206

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:41 PM

strategy often determines later fee levels, it’s important to understand the
influence (so that you can undo it, if you must).
Ironically, but completely understandably, the tendency to set low fees
to attract business actually reduces business and establishes a horrible precedent that is difficult to overcome.1

Poor fee strategy at the beginning of one’s consulting career creates
all kinds of problems later in one’s career. It’s easiest to reach the
roof from the top floor, not from the basement.

Here’s what I mean when I refer to fees that are too low on a value basis:
if the client would have paid, in terms of value, $70,000 for a project and the
consultant’s actual fee was $58,000, that’s fine. But if the consultant’s fee was
$24,000, that’s not fine, despite “exposure,” the promise of future business, or
the prestige of landing that client. That’s because those factors would also have
been garnered at the higher fee.
The invidious nature of low fees early in one’s career creates the following problems, which must be overcome and eventually undone:

• The client and all the client’s referral business will tend to view the
investment required for the value you deliver in that type of work at the level
you cited. Being viewed as a bargain is not, in and of itself, sufficient if you
are not well paid. That’s not a “good deal” for both parties.
• You, yourself, begin subliminally to believe that you’re at the level the
market will bear for that type of value, although what you’ve really achieved
is a self-created, artificially low market level.
• When you raise prices as a result of determining that more of the
project value should be reflected in your fees, your increments will be based
on a very low starting point, meaning that it could literally take you years
1

Note that because my focus is on value-based fees, I’m not referring to fee schedules or per diem
amounts when I talk about fee levels but rather to the value that the consultant is comfortable
using as the basis for his or her fees.

Fee Progression Strategies

c10.indd 207

207

7/1/08 2:48:42 PM

to make up for the lost opportunity. It’s tough for people to move fees from
$50,000 to $150,000, even when the client believes the latter fee is more
than fair.2

Early fees are not a function of one’s experience (or lack of it) or
limited perspective. They are a function solely of how the consultant
educates the client and whether or not the consultant believes that
his or her contribution is worth the fee being charged for it.

• Your margins are much lower, preventing you from investing in the
kind of marketing and promotion that build reputation and brands and that
in turn support still higher fee levels.
• You tend to take on too much business and the wrong kind of business to create more profit. Ironically, this actually reduces profit, since you
become engaged in activity and labor-intensive work rather than intelligent
marketing and high-margin work. Many would-be consultants become mired
in the training business because they used training to put bread on the table,
found themselves in a very low-margin and price-sensitive business, and
sought to maximize their “billable days” rather than break out of that morass.
(Subcontracting is even worse: the big “seminar houses” are notorious for
paying as little as $300 to $400 per day. Welcome to Catch-22.)
That’s enough on the early problems for our purposes, but it’s important
to lay the groundwork for what follows. We’ve all made mistakes, and it’s
important to understand how it is we came to be where we are. Remember

2
Professional speakers often find themselves in worse traps when, having listened to bad
advice, they find themselves at low fee levels, which can be raised slightly but would need to
be tripled or quadrupled to actually bring them in line with their value. Few bureaus or clients
will accommodate that degree of increase, meaning that it takes years of slower increases—and
lost profits—to achieve a representative market level.

208

c10.indd 208

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:42 PM

this: it is extremely hard to convince a client, no matter how pleased, that
your fees should be raised if the client doesn’t perceive any increase in commensurate value.

TRANSITION TO A “GOING CONCERN”
I love the accountants’ term going concern, which indicates that a business is,
essentially, breathing, eating, and ambulatory without life support. I use the
term here to indicate that once the practice is established and the bills are
being paid, there is a new phase—and new strategy—to consider.3
Some of you are in the going-concern phase, because you’ve never
bothered to market or expand your horizons so that you enter the “word of
mouth” stage (to be discussed shortly). These are the hallmarks of the goingconcern phase:

• Referral business has begun and is not unusual.
• About 70 percent or so of all business is repeat business.
• There is still a tendency to reduce fees if competition is perceived or if
any degree of buyer resistance is encountered.
• Fees are about 50 to 65 percent of where they could be and are not
methodically examined.
• Some business is turned away, but not much.
• The business is still far too labor-intensive, and margins are relatively low.
This is often the phase in which consultants don’t want to “rock the
boat.” The problem is that by not rocking the boat, they stay adrift, without
propulsion or direction. The going concern should be a transient phase, not a
permanent home.

3

Most accounting authorities feel that a small business has become a going concern after about
three years, when the founder has run out of original friends and contacts and has had to
generate new business to support the operation. About 80 percent of all new businesses fail
within the first three years.

Fee Progression Strategies

c10.indd 209

209

7/1/08 2:48:42 PM

In this phase, the consultant should begin to formulate the basics of a fee
philosophy. The positions to be reconciled may include the following:

• What kinds of work will I encourage, what kinds will I accept, and what
kinds will I phase out as unprofitable or unattractive?
• How can I increase my own comfort level with value pricing and educating the client about the advantages of single fees?
• To what degree can I create and offer options in almost any setting and
on any project?
• What are the minimum fee levels at which I’ll work?

It’s always safe to be aggressive with fees, because we almost always
underestimate our value and are competing with larger firms that
must charge high amounts simply to cover their overhead. High
fees can, when necessary, always be lowered (by reducing value).
By contrast, low fees can seldom be raised, no matter how much
value we can demonstrate.

A rough rule of thumb is that in the going-concern phase, an aggressive consultant should be at least at the average fee levels being paid in the
profession. In other words, if strategy work is being delivered for $150,000
to $300,000, then the consultant should be in the low $200,000s. See the fee
progression presented in Table 10.1.
As you can see in the table, there are some predictable progressions that
consultants go through in terms of fee practices. The idea is to accelerate or
even leapfrog the intervening steps. The going-concern phase is probably
the first legitimate opportunity to do so, since entry level is really a matter of
getting grounded and determining whether the profession is for you. But if
you’ve succeeded over three years or so and you are indeed a going concern,
there’s actually no reason to labor your way through the ensuing phases.
On the assumption that most of you reading this book are in the intermediate phases, I’ll continue to describe them so that you can identify yourself
and plan your leap to the ultimate phase.
210

c10.indd 210

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:43 PM

Table 10.1 Fee Progression Across Categories.
Phase
Entry
Level

Going
Concern

Word of
Mouth

Brand

The
Ultimate
Consultant

Business
Sources

Business
Qualification

Fee
Integrity

Fee
Levels

Nonconsulting
Fees
Margins

Friends
and former
business
contacts
Referrals
and early
marketing

Accepts
almost
anything

Client
determines
the fee

Rock
bottom

Irrelevant;
don’t exist

Slim to none

Accepts most
business, plans
to cut out

Extreme
flexibility

Below
average or
average

Probably not
a factor or
very low

Small to
average

Determines
value-based
fees and is
firm
Maximizes
margins in
every case

Demands
a premium
above
average

Strong fees and
firm

Above
average

Far above
average
and firm

Near the top of
the profession

Very strong;
near the top

Not even
discussed

At the very
highest
levels

Not even
discussed;
very expensive
products

Extraordinary

some
Must be
high margin
with strong
potential
Referrals,
Selective, only
name in
consistent with
the market, strategy
publicity
Referrals
and
marketing

Key buyers
seek you
out

Selects only
those of
interest

Word of mouth means that people cite you and recommend you
without any direct impetus from you at that moment. The beauty
of word of mouth is that it is exponential in growth. You should therefore assign fees that meet the expectations of people referred to you.

TRANSITION TO WORD OF MOUTH
The word-of-mouth phase occurs when people begin speaking of you of their
own volition. It may be due to the nature of work performed or your marketing activities or through that odd dynamic of peer pressure to which many
people succumb (I can’t tell you how many people have said, “Oh, yes, Summit
Consulting Group—I know your work” when they couldn’t possibly).

Fee Progression Strategies

c10.indd 211

211

7/1/08 2:48:43 PM

In this phase, consultants begin to apply stronger qualification criteria
to potential business. Value-based fees are the norm for consulting work, and
there is a conscious drive to create high-margin business rather than more
business. The fee levels therefore tend to be above average for the services
provided, and the quotations are firm. The consultant in the word-of-mouth
phase would rather walk away from business than accept poor-margin
business. The need for exposure and potential contacts has been largely overcome by the effectiveness of the marketing effort.
At this stage of one’s career, there is probably the first real opportunity to
establish major retirement and investment plans, pay off long-term indebtedness, and take spontaneous vacations or make significant impulse purchases.
My experience is that the word-of-mouth phase is where many consultants plateau. They begin to get “fat and happy,” and complacency sets in.
Even though most consultants are relatively young when they first hit this
phase, their learning stops, and they assume they’re going to continue to grow
simply by supporting the same practices that helped them get where they are.
This is the phase of the deadly “success trap,” as shown in Figure 10.1.
These plateaus can occur at the word-of-mouth or brand phase but most
often occur at the former, when consultants are beginning to enjoy the “good
life” and assume that this is as good as it gets.

There is a key juncture when value-based fees begin to be used
correctly and word-of-mouth recognition grows, that represents a
potential and lethal trap. The consultant says, “I’ve arrived,” when
the journey is only beginning to get interesting.

At the word-of-mouth phase of success, the consultant should actively
seek to improve and climb the curve in a number of ways:

• By creating brands around intellectual property, approaches, products,
and ultimately the consultant’s name4

4

See the second book in this series, How to Establish a Unique Brand in the Consulting Profession.

212

c10.indd 212

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:44 PM

g

G

ro
w

th

Plateau

Co
nt

in

ui
n

“Success Traps”
Plateau

Figure 10.1 The “Success Trap” at Word-of-Mouth and Brand Phases.

• By refining the criteria for accepting new business
• By attempting to maximize margins at every opportunity and walking
away from business that does not present a “good deal” under more and
more favorable terms
• By creating reliable sources of nonconsulting and remote consulting
income, which themselves are near the top of the fee structure for their
categories
• By examining failed attempts to attract more lucrative business and
higher fees or losing out to very large concerns and learning how to
build on your own unique value propositions
• By viewing wealth and balance as critical factors in your life and seeking
to reduce your labor intensity across the board
This phase in the progression may therefore be the most crucial; it’s like the
stationary bike on which we think we’re working out well while not really moving anywhere. Just breaking a sweat doesn’t necessarily represent progress.

TRANSITION TO THE BRAND PHASE
In this phase, the consultant has achieved successful branding. There are actually two types of branding: (1) branding of approaches, products, methodologies, and other “tools of the trade” and (2) branding of one’s own name.

Fee Progression Strategies

c10.indd 213

213

7/1/08 2:48:44 PM

Branding of Approaches, Products,
and Methodologies
Examples of brands of this sort are The Telephone Doctor®, The Coach, The
Teambuilder, The One Minute Manager®, and The Strategy Quadrant. They
attract spontaneously generated publicity from sources outside consulting,
which use your branded models with attribution, and from the media, which
might use your approaches as widely known and quotable examples.
At this stage, the consultant can be highly selective because a great many
potential projects and references are in the pipeline, many originating from
the consultant’s marketing gravity and branding but many more resulting
from the brand names themselves (for example, “Get me the guy who wrote
Managing Call Centers for Profit”). In every case, without fail, margins should
be maximized, and part of the value is in the consultant’s known and accepted
approaches. This puts fees far above average in the profession, with the buyer
expecting as much.
Nonconsulting fees can be escalated quite aggressively, since products
can proliferate under an umbrella brand and others will seek the consultant
out to increase product offerings.5 Speaking fees, for example, can readily go
to the low five figures.
My brands (all of them registered trademarks) include Million Dollar
Consulting®, Million Dollar Consultant®, The Odd Couple (with Patricia
Fripp), The 1% Solution: Tools for Change, and Life Balance: Blending Life,
Work, and Relationships. However, ultimately, people say, “You have to work
with Alan Weiss.”

Branding should be done with a strategy toward involving one’s name
as the ultimate brand. Since this cannot be duplicated by anyone else,
no fee comparison is possible.

5

In fact, the consultant should be aware that less is more. Too much low-margin, low-value
product can cheapen one’s overall brand, while a few very high-margin, high-value offerings
can enhance the brand and generate tremendous profits.

214

c10.indd 214

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:44 PM

An intermediate step that is quite successful and quite subtle in
progressing from brands based on activities and products to a brand based on
one’s name is creating eponymous brands. For example, “Parkinson’s Laws”
quickly became associated with their creator and author. Norman Augustine,
CEO at Martin Marietta, created “Augustine’s Laws.” If you have a strategy brand that’s known as “Accelerated Strategy,” there’s no reason why you
can’t migrate to “Ackerman’s Accelerated Strategy” to begin incorporating
your name. “The Negotiating Seminar” can easily become “Jay Randolph’s
Negotiations Made Easy.” This can be an easy route to the second type of
branding. Note that most people can’t name the author of many a best-seller
that has become a catchword: think of The Tipping Point.

B r a n d i n g O n e ’s O w n N a m e
This is the most powerful brand and shouldn’t be confused with the eponymous tactic just described. This is a case where Tom Peters or Peter Drucker
(or Bain or McKinsey on a corporate basis) is the brand.6
Note that after the Enron scandal and the dissolution of Andersen
Consulting, the remaining organization that had split off from Andersen was
successful using Accenture as the brand, not the original name.
When someone says, “Get me Jane Sanders,” it means that the decision
is literally yours as to whether you will accept work that is being offered to
you, rather than seeking out the work or even collaborating on whether you
and the buyer are right for each other. In this case, the buyer is saying that the
work is yours if you deign to accept it. This dynamic maximizes your margin
in every case. You are very near the acme of the profession, and your margins
should be near the top.
While the “success trap” discussed in the prior phase doesn’t represent
as much of a threat here, there are two considerations in terms of fees that
should be kept in mind. First, there are, comparatively, many consultants

6

Tom Clancy, Stephen King, and Danielle Steele have done this as authors. Virtually every
actor must do it. Picasso and Warhol did it as artists. Many, but not all, politicians do it. Once
again I refer you to an earlier book in this series if you want to learn more details about branding in this profession: How to Establish a Unique Brand in the Consulting Profession.

Fee Progression Strategies

c10.indd 215

215

7/1/08 2:48:44 PM

VIGNETTE

When I was called in originally by the Federal Reserve Bank, I was
told that the buyer wanted to consider me for a particularly tough
and rewarding project. As I attempted to discuss the issues and
determine objectives and metrics, I had to keep stepping back to
answer questions about my prior work, experiences, and philosophy.
The conversations were always cordial, however, and I finally said,
“How many other consultants are you considering?” since I was afraid
that this process could take months. “Oh, only you at the moment,”
said my contact, “but we don’t know anything about you, so we
wanted to get comfortable before we started working together.”
“Well, how did you find me and why did you call me if you
know nothing about me?”
“We told one of our client bank executives about our
project and needs, and he said, ‘You must get Alan Weiss for
that project. He’s the only one for that job.’ So we called you.”
At no point were fees ever discussed in all of the preliminaries.
The client wasn’t sure who Alan Weiss was exactly, but they knew
they had to have him.

at the product and approach branding phases and few at the personal name
branding phase. My belief is that consultants who have branded their methodology and approaches tend to get stuck in that position and don’t make
the transition to personal name branding. That’s why I’ve included the subtle
transition step of eponymous naming. I don’t believe you can progress to
ultimate consulting unless your name becomes a brand.
Second, I don’t think enough consultants seek to stretch what brands
they do develop to encompass an ever-wider range of offerings. Singular
brands and limited breadth tend to confine the consultant to a niche where
learning, growth, and improved fees are not naturally forthcoming.

216

c10.indd 216

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:45 PM

Consequently, I think it’s important to continue to progress beyond
the branding phase, no matter how lucrative and rewarding it may seem
at the time.

VIGNETTE

A member of my mentor program who has progressed from
high school coach making $30,000 a year to Fortune 500 coach
making over $300,000 a year called to ask about starting his own
mentor program and conducting public sessions based on a book
he published. “Don,” I asked, “how will you market this? People
flock to high-priced workshops and mentor relationships only if
they have a need and feel that the presenter has value. Are you
sufficiently known? Your book is not exactly a best-seller.” He
wisely decided to spend more time building his brand. It doesn’t
matter what you think of yourself; all that matters is how your
potential clients perceive your brand (assuming that they perceive
it at all).

The ultimate consultant doesn’t worry about fees and margins, much
as in the early part of one’s career, but for very different reasons.

T R A N S I T I O N T O T H E U LT I M AT E
C O N S U LTA N T
This entire series is based on achieving and reveling in a stature of the profession that I’ve called the “ultimate consultant.” I’ve assigned that status as the
highest level of my progression, even though one continues to grow, experiment, and benefit in this phase.

Fee Progression Strategies

c10.indd 217

217

7/1/08 2:48:45 PM

The ultimate consultant is sought out directly by buyers. There are no
“middlemen” or feasibility buyers. The consultants select the projects that
are of most interest and greatest mutual benefit. Fees are not discussed
and may take the form of long-term retainers, deferred compensation, and
other devices. The fees and margins are among the very highest in the field.
Nonconsulting and remote consulting fees can be whatever the consultant
decides to make them.
Ironically, the ultimate consultant and the entry-level consultant both
need focus very little on fee levels and margins. But in the latter ’s case, it’s
because the consultant’s business is desperately needed and so there is no
thought of negotiation. In the former ’s case, the consultant’s business is not
needed and so there is no thought of negotiation.
Relatively few practitioners may reach ultimate consulting, but that
doesn’t mean we shouldn’t be prepared for it. People believe they get what
they pay for, and it’s important that we behave in a manner consistent with
our value. Therefore, the ultimate consultant

• Does not discuss fees
• Dresses and acts as a peer of high-level buyers
• Is never “hired” but agrees to collaborate with the buyer
• Is known by name
• Fosters products and approaches that build on name recognition
• Seeks high margins, not high volume
• Creates an aura of “Do you think we can get him?”
• Decides, along with the buyer, whether the project is a good fit and hence
worth accepting
• Does not negotiate or build relationships with low-level people or HR

The client, competition, economy, government, methodology,
project, and timing do not control your fee. You control your fee.
The good news is that there is only that single variable. The bad
news is that there is only that single variable.

218

c10.indd 218

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:45 PM

Where are you currently in your fee progression and career progression?
The operative word is currently. You should be acutely aware of the strategies
required to progress and move ahead. Your value is increasing with your
age, experience, and longevity in the business. Your fees should be increasing
commensurately.

THE BOOK’S ROI: ALAN’S AXIOMS
FOR THE “GOOD DEAL”
If you’ve taken this book off the bookstore shelf to glance at these final few
pages, forget it. You’re not going to be helped without reading the prior two
hundred or so. But for those of you who have come with me this far as active
participants, I’d like to make some final observations and provide some final
provocations.

1 . Yo u A r e E n t i t l e d t o B e C o m p e n s a t e d
f o r Yo u r Va l u e
We live in a capitalist system, which works better than all others. People
believe in such a system that they get what they pay for. However, the first
sale is to yourself. You must believe that you are entitled to fair remuneration,
and you must appreciate your own value.
Creating shared success with the client is the best way to create shared
value, at any time in one’s career but particularly early in that career. The “good
deal” occurs when the client believes you’ve been a bargain in terms of the
results you’ve helped produce, and you believe you’ve been paid very well.
It is never too early to begin branding what you do, how you do it, and
who you are so that perceived value is even higher. The only source for a fee
is perceived value. There is no limit to perceived value and hence no limit to
fees. The worst limitation is probably in your own mind.

2. Basing Fees on Time or Materials
a n d N o t o n Va l u e I s S i m p l y C r a z y
There is no law of supply and demand in the consulting profession. Good times
and bad times economically don’t matter, nor does the number of competitors,
nor does your own available time. What matters is the results you generate.

Fee Progression Strategies

c10.indd 219

219

7/1/08 2:48:46 PM

The essential need in breaking away from time-based fees is to understand
that your value is never a matter of your “showing up.” Nor do you have to
justify yourself by being in the buyer ’s presence. In fact, there are ethical conflicts
in basing your payment on the number of times you’re physically present.
Lawyers, architects, CPAs, and most consultants have educated their
buyers incorrectly for several hundred years. Since the evidence of that
miseducation is so apparent in low incomes and poor profitability, why on
earth should we attempt to perpetuate it? It’s up to us to educate the buyer
correctly about value and fees based on that value from the initial meeting.
But again, we have to believe it ourselves.

3. Buyer Self-Interest Is Based on Results
People change their behavior based on self-interest. Self-interest is most
affected by results, not task, by output, not input. That’s why “deliverables”
are only a commodity that will be comparison-shopped by most buyers.
A report, a training session, or a coaching regimen are simply tasks performed. But improved morale, faster customer responsiveness, and more
effective leadership are highly valuable organizational outputs.
Buyers will change their behavior—spend money when none is budgeted or spend more than was anticipated—not because a training session
seems better but rather because customers might buy more. They’re not that
interested in a better interviewing procedure, but they’re mesmerized by saving $300,000 a year in lower new-hire turnover.
The consultant brings his or her past experiences, through an intervention,
to dramatically affect the client’s future. It’s that final part that merits high fees:
the future. The consultant’s past is only an input, and the intervention is merely
a device. Fees should be based on future improvement, not on past technique.

The discussion with the buyer should always be about future
results, not the consultant’s past or methodologies. The client’s
improvement will provide strong self-interest for the buyer to change
behavior. The consultant’s talent and devices will not.

220

c10.indd 220

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:46 PM

4. Conceptual Agreement Is the Linchpin
The ability to reach agreement with an economic buyer on objectives to be
met, metrics to assess progress, and value to the client is the centerpiece of fee
strategy. This creates a return-on-investment mentality instead of a cost mentality. It’s critical to establish clear outcomes at a fixed investment and not to
surrender to vague outcomes at clear costs.
The consultant’s unique value (Why me? Why now? Why in this manner?)
is also an important consideration, which is why a unique relationship with
the buyer is so essential to forging trust and reaching conceptual agreement.
Measures may be objective or subjective, quantitative or qualitative, so long
as both consultant and buyer agree on their reasonability and desirability.
There are some formulas to apply if you must have more comfort. But
the formulas will usually depress fees and not boost them. This is art and science, and a successful consultant is adept at both aspects.

5. Existing Clients Can Be Converted
t o Va l u e - B a s e d F e e s
The key here is to create a strategy based on picking selected targets that represent strong potential. Don’t attempt to convert everyone, and be prepared
to abandon some business.
In converting clients, offer new value, find new buyers, and find new
circumstances. Make sure that existing buyers see more value in converting
the relationship and that new buyers are educated correctly from the outset
(and not by the old buyers). There is nothing immoral, unethical, or illegal
about reaching out laterally to new buyers during ongoing projects.
Abandon business that you’ve had forever and don’t know why, that
isn’t generating a sufficient margin, or that is just no longer interesting. You’re
doing neither your client nor yourself much of a favor by hanging on to it.

6. Retainer Business Is Discrete and
Sound Business
Retainers represent access to your “smarts.” Be sure that the conditions are
carefully spelled out and that you’re not mixing project and retainer work
together. Ensure that the buyer ’s expectations are the same as yours.

Fee Progression Strategies

c10.indd 221

221

7/1/08 2:48:46 PM

Choose intelligent time frames with favorable fees. Organize the scope
and numbers of people who have access to you. Focus on the renewal aspects,
making sure there is an “overlap” to create a smooth, ongoing retainer relationship, not a succession of stops and starts.
Coordinate project work and retainer work for the same client through
separate proposals and payment schemes.

7. There Are Scores of Ways
to Raise Fees and Margins
Every day that you interact with prospects and clients, you are encountering dozens of ways to increase your fees and your bottom line. Learn all the
techniques you can, and build them into your conversation and promotional
materials.
This might be something as simple as not disclosing any fees early in
the conversation by practicing “turnaround” questions to avoid being pinned
down. Or it might be something as nuanced as suggesting options very early,
to prepare the buyer for a “choice of yeses.”
If you were to apply just two techniques a month intended to raise your
fees or margins, you would probably double your profits without growing
your business over the next year. If you also developed more business, you
would probably increase profits by a function of four or five times. Every
day you may be “leaving money on the table” by not focusing on your
fee tactics.

You have the opportunity to focus on and apply successful fee
tactics every day. If you don’t do this, you have decided to reduce
your margins over time. That’s a heck of a way to run a business.

8 . Yo u ’ v e H e a r d A l l t h e O b j e c t i o n s A l r e a d y
You know what all the fee objections are because you’ve heard them all
before. It’s criminal and negligent not to be prepared for them, not merely
with rebuttals but with effective counterarguments.

222

c10.indd 222

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:46 PM

There’s nothing wrong with asking about the buyer ’s budget—in fact, it
can be a very effective tactic early in the discussion. Offering rebates will help
you acquire successive phases of a multiphase project. Using comparisons to
equipment, damaged goods, vending machines, and so on can embarrass the
buyer into realizing that investments must be made in people.
Ignore the competition. The client’s self-interest will serve to overcome
any objections. It’s not about what the competition does; it’s about what you
do with the buyer.

9. Nonconsulting Activities Are Lucrative
You can and should charge substantial fees for speaking, coaching, products,
licensing, and so on. Although you may choose to ignore peripheral areas
and remain a “purist,” there really is no need to be so narrow.
As you succeed in the profession, it makes sense to try to reduce
undesirable travel and to increase passive income so that your career trajectory is maximally beneficial to your chosen lifestyle. Products and other nonconsulting income streams make that possible.
Consider the options open to you, and strive to create high-margin products and services that place the least demand on your personal time. The
more successful you become as a consultant, the easier it is to market in these
areas.

1 0 . I d e n t i f y W h e r e Yo u A r e i n t h e F e e
Progression Strategy
Consultants tend to move from an entry-level stage through other, more
advanced stages if they manage their careers and their fee structures accordingly. This doesn’t happen automatically.
Where are you in the progression, whether you use my words and standards or your own? What are you doing to prepare for the next phase? How
can you tell if you’ve been in the present one too long already?
Unless you’re growing and improving, you’re losing ground. You can
control your own growth and success if you create a strategy for doing so.
This book has been about achieving your life goals by helping clients achieve
their business goals. It’s as simple as that. It’s time you began getting paid for it.
That’s the “good deal.”

Fee Progression Strategies

c10.indd 223

223

7/1/08 2:48:47 PM

c10.indd 224

7/1/08 2:48:47 PM

I N T E R L U D E

The Case of the
Fee Feng Shui

I

was sitting at a conference table on a June day with the
president and top team of a $200 million manufacturing
operation. My proposal had been discussed in my absence
and accepted. Now the decision was when to begin.
The summer was the company’s busiest season, and the
president thought it prudent to wait until the fall when things
slowed so there would be the least disruption to the operation. In the summer, there were part-time workers, overtime,
rushed orders, and so forth. I thought he was right, in that I
didn’t want to start the project amid chaos.
However, I also knew that he wasn’t about to make the
deposit until we actually began and that too many bad things
can happen in four months. Then the vice president of human
resources, of all things, seated directly across the table from
the president, said, “You’re right, but it’s a shame we can’t
start now in that the eventual changes are supposed to help

225

c10.indd 225

7/1/08 2:48:47 PM

us operate better in busy times and slow.” The rest of the team studied their
fingernails.
I saw the president make a “What can you do?” gesture and begin to
gather his papers when I said, “Why not have the best of both worlds?”
Everyone turned to me expectantly.
“I can start observing now,” I hastily improvised, “so that I can appreciate the nature of your busy season but stay out of the way except to debrief
at times with you folks. Then, in the fall, I can incorporate all I observed
firsthand into the change efforts, and we won’t have to wait until next summer for me to make adjustments.”
The HR woman said, “That works for me.” There was a murmur of,
well, murmuring.
“Why not?” asked the president rhetorically. “Sounds like a plan.”
“I’ll send you the paperwork and plan to return next week,” I summarized, and off we all went. Four months later, 9/11 occurred. Our work was
far into the planning stage, I had been paid, and the president said, “Let’s
keep going forward with the implementation, which we all need to take our
minds off these horrible events.”
Although nothing as dramatic as this tragedy will usually interfere
with your plans, something often does. Use the dynamics of the group, setting,
or circumstances to argue for immediate acceptance and launch. I had four
clients in my pipeline who already paid deposits or full fees prior to beginning detailed work, and all four decided to continue, even though I offered
to return the money.
Moral: A check in the hand is better than one hundred handshakes without
a check.

226

c10.indd 226

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:48:47 PM

C H A P T E R

11

Technology and Fees
Greater Wealth in the Brave
New World

O

ver the course of my career, nothing has provided
more support for increased and more diverse
fees than emerging technologies. Nothing else comes close,
because factors such as globalization, remote work, and more
varied offerings are all dependent on constantly improving
technology.

THE SERVICE ENHANCEMENT
We have the opportunity today to provide brilliant, timely,
and precise services for our clients because of improvements
in communications. Let’s look at some examples.

Response Efficiencies
It’s now possible to respond to client and prospect inquiries
very quickly via cell phone, computer, or automated systems.

227

c11.indd 227

7/1/08 2:49:24 PM

The beauty of the arrangement is that you are no longer tethered to a phone
line, and you can return calls at your convenience, enabling you to manage
more clients simultaneously than ever before. Clients accustomed to voice mail
are not surprised to have to use it, but by returning the call rapidly—yet still
at your convenience—you provide a wonderful level of service (or response
to prospects) that is singular. Yet you are not required to hire expensive staff
or special equipment to do this.
I return all my calls within ninety minutes during Eastern Time Zone
business hours. Everyone finds that impressive, if not unprecedented. (If I’m
tied up in a strategy session, I have someone call in for me, usually my wife;
when we travel overseas together, someone does this for me for $100 a day.)
Buyers are highly impressed by rapid responses, assuming, correctly, that
they will receive the same kind or service if you are hired. And you’re able
to guarantee service during the consulting project that is of high value and
justifies higher fees.
I carry an IPhone in my briefcase (which works without any alteration overseas), and all of my cars have phones or chips built in to the audio
system.
Similarly, e-mail provides a rapid response even when traveling, from
laptop (which I prefer) or PDA (acceptable for urgency only). You can review
documents and even submit proposals without the “tether.”

Decreased Labor Intensity
Aside from simply raising fees, there are other ways to increase profit margins. One is to work less for the same fee, which means you have additional
time to take on more work or simply enjoy life.
Your ability to use the Internet, e-mail, and phone (and its variations,
such as Skype) greatly enhance your potential to provide more with less.
Although this book series is for veteran consultants, I’ll advise you all that a
good “modern” home office should have a top-end computer,1 laser printer,
color printer, scanner, copy machine (with enlargement and reduction capability), multiline phone, postage meter and electronic scale, and credit card

1
I am a Mac addict. They are fast, idiot-proof, compatible with anything, and the greatest
time-savers I’ve encountered.

228

c11.indd 228

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:49:24 PM

capability (plus whatever your unique needs also demand). One critic of one
of my books stated that the equipment was too expensive. If that’s what he
thinks, he shouldn’t be reading these books.
Your letterhead, invoices, and other documents can be sent electronically in perfect color, just as you can receive and print those of your clients
and prospects. Think about this: most clients don’t like wall-to-wall meetings
and feel overwhelmed. If you suggest that you can reduce their labor (always
position this in the buyer ’s self-interest), why should they object?
In this technological age, there is no excuse for continuing to create laborintensive projects that require frequent trips and long visits. If you educate
the buyer correctly, you will net a small fortune by reducing your physical
workload, as well as dramatically improving the quality of your life.

Marketing Enhancement
Economic buyers do not troll the Internet to purchase consulting services,
period. Please don’t cite the rare exception that only proves this rule. (And
never listen to a technological “expert” for marketing advice. It’s like asking an insurance agent for the best investment vehicles. “Oh, it’s insurance?
Really?”)
For you and me, our Web sites are credibility statements. They are
places buyers go after they have decided that we are potentially of value to
them. Therefore, this is your repository of expertise. Using your Web site as a
“passive” press kit and publicity site is highly effective. Be sure to include all
of the following on your site:

• Typical results your buyers can expect to derive
• Case studies (challenge, intervention, result)
• Testimonials2
• Position papers
• List of articles published
• Client list

2
Basically, the site should say here’s what the client gets and here’s who says so. The rest is just
support. On my site, testimonials rotate at the top of the home page and other pages.

Technology and Fees

c11.indd 229

229

7/1/08 2:49:25 PM

• Books, columns, newsletters (lists, archives, and so on)
• Biographical sketch
This material, professionally created and aesthetically pleasing, will provide a continual credibility site for those who may never have spoken with
you but have heard of you through word of mouth. This creates strong “marketing gravity,” which leads to faster business and higher fees because of the
power of your brand and your expertise, there for all to see.

T H E P U B L I S H I N G P R E R O G AT I V E
I watch aghast and with awe when someone plays the piano well, because I
have tried, can’t do it, and think it’s a gift.
It turns out that people feel the same way about other people who can
write well.
Fees flock to expertise. The dynamic is shown in Figure 11.1.
We tend to believe (as I used to) that fee follows value—in other words,
the greater the value, the higher the fee. However, the lines cross if you develop
a powerful brand. At that point, people believe they get what they pay for.
There is a rewarding ego payback for buying the best, which other people
recognize. No one needs a Bulgari watch to tell the time or a Mercedes SL for
transportation. People purchase them for lifestyle reasons.
What has this to do with technology? The Internet is the ultimate
repository of specific content. There are sites for left-handed fishing gear and

Value

Fee
Brand

Figure 11.1

230

c11.indd 230

Fees Flock to Value.

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:49:25 PM

nineteenth-century Tibetan history. Though buyers don’t troll the Net to find
consultants, everyone uses the Net to acquire information from experts.
Consequently, publishing on the Internet serves the following feeenhancing purposes:

• You can rapidly gain credibility as an expert.
• You can create and disseminate unique intellectual property.
• You can obtain third-party endorsements for your expertise via columns
(the publisher being the third party).
• You can respond easily to reporters’ queries and appear in major media.
• You can send out press releases.
• You can send out newsletters.
You can create blogs (these are most effective after you have established
a brand). Following are some examples that you can use tomorrow on the
Web to enhance your fee strategies.

Reporters’ Queries
Through services such as PRleads.com (http://www.PRleads.com),3 you can
have tailored reporters’ queries in your inbox each morning. I usually receive
fifteen to twenty on subjects such as leadership, ethics, consulting, and teamwork. I try to respond to three a day, and as a result, I am usually interviewed
three times a week. I have been featured on radio and TV, in The New York
Times and The Wall Street Journal, and in scores of specialized newsletters and
Internet columns. Virtually every Sunday, I find people in my mentor program quoted in the Times.

Press Releases
Whenever you receive an award, accept a speaking assignment, launch a new
service, travel to an exotic location, or pick up a new client, send out a press

3

Contact Dan Janal. Note that I have no financial interest in any of my recommendations, and
I use the services I recommend, so I have continuing experience. If you mention me as the
source to Dan, he does make a charitable contribution, which is very nice of him.

Technology and Fees

c11.indd 231

231

7/1/08 2:49:25 PM

release. I suggest that you keep a short list of local news and feature editors,
as well as talk show producers. You can also reach national journalists, assignment editors, and their brethren through sources such as ExpertClick.com
(http://www.expertclick.com),4 membership in which not only lists you for
reporters but also entitles you to send a free press release daily to a roster of
ten thousand journalist subscribers.

Columns
I write monthly for RainToday.com (http://raintoday.com), Management
Consulting News, Performance, and other publications, even at this stage of my
career. You may choose publications in finance or manufacturing or travel,
depending on your focus. These offer the opportunity of strong brand building through constant appearances in your areas of value. Columns are far
better than random articles in this regard.

Newsletters
Many people tell me that the newsletter field is very crowded, and I tell them
that Burger King builds its outlets across the street from McDonald’s because
they know people are going there to buy hamburgers. Competition doesn’t
restrict markets; it opens them. Focus on a high-content, low-promotion,
pithy newsletter that you can also send out as a press release and can archive
on your Web site. Do not charge for it. Your goal is to be seen as the go-to person in your field and to create “viral marketing,” since people forward these
readily to others. Make your subscription process automatic, using an electronic mailing list such as databack.com (http://www.databack.com).5 Don’t
put arbitrary names on your list and always provide an “unsubscribe” so you
cannot be accused of spamming.
There are other options that people use, such as LinkedIn (http://www
.linkedin.com), a networking site that enables them to keep track of and inform
people who may be able to recommend them or provide leads. I’m not as supportive of these more social networks, but you may want to investigate.

4

Contact Mitch Davis.

5

Contact Byron Lunz.

232

c11.indd 232

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:49:26 PM

The key is to use the power of the Internet to increase your fees through
a higher profile, greater marketing gravity, and decreased labor intensity. If
you are not exploiting the Internet for publishing purposes, it’s the equivalent of choosing not to use a cell phone for communication outside the office.
You might as well put “Luddite” on your door.

T H E R E M O T E C O N S U LTA N T
Can you effectively serve clients from a distance? Yes, I’ve been doing it for
years.
I had worked on projects for Hewlett-Packard for over a decade when
a small one surfaced that my buyer and I quickly reached agreement on for
$50,000, over the phone, with an electronic proposal. After we concluded the
deal, we were chatting by phone about priorities when she asked, “When will
you be here and for how long?”
“I don’t plan on being there,” I replied (HP is headquartered in Mountain
View, California, and I live in Rhode Island).
“Never?” she practically yelled.
“Who is your boss and your boss’s boss?” I asked.
“You know that. I report to Rob in Brussels, and he reports to Gloria in
Hong Kong.”
“And how often do you see each other?”
“We haven’t seen each other in person for over two years.”
“Well, I’m just trying to fit in.”
I completed the project in six weeks from my home. It involved phone
and e-mail interviews, analysis of documents I received as PDF files, debriefs
with my buyer, and a final conference call with my recommendations to a
committee she assembled to implement the next steps internally.
HP has been a leader in telecommuting, flexible hours, and remote
workers. Why not be an equivalent leader with consultants?
I’m not talking about product sales and other passive income here
(although I will in a few minutes as you read on) but rather honest-to-goodness
consulting using technology to avoid travel and personal appearances. Note
that this applies equally well to clients “down the road,” because avoiding a
two-hour commute twice a week for three months will gain you over a week
of “found” time right there.

Technology and Fees

c11.indd 233

233

7/1/08 2:49:26 PM

What can you provide in this way, when your august presence is not
provided? Here are just some ideas:

• One-on-one coaching for managers
• Retainer availability on a fast-response basis
• Interviewing
• Participation in meetings via conference call
• Participation in meetings via a “virtual office”6
• Review of documents, analysis, recommendations
• “Shopping” the client via phone, Web, e-mail, and so on
• Providing newsletters, streaming video and audio, and special Web
pages for clients
International advantages are huge. The ubiquitous objection that transporting a consultant from overseas doubles or triples the cost (or seriously
erodes your margins) is gone. You can often make one trip, meet everyone
you need to meet, and then continue on a remote basis thereafter. Or you may
avoid the in-person meeting altogether.

The remote potential of technology is by no means limited to
marketing but also includes delivery. The more we are willing
to believe and apply this, the higher our fees, often from new
sources, can be.

I recall talking on my car phone to a client in London who needed my urgent
attention and complaining to my wife that the connection wasn’t perfect.
“You’re talking to London from your car, instead of being there!” she
reminded me.
“Oh, right,” I agreed.
There are two keys to effective remote consulting: marketing and delivery.

6
Better even than the cameras on many computers, this creates a panoramic view as if you are
in the same room with others.

234

c11.indd 234

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:49:26 PM

Marketing: Find Clients Who Already Use
Remote Services
As was the case with Hewlett-Packard, clients who employ remote communications themselves will be far more amenable to your being a remote consultant. The best prospects for this are the following:

• Multinational, global firms
• High-tech firms
• Firms that believe in and apply advanced technology
• Firms with small offices in remote locations
• Firms that employ remote workers and flexible hours
• Innovative buyers and executives
D e l i v e r y : R e o r i e n t Yo u r A p p r o a c h
for Remote Effectiveness
It is incumbent on the consultant to readjust approaches for maximum effectiveness without your physical presence. You should consider the following actions:

• Educate the client correctly from the outset.
• Use client resources for much of the implementation.
• Have materials in text, electronic, audio, and video form.
• Obtain equipment needed for your purposes.
• Be prepared to adjust your time frames for the client’s locale and time
zone.
Have
access to services such as virtual offices and teleconference bridge
•
lines.
• Seek out local subcontractors to do classroom work, interviews,
observations, and so forth7
With every month that passes, new and more sophisticated technology
makes it easier for you to market and deliver from the comfort of your home
office. There is nothing immoral, illegal, or unethical about doing so. Think of

7

You can often trade services with an overseas consulting firm that would like to act remotely in
your area of the country and is not a direct competitor.

Technology and Fees

c11.indd 235

235

7/1/08 2:49:26 PM

it as an opportunity for clients to access your value on a more flexible basis,
and do not lower or sacrifice your fees just because you don’t have jet lag,
aren’t standing in the hallway, and aren’t lonesome for home.

PA S S I V E I N C O M E
Technology allows for very diversified passive income. I once thought that passive income would become possible only after having built a strong brand, but
I’ve since learned that a strong array of products and services enhances your
ability to build a brand. (I’m continually surprised at how stupid I was two
weeks ago.)
I define passive income more broadly than most people because I use
two categories: traditional and local.
Traditional passive income is earned when people and organizations
purchase products and services that do not require active participation
from you. This is the stereotypical “make money while you sleep” situation.
Someone buys a book, for example, from your Web site. You or someone else
fulfills the order. You deposit the money in your bank account, or it’s done
automatically.
Local passive income derives from activities that take place in proximity
to your office; even though they demand your interaction, they are easy to
do, inexpensive to carry out, and require relatively little work (or pleasant
work). For example, you might organize and conduct a one-day workshop ten
minutes from your home to which people are attracted in significant numbers.
You sleep in your own bed, commute a few minutes, and spend “a day at the
office” earning money from every other person in the room. This income category also includes people visiting you, for a significant fee, for personalized
one-on-one coaching. It also includes teleconferences that you conduct from
your office with the dogs snoozing nearby and your feet up on the desk.
I’m not advocating that you engage in any or all of the foregoing. What
I am saying is this: as your career progresses, you should be in a position to
draw people to you, and it’s completely up to you whether you want to provide products, services, or interactive experiences (or a combination of these)
so that they can benefit from your value in various contexts. My advice is that
it’s almost silly not to do this, since $50,000 a year in passive income is $1 million
over twenty years, assuming you never improve on it or raise fees!

236

c11.indd 236

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:49:27 PM

Technology allows you to promote passive income alternatives in a
variety of ways:

• As your career progresses, you should be developing a larger and larger
list of contacts, and technology allows you to store, sort, and access these
faster than ever before.
• Access to alternatives such as electronic mailing lists enable targeted,
professional, regular promotions.
• Web site flexibility allows for new offers to be promoted effectively and
attractively.
• Secure Web pages enable people to register or purchase using credit
cards with confidence in real time, internationally.
• Credit card intermediaries (such as PayPal) or traditional merchant
banks allow you to process credit cards online or through a terminal in
your office. You can even process credit cards while traveling.
• Safeguards today (and your own precautions) virtually eliminate fraudulent transactions.
• With an electronic scale and a modern postage meter, you can ship all
over the world. You can even buy postage online if you like, and meters
can be refilled over the telephone. The U.S. Postal Service sells prepaid
flat-rate boxes for priority delivery anywhere in the country and anywhere in the world, regardless of weight.
I suggest that you separate your marketing goals from your passive
income goals. In other words, newsletters are popular when they are free
but unpopular when there is a fee for subscription. Consequently, view your
newsletter as a marketing device, and don’t charge for it. The same applies to
downloads of articles, lists, or guidelines. People tend not to want to pay for
these, and they should serve as an inducement to visit the site. I offer about
two hundred free downloads of all kinds on my site and add new ones periodically to keep people coming back.
Similarly, don’t require an e-mail address or registration for visiting
or downloads, because people (legitimately) fear that their names will be
added to mailing lists or sold elsewhere. Use these marketing devices as an
incentive to visit and to purchase legitimate passive income options.
People believe they get what they pay for, so try not to sell items cheaply
(besides, your margins will be insignificant on low-priced items). If you’re

Technology and Fees

c11.indd 237

237

7/1/08 2:49:27 PM

selling a product, always charge for shipping (some software will calculate
this automatically), collect sales tax where appropriate, and provide options
for expedited courier service. FedEx and UPS will pick up at your home office,
and this saves you trips to the post office (though the U.S. Postal Service does
provide home pickup in certain parts of the country).
If you produce books or booklets (or even CD or DVD albums), you can
sell these through the Amazon.com Advantage program. You’ll need an ISBN
number and bar code on your package. Amazon will advertise your products,
order them online from you to fulfill its orders, and electronically deposit
your money into the account you designate. No hard copy correspondence
is involved; it is all electronic. (It’s interesting to notice your bank balance
improving even when you’ve forgotten that Amazon is depositing money.)
My belief is that passive income derived through technology, which offers
a low cost of acquisition, should be an area of aggressive fees. You can also offer
options. If, for example, you offer a remote coaching program to generate local
passive income, you can have “silver,” “gold,” and “platinum” levels, each successive level offering greater access, more frequent access, more diverse interaction, and so on. (The mentor program on my Web site offers three options.)
Passive income is greatly enhanced by technology. Think about whether
you want to attract traditional or local passive income (or both), what
value you want to provide, what form it should take, and how best to promote and administer it with current technology.
Oh, yeah—last year, my best year ever, more than 50 percent of my income
came from services I wasn’t providing four years earlier, and 75 percent of it
was passive income.

THE BOTTOM LINE
The beauty of revising a book is that you can include new insights with the
existing foundation of value. No matter how prescient we believe we are, conditions change: economies, societies, technologies, infrastructure, regulations,
competition, public perceptions, globalization, and so on. I know of no
consultants or consulting firms, large or small, making a lot of money doing
what they were doing ten years ago.
That figure used to be twenty or even twenty-five years, but no longer.
There are several keys to utilizing technology—perhaps the most dramatic

238

c11.indd 238

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:49:27 PM

business change of our times thus far, at least in the industrialized nations—to
maximize fees, enhance value-based premises for fees, and create long-term
annuities for ourselves.

• It’s really about the transfer of value. The greatest threat posed by
technology—and thus far I’ve talked exclusively of opportunities—is that of mistaking it for value. It is merely a transfer mechanism. In using technology, you
must accentuate the value provided—faster response time, individualized coaching, time-shifting learning, and so on—not the mechanism itself. The Web site is
an unimportant conveyance; the value contained therein is always the key.
• Success, not perfection, is the polestar. We need excellent equipment
and software, but not always the latest or largest or fastest. Updating your
software every week or buying a new platform every year can be dysfunctional, as well as expensive and unnecessary. Why buy a four-line phone if
you only need two lines? Focus on the technologies that most enhance your
particular practice and client focus.8
• Some activity must be personal to make technology effective. John
Nesbitt was one of the few prognosticators who was accurate when he forecast “high tech, high touch.” Technology requires very intimate and personal
relationships to make it effective with clients. Don’t forget that I was able to
conduct that Hewlett-Packard project without setting foot on HP soil precisely
because I had established a long-standing and positive relationship with a
key buyer. Counterintuitively, perhaps, using technology most efficaciously
is a factor in creating and nurturing outstanding personal relationships so
that you are trusted long-distance.
• Technology has to fit you just as your wardrobe does (assuming you
dress well). My guarantee of a return call within ninety minutes can’t be
accomplished without technology,9 but it also can’t be accomplished if my
attitude and organization aren’t constructed to allow it. Your technology must

8

I remember Merck executives explaining to me once that the company required world-class
chemists but not world-class accountants.
9

As a point of interest, I’m writing the conclusion of this chapter on my Mac in the Cancun
airport and will transmit it back to my home computer using a Verizon USB device that works
internationally.

Technology and Fees

c11.indd 239

239

7/1/08 2:49:28 PM

be symbiotic with your discipline and talent. Using e-mail isn’t wise if you
tend to be sarcastic and spell poorly; using your cell phone is obnoxious if
you’re returning a call from the men’s room (which I have witnessed repeatedly, amid the flushes).
• Diversity is vital. Finally, I believe that the more diverse your offerings
of value are—consulting, coaching, speaking, writing, products, facilitation,
teleconferences, and so forth—the more technology will enhance your efforts.
Setting up a secure Web site to sell a single pamphlet is a waste of time. Keep
in mind that wealth is about discretionary time, so using technology to create
my version of passive income—people coming to you—is an important road
to such well-being.

CHAPTER ROI

• Enhance your service levels through appropriate technology, thereby
increasing value and concomitant fees.
• Use the Web to publish and thereby create intensified perceived expertise, which in turn builds your brand, which is responsible for the value
reflected in your fee. The buyer must always feel that he or she is getting
what he or she is paying for.
• Move your practice to more and more remote interventions. Doing so
decreases labor intensity, raises margins, and enhances the wealth of discretionary time.
• Passive income can represent the preponderance of your income if you
embrace technology and use my somewhat wider definition of passive
income. You should be planning to derive significant income from products, services, and sources that didn’t exist five years earlier.
• Technology can be a catalytic tool or a slave driver. It’s up to you whether
you allow it to beat you into the ground or improve your wealth.
Technology can kill you or make you a star. Use it wisely to both enhance the
size of your fee and reduce your labor intensity, and you’ll have found the royal road
to great profit margins.

240

c11.indd 240

Value-Based Fees

7/1/08 2:49:28 PM

Appendix A
Questions for Qualifying
the Economic Buyer

• Whose budget will support this initiative?
• Whose operation is most affected by the outcomes?
• Who should set the specific objectives for this project?
• Who will be evaluated for the results of this work?
• Who is the most important sponsor?
• Who has the most at stake in terms of investment and
credibility?
• Who determined that you should be moving in this direction?
• Whose support is vital to success?
• Who will people look to in order to understand whether
this is “real”?
• To whom do you turn for approval on options?
• Who, at the end of the day, will make the final decision?

241

bapp01.indd 241

7/1/08 2:34:50 PM

bapp01.indd 242

7/1/08 2:34:51 PM

Appendix B
Questions for Establishing
Business Objectives

• Ideally, how would conditions improve as a result of this
project?
• Ideally, what would you like to accomplish?
• What would be the difference in the organization if you
were successful?
• How would the customer be better served?
• How would your boss recognize the improvement?
• How would employees notice the difference?
• What precise aspects are most troubling to you? (What
keeps you up at night?)
If
• you had to set priorities now, what three things must be
accomplished?
• What is the impact you seek on return on investment/
equity/sales/assets?
• What is the impact you seek on shareholder value?
• What is the market share/profitability/productivity
improvement expected?
• How will you be evaluated in terms of the results of this
project?
243

bapp02.indd 243

7/1/08 2:35:38 PM

bapp02.indd 244

7/1/08 2:35:39 PM

Appendix C
Questions for Establishing
Measures of Success

• How will you know when this objective has been accomplished?
• Who will be accountable for determining progress, and
how will this person be held accountable?
• What information would you need from customers?
In what form?
• What information would you need from vendors? In what
form?
• What information would you need from employees?
In what form?
• How will your boss know that the objective has been
accomplished?
• How will the environment/culture/structure be improved?
• What will the impact be on ROI, ROE, ROA, or ROS
(return on investment, equity, assets, and sales)?

245

bapp03.indd 245

7/1/08 2:36:23 PM

• How will you determine attrition/retention/improved morale/safety?
• How frequently do you need to assess progress? How would you
assess it?
• What constitutes acceptable improvement? Ideal improvement?
• How would you be able to prove a level of improvement to others?

246

bapp03.indd 246

Appendix C

7/1/08 2:36:24 PM

Appendix D
Questions for Establishing Value

• What if you did nothing? What would be the impact?
• What if this project failed?
• What does this project mean to you personally?
• What difference will this project make for the organization/its customers/its employees?
• How will this project affect performance?
• How will this project affect image/morale/safety/reputation?
• What effect will this project have on productivity/profitability/market share?
• What is this now costing you annually?
• What is the impact on ROI, ROA, ROE, and ROS (return
on investment, equity, assets, and sales)?

247

bapp04.indd 247

7/1/08 2:37:46 PM

bapp04.indd 248

7/1/08 2:37:46 PM

Appendix E
Questions for Assessing Personal
Value Contribution

• Why me? Can any speaker or trainer do this, or do I have
special attributes?
• Why now? Is the timing particularly urgent or sensitive?
• Why is this being handled in this manner? Is there some
aspect of the methodologies or relationships that is key at
the moment?
• What’s unique about our relationship? Does the buyer
place special trust in me?
• What’s my unique value added? To what extent can I
“guarantee” success and exceed the buyer ’s expectations?

249

bapp05.indd 249

7/1/08 2:38:48 PM

bapp05.indd 250

7/1/08 2:38:48 PM

Appendix F
The Difference Between Inputs and
Business Outputs

Here are some examples of inputs versus outputs.
Inputs

Outputs

Run sales training sessions

Improve sales closing rates

Conduct focus groups on morale

Improve lateral communication

Interview former customers

Audit recruitment process

Redesign performance evaluation

Increase retention of new hires

Review expense procedures

Provide higher-quality, more
frequent performance feedback

Improve senior officer teamwork

Decrease travel costs

Study technological needs
of service personnel

Enable decision making at
proper levels
Improve service response time
of personnel

251

bapp06.indd 251

7/1/08 2:39:25 PM

bapp06.indd 252

7/1/08 2:39:26 PM

Index

A
Abandoning business
appropriate time for, 1, 100, 101–103
being prepared to walk away, 157
considering jettisoning bottom 15
percent, 153
ethical issues related to, 138–139
Access to you
client understanding on meaning of,
109–110
offering service of “unlimited,”
91–92, 110
rapid responsiveness and, 123
as retainer arrangement component,
109, 112, 114
See also Consultants; Services
Accountability, 73
Accounts payable, 159, 184
The Acquisition opportunity, 98
Advance payments, 130
Alan’s fourth theorem of fee
dynamics, 172
Albums
CDs and, 193–194
DVDs and, 194
American Institute of Architects, 33n.4
Andersen Consulting, 8, 215
Architects, 33–34

“Arkingson’s Laws,” 215
Attorneys, 35–36, 39, 74–75
Augustine, N., 215
“Augustine’s Laws,” 215
Authority/expertise, 73
B
Bartered services, 136
“Betting on the come,” 35
“Big Four,” 27
Billable hours. See Time-based fees
“Billboard on a highway” approach, 43
Blogs, 231
Boilerplate language, 159
Book products, 193
Bottom-line blindness, 21–22
Branding
approaches, products, and methodologies of, 214–215
one’s own name, 215–217
publishing to enhance your, 96, 193,
230–233
vignettes on power of, 216, 217
Brands
creating your own, 15, 158
credibility and relationships
accelerated by, 14
fee progression transition to, 213–217

253

bindex.indd 253

7/1/08 3:43:02 PM

Brands (continued)
fees enhanced through, 12–15
power of your own, 14
“success trap” of, 213fig, 215
See also Consultants
Budgetary limits, 30–31
Budgets. See Client budgets
Burger King, 232
Bush, G.H.W., 187n.1
Business
appropriate time for abandoning, 1,
100, 101–103
avoid accepting same terms as
referring source for new, 152–153
considering jettisoning bottom
15 percent of, 153
don’t accept troublesome or
unpleasant, 149
ethical issues related to abandoning,
138–139
paying for acquisition of new, 149
repeat and referral, 144
tips for collaborating on, 149
transition to a “going concern,”
209–211
transition to word of mouth, 211–213fig
walking away when appropriate, 157
See also Value-based proposals
Buyer commitment
compliance versus, 10
critical steps for, 11–12
importance of, 9–11
relationships between fees and, 10fig, 11
Buyer compliance, 10
Buyer resistance
common buyer’s responses/
arguments, 174–175
educating prospect to overcome,
38, 180
filters to overcome, 164fig–165
four fundamental areas of, 165–170
ignoring your competition’s lower
prices, 179–180
maintaining focus on value to
overcome, 170–172

254

bindex.indd 254

major rebuttals to use to overcome,
171–172
management of, 222–223
offering discounts to overcome,
176–177
using “smack to the head”
comparisons to overcome, 177–179
understanding buyer’s budget to
overcome, 30–31, 150, 173–175
Buyer resistance areas
1: I don’t trust you, 166
2: I don’t need you, 166–167
3: I don’t feel any urgency, 168–169
4: I don’t have the money to pay you,
169–170
Buyers
avoid the “go or no-go” position for, 77
combining multiple buyers under
single fee, 92
educating prospective, 38, 180
engaging them in diagnosing the
issues, 144–145fig
filters to overcome to reach buying
decision, 164fig–165
giving “choice of yeses” to, 75–79,
80, 189
higher fees create higher value
perception by, 152
impressing the, 13
locating new buyers within existing
clients, 94–97
power in ascertaining perceived value
of, 6
preventing and rebutting fee
objections by, 163–181
pursing late payments through the, 154
questions for establishing value with, 7
See also Clients
C
Calgon, 123
Canceling projects, 131, 132
Capitalism
compared to state controlled
economies, 2n.1

Index

7/1/08 3:43:03 PM

ethical nature of, 2–5
ethical premises of, 2
Mercedes-Benz syndrome (MBS) of,
5–9
Russian failures with, 3–4
CDs and albums, 193–194
Cell phones, 227–228
Change opportunities, 97
“Choice of yeses”
advantages of providing buyer with,
75–78
professional speaking and, 189
step-by-step, 80
ten guidelines for, 78–79
Clancy, T., 15
Client budgets
ascertaining buyer’s budget
expectations, 173–175
focus discussion on investment aspect
of, 175
knowing the, 150
preserving limits of, 30–31
Client improvement
creating measurements for, 52–54
focusing on, 156–157
parameters for successful measures
of, 52
qualitative or subjective criteria of,
51–52, 54
quantitative or objective criteria of,
49–51, 54
two excellent indicators of
contribution to, 72
Client objectives
increasing value by broadening, 147
QGTRIHF (“What Are Your
Objectives”), 147
Client outcomes
offering “value packages” to
facilitate, 9
transforming consultant past to,
56–58, 57fig, 188fig
value-based fee focus on, 42–45, 57–58
Clients
ascertaining perceived value by, 6

Index

bindex.indd 255

avoid being influenced by past history
with, 143
creating shared success with, 15–18
engaging them in diagnosing the
issues, 144–145fig
establishing value by collaborating
with, 143
establishing value with, 5, 7
fees based on what’s important
to, 44
financial trouble experienced with,
132–133
knowing when to abandon a, 100,
101–103
locating new buyers within existing,
94–97
nonprofit, 133
providing pushback when needed
to, 124
surveying past, 58
transforming consultant past to future
of, 56–58, 188fig
value-based fee conversion of
existing, 85–104, 221
value-based fee relationship to
self-interest of, 54–56, 220
See also Buyers; Referrals
Coaching, 198–199
Collaboration tips, 149
Columns (publishing), 232
Commercially published books, 193
Comparison question, 153
Competition comparisons, 179–180
The Competition opportunity, 98
Conceptual agreement
as consulting business acquisition
component, 12fig
as the foundation of value, 64–68
“good deal” factors for establishing,
72–75
as linchpin, 221
pushback when necessary, 156
“rules of engagement” of, 120
sample of retainer relationship,
120e–121e

255

7/1/08 3:43:04 PM

Confidentiality issues, 73
“Consultant hash,” 57
Consultant-buyer partnerships
consulting projects as, 11
costs from expert versus partner
investment, 16fig
creating shared success through,
15–18
as first step in value-based project, 65
gathering information on past, 58
journey and progress of, 58–60
retainer arrangements, 107–125
role of trust in, 16
time-based fee implications for, 23–39
See also Relationships; Value
proposition
Consultants
avoiding the “vendor” category, 29–30
becoming the Bentley of your field, 158
caution against stereotyping
yourself, 148
client future transformed from past of,
56–58, 188fig
common mistakes made about fees
by, 3–4
creating shared success with clients,
15–18
establishing your unique value, 68–72
impressing the buyers, 13
providing pushback when needed, 124
traits of a successful retainer, 123–124
transition to ultimate, 217–219
See also Access to you; Brands;
Services
Consulting business acquisition
sequence, 11–12fig
Consulting intervention
goal of, 41
keeping our aesthetic sense as part
of, 60
process flow of, 57fig
remote, 197–202
See also Services
Contingency fee, 107
Converting existing clients

256

bindex.indd 256

abandoning business if unsuccessful
in, 101–103
Alan’s axioms on, 221
deciding which clients to approach,
86–89
finding new buyers within existing,
clients, 94–97
finding new circumstances for, 97–99
offering new value by revisiting ROI,
90fig–94, 152
overcoming resistance to, 99–100
test to determining potential for, 87e
Copyrighting proposal, 134
CPAs, 36
Credibility, 14
Credit card payments, 137
D
databack.com, 232
Davis, M., 232n.4
Decision making accountability, 73
“Deliverables”
avoiding timed deadlines for, 48
definition of, 45n.1
fallacy and subversive nature of, 45–49
key to avoiding talk on, 46–47
Deposits, 130
Discounts
accepting cash in return for, 136–137
“frequent flyer,” 130
offered to overcome buyer resistance,
176–177
for one-time full payments, 155
phased approach rebates, 153
See also Payments; Value-based fees
The Divestiture opportunity, 98
Documentation issues, 73
Drucker, P., 133, 215
“Duluth architect syndrome,” 34
DVDs and albums, 194
E
Emails, 228
Empathy, 123
Enron scandal, 215

Index

7/1/08 3:43:04 PM

Entry-level fees, 206–209
Ethical issues
abandoning clients, 138–139
accepting bartered fees, 135
on canceling and rescheduling, 131
charging different fees for same work,
127–128
clients with financial problems, 132–133
copyrighting your proposal, 134
credit card payments, 137
deposits and advance payments, 130
discounts, 130, 136–137
eliminating temptations to behavior
unethically, 28n.2-29n.2
establishing coaching “client,” 133–134
exceeding high value and
“gouging,” 128
lowering fees for nonprofits, 133
overdue payments, 137–138
padding expenses, 136
quid pro quo for lowering fees, 135, 149
related to increasing fees, 135
related to retainer arrangements, 129
related to subcontractors, 135
related to time-based fees, 28–31,
131–132
RFP (request for proposal) and
related, 134
Robinson-Patman Act and equal
services/fees, 129
tax issues, 130, 135–136, 138
underbidding competition, 134
Executive egos, 7–8
Expenses
being clear on owed, 155
having client absorb the billing of, 157
reimbursement requests for, 155–156
specified as being extra, 146
travel, 989
See also Payments
F
Farr Act, 134
Fee feng shui case, 225–226
Fee progression strategy

Index

bindex.indd 257

across categories, 211t
entry-level fees, 206–209
identifying where you are in the, 223
transition to “going concern,” 209–211
transition to the brand phase, 213–217
transition to ultimate consultant,
217–219
transition to word of mouth,
211–213fig
Fee-setting
by architects, 33–34
by attorneys, 35–36
bottom-line blindness case on, 21–22
by CPAs, 36
educating prospective clients on,
38, 180
for nonconsulting opportunities,
185–204, 223
by search firms, 36–37
supply-and-demand illogic of, 25–28
time-based, 23–34, 131–132
See also Value-based fees
Fees
bartered, 135
common mistakes made regarding,
3–4
concept of, 1–2
contingency, 107
ethical exchange basis of, 3
how brands create higher, 12–15
perceived value basis of, 3, 6, 230fig
relationships between buyer
commitment and, 10fig, 11
retainer, 107–125, 221–222
See also Raising fees
Ferrari brand, 13
“First, do no harm” credo, 15
Fixed-fee formula, 79
“Frequent flyer” discounts, 130
G
Gerstner, L., 37
Girl Scouts, 133
Godek, G., 143n.1
“Going concern” business, 209–211

257

7/1/08 3:43:05 PM

“Good deal”
Alan’s axioms for the, 219–223
dynamics of, 72–75, 147
equation of, 74fig
“Good deal” axioms
1: you are entitled to be compensated
for value, 219
2: basing fees on time/material and
not value is crazy, 219–220
3: buyer self-interest is based on
results, 220
4: conceptual agreement is the
linchpin, 221
5: existing clients can be converted to
value-based fees, 221
6: retainer business is discrete and
sound business, 221–222
7: there are ways to raise fees and
margins, 222
8: you’ve heard all the objections
already, 222–223
9: nonconsulting activities are
lucrative, 223
10: identify where you are in fee
progression strategy, 223
“Gouging,” 128
The Great Big Book of Process Visuals
(Weiss), 144n.2
The Great Year opportunity, 97
Guarantees, 73
H
Hawthorne studies, 74n.5
Hewlett-Packard, 49, 73n.4
The Horrible Year opportunity, 97
How to Establish a Unique Brand in the
Consulting Profession (Weiss),
212n.4, 215n.6
How to Maximize Fees in Professional
Service Firms (Weiss), 142
How to Write a Proposal That’s Accepted
Every Time (Weiss), 17n.7, 79n.6
“HP frame of mind,” 49
The Hunt for Red October (Clancy), 15

258

bindex.indd 258

I
IBM, 37
Industry knowledge/experience, 73
Ingram Book Company, 193
Interludes
annoying accountants case, 61–62
bottom-line blindness case, 21–22
fee feng shui case, 225–226
loaded loading dock case, 105–106
perverse purchasing agent case,
183–184
rebounding retainer case, 161–162
IPhone, 228
ISBN application, 195n.6
J
Janal, D., 231n.3
K
Keynote speaking
developing options for, 189–190
establishing your value for, 187–189
overview of, 186–187
using speakers’ bureaus for, 190–192
vignette on fee for, 206
Kinko’s, 91
L
Laptops, 228
Late payments, 154
Leading edge factor, 74
Liability insurance, 73
LinkedIn, 232
Loaded loading dock case, 105–106
Lunz, B., 232n.5
M
Malpractice insurance, 73
Margin. See Profit margins
Marketing
remote consulting, 235
retainer relationships, 121–124
seeking out new economic buyers
during projects, 150

Index

7/1/08 3:43:05 PM

technological enhancement of, 229–230
See also Referrals
“Marketing gravity,” 191
Martin Marietta, 215
McDonald’s, 232
McKinsey brand, 8, 13–14
“Membership” benefits, 93
Mentoring, 199–201
Mercedes-Benz North America, 47
Mercedes-Benz syndrome (MBS), 5–9
Merck, 96, 239n.8
Merrill, D., 165n.2
“Migratory range” fees, 76
Million Dollar Consulting Colleges and
Graduate Schools, 4
Million Dollar Consulting (Weiss),
88, 192
Money Talks (Weiss), 186, 197
“Motivational speakers,” 188
Multiple invoicing, 159
N
Napoleon, 58
Needs assessments, 48n.2
New access points, 93
The New Buyer opportunity, 97
“New circumstances” approach, 97–99
The New Initiative opportunity, 98
New services, 92
The New York Times, 231
Newsletters, 232–233
Ney, Marshal, 58
Noncompete restrictions, 73
Nonconsulting fees
coaching, 198–199
keynote speaking, 186–190, 206
lucrative opportunities of, 223
mentoring, 199–201
for products, 192–196
remote consulting, 197–198
situational consulting, 201–202
some perspective on opportunities for,
202–204
for working with bureaus, 190–192

Index

bindex.indd 259

Nondisclosure restrictions, 73
Nonprofit clients, 133
O
On-site visits, 73
1Solution philosophy, 142
1001 Ways to Be Romantic (Godek),
143n.1
Overdue payments, 137–138
P
Padding expenses, 136
Passive income
technological facilitation of, 236–238
traditional and local categories of, 236
Payments
accepting local currency, 158–159
avoiding subject to conditions
requirements for, 156
incentives for one-time full, 155
late, 154
in U.S. dollars, 157
wire transfer, 159
year-end early, 153–154
See also Discounts; Expenses; Tax
issues; Value-based fees
PDAs, 228
Perceived value
fees based on, 3, 6
power in ascertaining buyer’s, 6
Perverse purchasing agent case, 183–184
Peters, T., 215
Phased approach rebates, 153
Powell, C., 45
Press releases, 231–232
Principles of Scientific Management
(Taylor), 24n.1
PRleads.com, 231
Pro bono work, 122, 151, 202–203
Products
profit margins as key to, 195
selling your, 192
types of, 193–194

259

7/1/08 3:43:05 PM

Professional speaking. See Keynote
speaking
Profit margins
as key to product sales, 195
multiple ways of increasing, 222
quick tips for creating high retainer,
114–115
setting value-based fees for excellent,
64, 66
staying sensitive to margins, 151–152
technology used to increase, 228–229
time-based fees as limiting, 32–34
Projects. See Value-based projects
Proposals. See Value-based proposals
Proprietary material issues, 73
Prospect education checklist, 38
Published books, 193
Publishing
business benefits of, 96
columns, 232
newsletters, 232–233
selling products from your, 193
technology facilitating your, 230–233
Push back, 124, 156
Q
QGTRIHF (“What Are Your
Objectives”), 147
Qualitative improvement criteria,
51–52, 54
Quantitative improvement criteria,
49–51, 54
R
RainToday.com, 232
Raising fees
fee progression strategy for,
206–219, 223
1Solution philosophy on, 142
seventy approaches and tips on,
143–159
See also Fees; Value-based fee creation
Rapid responsiveness, 123
Referrals
acquiring new business through, 144

260

bindex.indd 260

asking current buyer for, 95
avoid accepting same terms as
referring source, 152–153
“good deal” created through, 72, 147
See also Clients; Marketing
Reimbursement requests, 155–156
Relationships
brands as accelerating, 14
as consulting business acquisition
factor, 11, 12fig
See also Consultant-buyer
partnerships
Remote consulting
marketing for, 235
requests for, 197–198
technological facilitation f, 233–236
Reporters’ queries, 231
Rescheduling projects, 131
Responsiveness, 72
Retainer arrangements
access to you component of, 109, 112,
114
aggressively marketing relationships
of, 121–124
capitalizing on relationships of,
119–121
case on perceived value of, 161–162
caution against “SWAT team”
mentality, 117
choosing time frames/realistic
expectations, 111, 112, 113–114
ethical issues related to, 129
optimal conditions for, 108–109
organizing scope and management of,
112, 116–119
prime directive of, 112–113
sample letter of agreement for,
120e–121e
as sound business, 221–222
three key dimensions of, 112
Retainer consultants
access to you issue, 109, 112, 114
traits of successful, 123–124
Retainer fees
definition of, 107

Index

7/1/08 3:43:06 PM

quick tips for high-value/high-profit,
114–115
ten criteria for lucrative, 109–111
RFP (request for proposal), 134
Robinson-Patman Act, 129
ROI (return on investment)
of Alan’s axioms for the “good deal,”
219–223
costs from expert versus partner
investment and, 16fig
establishing value through, 4–5
ethical conflicts related to, 29
as key criterion of setting value-based
fees, 66
offering new value by revisiting,
90fig, 94, 152
“Rules of engagement,” 120

S
Safety issues, 73
Saturday Night Live pseudocommercial
skit, 34n.5
Scope creep, 150–151
Search firms, 36–37
The Second Great Big Book of Process
Visuals (Weiss), 144n.2
Self-interest motivation, 54–56, 220
Self-published books, 193
Services
core value propositions regarding, 94
ensuring client is aware of range of,
147–148
fees for nonconsulting,
186–204, 223
offering added value through new,
90fig, 154
providing option that exceeds the
budget, 146–147
technology used to enhance, 227–230
See also Access to you; Consultants;
Consulting intervention
Shared success
how to build, 15–18
key factors in, 17

Index

bindex.indd 261

Shared values factor, 11, 12fig
Situational consulting, 201–202
Skills transfer, 73, 74
“Smack to the head” comparisons,
177–179
Speakers’ bureaus, 190–192
Stereotyping, 148
Subconstractors, 135
Subcontracting fees, 208
“Success trap,” 213fig, 215
Supply-and-demand illogic, 25–28, 151
“SWAT team” mentality, 117

T
Tax issues
avoiding local tax deductions, 159
out-of-state services, 130, 135–136
setting up payments beneficial to
taxes, 138
See also Payments
Taylor, F. W., 24n.1
Technological compatibility, 73
Technology
keys to utilizing, 238–240
passive income facilitated through,
236–238
publishing facilitated by, 230–233
remote consulting using, 233–236
service enhancement through,
227–230
Telephone systems, 227–228
Time-based fees
ethical issues related to, 28–31,
131–132
incorrect logic of, 23–25
profitability limitations of, 32–34
Transfer of skills, 73, 74
Travel
availability as “good deal” factor, 73
including projected costs in your
fee, 98
technology facilitating
communication during, 227–228
The Travel Need opportunity, 98

261

7/1/08 3:43:06 PM

Trust
buyer resistance due to lack of, 166
consultant-buyer partnerships and
role of, 16
U
Ultimate consultant transition, 217–219
The Ultimate Consultant (Weiss), 58n.3,
142, 166n.3
Underbidding competition, 134
United Way, 133
“Unlimited access,” 91–92, 110
V
Value
of access to you, 109
basing fees on, 143, 146, 230fig
collaborating with client to
establish, 143
continuous journey of providing, 58–60
differing fees for differing, 143
establishing your keynote speaking,
187–189
establishing your unique, 68–72
in the eye of the beholder, 64
fallacy and subversive nature of
“deliverables” as, 45–49
fees as based on perceived, 3, 6
as function of not being “yes person,” 8
higher fees create perception of
higher, 152
increased by broadening client
objectives, 147
increased through new services,
90fig, 154
measuring the unmeasurable quality
of, 52–54
Mercedes-Benz syndrome (MBS) and,
5–9
never use time as basis of your, 143–144
overcoming buyer resistance by
focusing on, 170–172
qualitative or subjective criteria of,
51–52

262

bindex.indd 262

quantitative or objective criteria of,
49–51
revisiting ROI in order to offer new,
90fig–94, 152
ROI (return on investment) to
establish, 4–5
Value distance, 55–56fig
Value proposition
avoiding “needs assessments” as part
of, 48n.2
“billboard on a highway” approach
to, 43
client initiation versus solicitation
difference for, 71
converting existing clients by offering
new, 90fig–94
examples of poorly done, 42–43
examples of task/possible
outcomes, 44
focus on client’s ability to
improve, 43
vignette on Mercedes-Benz, 47
See also Consultant-buyer
partnerships
Value-based fee creation
“choice of yeses” approach to, 75–79,
80, 189
conceptual agreement foundation of,
64–68
establishing your unique value for,
68–72
“good deal” approach to, 72–75, 147
key criterion of, 66
precepts to keep in mind
about, 64
sequence in, 65fig
See also Raising fees
Value-based fee formulas
“choice of yeses,” 80
“good deal,” 74
strategic and conceptual, 82
10 to 1 “halfway house,” 81
Value-based fee tips
adding premium when appropriate, 146

Index

7/1/08 3:43:07 PM

avoid getting cornered about fees,
148–149
avoid offering options for reducing
fees, 145
avoiding boilerplate proposal
language, 159
base fees on value, 143, 146
becoming the Bentley of your field, 158
citing time frame for proposal’s
acceptance, 153
clarifying client responsibility for
expenses, 155
collaborating on business, 149
comparison question, 153
creating your own brand, 15, 158
do not consider past client history, 143
emphasizing year-end early
payments, 153–154
expense reimbursement requests,
155–156
fee increases exceeding inflation
rate, 158
focus on improvement, 156–157
higher fees create perception of higher
value, 152
jettisoning bottom 15 percent of your
business, 153
knowing client’s budget, 150
knowing current range of market
fees, 151
late payments, 154
on local currency payments, 158–159
managing accounts payable
interactions, 159, 184
multiple invoicing, 159
never use time as basis of value, 143–144
new business acquisitions, 149
obtain firm agreement regarding fees,
145–146
offering incentive for one-time full
payments, 155
offering new value by revisiting ROI,
90fig, 94, 152
payments subject to conditions, 156

Index

bindex.indd 263

phased approach rebates, 153
practice stating high, 144, 157, 159
pro bono work, 122, 151, 202–203
providing option that exceeds budget,
146–147
pushback on agreement fine print, 156
questions to ask validating your
value, 69–72, 148
quid pro quo for lowering fees,
135, 149
for raising fees, 143–159
referred business, 152–153
remove fees from printed
materials, 146
“scope creep” management, 150–151
sensitivity to the margins, 151–152
specify expenses as being extra, 146
“springboarding” to new buyers, 150
supply-and-demand illogic,
25–28, 151
U.S. dollar payments, 157
walking away when necessary, 157
wire transfers from clients, 159
Value-based fees
Alan’s fourth theorem of dynamics
of, 172
client’s self-interest relationship to,
54–56, 220
comparisons on charge per hour
versus, 27
converting existing clients to, 85–104
creating excellent profit margins
using, 64, 66
definition of, 107
differing values mean different, 143
educating prospective clients on,
38–39
establishing, 63–82
ethical compromises removed
through, 29
focus on client outcomes of, 42–45
“gouging” versus, 128
“migratory range” of, 76
multiple ways of raising, 222

263

7/1/08 3:43:07 PM

Value-based fees (continued)
for nonconsulting opportunities,
185–204, 223
phrasing on validity of, 42
practice stating high, 144, 157, 159
preventing and rebutting objections
to, 163–181
sequence of creating, 65fig
strategies for progression of, 205–223
testing potential for shifting client
to, 87e
on what’s important to client, 44
See also Discounts; Fee-setting;
Payments
Value-based projects
client budgetary limits for, 30–31
client relationship as first step in, 65
conceptual agreement as the
foundation of, 64–68
creating the “good deal” dynamic of,
72–75
establishing your unique value as part
of, 68–72
Value-based proposals
avoid boilerplate language, 159
used as confirmations not
explorations, 148
establishing your unique value as part
of, 68–72
time frame for acceptance of, 153
underlying rationale for successful,
66–68
value-based fees sequence in, 65fig
See also Business
Vender identification, 29–30
Vignettes
attorney’s “good deal” equation
approach, 74–75
client budget as fee-setting factor, 150
on inability to demand high fees, 158

264

bindex.indd 264

Mercedes-Benz value-based fee, 47
on power of brand name, 216, 217
on professional speaking fees, 206
remember to check your materials for
constricted fees, 155
on remote consulting, 197–198
on situational consulting, 201–202
Volunteering activities, 96
W
The Wall Street Journal, 231
Websites
applying for ISBN numbers, 195n.6
audio and video samples on
author’s, 194
databack.com, 232
LinkedIn, 232
marketing through your, 229–230
offering “membership” benefits
through, 93
offering new access points through, 93
PRleads.com, 231
RainToday.com, 232
on reporters’ queries, 231
Why in this manner? question,
70–72, 148
Why me? question, 69, 148
Why now? question, 69–70, 148
Wilder access, 92
Wilson, L., 165n.2
Wilson Learning, 165n.2
Wire transfer payments, 159
Word of mouth business
“success trap” of, 213fig, 215
transition to, 211–213
W.W. Bowker, 195n.6
Y
Year-end early payments, 153–154

Index

7/1/08 3:43:07 PM

