Light, Gesture & Color





Jay Maisel





Light, Gesture & Color

book team

CREATIVE DIRECTOR

Felix Nelson

TECHNICAL EDITORS

Cindy Snyder

Kim Doty

ART DIRECTOR

Jessica Maldonado

ALL PHOTOGRAPHY

© Jay Maisel

BACK COVER PHOTO

Stephen Denton

COLOR PRODUCTION SPECIALIST

Marco Ugolini

Published by New Riders

New Riders is an imprint of Peachpit, a division of Pearson Education.

Copyright ©2015 by Kelby Corporate Management, Inc.

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or transmitted in any form, by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system, without written permission from the publisher, except for the inclusion of brief quotations in a review.

Trademarks

All terms mentioned in this book that are known to be trademarks or service marks have been appropriately capitalized. New Riders cannot attest to the accuracy of this information. Use of a term in the book should not be regarded as affecting the validity of any trademark or service mark.

Warning and Disclaimer

This book is designed to provide information about photography. Every effort has been made to make this book as complete and as accurate as possible, but no warranty of fitness is implied.

The information is provided on an as-is basis. The author and New Riders shall have neither liability nor responsibility to any person or entity with respect to any loss or damages arising from the information contained in this book or from the use of discs, videos, or programs that may accompany it.

ISBN-13: 978-0-13-403226-9

ISBN-10: 0-13-403226-8

9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1



www.kelbyone.com

www.newriders.com





This book is dedicated to Leon Friend, my art teacher

at Abraham Lincoln High School in Brooklyn, NY.

The few of you out there who studied with him will know why I’m dedicating

this book to him. Those of you who never had the privilege will soon learn why.

In a postwar public high school near Coney Island, with no funding and no help,

Mr. Friend (he was always Mr. Friend) formed a community of art students.

He started the “Art Squad.” It was, in the best sense of the word, an elite group.

If you were hard-working and stood out in your art classes, you might be lucky enough

to be asked to join. That gave you further impetus to climb over an eight-foot-high

spiked steel fence in order to get into the school at 7:00 a.m., and do it again at 7:00 p.m.

What motivated all this? Mr. Friend taught by stretching not just your knowledge,

but your expectations, your standards of excellence, and you.

He changed my life more than anyone I’ve known. He opened my eyes.

He made me understand that work could be joy. He demanded your best.

He respected you. He called everyone Mr. or Miss.

I know I speak for all of us who knew him when I say: Thank you, Mr. Friend.

This book is for you.





About the Author


Born in Brooklyn, New York, in 1931, photographer Jay Maisel’s career spans 61 years. He studied graphic design with Leon Friend at Abraham Lincoln High School, and painting with Joseph Hirsch in 1949 and Josef Albers in 1953. He informally studied with photographer and graphic designer Herbert Matter in 1952, and had a class with photographer and designer Alexey Brodovitch in 1955. He began working as a freelance photographer in 1954.

Jay’s name has become synonymous with vibrant color photography that uses light and gesture to create countless unforgettable images for advertising, editorial, and corporate communications. In addition, his pictures appear in books and private, corporate, and museum collections. Some of his commercial accomplishments include five Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue covers, the first two covers of New York magazine, and the cover of Miles Davis’ Kind of Blue. Included among his many awards for excellence are the Art Directors Club Hall of Fame, American Society of Media Photographers’ Photographer of the Year Award, and the International Center of Photography’s Infinity Award.

Since he stopped taking on commercial work in the late 1990s, Jay has continued to focus on his personal work. A graduate of Cooper Union and Yale University, he continues his education by teaching younger photographers at workshops, seminars, and lectures around the world, and has developed a reputation as a giving and inspiring teacher.

Jay married his wife, Linda Adam, in 1989. Their daughter, Amanda, was born in 1993.





Acknowledgments


The word invaluable applies to Matt Dean, who sweated out this book even more than I did. Matt did everything technical that needed to be done, since I’m so inept in that area. Thanks to his empathy and opinions when I was depressed and indecisive, this book actually happened.

Jamie Smith has worked with me at The Bank on the workshop Light, Gesture & Color for the last eight years. Without him, the workshop would have been a lesser experience for everybody. With him, the workshop has evolved over the years into this book you hold in your hands.

The people at KelbyOne have been essential to making this book happen: Scott, who of course is not really a person but a series of identical clones—how else can you explain the amount of work he gets done; Dave Moser, or as I call him the “Silver Fox”; Felix Nelson and Kathy Siler, who I am proud to call friends; Cindy Snyder, Kim Doty, and Jessica Maldonado, who do all the actual work; plus a whole list of KelbyOne crew who make it a pleasure to deal with them on any project.

Lastly, my wife, L.A., and my daughter, Amanda, for being there for me.





Light


It’s difficult to arbitrarily separate light from gesture or gesture from color. I want to speak of each separately but they are all intertwined.

Light is.

Gesture is.

Color is.

Since all three are always there, how do you “get” them? Let them find you. The aggressive search for them is counterproductive. It makes it less likely that you will perceive them.

The most important thing for a photographer to learn is to be self-critical. Here’s a new mantra: If you’re not your own severest critic, you are your own worst enemy.

There is one thing that can help you to be self-critical or objective about your work. That is the ability to look at your work and see, literally, what is in your image. This is not as easy as it sounds. You also have to take a step back and try to see, literally, what is in your field of view as you shoot. To do this, you must be open to the world in front of you.

You must learn to leave yourself open to accept things rather than anxiously searching for them. You cannot say, “Today, light; tomorrow, gesture; the next day, color! And I’ll do all three by Sunday!” It just doesn’t work that way.

Ernst Haas said that we do not take pictures, we are taken by pictures. Try to be as open as possible to what is around you. Who knows what you’ll be taken by.

The whole world is there for you. Gifts will happen, but only if you are patient with life itself, the shooting process, and your own limitations.

Lucille Clifton said, “If you are open to it, mystery will come. If you’re not, why should it, actually?”

One of the first things in Genesis is: “Then God said, ‘Let there be light’; and there was light. God saw that the light was good….” Ever since then, photographers have been complaining about “bad light.”

“The light sucked, so I went home.”

“It rained all day; there was no light.”

“I only shoot at the golden time.”

“The sun went in; there was no light.”

There is no bad light. There is spectacular light and difficult light. It’s up to you to use the light you have. It won’t always be spectacular and sometimes you may not get much light at all. Use whatever light you find. It may not be inspiring or wonderful. You work with the hand you’re dealt.

Stop complaining about the light. Without it, we keep bumping into things and can’t see the gesture or color.

The drama in light exists not only in what is in the light, but also in what is left dark. If the light is everywhere, the drama is gone.

When I see light that moves me, that I cannot explain, I won’t leave until I figure it out. Where is it coming from? How did it happen? If you cultivate this curiosity about light, it will be the beginning of the self-education process.

Light inevitably has a massive effect on color. It can enhance or destroy color.

The effect of light on gesture is different. Gesture holds its own no matter what the light is. The light can enhance it, but it cannot destroy it. Why? Gesture has identity and it is less vulnerable than color, which can lose its identity to light. Gesture will survive whatever kind of light you have. Gesture can triumph over anything because of its narrative content.

Light can be thrilling and emotionally moving. So can color. Gesture, though, incorporates narrative and can convey all sorts of emotional and intellectual content.

Light and color are about form. Gesture has content, as well as form.





Gesture


“Just what the hell is gesture?” This question has been put to me often. Of course, I have less often been asked about light or color.

I wondered if I could find a word less esoteric, more to the point. So, I went to the dictionary and I confirmed my daughter’s analysis of me as having egomaniacal tendencies by concluding that the dictionary was wrong.

One dictionary has 42 definitions of light, 30 definitions of color, but for gesture only four that concern us, and of that four, there is not one mention of gesture in the context I am interested in showing you.

Then, I turned to a thesaurus and tried to look up gesture. It led me to some alternate words, which might make it easier to understand gesture. I was led down the tortuous path that thesauruses employ to drive you nuts and, after eliminating the weird things, I’ve got a few good words that make it all a little more transparent.

Here it goes: essence (probably the best), characteristic (also good), and others like descriptive, revealing, signature, and off we go with calligraphy, indication, ad nauseam.

Gesture is the expression that is at the very heart of everything we shoot. It’s not just the determined look on a face; it’s not just the grace of a dancer or athlete. It is not only the brutalized visage of the bloodied boxer. Neither is it only limited to age, or youth, or people, or animals. It exists in a leaf, a tree, and a forest. It reveals the complicated veins of the leaf, the delta-like branches of the tree, and when seen from the air, the beautiful texture of the forest.

It reveals the essence of each thing we look at: human, mineral, or animal, or brick, stone, or metal. It doesn’t stop there. We see it in clouds, crowds, magnificent mansions, and humble huts.

We have been shooting gesture all our lives but we didn’t have the nomenclature or the compulsion to categorize it.

We have always wanted to find the “it-ness” of anything we shoot. We want to get as deep into the subject as we can.

I call it gesture. You can call it anything you like, but it involves identifying and working to get to the heart of everything you see. I said, see, not shoot, because as you become aware of it, your “seeing” will intensify your “looking” and deepen your shooting.

You will, in time, see and show others not just the superficial, but the details, the meanings, and the implications of all that you look at: the wetness, reflectivity, and power of water; the subtlety of clouds; the texture of the bark of the tree; the delightful surface of a finished piece of wood; the smoothness of a baby; the rough, ragged face of the aged; or the aerial perspective of diminishing clarity in a series of mountains.

It’s obvious that it’s not just people who have gesture. It’s in everything we look at: chairs, tables, houses, cars. If we look…it’s there.

Choose the gesture you wish to show. It will make you infinitely more aware of the world around you. It will broaden your perception and awareness of everything.

Years ago, Marlon Brando used to sit in a drug store on the corner of 42nd Street and Broadway. The telephone faced 42nd Street. He would make believe he was using the phone. What he was actually doing, by his own admission, was studying people through the window. He talked about trying to be aware of how a speaker held his head when he spoke as opposed to when he was listening. Did they stand equally on both feet or was one foot taking all the weight? He was, in other words, trying to be aware of gesture.

He understood that the little eccentric things that people did gave them individuality and made them interesting. He delighted in the perception of intimate little details. When I see these things and I’m lucky enough to get them, I can’t stop grinning like an idiot.

When you get to the point that you start smiling to yourself or just bust out laughing with delight at seeing wonderful light, gesture, and color, you’re on your way.





Color


Talking about color presents specific problems.

If I say square, or circle, or black, or white, you know precisely what I’m talking about.

If I say gray, or red, or blue, we’re all not necessarily on the same page. How gray? 30%? 50%? How blue? Cerulean? Prussian? Ultra-marine? How red? Carmine? Cadmium? Crimson?

We begin to see the subtleties inherent in color. I don’t mean just the nomenclature. I’m referring to the fact that each of us perceives color in their own specific way.

One color alone means nothing. It acts as in a vacuum, with no other colors to relate to. It is only when colors relate to other colors that the fun begins.

The impressionists were quite exceptional in using additive color. They would put a blue next to a yellow and the observer would see unmuddied pure green.

We are concerned with a totally opposite aspect of color. While the impressionists were using additive color, we have to be aware of subtractive color. For instance, if I wished to make a neutral gray look warmer, I could put it next to a very cool green. If I wanted to turn a brown cooler, I would juxtapose it with a warm red. In each case, the association with the second color changes the first color.

I wouldn’t let any of this talk about color throw you off, if I were you. I would just use it to look at colors and become aware of how they affect each other.

Color is seductive. It changes as it interacts with other colors, it changes because of the light falling upon it, and it changes as it becomes larger in size. This last aspect can be seen in the tears and rage of anyone who has chosen a color based on a two-inch sample and painted an entire room in it.

You cannot accurately remember color because of the previously mentioned factors. I’m so sure of that, I have a sucker bet I’ll make you. I’ll put down a piece of colored paper, you look at it and go off and find the color that matches it. If you do, I’ll give you one thousand bucks. If you lose, you give me a dollar.

“Color” is quite different from “colors.” In an image with many colors, we find that all the colors compete with each other rather than interacting with each other. The result: colors.

When you are working with limited colors, they have the capacity to interact. The result: color.

There really isn’t anything that you could call a “bad” color. It all has to do with the amount of color you use and in what context it appears.

The way to find color begins long before you go out shooting. It has to do with all the input and stimuli you’ve gotten from your environment. That includes movies, music, posters, books, your personal environment, and possibly most important, your perception of the arts.

It most certainly does not include, as necessary, the work of other photographers.

The art world has existed for more than 50,000 years. Picasso has suggested that the most incredible drawings he ever saw were the cave drawings at Lascaux, which were made about 17,000 years ago. The photography world has existed for roughly 200 years. Which do you think would be more fruitful to study?

The ability to be sensitive to what is around you is not something that turns on only when you’re out shooting. It should be on at all times. You will be amazed at how rich your visual experiences will be, even when you are not photographing.

This business of enjoying color (and gesture and light) will only come after some time. It will not be immediate, and when it happens and you excitedly reveal all this to your friends, you will be surprised at how many have no idea what you are talking about.

Some have said that if you take a great picture in color and take away the color, you’ll have a great black-and-white picture. But if you’re shooting something about color and you take away the color, you’ll have nothing.

And that’s the way it should be.

To review: Color is. That’s it. It’s all out there. What’s important is to stay open to it.

Don’t make plans to photograph color. Don’t look for one kind of color. You’ll walk past great color while you’re trying to complete your plans.

Finding light, gesture, and color is a little bit like trying to hold water in the palm of your hand. If you squeeze, it’s gone. If you’re patient, it will stay. This is part of trying to stay empty so that you can be filled with the things you love.

Don’t look for reds, or blues, or pastels, or saturated color, or no-color color, or vibrations. If you’re open to them, all these things will come to you. If you go after them, they will elude you.

If you have perceived and executed something wonderful in color, it can be the content of the image, and now it becomes your function to be your severest critic and figure out whether it’s really that good. If it is, congratulations.

Keep at it.





Things Not to Do


We start with this image of the sun. This was a subject I loved to shoot. I would use a 1000mm lens and put extenders on it until it became a 2000mm or 3000mm.



I loved to see the eccentricities in the sun, the peculiar specifically unround quality, the green flash—and even the violet flash—as the very last part of the sun dipped into the sea or below the horizon.

Unfortunately, it took me some time to realize that I was giving myself the equivalent of a visual proctoscope.

A cataract in my left (shooting) eye developed years earlier than it should have. By that time, I had started shooting with my right eye.

That ended my adventure with sunrises and sunsets.

And should serve as a warning.



Sun





Lousy Painter


I stopped shooting the sun itself. It was so much richer an investigation to shoot what the sun was falling on. There was no end to the variety of images available.



What the sun was falling on, in this case, was a wall I had painted the afternoon before.

What the sun revealed was that I was a lousy painter.

The early morning sunlight raking the wall also revealed the gesture of the texture of the wall and it added the color of the sunrise.

All this on a wall that had looked well painted, even white, the previous afternoon.

Light illuminates and reveals.

It’s a good thing I became a photographer.



Painted Wall





Joy


I used to photograph nature a great deal of the time to the exclusion of pretty much everything else. At that time, I was referred to as a nature photographer.



Of course, at an earlier time in my life I had been referred to as “that guy who only shoots dance” and, later on, as a jazz photographer.

At this point in my work, I am mostly invested in street shooting and if I last long enough, I hope I’ll be taken by some other subject.

What you are shooting doesn’t matter, the real question is: “Does it give you joy?”

When I did this particular image of the light falling in the forest, illuminating some things and silhouetting others, my heart sang.

I was once photographing in a forest with a guide who got fed up listening to me complain about little things that were “ruining” my picture. He said to me, “It’s a forest, kid, not a garden.”

You will, in this book, hear a great deal about being responsible for every square millimeter of your image. Don’t let that admonition start you on a quest for the perfect image.

If it brings joy to your heart and it’s involving, don’t worry if it’s not perfect.



Light Falling





Reverse Shadows


We were doing a wilderness book on Baja, California, and this was one of the few nights that we did not camp in the desert. Instead, we slept in the ruins of an old building.



When you wake up in the desert, you kind of get used to the vastness of space all around you.

This one night, I came semi-awake to see these “reverse shadows” on the building floor.

I was half asleep in my sleeping bag and really wanted “5 more minutes please, Mom,” but I was becoming more and more awake, although not more rational. I saw the reverse shadows, which, to my addled and sleep-deprived brain, seemed to be the opposite of a condition in which light causes shadows.

The light that had come through parts of the walls was what had awakened me. As I tried to figure out what it was and how long it was going to stay there, I fumbled for my camera, which I kept close to me as I slept.

I marveled at the light, thought of it as a positive force, shot this image, and went back to sleep.



Old Ruin





Keep Moving


When I was in the helicopter at dawn in Maine and saw this, I was beyond excited. I was also curious to see what it looked like from the opposite point of view, but the deal is you shoot what you see now. Don’t count on coming back.



So I shot this, then I flew around to shoot the reverse. It was nothing. Flew back to this shot and the wonderful light was gone.

I’m glad I looked at the other viewpoint. It’s my obligation.

But, always shoot it now. It won’t be the same when you go back.

You must not think of yourself as looking at the stage from the audience. You must think of it as theatre in the round and look at it from all sides.



Maine Trees





Context


In Paris, not far from Notre Dame, there is a small chapel called Sainte-Chappelle. It’s an amazing place. The architect who designed it forces you to walk up a long, dark, narrow, circular staircase. When you get to the top, you are standing in a container of light and color. All four of the walls around you are stained glass.



I thought of this when I saw this scene in Santa Fe, New Mexico. I had just spent time in a gallery that was rather dimly lit and then I walked out into this brilliant scene.

Our experiences are always a matter of contrasts and contexts, dependent not just on what we’re looking at but what we’ve experienced prior to the moment that excites us. In short, we don’t experience light, color, and gesture in a vacuum. We experience it in contexts.

Sometimes it’s the lack of anything that moves us (the dry spell) that makes us appreciate the wonderful payoff we finally see.

We don’t understand that the constant nothingness of these dry spells is what sets us up, and keeps us vigilant and appreciative of the “moment of discovery.”

It’s a lot like insights, which often happen once you are completely stymied and then…BAM!



Santa Fe Red and Black





Think Revelation, Not Replication


I was driving around in Queens, one of the five boroughs of New York City. There was not a lot that caught my eye.



Suddenly, this did!

It stopped me dead in my tracks. It was such a perfect abstraction of light, and yet it came from a wholly logical cause and effect. It was elegant, it was self-contained, a formal façade infinitely varied and completely mesmerizing.

The shimmering, gleaming surface, reflecting not other buildings but the pure light itself, with the light revealing the form of the surface itself.



Wall of Light





New Viewpoint


I’m kind of a lousy driver. My wife always does the driving because she says, “You’re not particularly interested in the road; you’re more interested in the light and what’s happening to your right and left.”



I can’t argue with that. I think back to Ernst Haas, who never learned to drive. His simple but eloquent reasoning was, “If someone else drives, then I can shoot.”

In these next three images, though, I’m looking at the road (sort of).

This is what grabbed me as I drove away from the sunset. The yellow line and the telephone poles would only look this good at sunset. The hell with trying to spend my time shooting the sun itself.



Road in Milwaukee





Something New


Now I’m driving into the light, trying to avoid the sun itself and yet see what the sun is doing. Telephone poles are black and backlit this time, but the telephone lines are lyrical and gleaming.



Somebody asked, “How did you light that?”

I’m not that good.

It’s there.



Power Lines





If It Fascinates You, Keep at It


In the previous image, a few telephone lines worked.



I wondered what would happen with lots of them. I’ve worked on this for years.

I don’t work on “projects,” but once I see something that fascinates me, I go back to it again and again, trying to make it better.

The time between the previous page and this is approximately 50 years.



Power Lines 2





Jobs Can Be Fun


I always tried to structure my assignments when I did commercial work so that I would be shooting something that I was so excited about that I would have been happy to shoot it for myself.



This assignment was a great one: go photograph small towns in the Northeast, in Maine.

The most important thing to figure out is how to make the image as arresting and impactful as possible.

You have two important tools: when and where.

If I’ve got a budget for it, I love to shoot from a helicopter. That’s “where.”

As for “when,” I try to pick a time that the light and atmosphere will excite me.

Dawn is not always the best choice, but it’s the way to bet.



Fannie Mae





Carry the Damn Camera


I call this “The Jury Duty Shot” because it was taken on my way downtown for the eighth time, trying to get out of jury duty.



The walk was always the same. Leave the building, turn right, go downtown on the Bowery, make a right on Worth St., walk over to the courts.

When I got to Worth St., there was a mirrored-window building on my right. Across the street was a nondescript building of red brick.

If you walk the street, you know that you can walk past something many times and find it of little or no interest. Once in a while, due to luck, magic happens.

It depends on the day, the angle of light, where you’re standing, and, oh yes, whether or not you’ve got your camera. If you don’t have your camera, the best thing you can do is describe how great it looked.

This day I got lucky. The light came off the mirrored building and randomly sprayed light across this red building.

By the way, years later, I did my jury duty. I was very excited by it, and I was disappointed when it was over. It just goes to show you.



The Jury Duty Shot





Bad Light at Noon 1


A lot of guys say they won’t shoot in “bad” light.



I was sitting in a restaurant having lunch. As I looked outside, I saw this and wasn’t quite able to figure out what it was.

When I got closer, I couldn’t wipe the grin off my face. It was such a moment of revelation.

I worked quickly because I knew I would only get a few moments before the light changed.

When it did, I went back to my friend at the table and said I wanted to show them this gift I got from the bad light at noon.



Bus Wheels





Bad Light at Noon 2


This was also shot at noon in “bad” light.



I was amazed at the revelation of seeing the wall of the handball court itself as a series of cuts, ruts, and gouges at different levels, layers, and textures in general, completely opposite visually as to how it looked in different light.

There’s a parallel here to the picture of my hallway at sunrise titled “Lousy Painter.” We looked at light doing exactly the same thing in my hallway at sunrise.

It’s not only the time of day, it’s where the light is coming from, and it’s obviously about the object the light is hitting.

In the hallway, the raking light is coming at sunrise from the side. In the handball photo, it’s coming from the top at noon.

In both cases, it’s raking, revealing light.



Handball





Bad Light at Noon 3


In this case, however, the choice of time and viewpoints was much more pedestrian. I was driving around and saw this image and it appealed to me.



There is no one solution to all problems. It’s the problem itself that can lead to the solution. In this case, I took no great pains to get the image. It was laid out for me at noon in what many refer to as “bad” light.



Portugal





Bad Light at Noon 4


I shot all day at the Mermaid Parade in Coney Island and got wild color, the gestures of people, madness in general.



But, my favorite of the day had no people, little color, and is mostly black.

Within its limitations, its minimalism is endlessly fascinating.

Everything is subtle and the landscape implied rather than exactly rendered.

If it’s still not clear, it’s the pattern of light coming through the boardwalk above.



Mermaid Parade





Bad Light at Noon 5


I had photographed this house many times but always with morning light or sunset light, as I was teaching all day.



One time, though, I came back at noon to pick something up and ran into this noon “bad” light.

When light comes through an irregular or striped surface, it’s both the light and the shadows that reveal the form.



Adobe House, Santa Fe





Surprise Light


I want you to notice that the quality of light here, at 4:00 or 5:00 p.m. in the winter, is quite similar to the quality in the previous picture, which was shot at noon. It’s not just when you shoot, or what you shoot, or where you shoot, it’s the combination of the three.



This light happens for only a few days or so during the entire year.

How the light was able to wind its way through all the buildings and finally fall on the people walking by is the question.

The problem is worse because all New Yorkers wear black. You have to wait for a tourist to walk by.



Lady in White





Less Is More


The more light you have in an image, the less drama you get. The details start taking over; the mystery is all gone.



The effect of limited light causes drama by leaving most of the image dark.

Two guys I have always admired are Greg Heisler and Phil Marco. Greg once said he never understood why guys wanted bright white studios. He felt that he had to fight to get the light he wanted in such a setting. He spoke of turning off lights on locations so he could start lighting it the way he wanted.

Phil had a black studio so that it was easy to add the lights he wanted and not have to fight studio light.

Remember, it’s not about lots of light. It’s more about only the things you want lit.



Mosque Rays of Light





Questions


I love when pictures ask questions or make others ask questions.



People have asked what exactly was going on here? How did I get so close to the plane? What are the white streaks?

The fact that the image asks questions of the viewer and vice versa makes the viewer an active participant rather than a passive viewer.

The answers are simple: It was pre-hijacking. You could walk onto the tarmac. The white streaks are contrails.



Plane and Lights





Wander Around


I tell my classes I never want them to “go shooting” anymore. I then get stunned looks.



I tell them I want them to always have their camera with them and just “go out.”

In the former case, to “go out shooting” meant taking two or three cameras, a bunch of lenses, a tripod, and accessories. You have to figure out which camera and lens to shoot, whether you should put on a neutral density filter, or maybe a tele-extender, or God knows what else. You get the idea: too many choices.

Whether you’re in your twenties or your eighties, you have only a finite amount of energy. Do you spend that energy schlepping stuff or do you spend it shooting?

If you have one camera and one lens you always carry with you, you never have to “go out shooting.”

I carry a zoom lens, a Nikon 28–300mm. Zoom lenses today are not the compromise in quality they used to be. Good ones are fine to use.

About this picture: I had some business in Brooklyn and, since I normally don’t go to Brooklyn, I was wandering around for hours and found this elevated train section of the subway system. “Bad” light again at noon helped make this image.



Under the El





I Am Technically Challenged


All year long I walk around shooting as minimally as I can. One camera, a zoom lens, and that’s it.



One night a year I add an on-camera flash.

I do this with great trepidation, as I really don’t know how to use the damn thing.

I try to sneak out of the house before my wife can see me and howl, “Oh my God, you have no idea what you’re doing!”

It’s a top-of-the-line Nikon flash. It has too many numbers and letters. It doesn’t just intimidate me, it eludes me completely.

I go out with the flash on Halloween night because there is so much going on, and I feel about Halloween as Garry Winogrand felt about porn: “If you’re going to do porn, I want to see all the details, none of this soft, interpretive crap.”

It worked really well for me in this shot, as the Ginkgo leaves and the people show exactly how well you can do with little equipment.

Did I mention that I got a damn high level of f*¢%ups that night?



Leaves on Fence





Two Out of Three Is Not Bad


I love to shoot handball. There are so many great momentary gestures involved.



In this case, my delight was in the light and the color revealing the fence and the color of the wall behind it.

The figures work, but the people are muted, passive, and secondary. The gesture is in the fence.

The light and color carry the day.



Handball





Ready, Aim…


I shot this at a county fair in Maine.



The guys were talking their talk and I was shooting, but I was not that impressed.

Suddenly they dipped sticks that I had not noticed before into kerosene and did this.

What had been quite pedestrian now had exciting light and an event I had never seen before.

Thank goodness for being ready, bracketing, and not leaving the show early.



Fire Breathers





Have You Learned Nothing?


I’m in Woodstock, Vermont, on my day off from shooting a job. My assistant and I are driving around shooting. I tell him to pull up at a restaurant because I have to use the bathroom.



I get up and reach back into the car for the camera. He says, “You’re going to the john. What do you need the camera for?”

I look at him and say, “Grasshopper, have you learned nothing?”

We both laugh. I walk into the restaurant, and this is the first thing I see. It’s a lot easier to take pictures if you always have the camera with you.

In this case, the light lasted about 10 seconds before it changed.

Light can be instantaneous. You must be ready, and you must have the damn camera with you.



Woodstock Restaurant





Be Open


I was teaching at a Rich Clarkson workshop. I shot this in the parking lot of the wildlife museum where the classes were held just outside of Jackson, Wyoming.



I had shot the vast expanse of plains and mountains many times before, but usually at dawn. This time, I was late finishing my class. I walked out to my car, looked at the scene, and thought of what I told the class:

“The pictures are everywhere. If you’re open, they will find you. You don’t have to drive to Yellowstone or 100 miles away.”

When I got to my car I thought about shooting the landscape. But, as I started to shoot, I was bothered by the glare from the light in the parking lot.

Oh boy, mixed light. Be open, forget the pure landscape, shoot what’s in front of you.

By the way, this was another example of the problem becoming the solution.



Parking Lot





The Problem at the Tetons


The problem at the Tetons is that they constantly beckon to you.



I was shooting in the Grand Tetons. I had parked my car and walked closer to shoot the mountains and the God rays coming down from the clouds.

I wanted a wider shot, so I ran back a few hundred feet. When I got back there, I saw that I’d left the car in my shot. Damn!

Keep an open mind. The car looks beautiful in that light. Shoot the damned car with the mountains.

Again, the problem becomes the solution.



Car and Tetons





Keep Going Back


Sometimes, without shooting, a picture germinates in your head. Other times, you keep taking pictures of the same thing and watch the images mature and grow.



I had photographed this wall a number of times. I shot it with the squares alone.

I came back later and shot it with the bannister reflection.

I came back again and added the bannister itself and its reflection.

Finally, I was able to get a figure to work in the frame.

I like this, but I’m pretty sure I’m going to keep working on this for a long time to come.



Subway Stairs





Gifts


I was invited to my friend’s church to witness the baptism of his first child. I congratulated him and asked him the most important question that came to me: “Can I shoot it?”



“Yeah, but try not to hurt anybody and no flash.” So, I’m thinking, “Oh yeah, the guys with the iPhones won’t be flashing at it.”

This was an Armenian church, which was extremely exotic to me. All the light was incandescent, but there was enough of it that I could work. It was my first baptisim.

The baby was beautiful, didn’t make a fuss. The priest was right out of central casting. The painting segment and the second figure were there just right, not too important.

The kicker came when I saw that I had frozen the water into droplets on the baby. I had no idea how that happened. I thought I had caught someone else’s flash, but it was on all my shots, so it couldn’t have been that. Something divine?

I still don’t know what caused it. It’s a gift and I accept it. The whole experience seemed biblical to me.

Why quibble over a little water?



Baptism





The Background Is Also Yours


As you see something that you want to shoot and it’s bearing down on you, it’s important to start framing long before the subject gets close to you. The light will reveal itself possibly long before you want to take the image, but you have to wait until the picture comes to you, and if you’ve been anticipating carefully when the subject will be in position, the background will have been figured out in advance.



Since the background is as important as the subject, you mustn’t let it default by chance. You must control not only vertical and horizontal, you must be aware of the depth of field (or lack of it) that you want in the background.

You can make it sharp or throw it out of focus, but you must be aware of it. Use your depth of field indicator to do that.



Girl in the Street, Light from the Side





Open Shade Light


The guy looked so good in the shadowless light that I just couldn’t pass it up. I asked him if I could take a few pictures and he said okay.



I took much more than a few because if someone says it’s okay to shoot, you owe it to them to make a decent image.

By the way, this is one of the eight images in the book that have had post-processing. I cropped it to get rid of the lettering on his jacket. Then I cropped it some more to get tighter still, and I ended up making a horizontal out of a vertical. First time I’ve ever done that.



The Man in Shade





Saving the Child


This was shot in Coney Island after I left the Mermaid Parade. I was about to go to the subway when I saw this.



I couldn’t get in close enough and I was underexposed.

Usually, I would just move on to another image, but I thought this little girl was amazing, so I cropped it and lightened her face.

It was a grab shot that worked and I couldn’t bear to lose it.



Backlit Child





Background Could Be Better


This was shot at the Roma Termini train station. I’d done a bunch of pictures of this guy and I’m quite happy with the light and the gesture on this.



There’s one thing I screwed up on and that’s the background. If I had closed down more, I would have been able to show the train schedule in back of him quite clearly and would have shown this environment that spoke of his job as a conductor.

When I wrote this, I checked the metadata and saw that I did shoot it at f/13. I should have been at f/22.

Well, yeah, sometimes it is about the f-stop.



Conductor Lit from Below





Not Enough Lens to Get Closer


This is another image where I couldn’t get any closer. I was at 300mm and as close as I dared to get without disturbing the kid.



This is cropped also.

I had red stripes in back of her. I cropped them out.

The red stripes were a nice play against her face, but her face, I thought, was wonderful and didn’t need the competition.



Child, Top-Lit, Soft Overhead Light





Look Around


Sometimes, when you’re walking around waiting for inspiration, hoping to find something that will turn you on, you ought to look up or, in this case, down. You may find some surprises.



Try not to always shoot straight ahead.

Also, try not to always shoot from or at the height of your eyeballs.

“Where” is a very important consideration. It should not default to the easiest way possible. Explore all the possibilities: high, low, with the light, against the light. Don’t be too accepting until you check out all the possibilities.



Yellow and Feet





Light from Below


This was a ticker tape parade in New York City. It was the last time the Yankees won the World Series.



Immediately after the parade, the sanitation department starts the cleanup of tons and tons of the stuff thrown out of the windows during the parade.

If you can beat them to it, you’ll find yourself shooting in an environment where the sun is reflecting off the litter and your subject becomes bottom-lit as well as top-lit.



Ticker Tape Parade





Less Is More


You’ve often heard that less is more.



Maybe you accept it but don’t understand it, or vice versa.

If you look at this image, it explains itself.

This photograph is one of thousands that I’ve shot from the building I live in.

The view is one of my favorites. All the shots in the sun have a fascinating amount of data and the exactitude of details that I love.

But they all are so busy and so detailed that they don’t compare to the isolation and drama that this provides.

When there is no sun, color is often richer—no highlights, no deep shadows. In this case, the image is made more dramatic by the large areas of fog and the few elements to play against.

Never think you must have sunlight. It’s only one of the many kinds of light you can use.



Bridge in Fog





Surprise and Delight


I’ve written elsewhere in this book about light that stops me dead in my tracks, that is so surprising and delightful that I stop and stare. This was one of those moments.



I started to figure out how this was happening. Then the inner voice said, “Schmuck! Get the camera, shoot it, it won’t last that long. You can figure it out later!”

I shot it and noted that I’ve lived here 48 years and had never seen this.

It’s one light through the window that’s both bouncing and reflecting in one mirror, and then the whole thing is reflecting in the adjacent mirror.



Crosses of Light





I Miss 99 Out of 100 of These


It’s important not to judge yourself against others. They may be old hands so you feel less, or maybe it’s their first camera so you feel superior. That’s all bulls#[†. You must compare yourself only to yourself.



This is a wonderful moment and, in photographing wonderful moments like this, let me make it clear that I’m so good, I miss 99 out of 100 of these shots. I’ve been in the business for more than 60 years, I shoot every day, I don’t have a lens cap on, I don’t have anything on that could slow me down, and I still get only one out of a hundred.

Don’t fault yourself, don’t get angry with yourself, you too will miss most of the great shots. You saw it though and that counts. It hurts, too.

Remember that most people (those who are not photographers) don’t even see the things that you missed. Many don’t even look. Ergo, you are way ahead of the game.

You must never consider failure as a negative thing. Woody Allen said that if you never fail, you’re not trying hard enough. Samuel Beckett said, “Ever tried. Ever failed. No matter. Try again. Fail again. Fail better.” Jasper Johns said he saw failure as a positive step toward success.

So we all miss most of the best shots. Don’t despair, keep working on it. You are not alone. Ernst Haas said, “We learn by shooting to see better without a camera.”



Girl with Halo





North Light


Leonardo da Vinci said that the only time we see true color is between dawn and sunrise or between sunset and dusk. He claimed that the sun altered and influenced light as it moved across the sky.



If you look at what Monet did as he painted the haystacks during the course of the day, he was illustrating this fact, as his subjects changed color as the day progressed.

In the picture of the girl with the halo reflected from the bicycle, we have light that is momentary and fleeting. Painters love to work with north light, the light which is unchanging.

A photographer told me north light looked better the longer you looked at it. I realized later he was trying to explain the ability to really study north light, the ability to spend time looking at color and light which would not change.

I was in Paris in a friend’s hotel room. I had to go to the bathroom (that’s another constant). I walked in and there it was. The light was gorgeous, and it was north light.

By the way, for the first few years I was in business, most of my photographs of people were all shot with window light, probably north light. I didn’t know how to use artificial lights.



Paris Bathroom





Don’t Pose. Oh,Wait, It’s Okay


You have certain prejudices whether or not you want them. At one point, I hated to take pictures of people that were “posing” for me.



I was in Hong Kong. I saw this guy and he spotted me at about the same time.

He went into this stance you see here. It’s a Goju-ryu karate move. It’s called “cat stance.” All the weight is on the back foot so the front foot is light, ready to kick. This guy was perfect in every way. Not a finger out of place. I’ve done karate. About the time I took this I was a second-degree black belt. Fifty years later, today I’m a no-degree fat belt.

This was what was going through my mind in a nanosecond:

“He’s posing for me and I hate photographing people who are posing for me, but he’s obviously really good and he’s offering me something, and if I don’t take it he very well may get offended and kick the s#[† out of me.”

I finished my stream-of-consciousness moment and took the picture.

The whole episode was over in a moment, but this guy and that picture really made me aware of gesture. Now I even take pictures of people who are posing for other people.



Hong Kong Karate





Gesture Is Not Always Action


When I first began to understand that gesture was not limited to people, I still loved shooting gesture in people.



One of the things that occurred to me was that when people think of gesture, they think in terms of “Action!” with an exclamation mark.

It’s important to realize that gesture can be about someone who is absolutely still, in repose or even asleep.

You can show gesture in another area that has no relationship to action at all. You can show resignation, sorrow, thought, introspection, delight, acceptance, and more.

I love to photograph my daughter asleep. There is none of the clenched look that some people have when asleep. She looks angelic and peaceful. That’s what I’m trying to get.

Never mind that when she awakens and sees me, she starts bellowing out, “Do you have any idea how creepy it is to wake up and find you’re being photographed?”

“Yes, dear. Now relax and go back to sleep.”



Lady with Teapot





Ambivalent


I have a whole series I’ve been working on with the title “N.Y. Is a Tough Town.” It includes tattered flags, three-legged chairs, and all the things that amuse and scare the hell out of me about New York.



These two men kind of typify the series. It was one of those moments when you find something about somebody that’s just compelling.

In this case, the look, the stare, the gesture.

And you’re dying to shoot it, but you don’t want to get killed if you shoot it. Somehow you know you’ve been nailed and still have to shoot it. You know, those moments when the thought goes through your mind, “What the f*¢%? I’m liable to get in trouble for this one, but I’ll never forgive myself.”

You know that moment?

Well, I had to shoot it. There were no repercussions, but I would like to mention that no picture is worth your life.

Do I seem ambivalent?

Hell, yes.



Tough Town





400-Year-Old Wall


I shot this in Rome. I was trying to get the gesture of the man, but it occurred to me that the wall in back of him was 400 years old and had its own gesture quite different from the gesture of the postcards, brochures, and slides in front of him.



It started me thinking about gesture in all the things we shoot.

After looking at water, snow, and inanimate objects, it became obvious that the idea of gesture applied to everything, not just people.



Man Selling Photographs, Rome





Be Very Specific


I did the shot of the F-16 on a job for United Technologies.



My contact was Gordon Bowman. He was simply the best person I ever knew in the advertising world. Hell, he was the best in any world.

Didn’t mean we always agreed, but there was a lot of mutual respect there.

They never used this picture. They used another one instead, of F-16s hugging the tops of the mountains as they flew. It made sense technically because it said more about the flying abilities of the plane.

This shot was my choice. We both liked it, but I understood his need to use the other photo. I wasn’t worried it was the wrong picture.

I’ve always felt that photographers who say, “They used the wrong picture,” have only themselves to blame. They gave them the “wrong” picture. I didn’t worry because I only gave them pictures that worked. It’s my obligation to take out all the “wrong” pictures.

Image looks easy, right?

Security was extremely tight at that time. Each F-16 was parked inside a circle painted on the ground.

“You may not enter the circle in any way, form, or manner, sir.”

“If I lay on the ground and just extend my arms into the circle to get the cropping I want, will that be okay?

“If you enter the circle in any way, form, or manner, sir, I will escort you off the field at gunpoint, sir.”

I love this shot. To me it’s elegant, sleek, a little bit scary, and certainly speaks of the gesture of this object. It doesn’t look like any other jet fighter I’ve seen.

It’s a very specific image and you want your pictures to be very specific, never general.

It would have been better, though, if I could have put my arms in the circle.



F-16





There Are No Pictures in Orlando


Orlando is the Bermuda Triangle of photography. It’s probably the wrong analogy, but I have no trouble taking pictures anywhere else.



Orlando eludes me. There’s no grit, no garbage, everything is manicured, and the skies are not cloudy all day.

So, when in Orlando, I sometimes do the thing that I hate to do…I make plans. That is not my normal procedure. I love to be surprised by what’s out there. Not in Orlando.

I was walking through the hotel we all stayed at when I began to notice that everybody I passed had a better “build” than I have. Now that’s not unusual because, in my best years, I did not, as someone once said, look like a pile of rocks.

I walked around some more and the guys got bigger and more well defined, and they walked funny. Suddenly it hit me. Duh! They are having a body building conference somewhere here.

I looked it up, found it, had time to go shoot it, and tried like hell not to figure out in advance what I would do. But it might be nice to do close-ups of these guys as they oiled themselves up, get in really tight on a bulging bicep with the veins on it.

And…I walked in and found that the only place I could shoot from was the audience—there was no backstage, there was just a stage and it was empty.

Finally, these guys came onstage. I was overwhelmed. They literally had muscles in places that I didn’t know you could have muscles, and the footlights, and the background—I never could have imagined that.

They assumed positions, changed positions, and changed again, and I’m just going nuts shooting it all.

I’ve got to tell you that I’m so impressed, not with what they look like (God knows they are impressive), but with the personal discipline and the enormous time it takes to do this.

Maybe I’ll go back to the gym. Maybe, just a little bit.

Yeah, right.



Weightlifters





Long Trip to Shoot Fish


This was a job for the Heinz Corporation doing the harvest around the world. It was shot in New Guinea.



Before I left, I had heard they might use nets to catch the tuna. I said if that was so, I wouldn’t have any part of it because they would kill dolphins that way. I did a research flyover and saw the nets and told them no.

They said, “They are not nets, we swear. If you see nets, don’t shoot, there are no nets.”

When I got onboard, what I saw from the air that I thought were nets were sprays of water from around the boat to lure tuna.

I have never traveled so far to take a picture.

I flew from New York to Sydney, Australia, from Sydney to Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea, from Port Moresby to Kavieng, Papua New Guinea. I was driven from Kavieng to a tiny town whose name I don’t remember. From there, I took a small boat out to a mother ship where all the fishing boats dropped off their catch.

We waited for the fishing boat on which I was to shoot.

I had been told the crew was multi-lingual, but though they spoke many Papua New Guinea dialects, Japanese, Chinese, Filipino, and others, nobody on the boat spoke English.

I spent the next few days communicating with signs and tentative words with a man who had a few words of English. I was wearing a t-shirt with a drawing of Peter Cooper (who started Cooper Union). He asked, “You father?”

I said, “No, my teacher.”

He said, “Mo’ better.”

That was about it for communication.

As you can see in the photograph, the big danger on the job was getting hit by flying fish.

Twenty men catch about 400 fish with lines with no hooks. The tuna go into a feeding frenzy and bite anything. They are then flipped back into the boat (about where I am standing).

They do this about 10–20 times a day and catch about 2,000–4,000 fish a day.

Oh, yes, all they ate was fresh raw tuna, and at that point in my life I hated sushi and sashimi.



Tuna Fishing in New Guinea





Four Surprising Gestures


PLEASE DO NOT TURN THE PAGE UNTIL YOU READ THIS.



I am going to list four animals and I want you to think of your image of gesture for each.

Bird. Cat. Dog. Horse.

Before you turn this page, review in your mind what image each suggests to you.

When you finally look at the images, think back to your visual images when you read the words.

Because pictures are very, very specific, they probably don’t match your original associations with the words.

The thing I’m aiming at is to remind you that the more generic your image is, the less surprising, challenging, or specific it will be.

Try not for the symbol, the familiar, the iconic. Try, instead, to make your pictures a new look, a very personal, insightful type of gesture you’ve not seen in pictures again and again over the years.



Bird





Cat





Dog





Horse





The Details


I have heard the expression, “God is in the details.” I’m not quite sure about that, but I’m sure that gesture is in the details.



On occasion, you can spend time appreciating and examining the details. When you photograph these things, it behooves you to show them to us in all their glory.

In the man with the chinstrap, it is the contrast of dark skin against the chinstrap’s intricacies. In the case of the tuba, it is the face and the reflections in the tuba. In the case of the baby in Tokyo, it is the embroidery and the hat.

The one thing about the detail is that now you must see if you have rendered the subject to the utmost of its possibilities. Remember, you had time to do it well.

Rendering in this case derives its meaning from architectural rendering, where the artist is asked to draw a building or something that doesn’t actually exist so well that the feeling given is that it does exist.

It has to do with recording something as accurately as possible so it shows precisely in the photograph what you saw and felt.

The better your rendering, the more you make me feel what you felt.



Man with Chinstrap, Jamaica





Man with Tuba, London





Mother and Child, Tokyo





Make Some Notes


As you may have figured out already, I’m really not much for keeping records of my pictures—data that other photographers try to keep.



This picture of the two white barns was taken at least 50 years ago. It has stood the test of time, and still looks good to me after all these years.

It was one of many things I shot on a cross-country car trip. When I first saw it, I felt like it had been put there for me. The personality, the gesture, just made me happy to look at them. The color was simple, spare, and beautiful, but it was the gesture that I fell for. The light is okay, too, but it’s the gesture all the way that makes this sing.

Remember I mentioned I don’t keep records of notes? I have always wanted to go back there and shoot it again, but I never have. I got a call from an ad agency who asked me where it was. I said, “I can’t tell you.”

They said, “We understand, but we’re prepared to pay you a very hefty location fee. We really want to do a TV commercial using those two white barns.” “I didn’t say I won’t tell you. I can’t, because I have no damned idea where the hell I shot it.”

It might be a good idea to make some notes about where things are.

I still don’t, but it is a good idea.



Two White Barns





Use & Abuse


I often try to show the past or the future in my work. It is very rare that I am successful.



I am not only photographing what is in front of me, I am also alluding to a time when visual history, now gone, influenced what you now see.

If this sounds too artsy fartsy, just think of it as a photo of what’s there now as influenced by what ain’t there now.

One way is to show the effect of the past now visible in terms of use and abuse.

What the hell is use and abuse? It’s the history that reveals the care or lack of care through time that has been instrumental in shaping the look of something.

Gesture can change surfaces, textures, and color quite radically with the passage of time. We should be aware of the visual impact of it.

Think of trees bent by wind, railroad spikes rotted to look like Giacometti figures, the human face from infant to elder, stones eroded by water, colors faded by the sun, and the wear of door handles by constant touches.

The passage of time is inevitable and relentless. It can be gentle or harsh. We must not ignore it. It is part of the visual flow that we must make ourselves aware of.



Seattle Residue





Snow


The Inuit have numerous words for kinds of snow. I’ve shown you only three:



The heavy falling snow of “First Snow, Elizabeth St.”

The fine snow shot from my 6th floor.

The result of hours of snow accumulation.

I’m sure you will find many more on your own: driven snow, blinding snowstorms, floating snowflakes, and more.

Most of all, as you start looking deeply at things, your perception of gesture will increase exponentially.



First Snow, Elizabeth St.





Bank View





Snow and Fence





Patterns


At one point in my life, I took a job lecturing on a cruise ship. I showed slides, did the whole dog-and-pony show a few times, and that was it.



I had a lot of free time. I ate a lot. I was busily photographing one day when the purser came up to me and the conversation went something like this: “Photographing?” “Yup.” “Can I ask you a question?” “You just did.”

“First of all, we are in an inland waterway in Alaska and you are lucky that it is a gorgeous day. You can see the shore clearly on the port and starboard sides of the ship. This is all quite unusual, as the fog normally limits the visibility to about 20 feet. So, I was just wondering, since you have the view you have, why the devil have you been shooting the wake of the boat for the last two hours?”

“You know how in school,” I said to him, “as a kid, you loved music but hated math?” “Yeah.” “In both cases, you became aware of patterns, repetitions, ratios, variations, and subtle shifts of emphasis. That’s what excites me about the wakes of boats. They never change and then they do change according to speed, turns, other boats, or wind, or God knows what.”

“And that turns you on?” “Yup.” “Carry on.”

This shot was taken from a helicopter, but go to the back of any boat and you’ll be mesmerized.



Boat Wake





Whole New World


As you investigate gesture (of water, in this case), you find a great deal of what really makes a change is how close you’re working. In the previous picture, of the wake of the boat, I’m probably about 300 feet away from what I’m shooting. In this picture, I’m less than 3 feet away.



As you get closer and closer, there are more revelations. What may be invisible from a few feet away can be completely different when you get up close to it. In this case, you look at the surface tension of water, which causes the shapes you see.

If I got even closer, I would begin to see not the water itself, but the reflections in the water. On the next page, you will see those reflections, but in this case I’m more interested in the water itself.

I hope it’s becoming obvious that everything that you photograph has gesture, and within the subjects that you photograph there are wild variations.

You cannot just say water, snow, or trees. Once you understand how many different aspects each one of these subjects has, you will appreciate the variety possible in your execution of each subject.

Be aware of scale—how small or large your subjects are in relation to everything else in the image. This can have an enormous effect in your images.



Close Up





I Didn’t Really Want to Shoot This


I was in Rome with my wife, L.A., and my daughter, Amanda, who had instructed me that this was to be a “vacation.” I was not to abandon them and go shooting at the railroad station, which I freely admit I normally do.



I dutifully went wherever they wanted, and spent time with the family we were staying with. I told them that I really, really wanted to shoot at the Colosseum. They told me that they really, really wanted to go to the Trevi Fountain.

I explained that the only thing at the Trevi Fountain was crowds of tourists eating ice cream, drinking sodas, and I really, really wanted to go to the Colosseum….

While we were at the Trevi Fountain, I thought of how I violated my own instincts. I had already made up my mind that there was nothing to shoot there.

After a bit of half-hearted shooting of the tourists with their ice cream and sodas, I started looking at the water in the fountain and, despite my stubbornness and closed-mindedness, I finally saw what was in front of me.

I never got to the Colosseum on that trip.

This was my favorite image from the Rome trip. Thanks, L.A. Thanks, Amanda.



Trevi Fountain





Using Compression with Your Lens


Look at the gesture of the Manhattan Bridge. I’m emphasizing the massive cable structure of the bridge by using a 1000mm lens to compress the elements.



You may very well find it useful and/or necessary to choose your point of view and your tools very carefully to make your point about gesture.



Manhattan Bridge





Opening Up Space


On the other hand, the gesture of the Golden Gate Bridge is emphasized by using a wide-angle lens to intensify the drama and sweep of the cables here. Using the 1000mm lens would absolutely work against you.



You have to pick the right tool for the point you’re trying to make and there is no one solution.

The problem suggests the solution.



Golden Gate Bridge





Context 1


Gesture is contextual. Similar gestures can have completely different implications.



You might find this sweet, touching, or amusing.

You might smile or even laugh at this image.

But…



Boy with Doll





Context 2


You will not smile at this one. The context is completely different. You will find the juxtaposition a bit sad and ironic.



Be aware of the irony in different gestures.

Be also aware when faced with a problem which you have successfully solved, that the danger lies in being enamored with your past success. You must get over your successes and forget them in order to see fresh and new solutions.



Woman with Doll





Shoot It Forever


I have been shooting this same picture for two or three years. In order to do it, I have to step up to someone’s exterior doorway so I can have a shot that’s the same each time.



I live in fear of the door opening and knocking me to the ground. Still, it’s worth it as over time I watch this image change with the seasons, the time of day, the weather, and the things that people add to it.

Each image is structurally identical to the others but each has its own gesture and details.

This one has in the upper center the remains of balloons, which were tied to or trapped in the tree. It also has what seems to be the first buds of spring on the left and the last red leaves of fall on the right.



Spring Street Park





The Gesture of Space


Sometimes as you work, you find that you are learning things about your own perceptions and motivations that are way below your own consciousness.



If you get lucky, you recognize what you are doing, but all too often we don’t find the connection between our work and our own motivations.

Sam Abell said, “I am always trying to be aware of what I’m doing, but sometimes it is only by dumb luck that I can figure it out.”

When I took the photograph in the subway train, I was trying to show what this kid was going through—the need to get all his stuff out together before the doors closed, the sheer crowding, and the claustrophobic, dreamlike, surrealistic quality of what it must have felt like to him.

It was only later that I realized that I was not only shooting the gesture of the people, I was shooting the gesture of the constricted space.

I’m sorry I didn’t photograph the car after he and his friends and his balloons left, as it would have been a nice contrast. I just didn’t think of it.



Balloons





The Gesture of Space 2


I shot this image at the Metropolitan Museum of Art exactly one week after the subway balloons shot.



As I was editing, I looked at the two together and it seemed so obvious that gesture had the ability to delineate and describe spaces.

It may seem obvious to you, but to me that was a revelation: that gesture is not only able to define people and inanimate objects, but also (if you are careful) can convey the feeling of space itself.

Certainly there is a world of difference in the feeling of confinement and crowding in the subway shot and the utter luxury of the calm, comfort, and freedom in the isolation of the woman in the museum.

The awareness of the quality of space that is in our photos is akin to our awareness of the very air in our photos, the atmosphere that pervades every square inch of our image and yet is often invisible to the photographer.



The Met





Gesture of a City


Gesture can reveal the essence and character of anything from a mountain range to a mayfly.



It certainly can reveal in a moment the unique quality of a city.

Whenever I could swing it in terms of time and money, I would rent a helicopter, go up, and shoot.

No plan, no assignment, just the kick of looking down at the city.

I have a tendency, all other things being equal, to shoot with long lenses, but on this day the clouds, and the light, kind of called out for a wide-angle to make my shot.

I was trying to be as inclusive as possible. I didn’t want to zero in with a tele to get one particular aspect of the city.

I wanted it all, from uptown to the downtown tip of Manhattan, including the World Trade Center in the background and the Empire State Building as my anchor.



New York City





I Really Have to Get This


When we got above the clouds and I saw this, I turned to the helicopter pilot and said, “Let’s do a 360° around this and then come in tighter a little bit at a time.”



“What the hell are you doing?”

I had forgotten there was an art director in the back seat and that I was on my way to a shoot. “I really have to get this shot.” “Why? It has nothing to do with the shot we have to do.” “On the contrary, it has everything to do with that shot.” “How so?”

“Well, you’ve got a choice of doing that shot with a happy photographer or a pissed off photographer. Which would you rather have?”

He let me get my shots. I wouldn’t have let it happen any other way.

When I saw this image, I knew I had to shoot it. It was a visceral thing, totally beautiful and real. It was unplanned and, as we came up through the clouds, I was stunned—literally.

The fog was, of course, the base of the image. The mountains, the bridge, the Transamerica Pyramid, the Bank of America building, all these few interruptions, all meaningful and identifying San Francisco.

Of course, we also got the art director his shot.



San Francisco





Inanimate Gesture


I shot this from a Cessna high-wing plane on my way to shoot an assignment somewhere else.



It’s not far from Tampa and, at this point, it’s probably a community of houses.

That’s another reason to shoot things: a matter of recording history.

If you ever doubt that inanimate objects have gesture, this shows that they do.

I have been shooting aerials all over the world for many years.

The only things that consistently look organic and unscathed are the forests, the deserts, and the oceans, and within each are many powerful gestures.



Florida Forest





Different Universes


Many years ago, I was honored to be visited by Vilmos Zsigmond, one of the leading cinematographers in the world. He shot The Deer Hunter and Close Encounters of the Third Kind, among others.



I was showing him my work. He looked at some images of ice crystals on windows and said, “They’re very good.” “Thanks.” “When do you shoot them?” “Usually, just after dawn, past sunrise, till they melt.”

He sighed, and said, “I have to do them at 3:00 in the afternoon, or whenever they want them.” I never found out how he did that.

I thought of this exchange last week. It was bitter cold in New York and I was freezing, but delighted to be shooting ice crystals for the first time in more than 15 years. I know it has been at least that long because the last time I shot them was with film and I started shooting digital in 2000.

Each time you shoot ice crystals they’re different. They change from one window to the next. Each is a different universe based on light, the ice crystals themselves, the background, whether or not they’re melting, and many other possibilities.

Here are three, all quite different in gesture, all difficult and transient, all great challenges. But what a kick when it works.



Ice Crystal 1





Ice Crystal 2





Ice Crystal 3





Visual Contract


I do not speak many languages—barely get by in English—but I can pantomime like gangbusters.



I saw this guy and indicated me, him, camera, okay?

He nodded yes, smiled, and I started to shoot. He then raised the brush in that wonderful gesture.

Two things went on in my mind: first, he’s going to shake the brush and I’m going to get a face full of yellow; second thing, I’ve got to get that gesture no matter what.

Mission accomplished.

He didn’t shake it, just smiled and walked away.

These are the gifts, the momentary elusive moves that people make.

You have to be ready to shoot at all times.



Man with Brush, Sudan





Two’s Tougher Than One


When I teach, we’re always talking about the difficulties of photographing people. Most of the people in the class have gotten the hang of it by day two or three.



That’s the point at which I tell them, “Okay, you can do it now. That was not your comfort zone, but now it is. From here on, you’ve got to do two people. That’s about 10 times tougher than doing one person.”

Sometimes my instructions are not so clear to everyone. For instance, there was one guy who was doing wonderful formal portraits with one subject looking at the camera.

To give me what he thought I wanted, or possibly just to pull my chain, he brought in images with two people looking formally at the camera.

I quietly said, “I didn’t ask you to add a person. I thought you’d understand that I meant two people relating to each other.”

That’s the ultimate gesture, the revelation, and counterpoint when you get two people relating to each other.

When they get good with two, I tell them to try three. It always gets tougher. Don’t stop at easy.



Couple at Alan’s





Train Station, Rome


This is part of a series I have been shooting since 1970. I call it “Faces in a Train Station.”



I love the fact that I am able to shoot a frame-within-a-frame of people in windows.

Train stations are one of those places that people kind of understand that it’s okay to take pictures.

Sometimes they pose for you without being asked. Other times you can photograph them without being seen. Both can be wonderful.

Try it. You’ll love it. But you really have to put time in, dig deep, and don’t skim.



Man in Train Window





The All-Important Gesture


This was a commercial job for an insurance company. It was supposed to be shot indoors. I worked on it for hours. I turned to the art director and said, “It’s not getting better, it’s getting worse. We have to move it outdoors. We’ll do better.” He agreed. We went outside.



I found a white picket fence. “Is that cliché enough for you?” I asked him. He said, “Great! It’s a Middle America prop.”

We worked for about an hour trying to make it look not like some schmuck photographer set it up.

The light was fine. I had put a red t-shirt on the man that would act as a reflector on the others to avoid having them in silhouette. The color was okay, but nothing was happening. I shot about 200 shots when suddenly the little boy pulled his sister’s hair. I instantly knew I had it and that the entire day’s shoot was completely irrelevant.

That gesture made the shot. It was pure dumb luck working in my favor.

The gesture was a gift.

When we are given gifts, we must be quick and able to accept them.

They rarely get repeated spontaneously.



Boy Pulling Hair





Let the Subject Show


This is a portrait of George Ancona. I’ve known George for 70 years. We were in the Art Squad together at Abraham Lincoln High School in Brooklyn, NY.



We lost contact with each other for a while. When I started teaching at the Santa Fe Workshops, he called me and said, “Hey Jay, this is George. I live here. Let’s get together.”

Since then, I have been photographing him every year. Most of the pictures have been about me and color, some extreme close-ups, some wonderful playing with light.

This picture, which took about 10 seconds to do, is all about George. It has his gesture in his environment.

I am minimally present, minimally invasive.

It’s good to forget about yourself once in a while.



George Ancona in His Studio





Waiting 35 Years


Walking on the streets of Chicago, shooting whatever I could find, run into, or get lucky shooting. I saw this woman rearranging her clothing. I couldn’t see specifically what she was doing. Her back was to me.



I did know that the man, patiently waiting for her to finish whatever she was doing by the gesture of his body and the look on his face, had been waiting for her like this for 35 years.



Man and Woman, Chicago





I’ve Been Influenced


I don’t exactly remember what the event was that day, but I knew I had to go downtown and see what was happening. I did a lot of shooting and then came upon this shot. I tried it many ways from many angles. This was the nuttiest one of the lot.



If truth be told, I was influenced by spending time with Lee Friedlander and looking at Garry Winogrand’s retrospective exhibit in San Francisco.

I normally don’t work in this disjointed, busy way, but it felt wonderful to break out of my mold.

After all, Ellen Glasgow said, “The only difference between a rut and a grave are the dimensions.”



World Trade Center Area





Shooting Without Breaking Stride


Sometimes there’s not a lot to say about a photograph. You’re walking along and—Bam!—it’s in your lap. This is the kind of thing that you really don’t have time to think about.



If you’re like me, you don’t want to ask someone to pose for you. You know that it will change the whole thing that attracted you in the first place. Also, if you don’t speak the language, you know you’ll screw up the request.

I was walking along in a market in Omdurman, a suburb of Khartoum, in the Sudan.

The man, his gesture of relaxation, his “work,” and the gestures of all the vegetables were great for me.

As I approached him, I put the camera up to my eye, got two frames, smiled at him, made a thank you gesture, and I was gone.



Vegetable Man, Sudan





That’s Not What I Meant


When I saw this print I realized, “That’s not what I meant.”



After all, the tree was chartreuse, the shingles blue-gray, the awning Viridian green, the steps ivory, and of course, the American flag….

I think this is the picture that got me to stop shooting black and white.

I’ve shot black and white, but I never saw in black and white. I always saw in color.



American Flag, Chartreuse Trees, Green Awning





Invisible Fence


I taught at the Anderson Ranch Arts Center in Snowmass Village, Colorado. I spent a great deal of my free time shooting a red fence that went around the outfield of a local baseball field. The fence was about 300–500′ long and went from left field all the way around to right field, a bright red perforated fence.



I try not to tell students where to shoot, when to shoot, or what to shoot. I feel finding the picture is the most important part of being a photographer. The actual shooting is of lesser importance.

Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday pass and nobody has photographed this fence.

I give up and tell them about the fence. Thursday and Friday I am inundated with red fence pictures.

I ask how they could have missed it. I get no satisfactory answers.

The image I show here is an extreme close-up, since I’d already shot it with the telephoto and wide-angle and wanted to examine it at close range.

It’s not just “in” color, it’s “about” color.

It’s also about “vibration,” which we’ll talk about later in this book.



Spider on Fence





I Found Her Again


When I saw this at the Feast of San Gennaro in New York City, I was stunned by the “rightness” of it.



The color blue, the woman, the rope—it was a great gift.

I shot about two rolls before she took off. I tried to talk to her, but she was gone.

About two years later, I was incredibly lucky to find her in a crowd. I pantomimed her to wait and yelled out, “Does anyone speak Chinese and English?!”

A young guy came over, “What’s the problem?”

“I have some terrific pictures of her and I’d like to give her $200 so I can get a model release and use them.”

Discussion between them starts to get heated, becomes an argument, she stalks off.

Guy says to me, “Good news and bad news. Bad news is she’s illegal and she won’t sign anything. Good news is you will never have to worry about using the pictures. She will never sue you.”

Mixed blessing.



Chinese Woman with Blue and Rope





Shoot It, Dammit!


Years ago, I was shooting something in a snowstorm. I was with a buddy of mine and he saw and pointed out a great shot. I didn’t shoot it. He said, “You don’t like it?”



“No, it’s great.” “Then why don’t you shoot it?” “It’s your shot, you saw it.”

“Jay, you know I’ll f*¢% it up. Please shoot or we’ll have no record of it.” “Okay.” I did shoot it and his shot did f*¢% up.

So, years later, when I saw this shot while walking with a friend, he started shooting and I held back, but then I remembered the incident in the snow and I shot this one. His was completely different from mine.

Seth Resnick and J.P. Caponigro, both wonderful photographers, were shooting from the same spot on a boat at the icebergs in front of them in Antarctica. Seth was shooting with a 300mm and J.P. with a 28mm. Seth said, “I wish I had something longer than the 300mm.” J.P. said, “I know exactly what you mean. I wish I had something wider than the 28mm.”

Take the shot. Your buddy’s picture and yours will probably be quite different.

P.S. Just don’t get in the other guy’s way.

P.P.S. It’s better to go out shooting alone. It’s lonely, but you’ll be more introspective, less social, and more proactive.



Guy in Street, Green Car





A “Save”


Shot in Vegas, this was one of the eight images in the book that was worked on in post-production.



I cropped off edges that didn’t work and lightened the figure in the window.

Usually, if I don’t get it in the camera, I don’t bother with it. I just go pick another one.

But there was no way to get this in-camera and I just wanted to see it the way my eyes saw it.



Vegas Yellow





No-Color Color


I was in New Jersey, shooting back at New York City from Jersey City.



I saw this and realized that I was looking at what I call “no-color color.”

It’s an image in which the color is so subtle as to be almost invisible, so one settles upon any bit of color as a starving man will seize any crumb of food.

It’s difficult to find, but very rewarding as you realize it doesn’t have to always be about loud, saturated reds, yellows, and blues, but can be about softer palettes.



World Trade Center





Make Visible


Shortly after the black-and-white American flag shot, I went to Washington and saw this.



I try not to photograph the artworks of others.

I have one exception to this rule and one quote that I thought of that allowed me to shoot.

The exception is that I can shoot it if it’s going to disappear and not be seen again.

“Make visible, what without you, might perhaps never have been seen.” –Robert Bresson



American Flag Sewn





I’ll Paint It Again


Years ago, there was a young man named Paul Potash who lived in my building. He had a room on the third floor and he told me he wanted to paint the room black.



I informed him that he would never have children if he did that. He was very persistent and said, “How about if I just paint the ceiling black?” “Look schmuck, if you paint that ceiling black I will….” I don’t exactly remember what I sputtered, but it was profane, threatening, and obviously I was about to be overcome by Paul who was sweet, charming, and relentless.

“But Jay, why not?”

“Because I don’t want the damn thing black.”

“When I leave, I’ll paint it white again.” “Paul, if you paint white over black, they each have different expansion coefficients and so the white will peel off.” “But, Jay, if it peels off, I’ll paint it again.”

Paul lives in La Jolla, California, now. He’s a fantastic cabinetmaker and photographer.

On his rare visits to New York, he stays with us at the Bank. When we walk around and get to the third floor ceiling, I usually say, “Paul, you promised.” His reply is always the same, “You know you love it, Jay. You’re always shooting it.”



Third Floor, Bank





Finally...


I’ve been trying to get this shot for years—couldn’t get it. By the time I lined it up, framed it, and took the shot, security would come out and yell at me and the exposure would be blurred or out of focus anyway.



When I got the Nikon D3, it opened up a whole new ball game. I could shoot at 1600 ISO at all times. I could get the shot and be gone.

It’s an example of technical advances enabling you to shoot things you couldn’t shoot before.

It doesn’t mean your pictures will be great, but it does mean you can shoot in areas that were formerly unavailable to you.

Note that the impression this picture gives is of color, but not colors. Monochromatic color can work for you by letting you concentrate on the few colors you’re using.

You need minimum color for maximum effect.



Blue Lobby





Wait


Sometimes, as you’re walking, you get hit by a color and there’s no turning away.



When I saw this red, I knew had I to shoot it.

It was a “stabile,” Alexander Calder’s name for his sculpture that did not move. Many of his sculptures did move and moved well. These he called “mobiles.”

This place no longer exists. It was at the corner of the World Trade Center and was demolished on September 11, 2001.

When I saw it, it was just the red, nothing else at all. I did what one has to do—I waited, and waited, and waited…. Finally, these two men appeared and I probably should have waited longer to try other people, but I had waited long enough.

A terrible phrase, which implies that something is more important than shooting.

But sometimes, you lose focus and that’s not a pun.



Red with Silhouette Figures





“Well...”


I had an assignment to shoot the Grand Tetons in Wyoming. It was not going to be mountain climbing, more like mountain strolling. But, in any case, we had to carry in a lot of gear for food, camping, and of course photographing.



I really hate carrying around a lot of crap. My assistant Gabe felt the same way. So we hired a couple of big, strong local kids who knew the terrain and had all the local knowledge we didn’t have.

Next day, I come back to inspect the troops. They’ve got four piles of stuff, two for them, two for me and Gabe. I look it over and say, “In your two piles, you’ve each got Himalayan down jackets. It’s the end of July, for God’s sake, why?” “Well, it can get mighty cold when you get high in the Tetons.”

We had no drugs, so I assumed he was referring to altitude. I asked him, “If it gets cold, do you have Himalayan jackets for us?” “Well, no.” “Why not?” “Well, it probably won’t get that cold.” “Then why do you have two for yourselves?” “Well, you never can tell.” “Get two more.”

We went in and when we woke up the following morning, this beautiful, limited, no-color color went as far as the eye could see.



Grand Tetons





Guess Who Tells You the Shoot’s Over


When I’m shooting for myself, I am motivated by what happens in front of me.



I have no desire or capacity to tweak what’s going on to “make it better” or change it in any way.

When I did commercial work, I always tried my best to not water it down because it was not my “personal work.” However, your commercial work is conceived in somebody else’s head and has to be approved by them in order to be used at all.

That’s problem number one. Number two is that you’re basically doing a mini movie. You have to cast it, dress the set, motivate the actors, and make the whole thing “sing.”

If there are pets, children, or babies involved, it becomes an enormous crapshoot. It is not the client, or the art director, or the account guys, or me, or anyone else that determines when the shoot is over.

It’s the pet, the child, or the baby. They alone will let you know that, “It’s a wrap, guys.”

This was supposed to be a happy kid with his mom. He didn’t see it that way.

I, heartless as usual, decided to just shoot for myself what was real, what was in front of me.



Crying Baby





Full Color


I was shooting in Isfahan, Iran. It was one of a series of towns that I was shooting in for a book called Celebration at Persepolis. It was about the 2,500th anniversary of the birth of Cyrus the Great.



I had been happy with a lot of the stuff I got, but when I saw this, I nearly wet my pants. I was so excited that I had to severely admonish myself: don’t rush; don’t shoot with the motor or he’ll fly off. I think it was the first time in many years I shot this and all of the next few shots without a motor. I was just blown away with the range of color and how it all related to this little black bird.

The shot was okay without the bird, but the bird was the trigger.

Always wait for the trigger. The trigger is the final part of the puzzle, the reason you want to shoot.



Bird in Iran





Colors, Not Color


This is fun, but....



This is not about color, it’s more about “colors.” It’s so full of color that it’s hard to see color at all. I love the obviousness and the vulgarity of it, but I really don’t think it’s the kind of color I want to pursue.

Color really doesn’t have interaction if it’s full of colors. It’s the interaction or relationships among or between colors that makes a color image. This usually happens with a few colors, not a glut of them.

These colors all beat their chest and say, “Look at me! Look at me!” They don’t interact.



Glasses





Color, Not Colors


This is about color, not about colors.



It’s an unusual photo for me. No climax, no incident—almost like wallpaper and yet strangely touching.

It isn’t no-color color but it is limited color.

The quality, the mood of it, touched me deeply and made me feel a profound sadness.



Wet Handball Court





Forget What It Was, Look at What It Is


This is one of those pictures that is not just in color, but is about color. The previous photo of the handball court is also about color, but it makes reference to subject matter.



This image is not about anything but love of color for its own sake. Ostensibly, there is a screen and a grid resembling a building, but it’s really about itself.

These kinds of images are difficult to discuss. When one of them comes along, it’s not any kind of intelligent analysis that goes on in my mind.

There is kind of a gut reaction, a lust that says it must be photographed. There is a passion for me to get it beyond any rational discussion.

It’s beautiful and I must have it for later observation.

I also want to show it and say, “Look at this. Isn’t it great?”

No, I don’t care what it is. What it is moves me.



Pink Grid





Is It Light, Gesture, or Color?


As I sat down to write about this image, I noted “Girl with Red Lollipop, Green Nails, and Gray-Blue Hood.” I guess that obviously my reference to this image was more about color than light or gesture.



That solved my classification problem.

As you may have noticed, it’s really a subjective call as to which category you assign each picture.

I love the light (open shade, very descriptive of form).

I love the gesture of the girl, her skin, her fingers, the hood, the shadows, the way she holds her hand, the slightly open mouth—all of it is wonderful.

But, it’s the color that carries the day.

Once I have taken the shot and lived with it a while, only then and with just the slightest bit of O.C.D., do I designate, in my own mind, which category—light, gesture, or color—is primary.

Strange thing is if you get one, you almost always get two, and if you’re lucky, you get all three. I rarely get all three.



Girl with Red Lollipop, Green Nails, and Gray-Blue Hood





Colors That Have Lived Together


This was photographed in Mexico, in San Cristóbal de las Casas, a wonderful town near the border of Guatemala.



The patient gestures of the father and son, for me, echoed the color on either side of them.

The walls, which were originally reddish and greenish, have mellowed over years of exposure to sun, rain, heat, and cold.

The reds are not so red; the greens not so green. The colors learned to live together over time. They’ve lost their intensity and now relate to each other in a much more subtle way.



Dad & Kid, Mexico





Move Your Ass


I often go back to things I’ve shot before, sometimes because I encounter them again and again.



After lunch on Monday, the first day of my week-long class, I sent my class out shooting. I always walk home myself, I always walk home the quickest way, I always pass this wall, and I always shoot it by standing next to it (to intensify its reflection) and shooting along it.

You’ll notice a lot of “always” in that sentence and, as I approached the wall, I thought it would probably be a good thing to try a different point of view.

So, I crossed the street and shot the wall head on and came up with very simple reflections—less exact, but I was able to incorporate a person, which I couldn’t do as easily in the past.

You have to learn not only from your failures. You must also learn from your successes.

You have to let the past successes go, or you’ll never be able to see anew.



Granite Wall, Chinese Kid





Garry’s Color Events


When I came upon this scene in Hyde Park in London, it took me a while to catch my breath. It was a wonderful gift, so great I imagined it must have been photographed countless times by an endless parade of photographers before me. But I had to do it.



As excited as I was to see it, imagine how crushed I was when it suddenly disappeared. Clouds had covered the sun. I was in despair until I looked up at the sky and saw that it was just one cloud and it would move out of the way in a few moments.

As I waited, I thought back to a phrase Garry Winogrand had used to describe this kind of phenomenon. He called it a “color event,” a variation of the concept of the decisive moment. A confluence, however momentary, of the juxtaposition of light and color that changes the very nature of what you’re looking at.

When the light reappeared, I worked on this for quite some time, photographing different aspects of the situation—long shots, close-ups, wide angles, whatever I could think of.

The bizarre thing was that I had never seen anybody else’s photograph of it. Even more bizarre is that I have never seen a photograph of it since then.

Don’t overthink things in front of you. If it moves you, shoot it. If it’s fun, shoot it. If you’ve never seen it before, shoot it.



Hyde Park Lawn Chairs





The Players Will Come


I try not to plan my images. Occasionally, though, I will see something and make a mental note to go back and shoot it.



I saw this incredible orange color painted on a temporary wall outside a business undergoing construction.

I kept meaning to go there to shoot, but one thing and another kept me from doing that.

Finally, I went there and in the back of my mind was the quote from Robert Doisneau (the wonderful French photographer), “I find the stage and the players will come.”

The orange wall was my stage and I shot there for quite some time, shooting hundreds of pictures. The girl was beautiful, involved in her phone, and oblivious to me. It was another gift.



Woman & Orange Wall





The Next Day


As I was shooting the wall, the light was changing and there were now shadows.



I saw this man walking toward the shadows on the right.

I knew this was going to be a more complex image, not only because I would have a light orange in the sun and a dark orange in the shadow.

In addition, I would have the fire hydrant, the police barricades, and the hinges to make it a more surrealistic image.

The next day they took the wall down.



Orange Wall 2





Avoid Blinders


Despite all my best efforts to be open, not to plan, to not wear blinders, I often fail. On this particular day, I had made plans to go out to New Jersey and shoot back at New York City. I had done that many times and had gotten some very good stuff. But today, I had a plan!



I was going to get the beautiful gold color on all the windows in New York as the sun was going down. I could just see the gold reflections at sunset. It was going to be spectacular!

Well, of course, as we all might have predicted, there were no golden reflections of the sun. There was no sun. There was just a pissed off, disappointed photographer who had been thwarted in his attempt.

Petulant, unhappy, and frustrated, I started throwing all my tripods, cameras, and miscellaneous crap into the car.

I was there with my ex-wife, who looked at the spectacle I was making of myself and simply said, “Turn around, stupid.” I looked and was amazed to see that the sky had turned blood red and the buildings were reflecting the red afterglow.

Had I not been told to look, I would have quit, ignorant of what was really there, because I had “made plans” and was wearing visual and emotional blinders that limited my perceptions and my vision.



NY Red and Blue





What’s Not Really There


This vibration between red and green is an optical phenomenon.



It only happens when you have two colors that are at opposite ends of the color wheel and are the same value in relation to dark and light.

For instance, you will not get a vibration between a light green and a dark red or vice versa. Nor will you get it if they’re not opposite each other on the color wheel.

But, when all systems are go and you get it, it will be a forceful thing. I don’t know if the reproduction in this book will get this across to you, but if it does, when it works, you’ll see an edge that may or may not have a third color that will be there and disappear and then come back again.



Green/Red Vibration





A Little Knowledge Can Be a Wonderful Thing


In painting, you can have any color relationship or vibration you choose. You are, after all, painting what you wish.



However, as a photographer who is interested in how things look as they are found, you will very rarely see a vibration between yellow and blue. Usually, the yellow is too light and the blue is too dark.

Interestingly enough, if you put colors together which are the same value and are adjacent to each other on the color wheel, you get a line where the edges disappear, they seem to meld into one another.

“How do I use these things in my photography?” is often asked. My answer? I have no idea.

All these factors are only valuable if you’re curious. But in any case, the more knowledge you have, the more things are open and available to you.



Yellow/Blue Vibration





Spoiling Mystery


One of the things that attracts you to color is the juxtaposition of bizarre color within a prosaic image.



This certainly was the case here—a normal landscape but with wrecked cars and the acid green all over half of the tree and the ground.

I love pictures that ask questions and, as I left, I kept saying to myself, why the green?

I hope it doesn’t spoil the mystery for you, but I later found out the green is a chemical retardant sprayed to suppress fire.



Spraying Green





Rushed Wedding


My godchild, Anna, was getting married in Rome and my gift was to cover the wedding, soup to nuts (bride getting dressed, ceremony, rice, reception, etc.).



I was always scared of shooting weddings. God forbid you screw up, there are no second chances.

So I only agree to do it if there is also a “real” wedding photographer doing it.

They had two.

Most people getting married in Rome do it in a church.

If you don’t want to do it in a church, there are only a few chapels in Rome where you can get married. These chapels are booked up all the time and the weddings are assembly line matters. As one couple leaves to be pelted with rice, the next couple enters to be married.

So…I didn’t have a lot of time. When I saw the light in this chapel, I worked my way to the front, was floored by the overall color, and I really don’t think I could have missed.

Maybe I’ll start doing weddings.



Wedding in Rome





Traffic Tie-Ups Can Work for You


I believe in luck. It also helps to have your camera with you and ready to go.



This gentleman is stuck in traffic. He’s on a bicycle-type delivery cart and he’s blocked by two trucks.

That gave me time to work carefully with the figure in relation to the painted wall in the background.

The color is limited and that’s fine with me. Lots of colors is not always the answer. You don’t always want bright colors; you want interactions of color.

Having said that about limited color, there was no way I could pass up the next picture, a gaudy multi-colored thing within a tank in a fish store.

It’s all good.



Interactions of Colors





Got Anything Shiny or Red?


When I was doing commercial work, specifically annual reports, sometimes I would show up and there was literally nothing to shoot. That’s when you start digging, trying to find out what and where they are not showing you.



To change all that I would usually ask, “If you brought your kid here and wanted to impress him, what would you show him?” That’s when they would realize that a black box with two buttons was not what I was looking for, so the interesting stuff would come out—the eccentric things, the bright colors, the fun stuff.

It has been 18 years since I quit doing commercial work.

I’m still the kid looking for the bright colors. I appreciate the softer, more subtle things, but the allure of COLOR still calls out to me.

When I passed the fish store and saw this from the street, it became another thing that slowed down any errands that were being done.

Another example of the problem being part of the solution: I was annoyed that I couldn’t get the bubbles and tubes out of the image. I finally realized that their presence, their specificity, gave more personality and intimacy to the image.



Red Fish





Something’s Always Going On


Walking around for hours without shooting anything is not unusual and I’d found zero things to shoot on this afternoon.



I was on my way to meet people for dinner. I really had not planned to shoot anymore, as I was late, but then the squares of green caught my eye.

You sort of have to be always aware, even when you’re not thinking of shooting. That’s when the best stuff happens.



Green Squares, Two Chefs





It’s All Spread Out in Front of You


I just feel so damned privileged to be in a plane or helicopter looking down at the world from above. This is in a big jet, flying into Salt Lake City or near San Francisco, I don’t remember which.



One of my early heroes that got me all excited about photography was Bill Garnett. Recent heroes include George Steinmetz, who “wears” his aircraft, and Yann Arthus-Bertrand. I think we are all delighted as children and adults about what it looks like from up there. It’s like a toy table for grownups and I never tire of it.

Some photographers are so blown away at the views and the multitude of possibilities that they freeze and don’t know what to do. Familiarity with art in general goes a long way to helping people in choosing from that great smorgasbord from the sky.

Make sure your camera works accurately at infinity. Don’t touch the aircraft with anything but your ass—bracing yourself against the seat or window will only transfer the vibrations to your camera. In a helicopter, fly with the door removed.

You’ll freeze your ass off, but the pictures will be quantum leaps ahead of shooting through the window. If you lean out of the helicopter with your seatbelt, make sure to secure the seatbelt with gaffer’s tape. Also be sure to put an “ear” on the tape, so that you can get the thing off in a hurry when you’re trying to get off in a panic.



Salt Beds





You Get Two Chances, Again


The wall is a hundred yards from my house. I have photographed it for 20 years, since it is on the way to a friend’s house. The wall constantly changes: sometimes white with graffiti, sometimes a solid color, sometimes profound, sometimes profane.



I was quite taken with the accumulation of the paint since the last iteration, which was a pure color wall.

When I shot it, I found out only after I left the scene that I had been using the wrong color balance. I rejected the picture, didn’t put it in my selects, or even my second selects, because I shot it at the “wrong” color balance.

Sometime later, I was going over this work and realized I was very attracted to this image. Loved the guy, the dogs, and the color. Liked it even better than the actual color that was there.

When you shoot, that is opportunity number one to make a statement.

When you edit, you have opportunity number two to make your statement. It could be an affirmation of your first choice or could go off in another direction.

Keep your mind open. You may very well learn something new about yourself and your pictures.



Wall





Perfect Adobe


I have photographed in Santa Fe, New Mexico, for many years because I teach a class there every year at the Santa Fe Workshops.



You always end up shooting the adobe buildings. When I saw this, I shot for quite some time, framing, reframing, changing exposures, because I knew it was perfect to have the late sun warming the building while the sky in the background went black. It’s after a rain, as you can see by the watermarks on the building.

I so desperately wanted to get this so I could stop shooting the damn adobe buildings. I nailed it on this one.



Adobe Buildings





Problem=Solution


Ernst Haas once said, “With reflections, you become too soon a genius.”



He was right. Reflections are easy, and even easier in New York City.

When I saw this, though, it took a while to figure out what was going on. It’s a location truck for the many movies shot in my neighborhood, and it’s complicated enough to be a challenge and a delight.

Many times, when you’re shooting, you find certain things get in the way of what you’re trying to do. I really just wanted the reflections without the hardware of the truck.

It took me a while to figure out that the hardware was not really a problem, but the means to a richer image.

Again, the problem can be the solution.



Reflections





Luck


I always shoot from my hotel room.



I was in Las Vegas, bemoaning and whining over the fact that the windows were tinted green. Again, the things you consider a problem can aid you if you keep an open mind.

The luminosity and color in the shadows, the intensity of the green, wouldn’t have worked if the windows weren’t tinted.

Lucked out again.



Tinted Windows





Stop Planning


I really am a nut about exactitude and clean, clear rendering in my work.



But then I see something that obscures all the detail and makes me look at pure color.

This was a vinyl cover in an outdoor restaurant at the Feast of San Gennaro in Little Italy.

I can “feel” the vinyl even now.

Again, you must be open to what otherwise may seem to be a detriment to your “plans.”



Vinyl





Crop in the Camera as Much as Possible


This is at a basketball court with two handball courts on the sides. I had been walking with friends and excused myself because I saw the light, ran across the street, and shot a great many pictures before the light disappeared.



It’s a game. You move, the players move, the light changes, and you try to make the whole thing show the magic you feel when you’re looking at it.

You always end up with too many pictures to edit and too few that you feel “got it.”

This picture has been cropped, one of eight in this book. There’s a guy I cropped out on the right. As I get older, I can’t move as fast as I’d like, and sometimes the cropping has to take place later.

I’m not pleased about this, and I try not to need to do it.

Above all, if it doesn’t work, crop it out. Do it in-camera if you can. Don’t allow yourself to become sloppy in your shooting. If you can correct it later, fine, but don’t make it a habit or you will get careless in your shooting and spend more time at the computer than you do with the camera.



New York City Handball





Five Hours of Nothing


This was after an unusual experience of sitting on a plane, looking for images for five hours, and not finding anything I wanted to shoot.



That was followed by going to pick up my luggage and finding this shot when I wasn’t even trying.

It’s important to realize that the images are everywhere, not just where you want or expect them to be.

You can’t just turn on when something happens, you have to be turned on all the time. Then things happen.



Baggage Claim





Something New


I was having dinner on 9th Street, between 5th and 6th Avenues, with seven other photographers. I glanced outside and saw that the sun was setting and the light was incredible. It wasn’t falling on anything interesting, though, which is often the case.



I said, “Guys, the light’s great. I’m going out to shoot.” I ran outside and, sure enough, the light was great, but there was nothing that it highlighted, nothing that it transformed. I waited a while and suddenly this woman came out and started to hail a taxi.

No taxi. Finally, one came. She walked to the door and I was amazed.

How did the light get through the city, low as it was, and manage to clear all the buildings between 6th Avenue and the Hudson River and yet be low enough to illuminate the red shoes and the very bottom of the tire? I got lucky on the couple crossing the street in the background. I got lucky again with the fact that the car in the background hit the brakes and gave me one of a number of accents in the picture mirroring her shoes.

I was so excited when I shot this, but I didn’t quite understand why. I finally figured out that it was because I was seeing a juxtaposition of light and color that I’d never seen before and that was the biggest kick of all.

Money and fame that photography can bring you are wonderful, but nothing can compare to the joy of seeing something new.



Woman, Shoes, Taxi





Black and White and Color


When I travel by air, I never really mind delayed planes because I love to shoot in the terminals. I had just finished a shoot of seven or eight people watching a video on a computer.



I photographed a few other groups and just happened to look over my shoulder to see this man with the newspaper.

There’s a certain amount of fun shooting people from behind. You know, totally, that someone can tell them, “You’re being photographed.”

I try not to be furtive and always have a pleasant, smiling, non-threatening demeanor.

I did a book on Jerusalem. It was all in color, but the editor wanted me to do the ultra-Orthodox Jews in black and white (“Since they all wear black and white,” he said). I exclaimed that this was the one section that should be in color. I lost.

What I loved about this was every single thing about this picture was in black and white except the guy’s skin. Somehow that delighted me, and though it is the gesture of the head and the newspaper that attracted me, it was the black and white in relation to the color that was really the motivation.



Back of Head





There Are No Rules


Father Flanagan, idealized by Spencer Tracy in Boys Town, believed there’s “no such thing as a bad boy” (open to conjecture). I say there is no such thing as a bad color. It’s a really personal thing and it all has to do with its content and its relationship to other colors.



There are so many things “wrong” with this image.

It’s dominated by an acid green.

It’s a reflection with low contrast.

There’s little clarity in the details.

The color is so overwhelming that the whole thing assumes the quality of wallpaper.

There is no trigger, no climax, no content.

It’s an extremely demanding image. You have to look for the details.

It looks like it was shot through an ugly green filter.

I love it.



Green Reflection





Bizarre Sunrise


This remains one of my favorite images. When I saw it, my eyes must have popped open in a dumb stare because I’d never seen anything like it before.



It’s not that rare in all probability, but I’d never seen it before or since and that’s the switch that turns me on.

It’s one of those rare moments that you never quite forget whether or not you got the shot.

Fortunately, I got it and that’s so much better than saying, “I didn’t have my camera so let me describe this to you.”

This is the last shot.

Thanks for looking.



Bank View





Index


28-300mm zoom lens, 48

400-year-old wall, 94–95

1000mm lens, 8, 126





A


Abell, Sam, 136

additive color, 5

adobe buildings, 40–41, 230–231

aerial photography, 226–227

Florida forest, 145

Maine trees and town, 16–17, 28–29

New York City, 140–141

San Francisco, 142–143

airplane photos, 47, 96–97

Allen, Woody, 84

ambivalence, 92

American flag, 167, 179

Ancona, George, 158–159

Arthus-Bertrand, Yann, 226

artworks, 178

assignments, 28





B


backgrounds, 66, 72

backlit child, 71

“bad” color, 246

“bad” light, 1–2, 32–41

baggage claim photo, 241

balloons, subway, 136–137

The Bank, 180–181

baptism, 64–65

Beckett, Samuel, 84

bird gesture, 104

bird in Iran, 190–191

black-and-white

color juxtaposed with, 244–245

seeing in color vs., 166–167

blinders, avoiding, 210

blue lobby photo, 183

blue/yellow vibration, 214–215

boardwalk light, 38–39

boat wake, 120–121

body builders, 98–99

bottom-lit photo, 78–79

Bowman, Gordon, 96

Boys Town (film), 246

Brando, Marlon, 4

Bresson, Robert, 178

bridge photos

bridge in fog, 80–81

compression used in, 126–129

wide-angle, 128–129

bus wheels, 33





C


Calder, Alexander, 184

Caponigro, J. P., 172

car and Tetons, 60–61

cat gesture, 105

categorizing photos, 198

cave drawings, 6

ceiling paint, 180–181

Celebration at Persepolis book, 190

chefs working, 225

Chicago, Illinois, 160–161

children

backlit, 71

boy with doll, 131

crying baby, 189

girl with halo, 85

hair pulling, 157

mother and child, 111

top-lit, 75

Chinese woman, 170–171

city gesture, 140–141

Clarkson, Rich, 58

Clifton, Lucille, 1

close-ups, 122–123

color, 5–7, 192–195

black & white with, 244–245

consideration on “bad,” 246

effects of aging, 200–201

full range of, 190–191

interactions of, 220–221

light juxtaposed with, 242–243

limited, 194–195, 220

monochromatic, 182–183

no-color, 176–177, 186–187

color balance, 228–229

color events, 204

commercial work, 188, 222

compression, 126–127

Coney Island, 38–39

constricted space, 136–137

context, 18, 130–133

Cooper, Peter, 101

cropping

in-camera, 238

post-production, 68, 74, 174, 238

crosses of light, 83

crying baby, 189





D


dawn, 28–29

decisive moment, 204

delightful light, 82–83

depth of field, 66, 72

details, 108–111

dog gesture, 106

Doisneau, Robert, 206

doll in images

boy with doll, 131

woman with doll, 133

driving, 22





F


F-16 airplane, 96–97

fire breathers, 54–55

fish tank, 222–223

flash units, 50

Florida forest, 145

foggy bridge, 80–81

forest light, 12–13

Friedlander, Lee, 162

f-stop, 72





G


Garnett, Bill, 226

gesture, 2, 3–4

of a city, 140–141

context and, 130–133

inanimate, 144–145

non-active, 90–91

posed, 88–89

of space, 136–139

spontaneous, 156–157

surprising, 103–107

of waiting, 160–161

Glasgow, Ellen, 162

going out, 48

Golden Gate Bridge, 128–129

Grand Tetons, 60–61, 186–187

Granite Wall photo, 203

green/red vibration, 212–21





H


Haas, Ernst, 1, 22, 84, 232

Halloween night, 50–51

halo girl, 85

handball courts, 34–35, 52–53, 195, 239

Heisler, Greg, 44

helicopter photography. See aerial photography

horse gesture, 107

Hyde Park, London, 204–205





I


ice crystals, 146–149

identical images, 134–135

impressionists, 5

inanimate gesture, 144–145

in-camera cropping, 238

influences, 162

Iran bird, 190–191

irony, 132





J


Johns, Jasper, 84

joy, 12

jury duty, 30





K


karate pose, 88–89

knowledge, 214





L


Las Vegas, Nevada, 175, 234

leaves on fence, 50–51

lenses

telephoto, 8, 126

wide-angle, 128, 140

zoom, 48

Leonardo da Vinci, 86

less is more, 80

light, 1–2

“bad,” 1–2, 32–41

color and, 242–243

limited, 44–45

north, 86–87

open shade, 68–69

reflected, 20–21

surprise, 42–43, 82–83

limited light, 44–45

looking around, 76





M


Maine

aerial of trees, 16–17

country fair, 54–55

Manhattan Bridge, 126–127

Marco, Phil, 44

Metropolitan Museum of Art, 138–139

Mexican father and son, 200–201

Milwaukee road, 22–23

minimalism, 38

missed shots, 84

mobiles, 184

Monet, Claude, 86

monochromatic color, 182–183

Mosque light, 45

mother and child, 111

mystery, 216





N


nature photography, 12

New Guinea tuna fishing, 100–102

New York City

aerial photo, 140–141

sunset skyline, 210–211

newness of images, 242

Nikon 28-300mm zoom lens, 48

no-color color, 176–177, 186–187

north light, 86–87

note making, 112





O


objectivity, 1

on-camera flash, 50

openness, 58

orange wall, 206–209

Orlando, Florida, 98

overhead light, 75





P


painted wall, 10–11

Paris bathroom, 86–87

parking lot, 58–59

passage of time, 114

past success, 132

patterns, 120–121

photo vendor, 94–95

Picasso, Pablo, 6

pink grid image, 197

plans, deviating from, 236–237

players on the stage, 206

portraits

relational, 152–153

train window, 154–155

Portugal landscape, 37

posed photos, 88–89

post-processing, 68, 74, 174, 238

Potash, Paul, 180

power lines, 24–27





Q


questions, 46, 216





R


red brick building, 30–31

red/green vibration, 212–213

reflected light, 20–21

reflections, 232–233

rendering images, 108

reshooting images, 62

Resnick, Seth, 172

restaurant photo, 56–57

reverse shadows, 14–15

Rome, Italy

man in train window, 154–155

man selling photographs, 94–95

Trevi Fountain, 124–125

wedding photo, 218–219





S


San Francisco aerial photo, 142–143

Santa Fe, New Mexico, 18–19, 41, 230–231

scale, awareness of, 122

Seattle, Washington, 115

self-criticism, 1

shade light, 68–69

shadows, reverse, 14–15

silhouettes, 185

snow photos, 116–119

space, gesture of, 136–139

spider on fence, 169

spontaneous gestures, 156–157

Spring Street Park, 135

stabiles, 184

Steinmetz, George, 226

subtractive color, 5

subway

stairs with figure, 62–63

train with balloons, 136–137

successes, learning from, 202

Sudanese men, 151, 164–165

sun photography, 8–9

sunrise image, 248–249

sunset skyline, 210–211

surprise light, 42–43, 82–83

surprising gestures, 103–107





T


teapot lady, 91

technical advances, 182

telephone lines, 24–27

telephoto lens, 8, 126

ticker tape parade, 78–79

time, passage of, 114

tinted windows, 234–235

top-lit child, 75

tough town image, 92–93

Tracy, Spencer, 246

train stations, 154

Trevi Fountain, 124–125

trigger, image, 190

tuba player, 110

tuna fishing, 100–102





U


use and abuse, 114





V


vegetable man, 165

vinyl, shooting through, 236–237

visual contract, 150





W


waiting, 160, 184

wall of light, 20–21

wandering around, 48

water drops, 122–123

wedding photo, 218–219

weightlifters, 98–99

“where” consideration, 76

white barns, 112–113

wide-angle lens, 128, 140

windows

framing people in train, 154–155

shooting through tinted, 234–235

Winogrand, Garry, 50, 162, 204

World Trade Center, 177

“wrong” pictures, 96





Y


yellow/blue vibration, 214–215





Z


zoom lens, 48

Zsigmond, Vilmos, 146





