On Photography



BY SUSAN SONTAG
On Photograph}'                                                   ii




                                                    Copyright
On Photography
Copyright© 1973 by Susan Sontag
Published by arrangement with Farrar, Straus & Giroux
Cover art and eForeword to the electronic edition copyright©
2005 by RosettaBooks, LLC

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be used or repro­
duced in any manner whatsoever without written permission
except in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical articles
and reviews.

For information address Editor@RosettaBooks.com

First electronic edition published 2005 by RosettaBooks LLC,
New York.

ISBN 0-7953-2699-8
On Photography                                       lll




                                               Contents

  eForeword

  (A one pager by SS, May 1977)

  In Plato's Cave

  America, Seen Through Photographs, Darkly

  Melancholy Objects

  The Heroism ofVision

  Photographic Evangels

  The Image-World

  A Brief Anthology of Quotations (Homage to W.B.)

  About this Title
On Photograph}'                                                   v




                                                   eForeword
One of the most highly regarded books of its kind, On Photography
first appeared in 1977 and is described by its author as "a progress
of essays about the meaning and career of photographs." It begins
with the famous "In Plato's Cave" essay, then offers five other
prose meditations on this topic, and concludes with a fascinating
and far-reaching "Brief Anthology of Quotations."

"A brilliant analysis of the profound changes photographic images
have made in our way of looking at the world and at ourselves
over the last 140 years." Washi ngton Post Book World
                        -




"Every page of On Photography raises important and exciting
questions about its subject and raises them in the best way."-TI1.e
New York Times Book Review
" On Photography is to my mind the most original and illuminating
study of the subject."-Calvin Trillin, The New Yorker .

Susan Sontag was born in New York City on January 16, 1933.
She received her B.A. from the College of the University of
Chicago and did graduate work in philosophy, literature, and
theology at Harvard University and Saint Anne's College, Oxford.
A human rights activist for more than two decades, Ms. Sontag
served from 1987 to 1989 as president of the American Center of
PEN, the international writers' organization dedicated to freedom
of expression and the advancement of literature, from which
On Photography                                                  VI




platform she led a number of campaigns on behalf of persecuted
and imprisoned writers.

Among Ms. Sontag's many honors are the 2003 Peace Prize of
the German Book Trade, the 2003 Prince of Asturias Prize, the
2001 Jerusalem Prize, and the National Book Critics Circle A ward
for On Photography ( 1978).

RosettaBooks is the leading publisher dedicated exclusively to
electronic editions of great works of fiction and non-fiction that
reflect our world. RosettaBooks is a committed e-publisher,
maximizing the resources of the Web in opening a fresh
dimension in the reading experience. In this electronic reading
environment, each RosettaBook will enhance the experience
through The RosettaBooks Connection. This gateway instantly
delivers to the reader the opportunity to learn more about the
title, the author, the content and the context of each work, using
the full resources of the Web.

To experience The RosettaBooks Cmmection for On Photography:

    www.RosettaBookscom.com/OnPhotography
On Photography                                                   vu




It all started with one essay-about some of the problems, aesthetic
and moral, posed by the omnipresence ofphotographed images; but
the more I thought about what photographs are, the more complex
and suggestive they became. So one generated another, and that one
(to my bemusement) another, and so on-a progress ofessays, about
the meaning and career ofphotographs-until I'd gone far enough
so that the argument sketched in the first essay, documented and
digressed from in the succeeding essays, could be recapitulated and
extended in a more theoretical way; and could stop.
   The essays were first published (in a slightly dif erent form) in
The New York Review of Books, and probably would never have
been written were it not for the encouragement given by its editors,
my friends Robert Silvers and Barbara Epstein, to my obsession with
photography. I am grateful to them, and to my friend Don Eric
Levine, for much patient advice and unstinting help.
                                                         s.s.
                                                         May 1977
On Photograph}'




                                             In Plato's Cave

Humankind lingers unregenerately in Plato's cave, still reveling,
its age-old habit, in mere images of the truth. But being educated
by photographs is not like being educated by older, more artisanal
images. For one thing, there are a great many more images around,
claiming our attention. The inventory started in 1839 and since
then just about everything has been photographed, or so it seems.
This very insatiability of the photographing eye changes the terms
of confinement in the cave, our world. In teaching us a new visual
code, photographs alter and enlarge our notions of what is worth
looking at and what we have a right to observe. They are a
grammar and, even more importantly, an ethics of seeing. Finally,
the most grandiose result of the photographic enterprise is to give
us the sense that we can hold the whole world in our heads-as
an anthology of images.
   To collect photographs is to collect the world. Movies and
television programs light up walls, flicker, and go out; but with
still photographs the image is also an object, lightweight, cheap
to produce, easy to carry about� accumulate, store. In Godard's
Les Carabiniers ( 1963) , two sluggish lumpen-peasants are lured
into joining the King's Army by the promise that they will be able
to loot, rape, kill, or do whatever else they please to the enemy,
and get rid1. But the suitcase of booty that Michel-Ange and
Ulysse triumphantly bring home, years later, to their wives turns
out to contain only picture postcards, hundreds of them, of
Monuments, Department Stores, Mammals, Wonders of Nature,
Methods of Transport, Works of Art, and otl1er classified treasures
On Photography                                                    2



from around the globe. Godard's gag vividly parodies the
equivocal magic of the photographic image. Photographs are
perhaps the most mysterious of all the objects that make up, and
thicken, the environment we recognize as modern. Photographs
really are experience captured, and the camera is the ideal arm of
consciousness in its acquisitive mood.
   To photograph is to appropriate the thing photographed. It
means putting oneself into a certain relation to the world that
feels like knowledge-and, therefore, like power. A now notorious
first fall into alienation, habituating people to abstract the world
into printed words, is supposed to have engendered that surplus
of Faustian energy and psychic damage needed to build modern,
inorganic societies. But print seems a less treacherous form of
leaching out the world, of turning it into a mental object, than
photographic images, which now provide most of the knowledge
people have about the look of the past and the reach of the present.
What is written about a person or an event is frankly an
interpretation, as are handmade visual statements, like paintings
and drawings. Photographed images do not seem to be statements
about the world so much as pieces of it, miniatures of reality that
anyone can make or acquire.
   Photographs, which fiddle with the scale of the world,
themselves get reduced, blown up, cropped, retouched, doctored,
tricked out. They age, plagued by the usual ills of paper objects;
they disappear; they become valuable, and get bought and sold;
they are reproduced. Photographs, which package the world, seem
to invite packaging. They are stuck in albums, framed and set on
tables, tacked on walls, projected as slides. Newspapers and
magazines feature them; cops alphabetize them; museums exhibit
them; publishers compile them.
   For many decades the book has been the most influential way
of arranging (and usually miniaturizing) photographs, thereby
guaranteeing them longevity, if not immortality-photographs
are fragile objects, easily torn or mislaid-and a wider public.
The photograph in a book is, obviously, the image of an image.
But since it is, to begin with, a printed, smooth object, a
photograph loses much less of its essential quality when
On Photography                                                     3



reproduced in a book than a painting does. Still, the book is not
a wholly satisfactory scheme for putting groups of photographs
into general circulation. The sequence in which the photographs
are to be looked at is proposed by the order of pages, but nothing
holds readets to the recommended otder or indicates the amount
of time to be spent on each photograph. Chris Marker's film, Si
j'avais quatre dromadaires ( 1966), a brilliantly orchestrated
meditation on photographs of all sorts and themes, suggests a
subtler and more rigorous way of packaging (and enlarging) still
photographs. Both the order and tl1e exact time for looking at
each photograph are imposed� and there is a gain in visual
legibility and emotional impact. But photographs transcribed in
a film cease to be collectable objects, as they still are when served
up in books.

Photographs furnish evidence. Something we hear about, but
doubt, seems proven when we're shown a photograph of it. In
one version of its utility, the camera record incriminates. Starting
with their use by the Paris police in the murderous roundup of
Communards in June 1871, photographs became a useful tool of
modern states in the surveillance and control of their increasingly
mobile populations. In another version of its utility, the camera
record justifies. A photograph passes for incontrovertible proof
that a given thing happened. The picture may distort; but there
is always a presumption that something exists, or did exist, which
is like what's in the picture. Whatever the limitations (through
amatemism) or pretensions (through artistry) of the individual
photographer, a photograph-any photograph-seems to have
a more innocent, and therefore more accurate, telation to visible
reality than do other mimetic objects.Virtuosi of the noble image
like Alfred Stieglitz and Paul Strand, composing mighty,
unforgettable photographs decade after decade, still want, first
of all, to show something "out there," just like the Polaroid owner
for whom photographs are a handy, fast form of note-taking, or
the shutter-bug with a Brownie who takes snapshots as souvenirs
of daily life.
   While a painting or a prose description can never be other than
On Photography                                                          4



a narrowly selective interpretation, a photograph can be treated
as a narrowly selective transparency. But despite the presumption
of veracity that gives all photographs authorjty, interest,
seductiveness, the work that photographers do is no generic
exception to the usually shady commerce between art and truth.
Even when photographers are most concerned with mirroring
reality, they are still haunted by tacit imperatives of taste and
conscience. The immensely gifted members of the Farm Security
Administration photographic project of the late 1930s (among
them Walker Evans, Dorothea Lange, Ben Shahn, Russell Lee)
would take dozens of frontal pictures of one of their sharecropper
subjects until satisfied that they had gotten just the right look on
film-the precise expression on the subject's face that supported
their own notions about poverty, light, dignity, texture,
exploitation, and geometry. In deciding how a picture should
look, in preferring one exposure to another, photographers are
always imposing standards on their subjects. Although there is a
sense in which the camera does indeed capture reality, not just
interpret it, photographs are as much an interpretation of the
world as pajntings and drawings are. Those occasions when the
taking of photographs is relatively undiscriminating, promiscuous,
or self-effacing do not lessen the didacticism of the whole
enterprise. This very passivity-and ubiquity-of the
photographic record is photography's "message," its aggression.
   Images which idealize (like most fashion and animal
photography) are no less aggressive than work which makes a
virtue of plainness (like class pictures, still lifes of the bleaker sort,
and mug shots). There is an aggression implicit in every use of
the camera. This is as evident in the 1840s and 1850s,
photography's glorious first two decades, as in all the succeeding
decades, during which technology made possible an ever
increasing spread of that mentality which looks at the world as a
set of potential photographs. Even for such early masters as David
Octavius Hill and Juha Margaret Cameron who used the camera
as a means of getting painterly images, the point of taking
photographs was a vast departure from the aims of painters. From
its start, photography irnphed the capture of the largest possible
On Photography                                                     5



number of subjects. Painting never had so imperial a scope. The
subsequent industrialization of camera technology only carried
out a promise inherent in photography from its very beginning:
to democratize all experiences by translating them into images.
   That age when taking photographs required a cumbersome
and expensive contraption-the toy of the clever, the wealthy,
and the obsessed-seems remote indeed from the era of sleek
pocket cameras that invite anyone to take pictures. The fmt
cameras, made in France and England in the early 1840s, had only
inventors and buffs to operate them. Since there were then no
professional photographers, there could not be amateurs either,
and taking photographs had no clear social use; it was a gratuitous,
that is, an artistic activity, though with few pretensions to being
an art. [t was only with its industrialization that photography
came into its own as art. As industrialization provided social uses
for the operations of the photographer, so the reaction against
these uses reinforced the self-consciousness of photography-as-art.

Recently, photography has become almost as widely practiced an
amusement as sex and dancing-which means that, like every
mass art form, photography is not practiced by most people as
an art. It is mainly a social rite, a defense against anxiety, and a
tool of power.
   Memorializing the achievements of individuals considered as
members of families (as well as of other groups) is the earliest
popular use of photography. For at least a century, the wedding
photograph has been as much a part of the ceremony as the
prescribed verbal formulas. Cameras go with family life. According
to a sociological study done in France, most households have a
camera, but a household with children is twice as likely to have
at least one camera as a household in which there are no children.
Not to take pictures of one's children, particularly when they are
small, is a sign of parental indifference, just as not turning up for
one's graduation picture is a gesture of adolescent rebellion.
   Through       photographs,      each     family    constructs    a
portrait-chronicle of itself-a portable kit of images that bears
witness to its connectedness. It hardly matters what activities are
On Photography                                                       6


photographed so long as photographs get taken and are cherished.
Photography becomes a rite of family life just when, in the
industrializing countries of Europe and America, the very
institution of the family statis undergoing radical surgery. As that
claustrophobic unit, the nuclear family, was being carved out of
a much larger family aggregate, photography came along to
memorialize, to restate symbolically, the imperiled continuity
and vanishing extendedness of family life. Those ghostly traces,
photographs, supply the token presence of the dispersed relatives.
A family's photograph album is generally about the extended
family-and, often, is all that remains of it.
   As photographs give people an imaginary possession of a past
that is unreal, they also help people to take possession of space
in which they are insecure. Thus, photography develops in tandem
with one of the most characteristic of modern activities: tourism.
For the first time in history, large numbers of people regularly
travel out of their habitual enviroilments for short periods of
time. It seems positively unnatural to travel for pleasure without
taking a camera along. Photographs will offer indisputable
evidence that the trip was made, that the program was carried
out, that fun was had. Photographs document sequences of
consumption carried on outside the view of family, friends,
neighbors. But dependence on the camera, as the device that
makes real what one is experiencing, doesn't fade when people
travel more. Taking photographs fills the same need for the
cosmopolitans accumulating photograph-trophies of their boat
trip up the Albert Nile or their fourteen days in China as it does
for lower-middle-class vacationers taking snapshots of the Eiffel
Tower or Niagara Falls.
   A way of certifying experience, taking photographs is also a
way of refusing it-by limiting experience to a search for the
photogenic, by converting experience into an linage, a souvenir.
Travel becomes a strategy for accumulating photographs. The
very activity of taking pictures is soothing, and assuages general
feelings of disorientation that are likely to be exacerbated by travel.
Most tourists feel compelled to put the camera between themselves
and whatever is remarkable that they encounter. Unsure of other
On Photography                                                    7


responses, they take a picture. This gives shape to experience:
stop, take a photograph, and move on. The method especially
appeals to people handicapped by a ruthless work
ethic-Germans, Japanese, and Americans. Using a camera
appeases the anxiety which the work-driven feel about not
working when they are on vacation and supposed to be having
fun. They have something to do that is like a friendly imitation
of work: they can take pictures.
   People robbed of their past seem to make the most fervent
picture takers, at home and abroad. Everyone who lives in an
industrialized society is obliged gradually to give up the past, but
in certain cow1tries, such as the United States and Japan, the break
with the past has been particularly traumatic. In the early 1970s,
the fable of the brash American tourist of the 1950s and 1960s,
rich with dollars and Babbittry, was replaced by the mystery of
the group-minded Japanese tourist, newly released from his island
prison by the miracle of overvalued yen, who is generally armed
with two cameras, one on each hip.
  Photography has become one of the principal devices for
experiencing something, for giving an appearance of participation.
One full-page ad shows a small group of people standing pressed
together, peering out of the photograph, all but one looking
stwmed, excited, upset. The one who wears a different expression
holds a camera to his eye; he seems self-possessed, is almost
smiling. While the others are passive, clearly alarmed spectators,
having a camera has transformed one person into something
active, a voyeur: only he has mastered the situation. What do
these people see? We don't know. And it doesn't matter. It is an
Event: something worth seeing-and therefore worth
photographing. The ad copy, white letters across the dark lower
third of the photograph like news coming over a teletype machine,
c o n s i s t s      o f         jus t        s i x     w o r d s :
"...Prague...Woodstock. . .Vietnam.. Sapporo . Londondeny...LEICA."
                                  .        .   .




Crushed hopes, youth antics, colonial wars, and winter sports are
alike-are equalized by the camera. Taking photographs has set
up a d1ronic voyeuristic relation to the world which levels the
meaning of all events.
On Photography                                                     8


   A photograph is not just the result of an encounter between
an event and a photographer; picture-taking is an event in itself,
and one with ever more peremptory rights-to interfere with, to
invade, or to ignore whatever is going on. Our very sense of
situation is now articulated by the camera's interventions. The
omnipresence of cameras persuasively suggests that time consists
of interesting events, events worth photographing. This, in turn,
makes it easy to feel that any event, once underway, and whatever
its moral character, should be allowed to complete itself-so that
something else can be brought into the world, the photograph.
After the event has ended, the picture will still exist, conferring
on the event a kind of immortality (and importance) it would
never otherwise have enjoyed. While real people are out there
killing themselves or other real people, the photographer stays
behind his or her camera, creating a tiny element of another world:
the image-world that bids to outlast us all.
   Photographing is essentially an act of non-mtervention. Part
of the horror of such memorable coups of contemporary
photojournalism as the pictures of a Vietnamese bonze reaching
for the gasoline can, of a Bengali guerrilla in the act of bayoneting
a trussed-up collaborator, comes from the awareness of how
plausible it has become, in situations where the photographer has
the choice between a photograph and a life, to choose the
photograph. The person who intervenes cannot record; the person
who is recording cannot intervene. Dziga Ve1tov's great film,
Man with a Movie Camera ( 1 929 ) , gives the ideal image of the
photographer as someone in perpetual movement, someone
moving through a panorama of disparate events with such agility
and speed that any intervention is out of the question. Hitchcock's
Rear Window ( 1954) gives the complementary image: the
photographer played by James Stewart has an intensified relation
to one event, through his camera, precisely because he has a
broken leg and is confined to a wheelchair; being temporarily
immobilized prevents him from acting on what he sees, and makes
it even more impo1tant to take pictures. Even if incompatible
with intervention in a physical sense, using a camera is still a form
of participation. Although the camera is an observation station,
On Photography                                                     9



the act of photographing is more than passive observing. Like
sexual voyeurism, it is a way of at least tacitly, often explicitly,
encouraging whatever is going on to keep on happening. To take
a picture is to have an interest in things as they are, in the status
quo remaining unchanged (at least for as long as it takes to get a
"good" picture), to be in complicity with whatever makes a subject
interesting, worth photographing-including, when that is the
interest, another person's pain or misfortune.

"I always thought of photography as a naughty thing to do-that
was one of my favorite things about it," Diane Arbus wrote, "and
when I first did it I felt very perverse." Being a professional
photographer can be thought of as naughty, to use AI·bus's pop
word, if the photographer seeks out subjects considered to be
disreputable, taboo, marginal. But naughty subjects are harder
to find these days. A11d what exactly is the perverse aspect of
picture-taking? If professional photographers often have sexual
fantasies when they are behind the camera, perhaps the perversion
lies in the fact that these fantasies are both plausible and so
inappropriate. In Blowup ( 1 966), Antonioni has the fashion
photographer hovering convulsively over Veruschka's body with
his camera clicking. Naughtiness, indeed! In fact, using a camera
is not a very good way of getting at someone sexually. Between
photographer and subject, there has to be distance. The camera
doesn't rape, or even possess, though it may presume, intrude,
trespass, distort, exploit, and, at the farthest reach of metaphor,
assassinate-all activities that, unlike the sexual push and shove,
can be conducted from a distance, and with some detachment.
   There is a much stronger sexual fantasy in Michael Powell's
extraordinary movie Peeping Tom ( 1960), which is not about a
Peeping Tom but about a psychopath who kills women with a
weapon concealed in his camera, while photographing them. Not
once does he touch his subjects. He doesn't desire their bodies;
he wants their presence in the form of filmed images-those
showing them experiencing their own death-which he screens
at home for his solitary pleasure. The movie assumes connections
between impotence and aggression, professionalized looking and
On Photography                                                      10


cruelty, which point to the central fantasy connected with the
camera. The camera as phallus is, at most, a flimsy variant of the
inescapable metaphor that eveqone unselfconsciously employs.
However hazy our awareness of this fantasy, it is named without
subtlety whenever we talk about «loading" and "aiming" a camera,
about «shooting" a film.
  The old-fashioned camera was clumsier and harder to reload
than a brown Bess musket. The modern camera is tqing to be a
ray gun. One ad reads:

  The Yashica Electro-35 GT is the spaceage camera your
  family will love. Take beautiful pictures day or night.
  Automatically. Without any nonsense. Just aim, focus and
  shoot. The GT's computer brain and electronic shutter will
  do the rest.

Like a car, a camera is sold as a predatoq weapon-one that's as
automated as possible, ready to spring. Popular taste expects ail
easy, an invisible technology. Manufacturers reassure their
customers that taking pictures demands no skill or expert
knowledge, that the machine is all-knowing, and responds to the
slightest pressure of the will . It's as simple as turning the ignition
key or pulling the trigger.
   Like guns and cars, cameras are fantasy-machines whose use
is addictive. However, despite the extravagances of ordinary
language and advertising, they are not lethal. In the hyperbole
that markets cars like gw1s, there is at least this much truth: except
in wartime, cars kill more people than guns do. The camera/gun
does not kill, so the ominous metaphor seems to be all bluff-like
a man's fantasy of having a gun, knife, or tool between his legs.
Still, there is something predatory in the act of taking a picture.
To photograph people is to violate them, by seeing them as they
never see tl1emselves, by having knowledge of them they can never
have; it turns people into objects that can be symbolically
possessed. Just as the camera is a sublimation of the gun, to
photograph someone is a sublimated murder-a soft murder,
appropriate to a sad, frightened time.
   Eventually, people might learn to act out more of their
On Photography                                                      Jl



aggressions with cameras and fewer with guns, with the price
being an even more image-choked world. One situation where
people are switching from bullets to film is the photographic safari
that is replacing the gun safari in East Africa. The hunters have
Hasselblads instead of Winchesters; instead of looking through
a telescopic sight to aim a rifle, they look through a viewfinder to
frame a picture. In end-of-the-century London, Samuel Butler
complained that "there is a photographer in every bush, going
about like a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour." The
photographer is now charging real beasts, beleaguered and too
rare to kill . Guns have metamorphosed into cameras in this
earnest comedy, the ecology safari, because nature has ceased to
be what it always had been-what people needed protection from.
Now nature-tamed, endangered, mortal-needs to be protected
from people. When we are afraid, we shoot. But when we are
nostalgic, we take pictures.
   It is a nostalgic time right now, and photographs actively
promote nostalgia. Photography is an elegiac art, a twilight art.
Most subjects photographed are, just by virtue of being
photographed, touched with pathos. An ugly or grotesque subject
may be moving because it has been dignified by the attention of
the photographer. A beautiful subject can be the object of rueful
feelings, because it has aged or decayed or no longer exists. All
photographs are memento mori. To take a photograph is to
participate in another person's (or thing's) mmtality,
vulnetability, mutability. Precisely by slicing out this moment
and freezing it, all photographs testify to time's relentless melt.
   Cameras began duplicating the world at that moment when
the human landscape started to undergo a vertiginous rate of
change: while an untold number of forms of biological and social
life are being destroyed in a brief span of time, a device is available
to record what is disappearing. The moody, intricately textured
Paris of Atget and Brassa'i is mostly gone. Like the dead relatives
and friends preserved in the family album, whose presence in
photographs exorcises some of the anxiety and remorse prompted
by their disappearance, so the photographs of neighborhoods
On Photography                                                    12



now torn down, rural places disfigured and made barren, supply
our pocket relation to the past.
   A photograph is both a pseudo-presence and a token of absence.
Like a wood fire in a room, photographs-especially those of
people, of distant landscapes and faraway cities, of the vanished
past-are incitements to reverie. The sense of the unattainable
that can be evoked by photographs feeds directly into the erotic
feelings of those for whom desirability is enhanced by distance.
The lover's photograph hidden in a married woman's wallet, the
poster photograph of a rock star tacked up over an adolescent's
bed, the campaign-button image of a politician's face pinned on
a voter's coat, the snapshots of a cabdriver's children clipped to
the visor-all such talismanic uses of photographs express a feeling
both sentimental and implicitly magical: they are attempts to
contact or lay claim to another reality.

Photographs can abet desire in the most direct, utilita1ian way-as
when someone collects photographs of anonymous examples of
the desirable as an aid to masturbation. The matter is more
complex when photographs are used to stimulate the moral
impulse. Desire has no history-at least, it is experienced in each
instance as all foreground, immediacy. It is aroused by archetypes
and is, in that sense, abstract. But moral feelings are embedded
in history, whose personae are concrete, whose situations are
always specific. Thus, almost opposite rules hold true for the use
of the photograph to awaken desire and to awaken conscience.
The images that mobilize conscience are always linked to a given
historical situation. The more general they are, the less likely they
are to be effective.
  A photograph that brings news of some unsuspected zone of
misery cannot make a dent in public opinion unless there is an
appropriate context of feeling and attitude. The photographs
Mathew Brady and his colleagues took of the horrors of the
battlefields did not make people any less keen to go on with the
Civil War. The photographs of ill-clad, skeletal prisoners held at
Andersonville inflamed Northern public opinion-against the
South. (The effect of the Andetsonville photographs must have
On Photography                                                 13



been partly due to the very novelty, at that time, of seeing
photographs. ) The political understanding that many Americans
came to in the 1960s would allow them, looking at the
photographs Dorothea Lange took of Nisei on the West Coast
being transported to internment camps in 1942, to recognize their
subject for what it was-a crime committed by the government
against a large group of American citizens. Few people who saw
those photographs in the 1940s could have had so unequivocal a
reaction; the grounds for such a judgment were covered over by
the pro-war consensus. Photographs cannot create a moral
position, but they can reinforce one-and can help build a nascent
one.
   Photographs may be more memorable than moving images,
because they are a neat slice of time, not a flow. Television is a
stream of underselected images, each of which cancels its
predecessor. Each still photograph is a privileged moment, turned
into a slim object that one can keep and look at again.
Photographs like the one that made the front page of most
newspapers in the world in 1972-a naked South Vietnamese
child just sprayed by American napalm, running down a highway
toward the camera, her anns open, screaming with
pain-probably did more to increase the public revulsion against
the war than a hundred hours of televised barbarities.
   One would like to imagine that the American public would not
have been so unanimous in its acquiescence to the Korean War
if it had been confronted with photographic evidence of the
devastation of Korea, an ecocide and genocide in some respects
even more thorough than those inflicted on Vietnam a decade
later. But the supposition is trivial. The public did not see such
photographs because there was, ideologically, no space for them.
No one brought back photographs of daily life in Pyongyang, to
show that the enemy had a human face, as Felix Greene and Marc
Riboud brought back photographs of Hanoi. Americans did have
access to photographs of the suffering of the Vietnamese (many
of which came from military sources and were taken with quite
a different use in mind) because journalists felt backed in their
efforts to obtain those photographs, the event having been defined
On Photography                                                 14



by a significant number of people as a savage colonialist war. The
Korean War was understood differently-as part of the just
struggle of the Free World against the Soviet Union and
China-and, given that characterization, photographs of the
cruelty of unlimited American firepowet would have been
irrelevant.
   Though an event has come to mean, precisely, something worth
photographing, it is still ideology (in the broadest sense) that
determines what constitutes an event. There can be no evidence,
photographic or otherwise, of an event until the event itself has
been named and characterized. And it is never photographic
evidence which can construct-more properly, identify--events;
the contribution of photography always follows the naming of
the event. What determines the possibility of being affected
morally by photographs is the existence of a relevant political
consciousness. Without a politics, photographs of the
slaughter-bench of history will most likely be experienced as,
simply, unreal or as a demoralizing emotional blow.
   The quality of feeling, including moral outrage, that people
can muster in response to photographs of the oppressed, the
exploited, the starving, and the massacred also depends on the
degree of their familiarity with these images. Don McCullin's
photographs of emaciated Biafrans in the early 1970s had less
impact for some people than Werner Bischofs photographs of
Indian famine victims in the early 1950s because those images
had become banal, and the photographs of Tuareg families dying
of starvation in the sub-Sahara that appeared in magazines
everywhere in 1973 must have seemed to many like an unbearable
replay of a now familiar atrocity exhibition.
   Photographs shock insofat as they show something novel.
Unfortunately, the ante keeps getting raised-partly through the
very proliferation of such images of horror. One's first encounter
with the photographic inventory of ultimate honor is a kind of
revelation, the prototypically modern revelation: a negative
epiphany. For me, it was photographs of Bergen-Belsen and
Dachau which I carne across by chance in a bookstore in Santa
Monica in July 1945. Nothing I have seen-in photographs or in
On Photography                                                  15



real life-ever cut me as sharply, deeply, instantaneously. Indeed,
it seems plausible to me to divide my life into two parts, before I
saw those photographs (I was twelve) and after, though it was
several years before I understood fully what they were about.
What good was served by seeing them? They were only
photographs-of an event I had scarcely heard of and could do
nothing to affect, of suffering I could hardly imagine and could
do nothing to relieve. When I looked at those photographs,
something broke. Some limit had been reached, and not only that
of horror; I felt irrevocably grieved, wounded, but a part of my
feelings started to tighten; something went dead; something is
still crying.
    To suffer is one thing; another thing is living with the
photographed images of suffering, which does not necessarily
strengthen conscience and the ability to be compassionate. It can
also corrupt them. Once one has seen such images, one has started
down the road of seeing more-and more. Images transfix. Images
anesthetize. An event known through photographs certainly
becomes more real than it would have been if one had never seen
the photographs-think of the Vietnam War. (For a
counter-example, think of the Gulag Archipelago, of which we
have no photographs.) But after repeated exposure to images it
also becomes less real.
    The same law holds for evil as for pornography. The shock of
photographed atrocities wears off with repeated viewings, just as
the surprise and bemusement felt the fitst time one sees a
pornographic movie wear off after one sees a few more. The sense
of taboo which makes us indignant and sorrowful is not much
sturdier than the sense of taboo that regulates the defmition of
what is obscene. And both have been sorely tried in recent years.
The vast photographic catalogue of misery and injustice
throughout the world has given everyone a certain familiarity
with atrocity, making the horrible seem more ordinary-making
it appear familiar, remote ("it's only a photograph"), inevitable.
At the time of the first photographs of the Nazi camps, there was
nothing banal about these images. After thirty years, a saturation
point may have been reached. In these last decades, "concerned"
On Photography                                                  16


photography has done at least as much to deaden conscience as
to arouse it.
   The ethical content of photographs is fragile. With the possible
exception of photographs of those horrors, like the Nazi camps,
that have gained the status of ethical reference points, most
photographs do not keep their emotional charge. A photograph
ofl900 that was affecting then because of its subject would, today,
be more likely to move us because it is a photograph taken in
1900. The particular qualities and intentions of photographs tend
to be swallowed up in the generalized pathos of time past.
Aesthetic distance seems built into the very experience of looking
at photographs, if not right away, then certainly with the passage
of time. Time eventually positions most photographs, even the
most amateurish, at the level of a11.

The industrialization of photography permitted its rapid
absorption into rational-that is, bureaucratic-ways of running
society. No longer toy images, photographs became part of the
general furniture of the environment-touchstones and
confirmations of that reductive approach to reality which is
considered realistic. Photographs were enrolled in the service of
important institutions of control, notably the family and the
police, as symbolic objects and as pieces of information. Thus, in
the bureaucratic cataloguing of the world, many important
documents are not valid unless they have, affixed to them, a
photograph-token of the citizen's face.
   The "realistic" view of the world compatible with bureaucracy
redefines knowledge-as techniques and information.
Photographs are valued because they give information. They tell
one what there is; they make an inventory. To spies,
meteorologists, coroners, archaeologists, and other information
professionals, their value is inestimable. But in the situations in
which most people use photographs, their value as information
is of the same order as fiction. The information that photographs
can give starts to seem very imp011ant at that moment in cultural
history when everyone is thought to have a right to something
called news. Photographs were seen as a way of giving information
On Photography                                                   17


to people who do not take easily to reading. The Daily News still
calls itself "New Yark's Picture Newspaper," its bid for populist
identity. At the opposite end of the scale, Le Monde, a newspaper
designed for skilled, well-informed readers, runs no photographs
at all. The presumption is that, for such readers, a photograph
could only illustrate the analysis contained in an article.
   A new sense of the notion of information has been constructed
around the photographic image. The photograph is a thin slice
of space as well as time. In a world ruled by photographic images,
all borders ("framing") seem arbitrary. Anything can be separated,
can be made discontinuous, from anything else: all that is
necessary is to frame the subject differently. (Conversely, anything
can be made adjacent to anything else.) Photography reinforces
a nominalist view of social reality as consisting of small units of
an apparently infmite number-as the number of photographs
that could be taken of anything is unlimited. Through
photographs, the world becomes a series of unrelated, freestanding
particles; and history, past and present, a set of anecdotes and
faits divers. The camera makes reality atomic, manageable, and
opaque. It is a view of the world which denies interconnectedness,
continuity, but which confers on each moment the character of
a mystery. Any photograph has multiple meanings; indeed, to see
something in the form of a photograph is to encounter a potential
object of fascination. The ultimate wisdom of the photographic
image is to say: "There is the surface. Now think-or rather feel,
intuit-what is beyond it, what the reality must be like if it looks
this way." Photographs, which cannot themselves explain
anything, are inexhaustible invitations to deduction, speculation,
and fantasy.
   Photography implies that we know about the world if we accept
it as the camera records it. But this is the opposite of
understanding, which starts from not accepting the world as it
looks. All possibility of understanding is rooted in the ability to
say no. Strictly speaking, one never understands anything from
a photograph. Of course, photographs fill in blanks in our mental
pictures of the present and the past: for example, Jacob Riis's
images of New York squalor in the 1880s are sharply instructive
On Photography                                                     18


to those unaware that urban poverty in late-nineteenth-century
America was really that Dickensian. Nevertheless, the camera's
rendering of reality must always hide more than it discloses. As
Brecht points out, a photograph of the Krupp works reveals
virtually nothing about that organization. In contrast to the
amorous relation, which is based on how something looks,
understanding is based on how it functions. And functioning
takes place in time, and must be explained in time. Only that
which narrates can make us understand.
   The limit of photographic knowledge of the world is that, while
it can goad conscience, it can, finally, never be ethical or political
knowledge. The knowledge gained through still photographs will
always be some kind of sentimentalism, whether cynical or
humanist. It will be a knowledge at bargain prices-a semblance
ofknowledge, a semblance of wisdom; as the act of taking pictures
is a semblance of appropriation, a semblance of rape. The very
muteness of what is, hypothetically, comprehensible in
photographs is what constitutes their attraction and
provocativeness. The omnipresence of photographs has an
incalculable effect on our ethical sensibility. By furnishing this
already crowded world with a duplicate one of images,
photography makes us feel that the world is more available than
it really is.
   Needing to have reality confinned and experience enhanced
by photographs is an aesthetic consumerism to which everyone
is now addicted. Industrial societies turn their citizens into
image-junkies; it is the most irresistible form of mental pollution.
Poignant longings for beauty, for an end to probing below the
surface, for a redemption and celebration of the body of the
world-all these elements of erotic feeling are affirmed in the
pleasure we take in photographs. But other, less liberating feelings
are expressed as well. It would not be wrong to speak of people
having a compulsion to photograph: to turn experience itself into
a way of seeing. Ultimately, having an experience becomes
identical with taking a photograph of it, and participating in a
public event comes more and more to be equivalent to looking
at it rn photographed form. That most logical of
On Photography                                                  19



nineteenth-century aesthetes, Mallarme, said that everything in
the world exists in order to end in a book. Today everything exists
to end in a photograph.
On Photography                                                     21




                                  America, Seen Through
                                       Photographs, Darkly

As Walt Whitman gazed down the democratic vistas of culture,
he tried to see beyond the difference between beauty and ugliness,
importance and triviality. It seemed to him servile or snobbish
to make any discriminations of value, except the most generous
ones. Great claims were made for candor by our boldest, most
delirious prophet of cultural revolution. Nobody would fret about
beauty and ugliness, he implied, who was accepting a sufficiently
large embrace of the real, of the inclusiveness and vitality of actual
American experience. All facts, even mean ones, are incandescent
in Whitman's America-that ideal space, made real by history,
where ccas they emit themselves facts are showered with light."
   The Great American Cultural Revolution heralded in the
preface to the first edition of Leaves of Grass ( 1855) didn't break
out, which has disappointed many but surprised none. One great
poet alone cannot change the moral weather; even when the poet
has millions of Red Guards at his disposal, it is still not easy. Like
every seer of cultural revolution. Whitman thought he discerned
art already being overtaken, and demystified, by reality. "The
United States themselves are essentially tl1e greatest poem." But
when no cultural revolution occ urred, and the greatest of poems
seemed less great in days of Empire than it had under the
Republic, only other artists took seriously Whitman's program
of populist transcendence, of tl1e democratic trans-valuation of
beauty and ugliness, importance and triviality. Far from having
On Photography                                                   22


been themselves demystified by reality, the American
arts-notably photography-now aspired to do the demystifying.

ln photography's early decades, photographs were expected to
be idealized images. This is still the aim of most amateur
photographers, for whom a beautiful photograph is a photograph
of something beautiful, like a woman, a sunset. In 1 9 1 5 Edward
Steichen photographed a milk botde on a tenement fire escape,
an early example of a quite different idea of the beautiful
photograph. And since d1e 1 920s, ambitious professionals, those
whose work gets into museums, have steadily drifted away from
lyrical subjects, conscientiously exploring plain, tawdry, or even
vapid material. In recent decades, photography has succeeded in
somewhat revising, for everybody, the definitions of what is
beautiful and ugly-along the lines that Whitman had proposed.
If (in Whitman's words) "each precise object or condition or
combination or process exhibits a beauty," it becomes superficial
to single out some things as beautiful and others as not. 1f "all
that a person does or thinks is of consequence," it becomes
arbitrary to treat some moments in life as important and most as
trivial.
   To photograph is to confer importance. There is probably no
subject that cannot be beautified; moreover, there is no way to
suppress the tendency inherent in all photographs to accord value
to their subjects. But the meaning of value itself can be altered-as
it has been in the contemporary culture of the photographic image
which is a parody of Whitman's evangel. In the mansions of
pre-democratic culture, someone who gets photographed is a
celebrity. In the open fields of American experience, as catalogued
with passion by Whitman and as sized up with a shrug by Warhol,
everybody is a celebrity. No moment is more important than any
other moment; no person is more interesting than any other
person.
   The epigraph for a book of Walker Evans's photographs
published by the Museum of Modern Art is a passage from
Whitman that sounds the theme of American photography's most
prestigious quest:
On Photography                                                      23



  I do not doubt but the majesty & beauty of the world are
  latent in any iota of the world.. . I do not doubt there is far
  more in trivialities, insects, vulgar persons, slaves, dwarfs,
  weeds, rejected refuse, than I have supposed. . . .

Whitman thought he was not abolishing beauty but generalizing
it. So, for generations, did the most gifted American
photographers, in their polemical pursuit of the trivial and the
vulgar. But among American photographers who have matured
since World War II, the Whitmanesque mandate to record in its
entirety the extravagant candors of actual American experience
has gone sour. In photographing dwarfs, you don't get majesty
& beauty. You get dwarfs.
   Starting from the images reproduced and consecrated in the
sumptuous magazine Camera Work that Alfred Stieglitz published
from 1903 to 1917 and exhibited in the gallery he ran in New
York from 1905 to 1917 at 291 Fifth Avenue (first called the Little
Gallery of the Photo-Secession, later simply "291")-magazine
and gallery constituting the most ambitious forum of
Whitmanesque judgments-American photography has moved
from affirmation to erosion to, finally, a parody of Whitman's
program. In this history the most edifying figure is Walker Evans.
He was the last great photographer to work seriously and assuredly
in a mood deriving from Whitman's euphoric humanism,
summing up what had gone on before (for instance, Lewis Hine's
stunning photographs of immigrants and workers), anticipating
much of the cooler, ruder, bleaker photography that has been
done since-as in the prescient series of "secret" photographs of
anonymous New York subway riders that Evans took with a
concealed camera between 1939 and 1941. But Evans broke with
the heroic mode in which the Whitmanesque vision had been
propagandized by Stieglitz and his disciples, who had
condescended to Hine. Evans found Stieglitz's work arty.
   Like Whitman, Stieglitz saw no contradiction between making
art an instrument of identification with the community and
aggrandizing the artist as a heroic, romantic, self-expressing ego.
In his florid, brilliant book of essays, Port of New York (1924),
On Photography                                                      24


Paul Rosenfeld hailed Stieglitz as one "of the great affirmers of
life. There is no matter in all the world so homely, trite, and
humble that through it this man of the black box and chemical
bath cannot express himself entire.'' Photographing, and thereby
redeeming the homely, trite, and humble is also an ingenious
means of individual expression. "The photographer," Rosenfeld
writes of Stieglitz, "has cast the artist's net wider into the material
world than any man before him or alongside him." Photography
is a kind of overstatement, a heroic copulation with the material
world. Like Hine, Evans sought a more impersonal kind of
affirmation, a noble reticence, a lucid understatement. Neither
in the impersonal architectural still lifes of American fa<;:ades and
inventories of rooms that he loved to make, nor in the exacting
portraits of Southern sharecroppers he took in the late 1930s
(published in the book done with James Agee, Let Us Now Praise
Famous Men), was Evans trying to express himself.
   Even without the heroic inflection, Evans's project still descends
from Whitman's: the leveling of discriminations between the
beautiful and the ugly, the important and the trivial. Each thing
or person photographed becomes-a photograph; and becomes,
therefore, morally equivalent to any other of his photographs.
Evans's camera brought out the same formal beauty in the
exteriors of Victorian houses in Boston in the early 1930s as in
the store buildings on main streets in Alabama towns in 1936.
But this was a leveling up, not down. Evans wanted his
photographs to be "literate, authoritative, transcendent." The
moral universe of the 1930s being no longer ours, these adjectives
are barely credible today. Nobody demands that photography be
literate. Nobody can imagine how it could be authoritative.
Nobody understands how anything, least of all a photograph,
could be transcendent.
   Whitman preached empathy, concord in discord, oneness in
diversity. Psychic intercourse with everything, everybody-plus
sensual union (when he could get it)-is the giddy trip that is
proposed explicitly, over and over and over, in the prefaces and
the poems. This longing to proposition the whole world also
dictated his poetry's form and tone. Whitman's poems are a
On Photography                                                    25


psychic technology for chanting the reader into a new state of
being (a microcosm of the "new order" envisaged for the polity);
they are functional, like mantras-ways of transmitting charges
of energy. The repetition, the bombastic cadence, the run-on
lines, and the pushy diction are a rush of secular afflatus, meant
to get readers psychically airborne, to boost them up to that height
where they can identify with the past and with the community of
American desire. But this message of identification with other
Americans is foreign to our temperament now.

The last sigh of the Whitmanesq ue emtic embrace of the nation,
but universalized and stripped of all demands, was heard in the
"Family of Man" exhibit organized in 1955 by Edward Steichen,
Stieglitz's contemporary and co-founder ofPhoto-Secession. Five
hundred and three photographs by two hundred and seventy-three
photographers from sixty-eight countries were supposed to
converge-to prove that humanity is "one" and that human
beings, for all their flaws and villainies, are attractive creatures.
The people in the photographs were of all races, ages, classes,
physical types. Many of them had exceptionally beautiful bodies;
some had beautiful faces. As Whitman urged the readers of his
poems to identify with him and with America, Steichen set up
the show to make it possible for each viewer to identify with a
great many of the people depicted and, potentially, with the
subject of every photograph: citizens of World Photography all.
   It was not until seventeen years later that photography again
attracted such crowds at the Musewn of Modern Art: for the
retrospective given Diane Arbus's work in 1972. In the Arbus
show, a hundred and twelve photographs all taken by one person
and all similar-that is, everyone in them looks (in some sense)
the same-imposed a feeling exactly contrary to the reassuring
warmth of Steichen's material. Instead of people whose
appearance pleases, representative folk doing their human thing,
the Arbus show lined up assorted monsters and borderline
cases-most of them ugly; wearing grotesque or unflattering
clothing; in dismal or barren surroundings-who have paused
to pose and, often, to gaze frankly, confidentially at the viewer.
On Photography                                                     26


Arb us's work does not invite viewers to identify with the pariahs
and miserable-looking people she photographed. Humanity is
not "one."
   The Arbus photographs convey the anti-humanist message
which people of good will in the 1970s ate eager to be troubled
by, just as they wished, in the 1950s, to be consoled and distracted
by a sentimental humanism. There is not as much difference
between these messages as one might suppose. The Steichen show
was an up and the Arb us show was a down, but either experience
serves equally well to rule out a historical understanding of reality.
   Steichen's choice of photographs assumes a human condition
or a human nature shared by everybody. By pmp01iing to show
that individuals are born, work, laugh, and die everywhere in the
same way, "The Family of Man" denies the determining weight
of history-of genuine and historically embedded differences,
injustices, and conflicts. Arbus's photographs undercut politics
just as decisively, by suggesting a world in which everybody is an
alien, hopelessly isolated, immobilized in mechanical, crippled
identities and relationships. The pious uplift of Steichen's
photograph anthology and the cool dejection of the Arbus
retrospective both render history and politics irrelevant. One does
so by universalizing the human condition, into joy; the other by
atomizing it, into horror.
   The most striking aspect of Arbus's work is that she seems to
have enrolled in one of a11 photography's most vigorous
enterprises-concentrating on victims, on the unfortunate-but
without the compassionate purpose that such a project is expected
to serve. Her work shows people who are pathetic, pitiable, as
well as repulsive, but it does not arouse any compassionate
feelings. For what would be more correctly described as their
dissociated point of view, the photographs have been praised for
their candor and for an unsentimental empathy with their
subjects. What is actually their aggressiveness toward the public
has been treated as a moral accomplishment: that the photographs
don't allow the viewer to be distant from the subject. More
plausibly, Arbus's photographs-with their acceptance of the
appalling-suggest a nai:vete which is both coy and sinister, for
On Photography                                                   27


it is based on distance, on privilege, on a feeling d1at what the
viewer is asked to look at is really other. Bufiuel, when asked once
why he made movies, said that it was "to show that this is not the
best of all possible worlds." Arbus took photographs to show
something simpler-that there is another world.
   The other world is to be found, as usual, inside this one.
Avowedly interested only in photographing people who "looked
strange," Arbus found plenty of material close to home. New
York, with its drag balls and welfare hotels, was rich with freaks.
There was also a carnival in Maryland, where Arbus found a
human pincushion, a hermaphrodite with a dog, a tattooed man,
and an albino sword-swallower; nudist camps in New Jersey and
in Pennsylvania; Disneyland and a Hollywood set, for their dead
or fake landscapes without people; and the unidentified mental
hospital where she took some of her last, and most disturbing,
photographs. And there was always daily life, with its endless
supply of oddities-if one has the eye to see them. The camera
has the power to catch so-called normal people in such a way as
to make them look abnormal. The photographer chooses oddity,
chases it, frames it, develops it, titles it.
   "You see someone on the street/' Arbus wrote, "and essentially
what you notice about them is the flaw." The insistent sameness
of At-bus's work, however far she ranges from her prototypical
subjects, shows that her sensibility, armed with a camera, could
insinuate anguish, kinkiness, mental illness with any subject. Two
photographs are of crying babies; the babies look disturbed, crazy.
Resembling or having something in common with someone else
is a recurrent source of the ominous, according to the
characteristic norms of Arbus's dissociated way of seeing. It tnay
be two girls (not sisters) wearing identical raincoats whom Arbus
photographed together in Central Park; or the twins and triplets
who appear in several pictures. Many photographs point with
oppressive wonder to the fact that two people form a couple; and
every couple is an odd couple: straight or gay, black or white, in
an old-age home or in a junior high. People looked eccentric
because they didn't wear clothes, like nudists; or because they
did, like the waitress in the nudist camp who's wearing an apron.
On Photography                                                    28


Anybody Arbus photographed was a freak-a boy waiting to
march in a pro-war parade, wearing his straw boater and his
"Bmnb Hanoi" button; the King and Queen of a Senior Citizens
Dance; a thirtyish suburban couple sprawled in their lawn chairs;
a widow sitting alone in her cluttered bedroom. In "A Jewish giant
at home with his parents in the Bronx, NY, 1970," the parents
look like midgets, as wrong-sized as the enormous son hunched
over them under their low living-room ceiling.
   The authority of Arb us's photographs derives from the contrast
between their lacerating subject matter and their calm,
matter-of-fact attentiveness. This quality of attention-the
attention paid by the photographer, the attention paid by the
subject to the act of being photographed-creates the moral
theater of Arbus's straight-on, contemplative portraits. Far from
spying on freaks and pariahs, catching them unawares, the
photographer has gotten to know them, reassured them-so that
they posed for her as calmly and stiffly as any Victorian notable
sat for a studio po11rait by Julia Margaret Cameron. A large part
of the mystery of Arbus's photographs lies in what they suggest
about how her subjects felt after consenting to be photographed.
Do they see themselves, the viewer wonders, like that? Do they
know how grotesque they are? It seems as if they don't.
   The subject of Arbus's photographs is, to borrow the stately
Hegelian label, "the unhappy consciousness., But most characters
in Arbus's Grand Guignol appear not to know that they are ugly.
Arb us photographs people in various degrees of unconscious or
unaware relation to their pain, their ugliness. This necessarily
limits what kinds of horrors she might have been drawn to
photograph: it excludes sufferers who presumably know they are
suffering, like victims of accidents, wars, famines, and political
persecutions. Arbus would never have taken pictures of accidents,
events that break into a life; she specialized in slow-motion private
smashups, most of which had been going on since the subject's
birth.
   Though most viewers are ready to imagine that these people,
the citizens of the sexual underworld as well as the genetic freaks,
are unhappy, few of the pictures actually show emotional distress.
On Photography                                                                     29


The photographs of deviates and real freaks do not accent their
pain but, rather, their detachment and autonomy. The female
impersonators in their dressing rooms, the Mexican dwarf in his
Manhattan hotel room, the Russian midgets in a living room on
1 OOth Street, and their kin are mostly shown as cheerful,
self-accepting, matter-of-fact. Pain is more legible in the portraits
of the normals: the quarreling elderly couple on a park bench,
the New Orleans lady ba11ender at home with a souvenir dog, the
boy in Central Park clenching his toy hand grenade.
   BrassaY denounced photographers who try to trap their subjects
off-guard, in the erroneous belief that something special will be
revealed about them_. In the world colonized by Arbus, subjects
are always revealing themselves. There is no decisive moment.
Arbus's view that self-revelation is a continuous, evenly distributed
process is another way of maintaining the Whitmanesque
imperative: treat all moments as of equal consequence. Like
Brassai:, Arbus wanted her subjects to be as fully conscious as
possible, aware of the act in which they were participating. Instead
of trying to coax her subjects into a natural or typical position,
they are encouraged to be awkward-that is, to pose. (Thereby,
the revelation of self gets identified with what is strange, odd,
askew.) Standing or sitting stiffly makes them seem like images
of themselves.
   Most Arbus pictures have the subjects looking straight into the
camera. This often makes them look even odder, almost deranged.
Compare the 1912 photograph by Lartigue of a woman in a
plumed hat and veil ("Racecourse at Nice") with Arbus's "Woman
with a Veil on Fifth Avenue, NYC, 1 968." Apart from the
characteristic ugliness of Arbus's subject (Lartigue's subject is,

  '
      Not an error, really. There is something on people's faces when they don't know

they are being observed that never appea�:s when they do. lf we did not know how

Walker Evans took his subway photographs (riding the New York subways for hundreds

of hours, standing, with the lens of his camera peering between two buttons of his

topcoat), it would be obvious from the pictures themselves that the seated passengers,

although photog�:aphed close and frontally, didn't k
                                                   now they we.re being photographed;

their e>.-pressions are private ones, not those they would offer to the camera.
On Photography                                                   30


just as characteristically, beautiful), what makes the woman in
Arbus's photograph strange is the bold unselfconsciousness of
her pose. If the Lartigue woman looked back, she might appear
almost as strange.
    In the normal rhetoric of the photographic portrait, facing the
camera signifies solemnity, frankness, the disclosure of the
subject's essence. That is why frontality seems right for ceremonial
pictures (like weddings, graduations) but less apt for photographs
used on billboards to advertise political candidates. (For
politicians the three-quarter gaze is more common: a gaze that
soars rather than confronts, suggesting instead of the relation to
the viewer, to the present, the more ennobling abstract relation
to the future.) What makes Arttms's use of the frontal pose so
arresting is that her subjects are often people one would not expect
to surrender themselves so amiably and ingenuously to the
camera. Thus, in Arbus's photographs, frontality also implies in
the most vivid way the subject's cooperation. To get these people
to pose, the photographer has had to gain their confidence, has
had to become "friends" with them.
    Perhaps the scariest scene in Tod Browning's film Freaks ( 1932)
is the wedding banquet, when pinheads, bearded women, Siamese
twins, and living torsos dance and sing their acceptance of the
wicked normal-sized Cleopatra, who has just married the gullible
midget hero. "One of us! One of us! One of us!" they chant as a
loving cup is passed around the table from mouth to mouth to
be finally presented to the nauseated bride by an exuberant dwarf.
Arbus had a perhaps oversimple view of the charm and hypocrisy
and discomfort of fraternizing with freaks. Following the elation
of discovery, there was the thrill of having won their confidence,
of not being afraid of them, of having mastered one's aversion.
Photographing freaks "had a terrific excitement for me," Arbus
explained. "I just used to adore them."

Diane Arbus's photographs were already famous to people who
follow photography when she killed herself in 1971; but, as with
Sylvia Plath, the attention her work has attracted since her death
is of another order-a kind of apotheosis. The fact of her suicide
On Photography                                                      31


seems to guarantee that her work is sincere, not voyeuristic, that
it is compassionate, not cold. Her suicide also seems to make the
photographs more devastating, as if it proved the photographs
to have been dangerous to her.
    She herself suggested the possibility. "Everything is so superb
and breathtaking. I am creeping forward on my belly like they do
in war movies." While photography is normally an omnipotent
viewing fi:om a distance, there is one situation in which people
do get killed for taking pictures: when they photograph people
killing each other. Only war photography combines voyeurism
and danger. Combat photographers can't avoid participating in
the lethal activity they record; they even wear military uniforms,
though without rank badges. To discover (through
photographing) that life is "really a melodrama," to understand
the camera as a weapon of aggression, implies there will be
casualties. ''I'm sure there are limits," she wrote. "God knows,
when the troops start advancing on you, you do approach that
stricken feeling where you perfectly well can get killed." Arbus's
words in retrospect describe a kind of combat death: having
trespassed certain limits, she fell in a psychic ambush, a casualty
of her own candor and curiosity.
   In the old romance of the artist, any person who has the
temerity to spend a season in hell risks not getting out alive or
coming back psychically damaged. The heroic avant-gardism of
French literature in the late nineteenth and early twentieth
centuties furnishes a memorable pantheon of artists who fail to
survive their trips to hell. Still, there is a large difference between
the activity of a photographer, which is always willed, and the
activity of a writer, which may not be. One has the right to, may
feel compelled to, give voice to one's own pain-which is, in any
case, one's own property. One volunteers to seek out the pain of
others.
   Thus, what is finally most troubling in Arbus's photographs is
not their subject at all but the cumulative impression of the
photographer's consciousness: the sense that what is presented
is precisely a private vision, something voluntary. Arbus was not
a poet delving into her entrails to relate her own pain but a
On Photography                                                     32


photographer venturing out into the world to collect images that
are painful. And for pain sought rather than just felt, there may
be a less than obvious explanation. According to Reich, the
masochist's taste for pain does not spring from a love of pain but
from the hope of procuring, by means of pain, a strong sensation;
those handicapped by emotional or sensory analgesia only prefer
pain to not feeling anything at all. But there is another explanation
of why people seek pain, diametrically opposed to Reich's, that
also seems pertinent: that they seek it not to feel more but to feel
less.
   Insofar as looking at Arbus's photographs is, undeniably, an
ordeal, they are typical of the kind of art popular among
sophisticated urban people right now: art that is a self-willed test
of hardness. Her photographs offer an occasion to demonstr·ate
that life's horror can be faced without squeamishness. The
photographer once had to say to herself, Okay, I can accept that;
the viewer is invited to make the same declaration.
   Arb us's work is a good instance of a leading tendency of high
art in capitalist countries: to suppress, or at least reduce, moral
and sensory queasiness. Much of modern art is devoted to
lowering the threshold of what is terrible. By getting us used to
what, formerly, we could not bear to see or hear, because it was
too shocking, painful, or embarrassing, art changes morals-that
body of psychic custom and public sanctions that draws a vague
boundary between what is emotionally and spontaneously
intolerable and what is not. The gradual suppression of queasiness
does bring us closer to a rather formal truth-that of the
arbitrariness of the taboos constructed by art and morals. But our
ability to stomach this rising grotesqueness in images (moving
and still) and in print has a stiff price. In the long run, it works
out not as a liberation of but as a subtraction from the self: a
pseudo-familiarity with the horrible reinforces alienation, making
one less able to react in real life. What happens to people's feelings
on first exposure to today's neighborhood pornographic film or
to tonight's televised atrocity is not so different from what happens
when they first look at Arbus's photographs.
   The photographs make a compassionate response feel
On Photography                                                   33


irrelevant. The point is not to be upset, to be able to confront the
horrible with equanimity. But this look that is not (mainly)
compassionate is a special, modern ethical construction: not
hardhearted, certainly not cynical, but simply (or falsely) nai:ve.
To the painful nightmarish reality out there, Arbus applied such
adjectives as "terrific," "interesting," "incredible," "fantastic,"
"sensational"-the childlike wonder of the pop mentality. The
camera-according to her deliberately nai:ve image of the
photographer's quest-is a device that captures it all, that seduces
subjects into disclosing their secrets, that broadens experience.
To photograph people, according to Arbus, is necessarily "cruel,"
"mean." The important thing is not to blink.
   "Photography was a license to go wherever I wanted and to do
what I wanted to do," Arbus wrote. The camera is a kind of
passport that annihilates moral bow1daries and social inhibitions,
freeing the photographer from any responsibility toward the
people photographed. The whole point of photographing people
is that you are not intervening in their lives, only visiting them.
The photographer is supertourist, an extension of the
anthropologist, visiting natives and bringing back news of their
exotic doings and strange gear. The photographer is always hying
to colonize new experiences or find new ways to look at familiar
subjects-to fight against boredom. For boredom is just the
reverse side of fascination: both depend on being outside rather
than inside a situation, and one leads to the other. "The Chinese
have a theory that you pass through boredom into fascination,"
Arbus noted. Photographing an appalling unde1world (and a
desolate, plastic ove1world), she had no intention of entering into
the horror experienced by the denizens of those worlds. They are
to remain exotic, hence "terrific." Her view is always from the
outside.

"I'm very little drawn to photographing people that are known
or even subjects that are known," Arbus wrote. "They fascinate
me when I've barely heard of them." However drawn she was to
the maimed and the ugly, it would never have occurred to Arbus
to photograph Thalidomide babies or napalm victims-public
On Photography                                                    34


horrors, deformities with sentimental or ethical associations.
Arbus was not interested in ethical journalism. She chose subjects
that she could believe were found, just lying about, without any
values attached to them. They are necessarily a historical subjects,
private rather than public pathology, secret lives rather than open
ones.
    For Arbus, the camera photographs the unknown. But
unknown to whom? Unknown to someone who is protected, who
has been schooled in moralistic and in prudent responses. Like
Nathanael West, another artist fascinated by the deformed and
mutilated, Arbus came from a verbally skilled, compulsively
health-minded, indignation-prone, well-to-do Jewish family, for
whom minority sexual tastes lived way below the threshold of
awareness and risk-taking was despised as another goyish
craziness. "One of the things I felt I suffered from as a kid," Arbus
wrote, "was that I never felt adversity. I was confined in a sense
of unreality.. . . And the sense of being immune was, ludicrous as
it seems, a painful one.'' Feeling much the same discontent, West
in 1927 took a job as a night clerk in a seedy Manhattan hotel.
Arbus's way of procuring experience, and thereby acquiring a
sense of reality, was the camera. By experience was meant, if not
material adversity, at least psychological adversity-the shock of
immersion in experiences that cannot be beautified, the encounter
with what is taboo, perverse, evil.
   Arbus's interest in freaks expresses a desire to violate her own
innocence, to undermine her sense of being privileged, to vent
her frustration at being safe. Apart from West, the 1930s yield
few examples of this kind of distress. More typically, it is the
sensibility of someone educated and middle-class who came of
age between 1945 and 1955-a sensibility that was to flourish
precisely in the 1960s.
    The decade of Arbus's serious work coincides with, and is very
much of, the sixties, the decade in which freaks went public, and
became a safe, approved subject of art. What in the 1930s was
treated with anguish-as in Miss Lonely-hearts and The Day of
the Locust-would in the 1960s be treated in a perfecdy deadpan
way, or with positive relish (in the films of Fellini, Arrabal,
On Photography                                                     35


Jodorowsky, in underground comics, in rock spectacles). At the
beginning of the sixties, the thriving Freak Show at Coney Island
was outlawed; the pressure is on to raze the Times Square turf of
drag queens and hustlers and cover it with skyscrapers. As the
inhabitants of deviant underworlds are evicted from their
restricted territories-banned as unseemly, a public nuisance,
obscene, or just unprofitable-they increasingly come to infiltrate
consciousness as the subject matter of art, acquiring a certain
diffuse legitimacy and metaphoric proximity which creates all the
more distance.
   Who could have better appreciated the truth of freaks than
someone like Arbus, who was by profession a fashion
photographer-a fabricator of the cosmetic lie that masks the
intractable inequalities of birth and class and physical appearance.
But unlike Warhol, who spent many years as a commercial artist,
Arbus did not make her serious work out of promoting and
kidding the aesthetic of glamour to which she had been
apprenticed, but turned her back on it entirely. Arbus's work is
reactive-reactive against gentility, against what is approved. It
was her way of saying fuck Vogue, fuck fashion, fuck what's pretty.
This challenge takes two not wholly compatible forms. One is a
revolt against the Jews, hyper-developed moral sensibility. The
other revolt, itselfhotly moralistic, turns against the success world.
The moralist's subversion advances life as a fai l ure as the antidote
to life as a success. The aesthete's subversion, which the sixties
was to make peculiarly its own, advances life as a honor show as
the antidote to life as a bore.
   Most of Arbus's work lies within the Warhol aesthetic, that is,
defines itself in relation to the twin poles of boringness and
freakishness; but it doesn't have the Warhol style. Arbus had
neither Warhol's narcissism and genius for publicity nor the
self-protective blandness with which he insulates himself from
the freaky nor his sentimentality. It is unlikely that Warhol, who
comes from a working-class family, ever felt any of the
ambivalence toward success which afflicted the children of the
Jewish upper middle classes in the 1960s. To someone raised as
a Catholic, like Warhol (and virtually everyone in his gang), a
On Photography                                                   36


fascination with evil comes much more genuinely than it does to
someone from a Jewish background. Compared with Warhol,
Arbus seems strikingly vulnerable, innocent-and certainly more
pessimistic. Her Dantesque vision of the city (and the suburbs)
has no resetves of irony. Although much of Arbus's material is
the same as that depicted in, say, Warhol's Chelsea Girls ( 1966),
her photographs never play with horror, milking it for laughs;
they offer no opening to mockery, and no possibility of finding
freaks endearing, as do the films of Warhol and Paul Morrissey.
For Arbus, both freaks and Middle America were equally exotic:
a boy marching in a pro-war parade and a Levittown housewife
were as alien as a dwarf or a transvestite; lower-middle-class
suburbia was as remote as Times Square, lunatic asylums, and
gay bars. Arbus's work expressed her turn against what was public
(as she experienced it), conventional, safe, reassuring-and
boring-in favor of what was private, hidden, ugly, dangerous,
and fascinating. These contrasts, now, seem almost quaint. What
is safe no longer monopolizes public imagery. The freakish is no
longer a private zone, difficult of access. People who are bizarre,
in sexual disgrace, emotionally vacant are seen daily on the
newsstands, on TV, in the subways. Hobbesian man roams the
streets, quite visible, with glittet in his hair.

Sophisticated in the familiar modernist way--choosing
awkwardness, naivete, sincerity over the slickness and a11ificiality
of high art and high commerce-Arbus said that the photographer
she felt closest to was Weegee, whose brutal pictures of crime and
accident victims were a staple of the tabloids in the 1940s.
W eegee's photographs are indeed upsetting, his sensibility is
urban, but the similarity between his work and Arbus's ends there.
However eager she was to disavow standard elements of
photographic sophistication such as composition, Arb us was not
unsophisticated. And there is nothing journalistic about her
motives for taking pictures. What may seem journalistic, even
sensational, in Arbus's photographs places them, rather, in the
main tradition of Surrealist art-their taste for the grotesque,
On Photography                                                   37


their professed innocence with respect to their subjects, their
claim that all subjects are merely objets trouves.
   "I would never choose a subject for what it meant to me when
I think of it," Arbus wrote, a dogged exponent of the Surrealist
bluff. Presumably, viewers are not supposed to judge the people
she photographs. Of course, we do. And the very range of Arbus's
subjects itself constitutes a judgment. Brassai:, who photographed
people like those who interested Arbus-see his "La Mome Bijou"
of l932-also did tender cityscapes, portraits of famous artists.
Lewis Hine's «Mental Institution, New Jersey, 1924" could be a
late Arbus photograph (except that the pair of Mongoloid children
posing on the lawn are photographed in profile rather than
frontally); the Chicago street portraits Walker Evans took in 1946
are Arbus material, as are a number of photographs by Robert
Frank. The difference is in the range of other subjects, other
emotions that Hine, Brassai:, Evans, and Frank photographed.
Arb us is an auteur in the most limiting sense, as special a case in
the history of photography as is Giorgio Morandi, who spent a
half century doing still lifes of bottles, in the history of modern
European painting. She does not, like most ambitious
photographers, play the field of subject matter-even a little. On
the contrary, all her subjects are equivalent. And making
equivalences between freaks, mad people, suburban couples, and
nudists is a very powerful judgment, one in complicity with a
recognizable political mood shared by many educated, left-liberal
Americans. The subjects of Arbus's photographs are all members
of the same family, inhabitants of a single village. Only, as it
happens, the idiot village is America. Instead of showing identity
between things which are different (Whitman's democratic vista),
everybody is shown to look the same.
   Succeeding the more buoyant hopes for America has come a
bitter, sad embrace of experience. There is a particular melancholy
in the American photographic project. But the melancholy was
already latent in the heyday of Whitmanesque affirmation, as
represented by Stieglitz and his Photo-Secession circle. Stieglitz,
pledged to redeem the world with his camera, was still shocked
by modern material civilization. He photographed New York in
On Photography                                                      38


the 1 9 1 Os in an almost quixotic spirit-camera/lance against
skyscraper/windmill. Paul Rosenfeld described Stieglitz's efforts
as a "perpetual affirmation." The Whitmanesque appetites have
turned pious: the photographer now patronizes reality. One needs
a camera to show patterns in that "dull and marvelous opacity
called the United States."
   Obviously, a mission as rotten with doubt about
America--even at its most optimistic-was bound to get deflated
fairly soon, as post-World War I America committed itself more
boldly to big business and consumerism. Photographers with less
ego and magnetism than Stieglitz gradually gave up the struggle.
They might continue to practice the atomistic visual stenography
inspired by Whitman. But, without Whitman's delirious powers
of synthesis, what they documented was discontinuity, detritus,
loneliness, greed, sterility. Stieglitz, using photography to challenge
the materialist civilization, was, in Rosenfeld's words, "the man
who believed that a spiritual America existed somewhere, that
America was not the grave of the Occident." The implicit intent
of Frank and Arbus, and of many of their contemporaries and
juniors, is to show that America is the grave of the Occident.
   Since photography cut loose from the Whitrnanesque
affirmation-since it has ceased to understand how photographs
could aim at being literate, authoritative, transcendent-the best
of American photography (and much else in American culture)
has given itself over to the consolations of Surrealism, and
America has been discovered as the quintessential Surrealist
country. It is obviously too easy to say that America is just a freak
show, a wasteland-the cut-rate pessimism typical of the
reduction of the real to the surreal. But the American partiality
to myths of redemption and damnation remains one of the most
energizing, most seductive aspects of our national culture. What
we have left ofWhitman's discredited dream of cultural revolution
are paper ghosts and a sharp-eyed witty program of despair.
On Photograph}'                                                      39




                                         Melancholy Objects

Photography has the unappealing reputation of being the most
realistic, therefore facile, of the mimetic arts. In fact, it is the one
art that has managed to carry out the grandiose, century-old
threats of a Surrealist takeover of the modern sensibility, while
most of the pedigreed candidates have dropped out of the race.
   Painting was handicapped from the start by being a fine art,
with each object a unique, handmade original. A further liability
was the exceptional tech nical virtuosity of those painters usually
included in the Surrealist canon, who seldom imagined the canvas
as other than figurative. Their paintings looked sleekly calculated,
complacently well made, undialectical. They kept a long, prudent
distance from Surrealism's contentious idea of blurring the lines
between art and so-called life, between objects and events, between
the intended and the unintentional, between pros and amateurs,
between the noble and the tawdry, between craftsmanship and
lucky blunders. The result was that Surrealism in painting
amounted to little mme than the contents of a meagerly stocked
dream world: a few witty fantasies, mostly wet dreams and
agoraphobic nightmares. (Only when its libertarian rhetoric
helped to nudge Jackson Pollock and others into a new kind of
irreverent abstraction did the Surrealist mandate for painters
finally seem to make wide creative sense.) Poetry, the other art
to which the early Surrealists were particularly devoted, has yielded
almost equally disappointing results. The arts in which Surrealism
has come into its own are prose fiction (as content, mainly, but
much more abundant and more complex thematically than that
On Photography                                                  40


claimed by painting), theater, the arts of assemblage, and-most
triumphantly-photography.
   That photography is the only art that is natively surreal does
not mean, however, that it shares the destinies of the official
Surrealist movement. On the contrary. Those photographers
(many of them ex-painters) consciously influenced by Smrealism
count almost as little today as the nineteenth-century "pictorial"
photographers who copied the lookof Beaux-Arts painting. Even
the loveliest trouvailles of the 19 20s-the solarized photographs
and Rayographs of Man Ray, the photograms of Laszl6
Moholy-Nagy, the multiple-exposure studies of Bragaglia, the
photomontages       of     John      Heartfield  and    Alexander
Rodchenko-are regarded as marginal exploits in the history of
photography. The photographers who concentrated on interfering
with the supposedly superficial realism of the photograph were
those who most narrowly conveyed photography's surreal
properties. The Surrealist legacy for photography came to seem
trivial as the Surrealist repertoire of fantasies and props was
rapidly absorbed into high fashion in the 1930s, and Surrealist
photography offered mainly a mannered style of portraiture,
recognizable by its use of the same decorative conventions
introduced by Surrealism in other arts, particularly painting,
theater, and advertising. The mainstream of photographic activity
has shown that a Surrealist manipulation or theatricalization of
the real is unnecessary, if not actually redundant. Surrealism lies
at the heart of the photographic enterprise: in the very creation
of a duplicate world, of a reality in the second degree, narrower
but more dramatic than the one perceived by natural vision. The
less doctored, the less patently crafted, the more naive-the more
authoritative the photograph was likely to be.
   Surrealism has always coUI·ted accidents, welcomed the
uninvited, flattered disorderly presences. What could be more
surreal than an object which virtually produces itself, and with a
minimum of effort? An object whose beauty, fantastic disclosures,
emotional weight are likely to be further enhanced by any
accidents that might befall it? It is photography that has best
shown how to juxtapose the sewing machine and the umbrella,
On Photography                                                   41


whose fortuitous encounter was hailed by a great Surrealist poet
as an epitome of the beautiful.
   Unlike the fine-art objects of pre-democratic eras, photographs
don't seem deeply beholden to the intentions of an artist. Rather,
they owe their existence to a loose cooperation (quasi-magical,
quasi-accidental) between photographer and subject-mediated
by an ever simpler and more automated machine, which is tireless,
and which even when capricious can produce a result that is
interesting and never entirely wrong. (The sales pitch for the first
Kodak, in 1888, was: "You press the button, we do the rest." The
purchaser was guaranteed that the picture would be "without any
mistake.") In the fairy tale of photography the magic box insures
veracity and banishes error, compensates for inexperience and
rewards innocence.
   The myth is tenderly parodied in a 1928 silent film, The
Cameraman, which has an inept dreamy Buster Keaton vainly
struggling with his dilapidated apparatus, knocking out windows
and doors whenever he picks up his tripod, never managing to
take one decent picture, yet finally getting some great footage (a
photojournalist scoop of a tong war in New York's
Chinatown)-by inadvertence. It is the hero's pet monkey who
loads the camera with film and operates it part of the time.

The error of the Surrealist militants was to imagine the surreal to
be something universal, that is, a matter of psychology, whereas
it turns out to be what is most local, ethnic, class-bound, dated.
Thus, the earliest surreal photographs come from the 1850s, when
photographers first went out prowling the streets of London,
Paris, and New York, looking for their unposed slice of life. These
photographs, concrete, particular, anecdotal (except that the
anecdote has been effaced)-moments of lost time, of vanished
customs-seem far more surreal to us now than any photograph
rendered abstract and poetic by superimposition, under-printing,
solarization, and the like. Believing that the images they sought
came from the unconscious, whose contents they assumed as
loyal Freudians to be timeless as well as universal, the Surrealists
misunderstood what was most brutally moving, irrational,
On Photography                                                      42


unassimilable, mysterious-time itself. What renders a
photograph surreal is its irrefutable pathos as a message from
time past, and the concreteness of its intimations about social
class.
    Surrealism is a bourgeois disaffection; that its militants thought
it universal is only one of the signs that it is typically bourgeois.
As an aesthetics that yearns to be a politics, Surrealism opts for
the underdog, for the rights of a disestablished or unofficial reality.
But the scandals flattered by Surrealist aesthetics generally turned
out to be just those homely mysteries obscured by the bourgeois
social order: sex and poverty. Eros, which the early Surrealists
placed at the summit of the tabooed reality they sought to
rehabilitate, was itself part of the mystery of social station. While
it seemed to flourish luxuriantly at extreme ends of the scale, both
the lower classes and the nobility being regarded as naturally
libertine, middle-class people had to toil to make their sexual
revolution. Class was tl1e deepest mystery: the inexhaustible
glamour of the rich and powerful, the opaque degradation of the
poor and outcast.
    The view of reality as an exotic prize to be tracked down and
captured by the diligent hunter-with-a-camera has informed
photography from the beginning, and marks the confluence of
the Surrealist counter-culture and middle-class social
adventurism. Photography has always been fascinated by social
heights and lower depths. Documentarists (as distinct from
courtiers witl1 cameras) prefer the latter. For more than a century,
photographers have been hovering about the oppressed, in
attendance at scenes of violence-with a spectacularly good
conscience. Social misery has inspired the comfortably-off with
the urge to take pictures, the gentlest of predations, in order to
document a hidden reality, that is, a reality hidden from them.
    Gazing on other people's reality with curiosity, with
detachment, with professionalism, the ubiquitous photographer
operates as if that activity transcends class interests, as if its
perspective is universal. In fact, photography first comes into its
own as an extension of the eye of the middle-classjlcmeur, whose
sensibility was so accurately charted by Baudelaire. The
On Photography                                                     43


photographer is an armed version of the solitary walker
reconnoitering, stalking, cruising the urban inferno, the
voyeuristic stroller who discovers the city as a landscape of
voluptuous extremes. Adept of the joys of watching, connoisseur
of empathy, the flaneur finds the world "picturesque." The
findings of Baudelaire's fltmeur are variously exemplified by the
candid snapshots taken in the 1890s by Paul Martin in London
streets and at the seaside and by Arnold Genthe in San Francisco's
Chinatown (both using a concealed camera), by Atget's twilight
Paris of shabby streets and decaying trades, by the dramas of sex
and loneliness depicted in Brassal's book Paris de nuit ( 1933), by
the image of the city as a theater of disaster in Weegee's Naked
City ( 1945). The jlaneur is not attracted to the city's official
realities but to its dark seamy corners, its neglected
populations-an unofficial reality behind the fa<;:ade of bourgeois
life that the photographer "apprehends," as a detective apprehends
a criminal.
    Returning to The Cameraman: a tong war among poor Chinese
makes an ideal subject. [t is completely exotic, therefore worth
photographing. Pa11 of what assures the success of the hero's film
is that he doesn't understand his subject at all. (As played by
Buster Keaton, he doesn't even understand that his life is in
danger.) The perennial surreal subject is How the Other HalfLives,
to cite the innocently explicit title that Jacob Riis gave to the book
of photographs of the New York poor that he brought out in 1890.
Photography conceived as social documentation was an
instrument of that essentially middle-class attitude, both zealous
and merely tolerant, both curious and indifferent, called
humanism-which found slums the most enthralling of decors.
Contemporary photographers have, of course, learned to dig in
and limit their subject. Instead of the chutzpa of "d1e other half,"
we get, say, East lOOth Street (Bruce Davidson's book of Harlem
photographs published in 1970). The justification is still the same,
that picture-taking serves a high purpose: uncovering a hidden
truth, conserving a vanishing past. (The hidden truth is, moreover,
often identified with d1e vanishing past. Between 1874 and 1886,
On Photography                                                     44


prosperous Londoners could subscribe to the Society for
Photographing the Relics of Old London.)
   Starting as artists of the urban sensibility, photographers quickly
became aware that nature is as exotic as the city, rustics as
picturesque as city slum dwellers. In 1897 Sir Benjamin Stone,
rich industrialist and conservative MP from Birmingham, founded
the National Photographic Record Association with the aim of
documenting traditional English ceremonies and rural festivals
which were dying out. "Every village," Stone wrote, "has a history
which might be preserved by means of the camera." For a wellborn
photographer of the late nineteenth century like the bookish
Count Giuseppe Prirnoli, the street life of the underprivileged
was at least as interesting as the pastimes of his fellow aristocrats:
compare Primoli's photographs of King Victor Emmanuel's
wedding with his photographs ofthe Naples poor. It required the
social immobility of a photographer of genius who happened to
be a small child, Jacques-Henri Lartigue, to confine subject matter
to the outlandish habits of the photographer's own family and
class. But essentially the camera makes everyone a tourist in other
people's reality, and eventually in one's own.
   Perhaps the earliest model of the sustained look downward are
the thirty-six photographs in Street Life in London ( 1877 -78) taken
by the British traveler and photographer John Thomson. But for
each photographer specializing in the poor, many more go after
a wider range of exotic reality. Thomson himself had a model
career of this kind. Before turning to the poor of his own country,
he had already been to see the heathen, a sojourn which resulted
in his four-volume Illustrations of China and Its People ( 1873-74).
And following his book on the street life of the London poor, he
turned to the indoor life of the London rich: it was Thomson
who, around 1880, pioneered the vogue of at-home photographic
portraiture.
   From the beginning, professional photography typically meant
the broader kind of class tourism, with most photographers
combining surveys of social abjection witl1 portraits of celebrities
or commodities (high fashion, advertising) or studies of the nude.
Many of the exemplary photographic careers of this century (like
On Photography                                                  45


those of Edward Steichen, Bill Brandt, Henri Cartier-Bresson,
Richard Avedon) proceed by abrupt changes in the social level
and ethical importance of subject matter. Perhaps the most
dramatic break is that between the pre-war and the post-warwork
of Bill Brandt. To have gone from the tough-minded photographs
of Depression squalor in northern England to his stylish celebrity
portraits and semi-abstract nudes of the last decades seems along
journey indeed. But there is nothing particularly idiosyncratic,
or perhaps even inconsistent, in these contrasts. Traveling between
degraded and glamorous realities is part of the very momentum
of the photographic enterprise,unless the photographer is locked
into an extremely private obsession (like the thing Lewis Carroll
had for little girls or Diane Arbus had for the Halloween crowd).
   Poverty is no more surreal than wealth; a body clad in filthy
rags is not more surreal than a principessa dressed for a ball or a
pristine nude. What is surreal is the distance imposed, and
bridged, by the photograph: the social distance and the distance
in time. Seen from the middle-class perspective of photography,
celebrities are as intriguing as pariahs. Photographers need not
have an ironic, intelligent attitude toward their stereotyped
material. Pious, respectful fascination may do just as well,
especially with the most conventional subjects.
   Nothing could be farther from, say, the subtleties of Avedon
than the work of Ghitta Carell, Hungarian-born photographer
of the celebrities of the Mussolini era. But her portraits now look
as eccentric as Avedon's, and far more surreal than Cecil Beaton's
Surrealist-influenced photographs from the same period. By
setting his subjects-see the photographs he took of Edith Sitwell
in 1927, of Cocteau in 1936-in fanciful, luxurious decors, Beaton
turns them into overexplicit, unconvincing effigies. But Carell's
innocent complicity with the wish of her Italian generals and
aristocrats and actors to appear static, poised, glamorous exposes
a hard, accmate truth about them. The photographer's reverence
has made them interesting; time has made them harmless, all too
human.

Some photographers set up as scientists, others as moralists. The
On Photography                                                    46


scientists make an inventory of the world; the moralists
concentrate on hard cases. An example of photography-as-science
is the project August Sander began in 1911: a photographic
catalogue of the German people. In contrast to George Grosz's
drawings, which summed up the spirit and variety of social types
in Weimar Germany through caricature, Sander's "archetype
pictures" (as he called them) imply a pseudo-scientific neutrality
similar to that claimed by the covertly partisan typological sciences
that sprang up in the nineteenth century like phrenology,
criminology, psychiatry, and eugenics. It was not so much that
Sander chose individuals for their representative character as that
he assumed, correctly, that the camera cannot help but reveal
faces as social masks. Each person photographed was a sign of a
certain trade, class, or profession. All his subjects are
representative, equally representative, of a given social
reality-their own.
   Sander's look is not unkind; it is permissive, unjudging.
Compare his 1930 photograph "Circus People" with Diane Arbus's
studies of circus people or with the portraits of demimonde
characters by Lisette Model. People face Sander's camera, as they
do in Model's and Arbus's photographs, but their gaze is not
intimate, revealing. Sander was not looking for secrets; he was
observing the typical. Society contains no mystery. Like Eadweard
Muybrjdge, whose photographic studies in the 1880s managed
to dispel misconceptions about what everybody had always seen
(how horses gallop, how people move) because he had subdivided
the subject's movements into a precise and lengthy enough
sequence of shots, Sander aimed to shed light on the social order
by atomizing it, into an indefinite number of social types. It
doesn't seem surprising that in 1934, five years after its
publication, the Nazis impounded the unsold copies of Sander's
book Antlitz der Zeit (The Face of Our Time) and destroyed the
printing blocks, thus bringing his national-portrait project to an
abrupt end. (Sander, who stayed in Germany throughout the Nazi
period, switched to landscape photography.) The charge was that
Sander's project was anti-social. What might well have seemed
anti-social to Nazis was his idea of the photographer as an
On Photography                                                      47


impassive census-taker, the completeness of whose record would
render all commentary, or even judgment, superfluous.
   Unlike most photography with a documentary intention,
enthralled either by the poor and unfamiliar, as preeminently
photographable subjects, or by celebrities, Sander's social sample
is unusually, conscientiously broad. He includes bureaucrats and
peasants, servants and society ladies, factory workers and
industrialists, soldieTs and gypsies, actors and clerks. But such
variety does not rule out class condescension. Sander's eclectic
style gives him away. Some photographs are casual, fluent,
naturalistic; others are na'ive and awkward. The many posed
photographs taken against a flat white background are a cross
between superb mug shots and old-fashioned studio portraits.
U nselfconsciously, Sander ad justed his style to the social rank of
the person he was photographing. Professionals and the rich tend
to be photographed indoors, without props. They speak for
themselves. Laborers and derelicts are usually photographed iil
a setting (often outdoors) which locates them, which speaks for
them-as if they could not be assumed to have the kinds of
separate identities normally achieved in the middle and upper
classes.
   In Sander's work everybody is in place, nobody is lost or
cramped or off-center. A cretin is photographed in exactly the
same dispassionate way as a bricklayer, a legless World War I
veteran like a healthy young soldier in uniform, scowling
Communist students like smiling Nazis, a captain of industry like
an opera singer. "It is not my intention either to criticize or
describe these people," Sander said. While one might have
expected that he would have claimed not to have criticized his
subjects, by photographing them, it is interesting that he thought
he hadn't described them either. Sander's complicity with
everybody also means a distance from everybody. His complicity
with his subjects is not na'ive (like Carell's) but nihilistic. Despite
its class realism, it is one of the most truly abstract bodies of work
in the history of photography.
   It is hard to imagine an American attempting an equivalent of
Sander's comprehensive taxonomy. The great photographic
On Photography                                                                          48


portraits of America-like Walker Evans's American Photographs
( 1938) and Robert Frank's The Americans ( 1959)-have been
deliberately random, while continuing to reflect the traditional
relish of documentary photography for the poor and the
dispossessed, the nation's forgotten citizens. And the most
ambitious collective photographic project ever undertaken in this
country, by the Farm Security Administration in 1935, under the
direction of Roy Emerson Stryker, was concerned exclusively with
"low-income groups."" The FSA project, conceived as "a pictorial
documentation of our rural areas and rural problems" (Stryker's
words), was unabashedly propagandistic, with Stryker coaching
his team about the attitude they were to take toward their problem
subject. The purpose of the project was to demonstrate the value
of the people photographed. Thereby, it implicitly defined its
point of view: that of middle-class people who needed to be
convinced that the poor were really poor, and that the poor were
dignified. It is instructive to compare the FSA photographs with
those by Sander. Though the poor do not lack dignity in Sander's
photographs, it is not because of any compassionate intentions.
They have dignity by juxtaposition, because they are looked at in
the same cool way as everybody else.
   American photography was rarely so detached. For an approach
reminiscent of Sander's, one must look to people who
documented a dying or superseded part of America-like Adam
Clark Vroman, who photographed Indians in Arizona and New
Mexico between 1895 and 1904. Vroman's handsome photographs
are unexpressive, uncondescending, unsentimental. Their mood
is the very opposite of the FSA photographs: they are not moving,

  �
   Though that changed, as is indicated in a memo from Stryker to his staffin 1942,

when the new morale "needs of World War II made the poor too downbeat a subject.

"We must have at once: pictures of men, women and children who appear as if they

really believed in the U.S. Get people with a little spirit. Too many in our file now paint

the U.S. as an old person's home and that just about everybody is too old to work and

too malnourished to care much what happens. . . . We particularly need young men and

women who work in our factories . . . . Housewives in their kitd1en or in their yard

picking flowers. More contented-looking old couples . . . ."
On Photography                                                    49


they are not idiomatic, they do not invite sympathy. They make
no propaganda for the Indians. Sander didn't know he was
photographing a disappearing world. Vroman did. He also knew
that there was no saving the world that he was recording.

Photography in Europe was largely guided by notions of the
picturesque (i.e., the poor, the foreign, the time-worn), the
important (i.e., the rich, the famous), and the beautiful.
Photographs tended to praise or to aim at neutrality. Americans,
less convinced of the permanence of any basic social arrangements,
experts on the «reality" and inevitability of change, have more
often made photography partisan. Pictures got taken not only to
show what should be admired but to reveal what needs to be
confronted, deplored-and fiXed up. American photography
implies a more summaq, less stable connection with history; and
a relation to geographic and social reality that is both more
hopeful and more predatory.
   The hopeful side is exemplified in the well-known use of
photographs in America to awaken conscience. At the beginning
of the centuq Lewis Hine was appointed staff photographer to
the National Child Labor Committee, and his photographs of
children working in cotton mills, beet fields, and coal mines did
influence legislators to make child labor illegal. During the New
Deal, Sttyker's FSA project (Sttykerwas a pupil of Hine's) brought
back information about migrant workers and sharecroppers to
Washington, so that bureaucrats could figure out how to help
them. But even at its most moralistic, docwnentary photography
was also imperious in another sense. Both Thomson's detached
traveler's report and the impassioned muckraking of Riis or Hine
reflect the urge to appropriate an alien reality. And no reality is
exempt from appropriation, neither one that is scandalous (and
should be corrected) nor one that is merely beautiful (or could
be made so by the camera). Ideally, the photographer was able to
make the two realities cognate, as illustrated by the title of an
interview with Hine in 1920, "Treating labor Artistically."
   The predatory side of photography is at the heart of the alliance,
evident earlier in the United States than anywhere else, between
On Photography                                                  50


photography and tourism. After the opening of the West in 1869
by the completion of the transcontinental railroad came the
colonization through photography. The case of the American
Indians is the most brutal. Discreet, serious amateurs like Vroman
had been operating since the end of the Civil War. They were the
vanguard of an army of tourists who arrived by the end of the
century, eager for "a good shot" of Indian life. The tourists
invaded the Indians' privacy, photographing holy objects and the
sacred dances and places, if necessary paying the Indians to pose
and getting them to revise their ceremonies to provide more
photogenic material.
   But the native ceremony that is changed when the tourist
hordes come sweeping down is not so different from a scandal in
the inner city that is corrected after someone photographs it.
Insofar as the muckrakers got results, they too altered what they
photographed; indeed, photographing something became a
routine part of the procedure for altering it. The danger was of a
token change-limited to the narrowest reading of the
photograph's subject. The particular New York slum, Mulberry
Bend, that Riis photographed in the late 1880s was subsequently
torn down and its inhabitants rehoused by order of Theodore
Roosevelt, then state governor, while other, equally dreadful slums
were left standing.
   The photographer both loots and preserves, denounces and
consecrates. Photography expresses the American impatience
with reality, the taste for activities whose instrumentality is a
machine. "Speed is at the bottom of it all," as Hart Crane said
(writing about Stieglitz in 1923 ), "the hundredth of a second
caught so precisely that the motion is continued from the picture
indefinitely: the moment made eternal." Faced with the awesome
spread and alienness of a newly settled continent, people wielded
cameras as a way of taking possession of the places they visited.
Kodak put signs at the entrances of many towns listing what to
photograph. Signs marked the places in national parks where
visitors should stand with their cameras.
   Sander is at home in his own country. American photographers
are often on the road, overcome with disrespectful wonder at
On Photography                                                    51


what their country offers in the way of surreal surprises. Moralists
and conscienceless despoilers, children and foreigners in their
own land, they will get something down that is disappearing-and,
often, hasten its disappearance by photographing it. To take, like
Sander, specimen after specimen, seeking an ideally complete
inventory, presupposes that society can be envisaged as a
comprehensible totality. European photographers have assumed
that society has something of the stability of nature. Natme in
America has always been suspect, on the defensive, cannibalized
by progress. In America, every specimen becomes a relic.
   The American landscape has always seemed too varied,
immense, mysterious, fugitive to lend itself to scientism. "He
doesn't know, he can't say, before the facts," Henry James wrote
in The American Scene ( 1907),

  and he doesn't even want to know or to say; the facts
  themselves loom, before the understanding, in too large a
  mass for a mere mouthful: it is as if the syllables were too
  numerous to make a legible word. The illegible word,
  accordingly, the great inscrutable answer to questions, hangs
  in the vast American sky, to his imagination, as something
  fantastic and abracadabrant, belonging to no known
  language, and it is under this convenient ensign that he
  travels and considers and contemplates, and, to the best of
  his ability, enjoys.

Americans feel the reality of their country to be so stupendous,
and mutable, that it would be the rankest presumption to
approach it in a classifying, scientific way. One could get at it
indirectly, by subterfuge-breaking it off into strange fragments
that could somehow, by synecdoche, be taken for the whole.
  American photographers (like American writers) posit
something ineffable in the national reality-something, possibly,
that has never been seen before. Jack Kerouac begins his
introduction to Robert Frank's book The Americans:
On Photography                                                   52



  That crazy feeling in America when the sun is hot on the
  streets and music comes out of the jukebox or from a nearby
  funeral, that's what Robert Frank has captured in these
  tremendous photographs taken as he travelled on the road
  around practically forty-eight states in an old used car (on
  Guggenheim Fellowship) and with the agility, mystery,
  genius, sadness and strange secrecy of a shadow
  photographed scenes that have never been seen on film....
  After seeing these pictures you end up finally not knowing
  any more whether a jukebox is sadder than a coffin.

Any inventory of America is inevitably anti-scientific, a delirious
"abracadabrant" confusion of objects, in which jukeboxes
resemble coffins. James at least managed to make the wry
judgment that "this pa11icular effect of the scale of things is the
only effect that, throughout the land, is not directly adverse to
joy." For Kerouac-for the main tradition of American
photography-the prevailing mood is sadness. Behind the
ritualized claims of American photographers to be looking around,
at random, without preconceptions-lighting on subjects,
phlegmatically recording them-is a mournful vision of loss.
   The effectiveness of photography's statement of loss depends
on its steadily enlarging the familiar iconography of mystery,
mo11ality, transience. More traditional ghosts are summoned up
by some older American photographers, such as Clarence John
Laughlin, a self-avowed exponent of "extreme romanticism" who
began in the mid- 1930s photographing decaying plantation houses
of the lower Mississippi, funerary monuments in Louisiana's
swamp burial grounds, Victorian interiors in Milwaukee and
Chicago; but the method works as well on subjects which do not,
so conventionally, reek of the past, as in a Laughlin photograph
from 1962, "Spectre of Coca-Cola." In addition to romanticism
(extreme or not) about the past, photography offers instant
romanticism about the present. In America, the photographer is
not simply the person who records the past but the one who
invents it. As Berenice Abbott writes: "The photographer is the
On Photography                                                 53


contemporary being par excellence; through his eyes the now
becomes past."
   Returning to New York from Paris in 1929, after the years of
apprenticeship with Man Ray and her discovery (and rescue) of
the then barely known work of Eugene Atget, Abbott set about
recording the city. In the preface to her book of photographs that
came out in 1939, Changing New York, she explains: "If I had
never left America, I would never have wanted to photograph
New York. But when I saw it with fresh eyes, I knew it was my
country, something I had to set down in photographs." Abbott's
purpose ("I wanted to record it before it changed completely")
sounds like that of Atget, who spent the years between 1898 and
his death in 1927 patiently, furtively documenting a small-scale,
time-worn Paris that was vanishing. But Abbott is setting down
something even more fantastic: the ceaseless replacement of the
new. The New York of the thirties was very different from Paris:
"not so much beauty and tradition as native fantasia emerging
from accelerated greed." Abbott's book is aptly titled, fot she is
not so much memorializing the past as simply documenting ten
years of the chronic self-destruct quality of American experience,
in which even the recent past is constantly being used up, swept
away, torn down, thrown out, traded in. Fewer and fewer
Americans possess objects that have a patina, old furniture,
grandparents' pots and pans-the used things, warm with
generations of human touch, that Rilke celebrated in The Duino
Elegies as being essential to a human landscape. Instead, we have
our paper phantoms, transistorized landscapes. A featherweight
portable museum.

Photographs, which turn the past into a consumable object, are
a short cut. Any collection of photographs is an exercise in
Surrealist montage and the Surrealist abbreviation of history. As
Kurt Sthwitters and, more recently, Bruce Conner and Ed
Kienholz have made brilliant objects, tableaux, environments out
of refuse, we now make a history out of our detritus. And some
virtueJ of a civic kind appropriate to a democratic society, is
attached to the practice. The true modernism is not austerity but
On Photography                                                   54


a garbage-strewn plenitude-the willful travesty of Whitman's
magnanimous dream. Influenced by the photographers and the
pop artists, architects like Robert Venturi learn from Las Vegas
and fmd Times Square a congenial successor to the Piazza San
Marco; and Reyner Banham lauds Los Angeles's "instant
architecture and instant townscape" for its gift of freedom, of a
good life impossible amid the beauties and squalors of the
European city'---extolling the liberation offered by a society whose
consciousness is built, ad hoc, out of scraps and junk. America,
that surreal country, is full of found objects. Our junk has become
art. Our junk has become history.
   Photographs are, of course, artifacts. But their appeal is that
they also seem, in a world littered with photographic relics, to
have the status of found objects-unpremeditated slices of the
world. Thus, they trade simultaneously on the prestige of art and
the magic of the real. They are clouds of fantasy and pellets of
information. Photography has become the quintessential art of
affluent, wasteful, restless societies-an indispensable tool of the
new mass culture that took shape here after the Civil War, and
conquered Europe only after World War II, although its values
had gained a foothold among the well-off as early as the 1850s
when, according to the splenetic description of Baudelaire, ccour
squalid society" became narcissistically entranced by Daguerre's
cccheap method of disseiuinating a loathing for history."
   The Surrealist purchase on history also implies an undertow
of melancholy as well as a surface voracity and impertinence. At
the very beginning of photography, the late 1830s, William H.
Fox Talbot noted the camera's special aptitude for recording "the
injuries of time." Fox Talbot was talking about what happens to
buildings and monuments. Forus, the more interesting abrasions
are not of stone but of flesh. Through photographs we follow in
the most intimate, troubling way the reality of how people age.
To look at an old photograph of oneself, of anyone one has
known, or of a much photographed public person is to feel, first
of all: how much younger I (she, he) was then. Photography is the
inventory of mortality. A touch of the finger now suffices to invest
a moment with posthumous irony. Photographs show people
On Photography                                                     55


being so irrefutably there and at a specific age in their lives; group
together people and things which a moment later have already
disbanded, changed, continued along the course of their
independent destinies. One's reaction to the photographs Roman
Vishniac took in 1938 of daily life in the ghettos of Poland is
overwhelmingly affected by the knowledge of how soon all these
people were to perish. To the solitary stroller, all the faces in the
stereotyped photographs cupped behind glass and affixed to
tombstones in the cemeteries of Latin countries seem to contain
a portent of their death. Photographs state the innocence, the
vulnerability of lives heading toward their own destruction, and
this link between photography and death haunts all photographs
of people. Some working-class Berliners in Robert Siodmak's film
Menschen am Sonntag ( 1929) are having their pictures taken at
the end of a Sw1day outing. One by one they step before the
itinerant photographer's black box-grin, look anxious, clown,
stare. The movie camera lingers in close-up to let us savor the
mobility of each face; then we see the face frozen in the last of its
expressions, embalmed in a still. The photographs shock, in the
flow of the movie-transmuting, in an instant, present into past,
life into death. And one of the most disquieting films ever made,
Chris Marker's La Jetee ( 1963 ) , is the tale of a man who foresees
his own death, narrated entirely with still photographs.
   As the fascination that photographs exercise is a reminder of
death, it is also an invitation to sentimentality. Photographs turn
the past into an object of tender regard, scrambling moral
distinctions and disarming historical judgments by the generalized
pathos of looking at time past. One recent book arranges in
alphabetical order the photographs of an incongruous group of
celebrities as babies or children. Stalin and Gertrude Stein, who
face outward from opposite pages, look equally solemn and
huggable; Elvis Presley and Proust, another pair of youthful
page-mates, slightly resemble each other; Hubert Humphrey (age
3 ) and Aldous Huxley ( age 8), side by side, have in common that
both already display the forceful exaggerations of character for
which they were to be known as adults. No picture in the book
is without interest and charm, given what we know (including,
On Photography                                                          56


in most cases, photographs) of the famous creatures those children
were to become. For this and similar ventures in Surrealist irony,
na!ve snapshots or the most conventional studio portraits are
most effective: such pictures seem even more odd, moving,
premonitory.
   Rehabilitating old photographs, by finding new contexts for
them, has become a major book industry. A photograph is only
a fragment, and with the passage of time its moorings come
unstuck. It drifts away into a soft abstract pastness, open to any
kind of reading (or matching to other photographs). A
photograph could also be described as a quotation, which makes
a book of photographs like a book of quotations. And an
increasingly common way of presenting photographs in book
form is to match photographs themselves with quotes.
   One example: Bob Adelman's Down Home (1972), a portrait
of a rural Alabama county, one of the poorest in the nation, taken
over a five-year period in the 1960s. Illustrating the continuing
predilection of documentary photography for losers, Adelman's
book descends from Let Us Now Praise Famous Men, whose point
was precisely that its subjects were not famous, but forgotten. But
Walker Evans's photographs were accompanied by eloquent prose
written (sometimes overwritten) by James Agee, which aimed to
deepen the reader's empathy with the sharecroppers' lives. No
one presmnes to speak for Adelman's subjects. (It is characteristic
of the liberal sympathies which inform his book that it purp011s
to have no point of view at all-that is, to be an entirely impa11ial,
non-empathic look at its subjects.) Down Home could be
considered a version in miniature, county-wide, of August
Sander's project: to compile an objective photographic record of
a people. But these specimens talk, which lends a weight to these
unpretentious photographs that they would not have on their
own. Paired with their words, their photographs characterize the
citizens of Wilcox County as people obliged to defend or exhibit
their territory; suggest that these lives are, in a literal sense, a series
of positions or poses.
   Another example: Michael Lesy's Wiscomin Death Trip ( 1973),
which also constructs, with the aid of photographs, a portrait of
On Photography                                                   57


a rural county-but the time is the past, between 1890 and 1910,
years of severe recession and economic hardship, and Jackson
County is reconstructed by means of found objects dating from
those decades. These consist of a selection of photographs taken
by Charles Van Schaick, the county seat's leading commercial
photographer, some three thousand of whose glass negatives are
stored in the State Historical Society of Wisconsin; and quotations
from period sources, mainly local newspapers and the records of
the county insane asylum, and fiction about the Midwest. The
quotations have nothing to do with the photographs but are
correlated with them in an aleatoric, intuitive way, as words and
sounds by John Cage are matched at the time of performance
with the dance movements already choreographed by Merce
Curmingham.
   The people photographed in Down. Home are the authors of
the declarations we read on the facing pages. White and black,
poor and well-off talk, exhibiting contrasting views (particularly
on matters of class and race). But whereas the statements that go
with Adelman's photographs contradict each other, the texts that
Lesy has collected all say the same thing: that an astonishing
number of people in turn-of-the-century America were bent on
hanging themselves in barns, throwing their children into wells,
cutting their spouses' throats, taking off their clothes on Main
Street, burning their neighbors' crops, and sundry other acts likely
to land them in jail or the loony bin. In case anyone was thinking
that it was Vietnam and all the domestic funk and nastiness of
the past decade which had made America a country of darkening
hopes, Lesy argues that the dream had collapsed by the end of the
last century-not in the inhuman cities but in the farming
communities; that the whole country has been crazy, and for a
long time. Of course, Wisconsin. Death Trip doesn't actually prove
anything. The force of its historical argument is the force of
collage. To Van Schaick's disturbing, handsomely time-eroded
photographs Lesy could have matd1ed other texts from the
period-love letters, diaries-to give another, perhaps less
desperate impression. His book is rousing, fashionably pessimistic
polemic, and totally whimsical as history.
On Photography                                                     58


   A number of American authors, most notably Sherwood
Anderson, have written as polemically about the miseries of
small-town life at roughly the time covered by lesy's book. But
although works of photo-fiction like Wisconsin Death Trip explain
less than many stories and novels, they persuade more now,
because they have the authority of a document. Photographs--and
quotations-seem, because they are taken to be pieces of reality,
more authentic than extended literary narratives. The only prose
that seems credible to more and more readers is not the fine
writing of someone like Agee, but the raw record-edited or
unedited talk into tape recorders; fragments or the integral texts
of sub-literary documents (court records, letters, diaries,
psychiatric case histories, etc.); self-deprecatingly sloppy, often
paranoid first-person reportage. There is a rancorous suspicion
in America of whatever seems literary, not to mention a growing
reluctance on the part of young people to read anything, even
subtitles in foreign movies and copy on a record sleeve, which
partly accounts for the new appetite for books of few words and
many photographs. (Of course, photography itself increasingly
reflects the prestige of the rough, the self-disparaging, the offhand,
the undisciplined-the "anti-photograph.")
   ((All of the men and women the writer had ever known had
become grotesques," Anderson says in the prologue to Winesburg,
Ohio ( 1919), the title of which was originally supposed to be The
Book of the Grotesque. He goes on: ((The grotesques were not all
horrible. Some were amusing, some almost beautif ul.. .. "
Surrealism is the art of generalizing the grotesque and then
discovering nuances (and charms) in that. No activity is better
equipped to exercise the Surrealist way of looking than
photography, and eventually we look at all photographs
surrealistically. People are ransacking their attics and the archives
of city and state historical societies for old photographs; ever more
obscure or forgotten photographers are being rediscovered. Books
of photography pile higher and higher-measuring the lost past
(hence, the promotion of amateur photography), taking the
temperature of the present. Photographs furnish instant history,
instant sociology, instant pa11icipation. But there is something
On Photography                                                    59


remarkably anodyne about these new forms of packaging reality.
The Surrealist strategy, which promised a new and exciting
vantage point for the radical criticism of modern culture, has
devolved into an easy irony that democratizes all evidence, that
equates its scatter of evidence with history. Surrealism can only
deliver a reactionary judgment; can make out of history only an
accumulation of oddities, a joke, a death trip.

The taste for quotations (and for the juxtaposition of incongruous
quotations) is a Surrealist taste. Thus, Walter Benjamin-whose
Surrealist sensibility is the most profound of anyone's on
record-was a passionate collector of quotations. In her
magisterial essay on Benjamin, Hannah Arendt recounts that
"nothing was more characteristic of him in the thirties than the
little notebooks with black covers which he always carried with
him and in which he tirelessly entered in the form of quotations
what daily living and reading netted him in the way of <pearls'
and <coral.' On occasion he read from them aloud, showed them
around like items from a choice and precious collection." Though
collecting quotations could be considered as merely an ironic
mimetism-victirnless collecting, as it were-this should not be
taken to mean that Benjamin disapproved of, or did not indulge
in, the real thing. For it was Benjamin's conviction that reality
itself invited-and vindicated-the once heedless, inevitably
destructive ministrations of the collector. In a world that is well
on its way to becoming one vast quarry, the collector becomes
someone engaged in a pious work of salvage. The course of
modern history having ah-eady sapped the traditions and shattered
the living wholes in which precious objects once found their place,
the collector may now in good conscience go about excavating
the choicer, more emblematic fragments.
   The past itself, as historical change continues to accelerate, has
become the most surreal of subjects-making it possible, as
Benjamin said, to see a new beauty in what is vanishing. From
the start, photographers not only set theinselves the task of
recording a disappearing world but were so employed by those
hastening its disappearance. (As early as 1842, that indefatigable
On Photography                                                   60


improver of French architectural treasures, Viollet-le-Duc,
commissioned a series of daguerreotypes of Notre Dame before
beginning his restoration of the cathedral.) "To renew the old
world," Benjamin wrote, "that is the collector's deepest desire
when he is driven to acquire new things." But the old world cannot
be renewed-certainly not by quotations; and this is the rueful,
quixotic aspect of the photographic enterprise.
   Benjamin's ideas are worth mentioning because he was
photography's most original and important critic-despite (and
because of) the inner contradiction in his account of photography
which follows from the challenge posed by his Surrealist sensibility
to his Marxist/Brechtian principles-and because Benjamin's
own ideal project reads like a sublimated version of the
photographer's activity. This project was a work of literary
criticism that was to consist entirely of quotations, and would
thereby be devoid of anything that might betray empathy. A
disavowal of empathy, a disdain for message-mongering, a claim
to be invisible-these are strategies endorsed by most professional
photographers. The history of photography discloses a long
tradition of ambivalence about its capacity for partisanship: the
taking of sides is felt to undermine its perennial assumption that
all subjects have validity and interest. But what in Benjamin is an
excruciating idea offastidiousness, meant to permit the mute past
to speak in its own voice, with all its unresolvable complexity,
becomes-when generalized, in photography-the cumulative
de-creation of the past (in the very act of preserving it), the
fabrication of a new, parallel reality that makes the past immediate
while underscoring its comic or tragic ineffectuality, that invests
the specificity of the past with an unlimited irony, that transforms
the present into the past and the past into pastness.
   Like the collector, the photographer is animated by a passion
that, even when it appears to be for the present, is linked to a
sense of the past. But while traditional arts of historical
consciousness attempt to put the past in order, distinguishing the
innovative from the retrograde, the central from the marginal,
the relevant from the irrelevant or merely interesting, the
photographer's approach-like that of the collector-is
On Photography                                                      61


unsystematic, indeed anti-systematic. The photographer's ardor
for a subject has no essential relation to its content or value, that
which makes a subject classifiable. It is, above all, an affirmation
of the subject's thereness; its rightness (the rightness of a look on
a face, of the arrangement of a group of objects), which is the
equivalent of the collector's standard of genuineness; its
quiddity-whatever qualities make it unique. The professional
photographer's preeminently willful, avid gaze is one that not
only resists the traditional classification and evaluation of subjects
but seeks consciously to defy and subvert them. For this reason,
its approach to subject matter is a good deal less aleatoric than is
generally claimed.
   In principle, photography executes the Surrealist mandate to
adopt an uncompromisingly egalitarian attitude toward subject
matter. (Everything is "real.") In fact, it has-like mainstream
Surrealist taste itself-evinced an inveterate fondness for trash,
eyesores, rejects, peeling surfaces, odd stuff, kitsch. Thus, Atget
specialized in the marginal beauties ofjerry-built wheeled vehicles,
gaudy or fantastic window displays, the raffish a11 of shop signs
and carousels, ornate porticoes, curious door knockers and
wrought-iron grilles, stucco ornaments on the fac;ades of
run-down houses. The photographer-and the consumer of
photographs-follows in the footsteps of the ragpicker, who was
one of Baudelaire's favorite figures for the modern poet:

  Everything that the big city threw away, everything it lost,
  everything it despised, everything it crushed underfoot, he
  catalogues and collects . . .. He sorts things out and makes a
  wise choice; he collects, like a miser guarding a treasure, the
  refuse which will assume the shape of useful or gratifying
  objects between the jaws of the goddess oflndustry.

Bleak factory buildings and billboard-cluttered avenues look as
beautiful, through the camera's eye, as churches and pastoral
landscapes. More beautiful, by modern taste. Recall that it was
Breton and other Surrealists who invented the secondhand store
as a temple of vanguard taste and upgraded visits to flea markets
into a mode of aesthetic pilgrimage. The Surrealist ragpicker's
On Photography                                                   62


acuity was directed to finding beautiful what other people found
ugly or without interest and relevance-bric-a-brac, nai:ve or pop
objects, urban debris.
  As the structuring of a prose fiction, a painting, a film by means
of quotations-think of Borges, of Kitaj, of Godard-is a
specialized example of Surrealist taste, so the increasingly common
practice of putting up photographs on living-room and bedroom
walls, where formerly hung reproductions of paintings, is an index
of the wide diffusion of Surrealist taste. For photographs
themselves satisfy many of the criteria for Surrealist approbation,
being ubiquitous, cheap, unprepossessing objects. A painting is
commissioned or bought; a photograph is found (in albums and
drawers), cut out (of newspapers and magazines) , or easily taken
oneself. And the objects that are photographs not only proliferate
in a way that paintings don't but are, in a certain sense,
aesthetically indestructible. Leonardo's "The Last Supper)) in
Milan hardly looks better now; it looks terrible. Photographs,
when they get scrofulous, tarnished, stained, cracked, faded still
look good; do often look better. (In this, as in other ways, the art
that photography does resemble is architecture, whose works are
subject to the same inexorable promotion through the passage
of time; many buildings, and not only the Parthenon, probably
look better as ruins.)
   What is true of photographs is true of the world seen
photographically. Photography extends the eighteenth-century
literati's discovery ofthe beauty of ruins into a genuinely popular
taste. And it extends that beauty beyond the romantics' ruins,
such as those glamorous forms of decrepitude photographed by
Laughlin, to the modernists' ruins-reality itself. The
photographer is willy-nilly engaged in the enterprise of antiquing
reality, and photographs are themselves instant antiques. The
photograph offers a modern counterpart of that characteristically
romantic architectural genre, the artificial ruin: the ruin which
is created in order to deepen the historical character of a
landscape, to make nature suggestive-suggestive of the past.
   The contingency of photographs confirms that everything is
perishable; the arbitrariness of photographic evidence indicates
On Photography                                                      63


that reality is fundamentally unclassifiable. Reality is summed up
in an array of casual fragments--an endlessly alluring, poignantly
reductive way of dealing with the world. illustrating that partly
jubilant, partly condescending relation to reality that is the rallying
point of Surrealism, the photographer's insistence tl1at everything
is real also implies that the real is not enough. By proclaiming a
fundamental discontent with reality, Surrealism bespeaks a posture
of alienation which has now become a general attitude in those
parts of the world which are politically powerful, industrialized,
and camera-wielding. Why else would reality ever be thought of
as insufficient, flat, overordered, shallowly rational? In the past,
a discontent with reality expressed itself as a longing for another
world. In modern society, a discontent with reality expresses itself
forcefully and most hauntingly by tl1e longing to reproduce this
one. As if only by looking at reality in the form of an
object-through the fix of the photograph-is it really real, that
is, surreal.
    Photography inevitably entails a certain patronizing of reality.
From being "out there," the world comes to be "inside"
photographs. Our heads are becoming like those magic boxes
that Joseph Cornell filled with incongruous small objects whose
provenance was a France he never once visited. Or like a hoard
of old movie stills, of which Cornell amassed a vast collection in
the same Surrealist spirit: as nostalgia-provoking relics of the
original movie experience, as means of a token possession of the
beauty of actors. But the relation of a still photograph to a film
is intrinsically misleading. To quote from a movie is not the same
as quoting from a book. Whereas the reading time of a book is
up to the reader, the viewing time of a film is set by the filmmaker
and the in1ages are perceived only as fast or as slowly as tl1e editing
permits. Thus, a still, which allows one to linger over a single
moment as long as one likes, contradicts the very form of film,
as a set of photographs that freezes moments in a life or a society
contradicts their form, which is a process, a flow in tin1e. The
photographed world stands in the same, essentially inaccurate
relation to the real world as stills do to movies. Life is not about
On Photography                                                   64


significant details, illuminated a flash, fixed forever. Photographs
are.
   The lure of photographs, their hold on us, is that they offer at
one and the same time a connoissem's relation to the world and
a promiscuous acceptance of the world. For this connoisseur's
relation to the world is, through the evolution of the modernist
revolt against traditional aesthetic norms, deeply implicated in
the promotion of kitsch standards of taste. Though some
photographs, considered as individual objects, have the bite and
sweet gravity of imp011ant works of art, the proliferation of
photographs is ultimately an affirmation ofkitsch. Photography's
ultra-mobile gaze flatters the viewer, creating a false sense of
ubiquity, a deceptive mastery ofexperience. Surrealists, who aspire
to be cultural radicals, even revolutionaries, have often been under
the well-intentioned illusion that they could be, indeed should
be, Marxists. But Surrealist aestheticism is too suffused with irony
to be compatible with the twentieth century's most seductive
form of moralism. Marx reproached philosophy for only trying
to understand the world rather than trying to change it.
Photographers, operating within the terms of the Surrealist
sensibility, suggest the vanity of even trying to understand the
world and instead propose that we collect it.
On Photograph}'                                                   65




                                    The Heroism of Vision

Nobody ever discovered ugliness through photographs. But many,
through photographs, have discovered beauty. Except for those
situations in which the camera is used to document, or to mark
social rites, what moves people to take photographs is finding
something beautiful. (The name under which Fox Talbot patented
the photograph in 1841 was the calotype: from kalos, beautiful.)
Nobody exclaims, "Isn't that ugly! 1 must take a photograph of
it." Even if someone did say that, all it would mean is: "I find that
ugly thing. . . beautiful."
    It is common for those who have glimpsed something beautiful
to express regret at not having been able to photograph it. So
successful has been the camera's role in beautifying the world that
photographs, rather than the world, have become the standard
of the beautiful. House-proud hosts may well pull out
photographs of the place to show visitors how really splendid it
is. We learn to see ourselves photographically: to regard oneself
as attractive is, precisely, to judge that one would look good in a
photograph. Photographs create the beautiful and-over
generations of picture-taking-use it up. Certain glories of nature,
for example, have been all but abandoned to the indefatigable
attentions of amateur camera buffs. The image-surfeited are likely
to find sunsets corny; they now look, alas, too mud1 like
photographs.
    Many people are anxious when they're about to be
photographed: not because they fear, as primitives do, being
violated but because they fear the camera's disapproval. People
On Photography                                                   66


want the idealized image: a photograph of d1emselves looking
their best. They feel rebuked when the camera doesn't return an
image of themselves as more attractive than they really are. But
few are lucky enough to be "photogenic"-that is, to look better
in photographs (even when not made up or flattered by the
lighting) than in real life. That photographs are often praised for
their candor, their honesty, indicates that most photographs, of
course, are not candid. A decade after Fox Talbot's
negative-positive process had begun replacing the daguerreotype
( the first practicable photographic process) in the mid - 1840s, a
German photographer invented the first technique for retouching
the negative. His two versions of the same portrait--one
retouched, the other not-astounded crowds at the Exposition
U niverselle held in Paris in 1855 (the second world fair, and the
first with a photography exhibit) .. The news that the camera could
lie made getting photographed much more popular.
    The consequences of lying have to be more central for
photography than they ever can be for painting, because the flat,
usually rectangular linages which are photographs make a claim
to be true that paintings can never make. A fake painting (one
whose attribution is false) falsifies the history of art. A fake
photograph (one which has been retouched or tampered with,
or whose caption is false) falsifies reality. The history of
photography could be recapitulated as the struggle between two
different imperatives: beautification, which comes from the fine
arts, and truth-telling, which is measured not only by a notion of
value-free truth, a legacy from the sciences, but by a moralized
ideal of truth-telling, adapted from nineteenth-century literary
models and from the (then) new profession of independent
journalism. Like the post-romantic novelist and the reporter, the
photographer was supposed to unmask hypocrisy and combat
ignorance. This was a task which painting was too slow and
cumbersome a procedure to take on, no matter how many
nineteenth-century painters shared Millet's beliefthat le beau c'est
le vrai. Astute observers noticed that there was something naked
about the truth a photograph conveyed, even when its maker did
not mean to pry. In The House of the Seven Gables ( 18 5 1 )
On Photography                                                     67


Hawthorne has the young photographer, Holgrave, remark about
the daguerreotype portrait that "while we give it credit only for
depicting the merest surface, it actually brings out the secret
character with a truth that no painter would ever venture upon,
even could he detect it."
   Freed from the necessity ofhaving to make narrow choices (as
painters did) about what images were wo11h contemplating,
because of the rapidity with which cameras recorded anything,
photographers made seeing into a new kind of project: as if seeing
itself, pursued with sufficient avidity and single-mindedness,
could indeed reconcile the claims of truth and the need to find
the world beautiful. Once an object of wonder because of its
capacity to render reality faithfully as well as despised at first for
its base accuracy, the camera has ended by effecting a tremendous
promotion of the value ofappearances. Appearances as the camera
records them. Photographs do not simply render
reality-realistically. It is reality which is scrutinized, and
evaluated, for its fidelity to photographs. "In my view,'' the
foremost ideologue ofliterary realism, Zola, declared in 1901 after
fifteen years of amateur picture-taking, "you cannot claim to have
really seen something until you have photographed it." Instead
of just recording reality, photographs have become the norm for
the way things appear to us, thereby changing the very idea of
reality, and of realism.

The earliest photographers talked as if the camera were a copying
machine; as if, while people operate cameras, it is the camera that
sees. The invention of photography was welcomed as a means of
easing the burden of ever accumulating information and sense
impressions. In his book of photographs The Pencil of Nature
( 1844-46), Fox Talbot relates that the idea of photography came
to him in 1833, on the Italian Journey that had become obligatory
for Englishmen of inherited wealth like himself, while making
some sketches of the landscape at Lake Como. Drawing with the
help of a camera obscura, a device which projected the image but
did not fix it, he was led to reflect, he says, "on the inimitable
beauty of the pictures of nature's painting which the glass lens of
On Photography                                                                       6S


the camera throws upon the paper" and to wonder "if it were
possible to cause these natural images to imprint themselves
durably." The camera suggested itself to Fox Talbot as a new form
of notation whose allure was precisely that it was
impersonal-because it recorded a "natural" image; that is, an
image which comes into being "by the agency of Light alone,
without any aid whatever from the artist's pencil."
   The photographer was thought to be an acute but
non-interfering observer-a scribe, not a poet. But as people
quickly discovered that nobody takes the same picture ofthe same
thing, the supposition that cameras furnish an impersonal,
objective image yielded to the fact that photographs are evidence
not only of what's there but of what an individual sees, not just
a record but an evaluation ofthe world: lt became clear that there
was not just a simple, unitary activity called seeing (recorded by,
aided by cameras) but "photographic seeing," which was both a
new way for people to see and a new activity for them to perform.
   A Frenchman with a daguerreotype camera was already
roaming the Pacific in 184 1 , the same year that the first volume
of Excursions daguerriennes: Vues et monuments les plus
remarquables du globe was published in Paris. The 1850s was the
great age of photographic Orientalism: Maxime Du Camp, making
a Grand Tour of the Middle East with Flaubert between 1849 and

  ·
   The restriction of photography to impersonal seeing has of comse continued to

have its advocates. Among the Surrealists, photography was thought to be liberating
to the extent that it transcended mere personal expression: Breton starts his essay of

1920 on Max Ernst by calling the practice of automatic writing "a true photography of
                                                            ;
thought," the camera being regarded as "a blind instrwnent' whose superiority in "the

imitation of appearances" had "dealt a mortal blow to the old modes of e}..-pression, in

painting as well as poetry." h1 the opposing aesthetic camp, the Bauhaus theoreticiallS

took a not dissimilar view, treating photography as a branch of design, like architec­

ture-creative but impersonal, unencumbered by such vanities as the painterly surface,

the personal touch. In his book Painti11g, Photography, Film ( 1925) Moholy-Nagy

praises the camera for imposing "the hygiene of the optical,'' which will eventually

"abolish that pictorial and imaginative association pattern. . .whid1 has been stamped

upon our vision by great individual painters."
On Photography                                                   69


 1851, centered his picture-taking activity on attractions like the
Colossus ofAbu Simbel and the Temple ofBaalbek, not the daily
life of fellahin. Soon, however, travelers with cameras annexed a
wider subject matter than famous sites and works of art.
Photographic seeing meant an aptitude for discovering beauty in
what everybody sees but neglects as too ordinary. Photographers
were supposed to do more than just see the world as it is, including
its already acclaimed marvels; they were to create interest, by new
visual decisions.
   There is a peculiar heroism abroad in the world since the
invention of cameras: the heroisrn ofvision. Photography opened
up a new model of freelance activity-allowing each person to
display a certain unique, avid sensibility. Photographers departed
on their cultural and class and scientific safaris, searching for
striking images. They would entrap the world, whatever the cost
in patience and discomfort, by this active, acquisitive, evaluating,
gratuitous modality of vision. Alfred Stieglitz proudly reports that
he had stood three hours during a blizzard on February 22, 1893,
"awaiting the proper moment" to take his celebrated picture,
"Fifth Avenue, Winter." The proper moment is when one can see
things (especially what everyone has already seen) in a fresh way.
The quest became the photographer's trademark in the popular
imagination. By the 1920s the photographer had become a modern
hero, like the aviator and the anthropologist-without necessarily
having to leave home. Readers of the popular press were invited
to join "our photographer" on a "journey of discovery," visiting
such new realms as "the world from above," "the world under
the magnifying glass," "the beauties of every day," "the unseen
universe," "the miracle of light," "the beauty of machines,�' the
picture that can be "found in the street."
   Everyday life apotheosized, and the kind of beauty that only
the camera reveals-a corner of material reality that the eye
doesn't see at all or can't normally isolate; or the overview, as
from a plane-these are the main targets of the photographer's
conquest. For a while the close-up seemed to be photography's
most original method of seeing. Photographers found that as they
more narrowly cropped reality, magnificent forms appeared. In
On Photography                                                   70


the early 1840s the versatile, ingenious Fox Talbot not only
composed photographs in the genres taken over from
painting-p011rait, domestic scene, townscape, landscape, still
life-but also trained his camera on a seashell, on the wings of a
butterfly (enlarged with the aid of a solar microscope), on a
portion of two rows of books in his study. But his subjects are
still recognizably a shell, butterfly wings, books. When ordinary
seeing was further violated-and the object isolated from its
surroundings, rendering it abstract-new conventions about what
was beautiful took hold. What is beautiful became just what the
eye can't (or doesn't) see: that fracturing, dislocating vision that
only the camera supplies.
    In 1 9 15 Paul Strand took a photograph which he titled
"Abstract Patterns Made by Bowls." In 1 9 1 7 Strand turned to
close-ups of machine forms, and throughout the twenties did
close-up nature studies. The new procedure-its heyday was
between 1920 and 1 935-seemed to promise unlimited visual
delights. It worked with equally stunning effect on homely objects,
on the nude (a subject one might have supposed to be virtually
exhausted by painters), on the tiny cosmologies of nature.
Photography seemed to have found its grandiose role, as the
bridge between art and science; and painters were admonished
to learn from the beauties of microphotographs and aerial views
in Moholy-Nagy's book Von Material zur A rchitektur, published
by the Bauhaus in 1928 and translated into English as The New
 Vision. It was the same year as the appearance of one of the first
photographic best-sellers, a book by Albe11. Renger-Patzsch
entitled Die Welt ist schOn (The World Is Beautiful), which
consisted of one hundred photographs, mostly close-ups, whose
subjects range from a colocasia leaf to a potter's hands. Painting
never made so shameless a promise to prove the world beautiful.
    The abstracting eye-represented with particular brilliance in
the period between the two world wars by some of the work of
Strand, as well as of Edward Weston and Minor White-seems
to have been possible only after the discoveries made by modernist
painters and sculptors. Strand and Weston, who both acknowledge
a similarity between their ways of seeing and those ofKandinsky
On Photography                                                                            71


and Brancusi, may have been attracted to the hard edge of Cubist
style in reaction to the softness of Stieglitz's images. But it is just
as true that the influence flowed the other way. In 1909, in his
magazine Camera Work, Stieglitz notes the undeniable influence
of photography on painting, although he cites only the
Impressionists-whose style of "blurred definition" inspired his
own: And Moholy-Nagy in The New Vision correctly points out
that "the technique and spirit ofphotography directly or indirectly
influenced Cubism." But for all the ways in which, from the 1840s
on, painters and photographers have mutually influenced and
pillaged each other, their procedures are fundamentally opposed.
The painter constructs, the photographer discloses. That is, the
identification of the subject of a photograph always dominates
our perception of it-as it does not, necessarily, in a painting.
The subject ofWeston's "Cabbage Leaf," taken in 1931, looks like
a fall of gathered cloth; a title is needed to identify it. Thus, the
image makes its point in two ways. The form is pleasing, and it
is (surprise!) the form of a cabbage leaf. If it were gathered cloth,
it wouldn't be so beautiful. We already know that beauty, from
the fine arts. Hence the formal qualities of style-the central issue
in painting-are, at most, of secondary importance in
photography, while what a photograph is ofis always of primary
importance. The assumption underlying all uses of photography,
that each photograph is a piece of the world, means that we don't

  •
   The large influence that photography exercised upon the Impressionists is a com­

monplace of art history. Indeed, it is Jlot much of an exaggeration to say, as Stieglitz

does, that "the impressionist painters adhere to a style of composition that is strictly

photographic." The camera's translation of reality into highly polarized areas of light

and dark, the free or arbitrary croppin g of the image in photographs, the indifference

of photographers to making space, particularly background space, intelligible--these

were the main inspiration tor the Impressionist painters' professions ofscientific interest

in the properties aflight, for their e>.'Jleriments in flattened perspective and tmfamiliar

angles ru1d decentralized forms that are sliced off by the picture's edge. ("They depict
life iJ1 scraps and fragments,'' as Stieglitz observed in 1909.) A historical detail: the very

first Impressionist exhibition, in April 1874, was held in Nadar's photography studio

on the Boulevard des Capucines in Paris.
On Photography                                                       72


know how to react to a photograph (if the image is visually
ambiguous: say, too closely seen or too distant) until we know
what piece of the world it is. What looks like a bare coronet-the
famous photograph taken by Harold Edgetton in 1936-becomes
far more interesting when we find out it is a splash of milk.
    Photography is commonly regarded as an instrument for
knowing things. When Thoreau said, "You can't say more than
you see," he took for granted that sight had pride of place among
the senses. But when, several generations later, Thoreau's dictum
is quoted by Paul Strand to praise photography, it resonates with
a different meaning. Cameras did not simply make it possible to
apprehend more by seeing (through microphotography and
teledetection). They changed seeing itself, by fostering the idea
of seeing for seeing's sake. Thoreau still lived in a polysensual
world, though one in which observation had already begun to
acquire the stature of a moral duty. He was talking about a seeing
not cut off from the other senses, and about seeing in context
( the context he called Nature), that is, a seeing linked to cettain
presuppositions about what he thought was worth seeing. When
Strand quotes Thoreau, he assumes another attitude toward the
sensorium: the didactic cultivation of perception, independent
of notions about what is worth perceiving, which animates all
modernist movements in the arts.
    The most influential version of this attitude is to be found in
painting, the art which photography encroached on remorselessly
and plagiarized from enthusiastically from its beginnings, and
with which it still coexists in febrile rivalry. According to the usual
account, what photography did was to usurp the painter's task
of providing images that accurately transcribe reality. For this
"the painter should be deeply grateful," insists Weston, viewing
this usurpation, as have many photographers before and since,
as in fact a liberation. By taking over the task of realistic picturing
hithetto monopolized by painting, photography freed painting
for its great modernist vocation-abstraction. But photography's
impact on painting was not as dear-cut as that. For, as
photography was entering the scene, painting was already, on its
own,      beginning       its    long      retreat   from      realistic
On Photography                                                  73


representation-Turner was born in 1775, Fox Talbot in
1 800-and the territory photography came to occupy with such
rapid and complete success would probably have been
depopulated anyway. (The instability of nineteenth-century
painting's strictly representational achievements is most clearly
demonstrated by the fate of portraiture, which came more and
more to be about painting itself rather tl1an about sitters-and
eventually ceased to interest most ambitious painters, with such
notable recent exceptions as Francis Bacon and Warhol, who
borrow lavishly from photographic imagery.)
   The other important aspect of the relation between painting
and photography omitted in the standard account is that the
frontiers of the new territory acquired by photography
immediately started expanding, as some photographers refused
to be confined to turning out those ultra-realistic triumphs with
which painters could not compete. Thus, of the two famous
inventors of photography, Daguerre never conceived of going
beyond the naturalist painter's range of representation, while Fox
Talbot immediately grasped the camera's ability to isolate forms
which normally escape the naked eye and which painting had
never recorded. Gradually photographers joined in the pursuit
of more abstract images, professing scruples reminiscent of the
modernist painters' dismissal of the mimetic as mere picturing.
Painting's revenge, if you will. The claim made by many
professional photographers to do something quite different from
recording reality is the clearest index of the inunense
counter-influence that painting has had on photography. But
however much photographers have come to share some of the
same attitudes about the inherent value of perception exercised
for perception's sake and the (relative) unimportance of subject
matter which have dominated advanced painting for more than
a century, their applications of these attitudes cannot duplicate
those of painting. For it is in the nature of a photograph that it
can never entirely transcend its subject, as a painting can. Nor
can a photograph ever transcend the visual itself, which is in some
sense the ultimate aim of modernist painting.
   The version of the modernist attitude most relevant to
On Photography                                                  74


photography is not to be found in painting-even as it was then
(at the time of its conquest, or liberation, by photography),
certainly as it is now. Except for such marginal phenomena as
Super Realism, a revival of Photo-Realism which is not content
with merely imitating photographs but aims to show that painting
can achieve an even greater illusion of verisimilitude, painting is
still largely ruled by a suspicion of what Duchamp called the
merely retinal. The ethos of photography-that of schooling us
(in Moholy-Nagy's phrase) in "intensive seeing"-seems closer
to that of modernist poetry than that of painting. As painting has
become more and more conceptual, poetry (since Apollinaire,
Eliot, Pound, and William Carlos Williams) has more and more
defined itself as concerned with the visual. ("No truth but in
things," as Williams declared.) Poetry's commitment to
concreteness and to the autonomy ofthe poem's language parallels
photography's commitment to pure seeing. Both imply
discontinuity, disarticulated forms and compensatory unity:
wrenching things from their context (to see them in a fresh way),
bringing things together elliptically, according to the imperious
but often arbitrary demands of subjectivity.

While most people taking photographs are only seconding
received notions of the beautiful, ambitious professionals usually
think they are challenging them. According to heroic modernists
like Weston, the photographer's venture is elitist, prophetic,
subversive, revelatory. Photographers claimed to be performing
the Blakean task of cleansing the senses, "revealing to others the
living world around them," as Weston described his own work,
"showing to them what their own unseeing eyes had missed."
   Although Weston (like Strand) also claimed to be indifferent
to the question of whether photography is an at1, his demands
on photography still contained all the romantic assumptions
about the photographer as Artist. By the century's second decade,
certain photographers had confidently appropriated the rhetoric
of a vanguard art: armed with cameras, they were doing rude
battle with conformist sensibilities, busy fulfilling Pound's
summons to Make It New. Photography, not "soft, gutless
On Photography                                                    75


painting," says Weston with virile disdain, is best equipped to
"bore into the spirit of today." Between l930 and 1932 Weston's
diaries of Daybooks are full of effusive premonitions ofimpending
change and declarations of the importance of the visual shock
therapy that photographers were administering. "Old ideals are
crashing on all sides, and the precise uncompromising camera
vision is, and will be more so, a world force in the revaluation of
life."
   Weston's notion of the photographer's agon shares many
themes with the heroic vitalism of the 1920s popularized by D.
H. Lawrence: affirmation of the sensual life, rage at bourgeois
sexual hypocrisy, self-righteous defense of egotism in the service
of one's spiritual vocation, manly appeals for a union with nature.
(Weston calls photography "a way of self-development, a means
to discover and identify oneself with all the manifestations of
basic forms-with nature, the source.") But while Lawrence
wanted to restore the wholeness of sensory appreciation, the
photographer-even one whose passions seem so reminiscent of
Lawrence's-necessarily insists on the preeminence of one sense:
sight. And, contrary to what Weston asserts, the habit of
photographic seeing-oflooking at reality as an array of potential
photographs--creates estrangement from, rather than union
with, nature.
   Photographic seeing, when one examines its claims, turns out
to be mainly the practice of a kind of dissociative seeing, a
subjective habit which is reinforced by the objective discrepancies
between the way that the camera and the human eye focus and
judge perspective. These discrepancies were much remarked by
the public in the early days of picture-taking. Once they began to
think photographically, people stopped talking about
photographic distortion, as it was called. (Now, as William Ivins,
Jr., has pointed out, they actually hunt for that distortion. ) Thus,
one of the perennial successes ofphotography has been its strategy
ofturning living beings into things, things into living beings. The
peppers Weston photographed in 1929 and 1930 are voluptuous
in a way that his female nudes rarely are. Both the nudes and the
pepper are photographed for the play of forms-but the body is
On Photography                                                   76


characteristically shown bent over upon itself, all the extremities
cropped, with the flesh rendered as opaque as normal lighting
and focus allow, thus decreasing its sensuality and heightening
the abstractness of the body's form; the pepper is viewed close-up
but in its entirety, the skin polished or oiled, and the result is a
discovery of the erotic suggestiveness of an ostensibly neutral
form, a heightening of its seeming palpability.
   It was the beauty of forms in industrial and scientific
photography that dazzled the Bauhaus designers, and, indeed,
the camera has recorded few images more interesting formally
than those taken by metallurgists and crystallographers. But the
Bauhaus approach to photography has not prevailed. No one now
considers the beauty revealed in photographs to be epitomized
by scientific microphotography. In the main tradition of the
beautiful in photography, beauty requires the imprint of a human
decision: that this would make a good photograph, and that the
good picture would make some comment. It proved more
important to reveal the elegant form of a toilet bowl, the subject
of a series of pictures Weston did in Mexico in 1925, than the
poetic magnjtude of a snowflake or a coal fossil.
   For Weston, beauty itselfwas subversive-as seemed confu·med
when some people were scandalized by his ambitious nudes. (In
fact, it was Weston-followed by Andre Kertesz and Bill
Brandt-who made nude photography respectable.) Now
photographers are more likely to emphasize the ordinary
humanity of theit revelations. Though photographers have not
ceased to look for beauty, photography is no longer thought to
create, under the aegis of beauty, a psychic breakthrough.
Ambitious modernists, like Weston and Cartier-Bresson, who
understand photography as a genuinely new way of seeing
(precise, intelligent, even scientific), have been challenged by
photographers of a later generation, like Robert Frank, who want
a camera eye that is not piercing but democratic, who don't claim
to be setting new standards for seeing. Weston's assertion that
"photography has opened the blinds to a new world vision" seems
typical of the overoxygenated hopes of modernism in all the arts
during the first third of the century-hopes since abandoned.
On Photography                                                   77


Although the camera did make a psychic revolution, it was hardly
in the positive, romantic sense that Weston envisaged.
   Insofar as photography does peel away the dry wrappers of
habitual seeing, it creates another habit of seeing: both intense
and cool, solicitous and detached; charmed by the insignificant
detail, addicted to incongruity. But photographic seeing has to
be constantly renewed with new shocks, whether ofsubject matter
or technique, so as to produce the impression ofviolating ordinary
vision. For, challenged by the revelations ofphotographers, seeing
tends to accommodate to photographs. The avant-garde vision
ofStrand in the twenties, ofWeston in the late twenties and early
thirties, was quickly assimilated. Their rigorous close-up studies
of plants, shells, leaves, time-withered trees, kelp, driftwood,
eroded rocks, pelicans' wings, gnarled cypress roots, and gnarled
workers' hands have become cliches of a merely photographic
way of seeing. What it once took a very intelligent eye to see,
anyone can see now. Instructed by photographs, everyone is able
to visualize that once purely literary conceit, the geography of the
body: for example, photographing a pregnant woman so that her
body looks like a hillock, a hillock so that it looks like the body
of a pregnant woman.
   Increased familiarity does not entirely explain why certain
conventions of beauty get used up while others remain. The
attrition is moral as well as perceptual. Strand and Weston could
hardly have imagined how these notions ofbeauty could become
so banal, yet it seems inevitable once one insists-as Weston
did-on so bland an ideal of b�auty as perfection. Whereas the
painter, according to Weston, has always "tried to improve nature
by self-imposition," the photographer has "proved that nature
offers an endless number of perfect 'compositions,'-order
everywhere." Behind the modernist's belligerent stance ofaesthetic
purism lay an astonishingly generous acceptance of the world.
For Weston, who spent most of his photographic life on the
California coast near Carmel, the Walden of the 1920s, it was
relatively easy to find beauty and order, while for Aaron Siskind,
a photographer of the generation after Strand and a New Yorker,
who began his career by taking architectural photographs and
On Photography                                                  78


genre photographs of city people, the question is one of creating
order. "When I make a photograph," Siskind writes, "I want it to
be an altogether new object, complete and self-contained, whose
basic condition is order." For Cartier-Bresson, to take photographs
is "to find d1e structure ofthe world-to revel in the pure pleasure
of form," to disclose that "in all this chaos, there is order." (It
may well be impossible to talk about the perfection of the world
without sounding unctuous.) But displaying the perfection ofthe
world was too sentimental, too a historical a notion of beauty to
sustain photography. It seems inevitable that Weston, more
committed than Strand ever was to abstraction, to the discovery
of forms, produced a much narrower body of work than Strand
did. Thus Weston never felt moved to do socially conscious
photography and, except for the period between 1923 and 1927
that he spent in Mexico, shunned cities. Strand, like
Cartier-Bresson, was attracted to the picturesque desolations and
damages ofurban life. But even far from nature, both Strand and
Cartier-Bresson (one could also cite Walker Evans) still
photog raph with the same fastidious eye that discerns order
everywhere.
    The view ofStieglitz and Strand and Weston-that photographs
should be, first of all, beautiful (that is, beautifully
composed)-seems thin now, too obtuse to the truth ofdisorder:
even as the optimism about science and technology which lay
behind the Bauhaus view of photography seems almost pernicious.
Weston's in1ages, however admirable, however beautiful, have
become less interesting to many people, while those taken by the
mid-nineteenth-century English and French primitive
photographers and by Atget, for example, enthrall more than
ever. The judgment ofAtget as "not a fine technician" that Weston
entered in his Daybooks perfecdy reflects the coherence of
Weston's view and his distance from contemporary taste.
"Halation destroyed much, and the color correction not good,"
Weston notes; "his instinct for subject matter was keen, but his
recording weak,-his construction inexcusable . . . so often one
feels he missed the real thing." Contemporary taste faults Weston,
with his devotion to the perfect print, rather than Atget and the
On Photography                                                    79


other masters of photography's demotic tradition. Imperfect
technique has come to be appreciated precisely because it breaks
the sedate equation of Nature and Beauty. Nature has become
more a subject for nostalgia and indignation than an object of
contemplation, as marked by the distance of taste which separates
both the majestic landscapes of Ansel Adams (Weston's
best-known disciple) and the last important body of photographs
in the Bauhaus tradition, Andreas Feininger's The Anatomy of
Nature ( 1965), from current pl1otographic imagery of nature
defiled.
   As these formalist ideals of beauty seem, in retrospect, linked
to a certain historical mood, optimism about the modern age (the
new vision, the new era), so the decline of the standards of
photographic purity represented by both Weston and the Bauhaus
school has accompanied the moral letdown experienced in recent
decades. In the present historical mood of disenchantment one
can make less and less sense out of the formalist's notion of
timeless beauty. Darker, time-bound models of beauty have
become prominent, inspiring a reevaluation of the photography
of the past; and, in an apparent revulsion against the Beautiful,
recent generations of photographers prefer to show disorder,
prefer to distill an anecdote, more often than not a disturbing
one, rather than isolate an ultimately reassuring "simplified form"
(Weston's phrase) . But notwithstanding the declared aims of
indiscreet, unposed, often harsh photography to reveal truth, not
beauty, photography still beautifies. Indeed, the most enduring
triumph of photography has been its aptitude for discovering
beauty in the humble, the inane, the decrepit. At the very least,
the real has a pathos. And that pathos is-beauty. (The beauty of
the poor, for example.)
   Weston's celebrated photograph of one of his fiercely loved
sons, "Torso of Neil," 1925, seems beautiful because of the
shapeliness of its subject and because of its bold composition and
subtle lighting-a beauty that is the result of skill and taste. Jacob
Riis's crude flashlit photographs taken between 1887 and 1890
seem beautiful because of the force of their subject, grimy
shapeless New York slum-dwellers of indeterminate age, and
On Photography                                                      80


because of the rightness of their "wrong" framing and the blunt
contrasts produced by the lack of control over tonal values-a
beauty that is the result of amateurism or inadvertence. The
evaluation of photographs is always shot through with such
aesthetic double standards. Initially judged by the notms of
painting, which assume conscious design and the elimination of
nonessentials, the distinctive achievements of photographic seeing
were until quite recently thought to be identical with the work of
that relatively small number of photographers who, through
reflection and effort, managed to transcend the camera's
mechanical nature to meet the standards of art. But it is now clear
that there is no inherent conflict between the mechanical or naive
use ofthe camera and formal beauty of a very high order, no kind
of photograph in which such beauty could not turn out to be
present: an unasswning functional snapshot may be as visually
interesting, as eloquent, as beautiful as the most acclaimed fine-art
photographs. This democratizing offormal standards is the logical
counterpart to photography's democratizing of the notion of
beauty. Traditionally associated with exemplary models (the
representative art of the classical Greeks showed only youth, the
body in its perfection), beauty has been revealed by photographs
as existing everywhere. Along with people who pretty themselves
for the camera, the unattractive and the disaffected have been
assigned their beauty.
    For photographers there is, finally, no difference-no greater
aesthetic advantage-between the effort to embellish the world
and the counter-effort to rip off its mask. Even those
photographers who disdained retouching their portraits-a mark
of honor for ambitious portrait photographers from Nadar
on-tended to protect the sitter in certain ways from the camera's
too revealing gaze. And one of the typical endeavors of portrait
photographers, professionally protective toward famous faces
( like Garbo's) which really are ideal, is the search for "real" faces,
generally sought among the anonymous, the poor, the socially
defenseless, the aged, the insane-people indifferent to (or
powerless to protest) the camera's aggressions. Two portraits that
Strand did in 1 9 16 of urban casualties, "Blind Woman" and
On Photography                                                    81


"Man," are among the first results of this search conducted in
close-up. In the worst years of the German depression Helmar
Lerski made a whole compendium of distressing faces, published
under the title Kopfe des Alltags (Everyday Faces) in 1931. The
paid models for what Lerski called his "objective character
studies"-with their rude revelations of over-enlarged pores,
wrinkles, skin blemishes-were out-of-work servants procured
from an employment exchange, beggars, street sweepers, vendors,
and washerwomen.
   The camera can be lenient; it is also expert at being cruel. But
its cruelty only produces another kind of beauty, according to
the surrealist preferences which rule photographic taste. Thus,
while fashion photography is based on the fact that something
can be more beautiful in a photograph than in real life, it is not
surprising that some photographers who serve fashion are also
drawn to the non-photogenic. There is a perfect complementarity
between Avedon's fashion photography, which flatters, and the
work in which he comes on as The One Who Refuses to
Flatter-for example, the elegant, rutllless portraits Avedon did
in 1972 of his dying father. The traditional function of portrait
painting, to embellish or idealize the subject, remains the aim of
everyday and ofcommercial photography, but it has had a much
more limited career in photography considered as an art.
Generally speaking, the honors have gone to the Cordelias.
   As the vehicle of a certain reaction against the conventionally
beautiful, photography has served to enlarge vastly our notion of
what is aesthetically pleasing. Sometimes this reaction is in the
name of truth. Sometimes it is in the name of sophistication or
of prettier lies: thus, fashion photography has been developing,
over more than a decade, a repertoire of paroxysmic gestures that
shows the unmistakable influence ofSurrealism. ("Beauty will be
convulsive," Breton wrote, "or it will not be at all.") Even the most
compassionate photojournalism is under pressure to satisfy
simultaneously two sorts of expectations, those arising from our
largely surrealist way of looking at all photographs, and those
created by our belief that some photographs give real and
important information about the world. The photographs that
On Photography                                                    82


W. Eugene Smith took in the late 1960s in the Japanese fishing
village ofMinamata, most of whose inhabitants are crippled and
slowly dying of mercury poisoning, move us because they
document a suffering which arouses our indignation-and
distance us because they are superb photographs of Agony,
conforming to surrealist standards ofbeauty. Smith's photograph
of a dying girl writhing on her mother's lap is a Pieta for the world
of plague victims which Artaud invokes as the true subject of
modern dramaturgy; indeed, the whole series of photographs are
possible images for Artaud's Theater of Cruelty.
   Because each photograph is only a fragment, its moral and
emotional weight depends on where it is inserted. A photograph
changes according to the context in which it is seen: thus Smith's
Minamata photographs will seem different on a contact sheet, in
a gallery, in a political demonstration, in a police file, in a
photographic magazine, in a general news magazine, in a book,
on a livi.ng-room wall. Each of these situations suggests a different
use for the photographs but none can secure their meaning. As
Wittgenstein argued for words, that the meaning is the use-so
for each photograph. And it is in this way that the presence and
proliferation of all photographs contributes to the erosion of the
very notion of meaning, to that parceling out of the truth into
relative truths which is taken for granted by the modern liberal
consciousness.
   Socially concerned photographers assume that their work can
convey some kind of stable meaning, can reveal truth. But partly
because the photograph is, always, an object in a context, this
meaning is bound to drain away; that is, the context which shapes
whatever immediate-in particular, political-uses the
photograph may have is inevitably succeeded by contexts in which
such uses are weakened and become progressively less relevant.
One of the central characteristics of photography is that process
by which original uses are modified, eventually supplanted by
subsequent uses-most notably, by the discourse of art into which
any photograph can be absorbed. And, being images themselves,
some photographs right from the start refer us to other images
as well as to life. The photograph that the Bolivian authorities
On Photography                                                    83


transmitted to the world press in October 1967 ofChe Guevara's
body, laid out in a stable on a stretcher on top ofa cement trough,
surrounded by a Bolivian colonel, a U.S. intelligence agent, and
several journalists and soldiers, not only summed up the bitter
realities of contemporary Latin American history but had some
inadvertent resemblance, as John Berger has pointed out, to
Mantegna's "The Dead Christ" and Rembrandt's "The Anatomy
Lesson of Professor Tulp." What is compelling about the
photograph partly derives from what it shares, as a composition,
with these paintings. Indeed, the very extent to which that
photograph is unforgettable indicates its potential for being
depoliticized, for becoming a timeless image.
   The best writing on photography has been by
moralists-Marxists or would-be Marxists-hooked on
photographs but troubled by the way photography inexorably
beautifies. As Walter Benjamin observed in 1934, in an address
delivered in Paris at the Institute for the Study of Fascism, the
camera

  is now incapable of photographing a tenement or a
  rubbish-heap without transfiguring it. Not to mention a
  river dam or an electric cable factory: in front of these,
  photography can only say, 'How beautiful.' . . . It has
  succeeded in turning abject poverty itself, by handling it in
  a modish, technically perfect way, into an object of
  enjoyment.

Moralists who love photographs always hope that words will save
the picture. (The opposite approach to that of the musewn curator
who, in order to turn a photojournalist's work into art, shows the
photographs without their original captions.) Thus, Benjamin
thought that the right caption beneath a picture could "rescue it
from the ravages of modishness and confer upon it a revolutionary
use value." He urged that writers start taking photographs, to
show the way.
   Socially concerned writers have not taken to cameras, but they
are often enlisted, or volunteer, to spell out the truth to which
photographs testify-as James Agee did in the texts he wrote to
On Photography                                                   84


accompany Walker Evans's photographs in Let Us Now Praise
Famous Men, or as John Berger did in his essay on the photograph
of the dead Che Guevara, this essay being in effect an extended
caption, one that attempts to firm up the political associations
and moral meaning of a photograph that Berger found too
satisfying aesthetically, too suggestive iconographically. Godard
and Gorin's short film A Letter to Jane ( 1972) amounts to a kind
of counter-caption to a photograph-a mordant criticism of a
photograph ofJane Fonda taken during a visit to North Vietnam.
(The film is also a model lesson on how to read any photograph,
how to decipher the m1-innocent nature of a photograph's
framing, angle, focus.) What the photograph-it shows Fonda
listening with an expression of distress and compassion as an
unidentified Vietnamese describes the ravages of American
bombing-meant when it was published in the French picture
magazine L 'Express in some ways reverses the meaning it had for
the North Vietnamese, who released it. But even more decisive
than how the photograph was changed by its new setting is how
its revolutionary use-value to the North Vietnamese was sabotaged
by what L'Express furnished as a caption. "Tllis photograph, like
any photograph," Godard and Gorin point out, "is physically
mute. It talks through the mouth of the text written beneath it."
In fact, words do speak louder than pictures. Captions do tend
to override the evidence of our eyes; but no caption can
permanently restrict or secure a picture's meaning.
   What the moralists are demanding from a photograph is that
it do what no photograph can ever do-speak. The caption is the
missing voice, and it is expected to speak for truth. But even an
entirely accurate caption is only one interpretation, necessarily a
limiting one, of the photograph to which it is attached. And the
caption-glove slips on and off so easily. It cannot prevent any
argument or moral plea which a photograph (or set of
photographs) is intended to support from being undermined by
the plurality of meanings that every photograph carries, or from
being qualified by the acquisitive mentality implicit in all
picture-taking-and picture-collecting-and by the aesthetic
relation to their subjects which all photographs inevitably propose.
On Photography                                                   85


Even those photographs which speak so laceratingly of a specific
historical moment also give us vicarious possession of their
subjects under the aspect of a kind of eternity: the beautiful. The
photograph ofChe Guevara is fmally . . . beautiful, as was the man.
So are the people of Minamata. So is the small Jewish boy
photographed in 1943 during a round-up in the Warsaw Ghetto,
his arms raised, solemn with terror-whose picture the mute
heroine of Bergman's Persona has brought with her to the mental
hospital to meditate on, as a photo-souvenir of the essence of
tragedy.
   In a consumer society, even the most well-intentioned and
properly captioned work of photographers issues in the discovery
of beauty. The lovely composition and elegant perspective of
Lewis Hine's photographs of exploited children in
turn-of-the-century American mills and mines easily outlast the
relevance of their subject matter. Protected middle-class
inhabitants of the more affluent corners of the world-those
regions where most photographs are taken and consumed-learn
about the world's horrors mainly through the camera:
photographs can and do distress. But the aestheticizing tendency
of photography is such that the mediurn which conveys distress
ends by neutralizing it. Cameras miniaturize experience, transform
history into spectacle. As much as they create sympathy,
photographs cut sympathy, distance the emotions. Photography's
realism creates a confusion about the real which is (in the long
run) analgesic morally as well as (both in the long and in the short
run) sensorially stimulating. Hence, it clears our eyes. This is the
fresh vision everyone has been talking about.

Whatever the moral claims made on behalf of photography, its
main effect is to convert the world into a department store or
museum-without-walls in which every subject is depreciated into
an article of consumption, promoted into an item for aesthetic
appreciation. Through the camera people become customers or
tourists of reality-or Realites, as the name of the French
photo-magazine suggests, for reality is understood as plural,
fascinating, and up for grabs. Bringing the exotic near, rendering
On Photography                                                   86


the familiar and homely exotic, photographs make the entire
world available as an object of appraisal. For photographers who
are not confined to projecting their own obsessions, there are
arresting moments, beautiful subjects everywhere. The most
heterogeneous subjects are then brought together in the fictive
unity offered by the ideology of humanism. Thus, according to
one critic, the greatness of Paul Strand's pictures from the last
period of his life-when he turned from the brilliant discoveries
of the abstracting eye to the touristic, world-anthologizing tasks
of photography-consists in the fact that "his people, whether
Bowery derelict, Mexican peon, New England farmer, Italian
peasant, French artisan, Breton or Hebrides fisherman, Egyptian
fellahin, the village idiot or the great Picasso, are all touched by
the same heroic quality-humanity." What is this humanity? It
is a quality things have in common when they are viewed as
photographs.
   The urge to take photographs is in principle an indiscriminate
one, for the practice of photography is now identified with the
idea that everything in the world could be made interesting
through the camera. But this quality of being interesting, like that
of manifesting humanity, is an empty one. The photographic
purchase on the world, with its limitless production of notes on
reality, makes everything homologous. Photography is no less
reductive when it is being reportorial than when it reveals
beautiful forms. By disclosing the thingness of human beings, the
humanness of things, photography transforms reality into a
tautology. When Cartier-Bresson goes to China, he shows that
there are people in China, and d1at they are Chinese.
   Photographs are often invoked as an aid to understanding and
tolerance. In humanist jargon, the highest vocation of
photography is to explain man to man. But photographs do not
explain; they acknowledge. Robert Frank was only being honest
when he declared that «to produce an authentic contemporary
document, the visual impact should be such as will nullify
explanation." If photographs are messages, the message is both
transparent and mysterious. "A photograph is a secret about a
secret," as Arbus observed. "The more it tells you the less you
On Photography                                                87


know." Despite the illusion of giving understanding, what seeing
through photographs really invites is an acquisitive relation to
the world that nourishes aesthetic awareness and promotes
emotional detachment.
   The force of a photograph is that it keeps open to scrutiny
instants which the normal flow of time immediately replaces.
This freezing of time-the insolent, poignant stasis of each
photograph-has produced new and more inclusive canons of
beauty. But the truths that can be rendered in a dissociated
moment, however significant or decisive, have a very narrow
relation to the needs of understanding. Contrary to what is
suggested by the humanist claims made for photography, the
camera's ability to transform reality into something beautiful
derives from its relative weakness as a means of conveying truth.
The reason that humanism has become the reigning ideology of
ambitious professional photographers--displacing formalist
justifications of their quest for beauty-is that it masks the
confusions about truth and beauty underlying the photographic
enterprise.
On Photography                                                 89




                                  Photographic Evangels

Like other steadily aggrandizing enterprises, photography has
inspired its leading practitioners with a need to explain, again
and again, what they are doing and why it is valuable. The era in
which photography was widely attacked (as parricidal with respect
to painting, predatory with respect to people) was a brief one.
Painting of course did not expire in 1839, as one French painter
hastily predicted; the finicky soon ceased to dismiss photography
as menial copying; and by 1854 a great painter, Delacroix,
graciously declared how much he regretted that such an admirable
invention came so late. Nothing is more acceptable today than
the photographic recycling of reality, acceptable as an everyday
activity and as a branch of high art. Yet something about
photography still keeps the first-rate professionals defensive and
hortatory: virtually every important photographer right up to the
present has written manifestoes and credos expounding
photography's moral and aesthetic mission. And photographers
give the most contradictoty accounts of what kind ofknowledge
they possess and what kind of art they practice.

The disconcerting ease with which photographs can be taken, the
inevitable even when inadvertent authority ofthe camera's results,
suggest a very tenuous relation to knowing. No one would dispute
that photography gave a tremendous boost to the cognitive claims
of sight, because-through close-up and remote sensing-it so
greatly enlarged the realm of the visible. But about the ways in
which any subject within the range of unaided vision is furtl1er
On Photography                                                  90


known through a photograph or d1e extent to which, in order to
get a good photograph, people need to know anything about what
they are photographing, there is no agreement. Picture-taking
has been interpreted in two entirely different ways: either as a
lucid and precise act of knowing, of conscious intelligence, ot as
a pre-intellectual, intuitive mode of encounter. Thus Nadar,
speaking ofhis respectful, expressive pictures ofBaudelaire, Dore,
Michelet, Hugo, Berlioz, Nerval, Gautier, Sand, Delacroix, and
other famous friends, said "the portrait I do best is of the person
I know best," while Avedon has observed that most of his good
portraits are of people he met for the first time when
photographing them.
   In this century, the older generation of photographers described
photography as a heroic effort of attention, an ascetic discipline,
a mystic receptivity to the world which requires that the
photographer pass through a cloud of unknowing. According to
Minor White, "the state of mind of the photographer while
creating is a blank . . .when looking for pictures. . . . The
photographer projects himself into everything he sees, identifying
himself with everything in order to know it and to feel it better."
Cartier-Bresson has likened himself to a Zen archer, who must
become the target so as to be able to hit it; "thinking should be
done beforehand and afterwards," he says, "never while actually
taking a photograph." Thought is regarded as clouding the
transparency of the photographer's consciousness, and as
infringing on the autonomy of what is being photographed.
Determined to prove that photographs could-and when they
are good, always do-transcend literalness, many serious
photographers have made of photography a noetic paradox.
Photography is advanced as a form ofknowing without knowing:
a way of outwitting the world, instead of making a frontal attack
on it.
   But even when ambitious professionals disparage thinking
-suspicion of the intellect being a recurrent theme in
photographic apologetics-they usually want to assert how
rigorous d1is permissive visualizing needs to be. "A photograph
is not an accident-it is a concept," Ansel Adams insists. "The
On Photography                                                    91


'machine-gun' approach to photography-by which many
negatives are made with the hope that one will be good-is fatal
to serious results." To take a good photograph, runs the common
claim, one must already see it. That is, the image must exist in
the photogtaphet's mind at or before the moment when the
negative is exposed. Justifying photography has for the most part
precluded admitting that the scattershot method, especially as
used by someone experienced, may yield a thoroughly satisfactory
result. But despite their reluctance to say so, most photographers
have always had-with good reason-an almost superstitious
confidence in the lucky accident.
   Lately, the secret is becoming avowable. As the defense of
photography enters its present, retrospective phase, there is an
increasing diffidence in claims about the alert, knowing state of
mind that accomplished picture-taking presumes. The
anti-intellectual declarations of photographers, commonplaces
of modernist thinking in the arts, have prepared the way for the
gradual tilt ofserious photography toward a skeptical investigation
of its own powers, a commonplace of modernist practice in the
arts. Photography as knowledge is succeeded by photography
as-photography. In sharp reaction against any ideal of
authoritative representation, the most influential of the younger
American photographers reject any ambition to pre-visualize the
image and conceive their work as showing how different things
look when photographed.
  Where the claims of knowledge falter, the claims of creativity
take up the slack. As if to refute the fact that many superb pictures
are by photographers devoid of any serious or interesting
intentions, the insistence that picture-taking is first of all the
focusing of a temperament, only secondarily of a machine, has
always been one of the main themes of the defense of
photography. This is the theme stated so eloquently in the finest
essay ever written in praise of photography, Paul Rosenfeld's
chapter on Stieglitz in Port of New York. By using "his
machinery"-as Rosenfeld puts it-"unmechanically," Stieglitz
shows that the camera not only "gave him an opportunity of
expressing himself' but supplied images with a wider and "more
On Photography                                                  92


delicate" gamut "than the hand can draw." Similarly, Weston
insists over and over that photography is a supreme opportunity
for self-expression, far superior to that offered by painting. For
photography to compete with painting means invoking originality
as an important standard for appraising a photographer's work,
originality being equated with the stamp of a unique, forceful
sensibility. What is exciting "are photographs that say something
in a new manner," Harry Callahan writes, " not for the sake of
being different, but because the individual is different and the
individual expresses himself." For Ansel Adams "a great
photograph" has to be "a full expression of what one feels about
what is being photographed in the deepest sense and is, thereby,
a true expression of what one feels about life in its entirety."
   That there is a difference between photography conceived as
"true expression" and photography conceived (as it more
commonly is) as faithful recording is evident; though most
accounts of photography's mission attempt to paper over the
difference, it is implicit in the starkly polarized terms that
photographers employ to dramatize what they do. As modem
forms of the quest for self-expression commonly do, photography
recapitulates both of the traditional ways of radically opposing
self and world. Photography is seen as an acute manifestation of
the individualized "I," the homeless private self astray in an
overwhelming world-mastering reality by a fast visual
anthologizing of it. Or photography is seen as a means of finding
a place in the world (still experienced as overwhelming, alien) by
being able to relate to it with detachment-bypassing the
interfering, insolent claims of the self. But between the defense
of photography as a superior means of self-expression and the
praise of photography as a superior way of putting the self at
reality's service there is not as much difference as might appear.
Both presuppose that photography provides a unique system of
disclosures: that it shows us reality as we had not seen it before.
   This revelatory character of photography generally goes by the
polemical name of realism. From Fox Talbot's view that the
camera produces "natural images" to Berenice Abbott's
denunciation of "pictorial" photography to Cartier-Bresson's
On Photography                                                                          93


warning that "the thing to be feared most is the artificially
contrived," most of the contradictory declarations of
photographers converge on pious avowals of respect for
things-as-they-are. For a medium so often considered to be merely
realistic, one would think photographers would not have to go
on as they do, exhorting each other to stick to realism. But the
exho11ations continue-another instance of the need
photographers have for making something mysterious and urgent
of the process by which they appropriate the world.
   To insist, as Abbott does, that realism is the very essence of
photography does not, as it might seem, establish the superiority
of one pru1icular procedure or standard; does not necessarily
mean that photo-documents (Abbott's word) are better than
pictorial photographs.· Photography's commitment to realism
can accommodate any style, any approach to subject matter.
Sometimes it will be defined more narrowly, as the making of
images which resemble, and inform us about, the world.
Interpreted more broadly, echoing the distrust of mere likeness
which has inspired painting for more than a centwy, photographic
realism can be-is more and more-defined not as what is "really"
there but as what I "really" perceive. While all modern forms of
art claim some privileged relation to reality, the claim seems
particularly justified in the case of photography. Yet photography
has not, finally, any more immune than painting has to the most
characteristic modern doubts about any straightforward relation
to reality-the inability to take for granted the world as observed.
Even Abbott cannot help assuming a change in the veq nature
of reality: that it needs the selective, more acute eye of the camera,
there being simply much more of it than ever before. "Today, we

  '
      The original meaning of pictorial was, of course, the positive one popularized by

the most famous of the nineteenth-century art photographers, Henry Peach Robinson,

in his book Pictorial Effect in Photography (1869). "His system was to flatter everything,"

Abbott says in a manifesto she wrote in 1951, "Photography at the Crossroads." Praising

Nadar, Brady, Atget, and Hine as masters of the photo-document, Abbott dismisses

Stieglitz as Robinson's heir, founder of a "superpictorial school" in which, once again,

"subjectivity predominated."
On Photography                                                    94


are confronted with reality on the vastest scale mankind has
known," she declares, and this puts "a greater responsibility on
the photographer."
   All that photography's program of realism actually implies is
the belief that reality is hidden. And, being hidden, is something
to be unveiled. Whatever the camera records is a
disclosure-whether it is imperceptible, fleeting parts of
movement, an order that natural vision is incapable of perceiving
or a "heightened reality" (Moholy-Nagy's phrase), or simply the
elliptical way of seeing. What Stieglitz describes as his "patient
waiting for the moment of equilibrium" makes the same
assumption about the essential hiddenness of the real as Robet1
Frank's waiting for the moment of revealing disequilibrium, to
catch reality off-guard, in what he calls the "in-between
moments."
   Just to show something, anything, in the photographic view is
to show that it is hidden. But it is not necessary for photographers
to point up the mystery with exotic or exceptionally striking
subjects. When Dorothea La nge urges her colleagues to
concentrate on "the familiar," it is with the understanding that
the familiar, rendered by a sensitive use of the camera, will thereby
become mysterious. Photography's commitment to realism does
not limit photography to ce1tain subjects, as more real than others,
but rather illustrates the formalist understanding of what goes
on in every work of ru1: reality is, in Viktor Shklovsky's word,
de-familiarized. What is being urged is an aggressive relation to
all subjects. Armed with their machines, photographers are to
make an assault on reality-which is perceived as recalcitrant, as
only deceptively available, as unreal. "The pictures have a reality
for me that the people don't," Avedon has declared. "It is through
the photographs that I know them." To claim that photography
must be realistic is not incompatible with opening up an even
wider gap between image and reality, in which the mysteriously
acquired knowledge (and the enhancement of reality) supplied
by photographs presumes a prior alienation from or devaluation
of reality.
   As photographers describe it, picture-taking is both a limitless
On Photography                                                  95


technique for appropnatmg the objective world and an
unavoidably solipsistic expression ofthe singular self. Photographs
depict realities that already exist, though only the camera can
disclose them. And they depict an individual temperament,
discovering itself through the camera's cropping of reality. For
Moholy-Nagy the genius of photography lies in its ability to render
"an objective portrait: the individual to be photographed so that
the photographic result shall not be encumbered with subjective
intention." For Lange every portrait of another person is a
"self-portrait" of the photographer, as for Minor
White-promotin g "self-discovery through a camera"-landscape
photographs are really "inner landscapes." The two ideals are
antithetical. Insofar as photography is (or should be) about the
world, the photographer counts for little, but insofar as it is the
instrument of intrepid, questing subjectivity, the photographer
is all.
   Moholy-Nagy's demand for the photographer's self-effacement
follows from his appreciation of how edifying photography is: it
retains and upgrades our powers of observation, it brings about
"a psychological transformation of our eyesight.', (In an essay
published in 1936, he says that photography creates or enlarges
eight distinct varieties of seeing: abstract, exact, rapid, slow,
intensified, penetrative, simultaneous, and distorted.) But
self-effacement is also the demand behind quite different,
anti-scientific approaches to photography, such as that expressed
in Robert Frank's credo: "There is one thing the photograph must
contain, the humanity of the moment." In both views the
photographer is proposed as a kind of ideal observer-for
Moholy-Nagy, seeing with the detachment of a researcher; for
Frank, seeing "simply, as through the eyes of the man in the
street."
   One attraction of any view of the photographer as ideal
observer-whether impersonal (Moholy-Nagy) or friendly
(Frank)-is that it implicitly denies that picture-taking is in any
way an aggressive act. That it can be so described makes most
professionals extremely defensive. Cartier-Bresson and Avedon
are among the very few to have talked honestly (if ruefully) about
On Photography                                                    96


the exploitative aspect of the photographer's activities. Usually
photographers feel obliged to protest photography's innocence,
claiming that the predatory attitude is incompatible with a good
picture, and hoping that a more affirmative vocabula1y will put
over their point. One of the more memorable examples of such
verbiage is Ansel Adams's description of the camera as an
"instrument of love and revelation"; Adams also urges that we
stop saying that we "take" a picture and always say we "make"
one. Stieglitz's name for the cloud studies he did in the late
1920s-"Equivalents," that is, statements ofhis inner feelings-is
another, soberer instance of the persistent effort of photographers
to feature the benevolent character of picture-taking and discount
its predatory implications. What talented photographers do
cannot of course be characterized either as simply predatory or
as simply, and essentially, benevolent. Photography is the
paradigm of an inherently equivocal connection between self and
world-its version of tl1e ideology of realism sometimes dictating
an effacement of the self in relation to the world, sometimes
authorizing an aggressive relation to the world which celebrates
the self. One side or the other of the connection is always being
rediscovered and championed.
   An important result of the coexistence of these two
ideals-assault on reality and subrnission to reality-is a recurrent
ambivalence toward photography's means. Whatever the claims
for photography as a form of personal expression on a par with
painting, it remains true that its originality is inextricably linked
to the powers ofthe machine: no one can deny the informativeness
and formal beauty of many photographs made possible by the
steady growth of these powers, like Harold Edge1ton's high -speed
photographs of a bullet hitting its target, of the swirls and eddies
of a tennis stroke, or Lennart Nilsson's endoscopic photographs
of the interior of the human body. But as cameras get ever more
sophisticated, more automated, more acute, some photographers
are tempted to disarm themselves or to suggest that they are really
not armed, and prefer to submit themselves to the limits imposed
by a pre-modern camera technology-a cruder, less high-powered
machine being thought to give more interesting or expressive
On Photography                                                   97


results, to leave more room for the creative accident. Not using
fancy equipment has been a point of honor for many
photographers-including           Weston,       Brandt,      Evans,
Cattier-Bresson, Frank-some sticking with a battered camera
of simple design and slow lens that they acquired early in their
careers, some continuing to make their contact prints with
nothing more elaborate than a few trays, a bottle of developer,
and a bottle ofhypo solution.
   The camera is indeed the instrument of «fast seeing," as one
confident modernist, Alvin Langdon Coburn, declared in 1 9 1 8,
echoing the Futurist apotheosis of machines and speed.
Photography's present mood of doubt can be gauged by
Cartier-Bresson's recent statement that it may be too fast. The
cult of the future ( offaster and faster seeing) alternates with the
wish to return to a more artisanal, purer past-when images still
had a handmade quality, an aura. This nostalgia for some pristine
state of the photographic enterprise underlies the current
enthusiasm for daguerreotypes, stereograph cards, photographic
cartes de visite, family snapshots, the work offorgotten nineteenth­
and early-twentieth-century provincial and commercial
photographers.
   But the reluctance to use the newest high-powered equipment
is not the only or indeed the most interesting way in which
photographers express their attraction to photography's past. The
primitivist hankerings that inform em-rent photographic taste are
actually being aided by the ceaseless innovativeness of camera
technology. For many of these advances not only enlarge the
camera's powers but also recapitulate-in a more ingenious, less
cumbersome form-earlier, discarded possibilities ofthe medium.
Thus, the development of photography hinges on the replacement
of the daguerreotype process, direct positives on metal plates, by
the positive-negative process, whereby from an original (negative)
an unlimited number ofprints (positives) can be made. (Although
invented simultaneously in the late 1 830s, it was Daguerre's
government-supported invention, announced in 1839 with great
publicity, rather than Fox Talbot's positive-negative process, that
was the first photographic process in general use.) But now the
On Photography                                                    98


camera could be said to be turning back upon itself. The Polaroid
camera revives the principle of the daguerreotype camera: each
print is a unique object. The hologram (a three-dimensional image
created with laser light) could be considered a variant on the
heliogram-the first, cameraless photographs made in the 1820s
by Nicephore Niepce. And the increasingly popular use of the
camera to produce slides-images which cannot be displayed
permanently or stored in wallets and albums, but can only be
projected on walls or on paper (as aids for drawing)-goes back
even further into the camera's pre-history, for it amounts to using
the photographic camera to do the work of the camera obscura.
   "History is pushing us to the brink of a realistic age," according
to Abbott, who summons photographers to make the jump
themselves. But while photographers are perpetually urging each
other to be bolder, a doubt persists about the value of realism
which keeps them oscillating between simplicity and irony,
between insisting on control and cultivating the unexpected,
between the eagerness to take advantage of the complex evolution
of the medium and the wish to reinvent photography from
scratch. Photographers seem to need periodically to resist their
own knowingness and to remystifywhat they do.

Questions about knowledge are not, historically, photography's
first line of defense. The earliest controversies center on the
question of whed1er photography's fidelity to appearances and
dependence on a machine did not prevent it from being a fine
art-as distinct from a merely practical art, an arm of science,
and a trade. (That photographs give useful and often startling
kinds of information was obvious from the beginning.
Photographers only started worrying about what they knew, and
what kind ofknowledge in a deeper sense a photograph supplies,
after photography was accepted as an art.) For about a century
the defense of photography was identical with the struggle to
establish it as a fine art. Against the charge that photography was
a soulless, mechanical copying of reality, photographers asserted
that it was a vanguard revolt against ordinary standards of seeing,
no less worthy an art than painting.
On Photography                                                    99


   Now photographers are choosier about the claims they make.
Since photography has become so entirely respectable as a branch
of the fine arts, they no longer seek the shelter that the notion of
art has intermittently given the photographic enterprise. For all
the important American photographers who have proudly
identified their work with the aims of art ( like Stieglitz, White,
Siskind, Callahan, Lange, Laughlin), there are many more who
disavow the question itself. Whether or not the camera's "results
come under the category of Art is irrelevant," Strand wrote in the
1920s; and Moholy-Nagy declared it "quite unimportant whether
photography produces 'art' or not." Photographers who came to
maturity in the 1940s or later are bolder, openly snubbing art,
equating art with artiness. They generally claim to be finding,
recording, impartially observing, witnessing, exploring
themselves-anything but making works of art. At first, it was
photography's commitment to realism that placed it in a
permanently ambivalent relation to art; now it is its modernist
heritage. The fact that important photographers are no longer
willing to debate whether photography is or is not a fine art, except
to proclaim that their work is not involved with art, shows the
extent to which they simply take for granted the concept of art
imposed by the triumph of modernism: the better the art, the
more subversive it is of the traditional aims of art. And modernist
taste has welcomed this unpretentious activity that can be
consumed, almost in spite of itself, as high art.
   Even in the nineteenth century, when photography was thought
to be so evidently in need of defense as a fine art, the line of
defense was far from stable. Julia Margaret Cameron's claim that
photography qualifies as an art because, like painting, it seeks the
beautiful was succeeded by Henry Peach Robinson's Wildean
claim that photography is an art because it can lie. In the early
twentieth century Alvin Langdon Coburn's praise of photography
as "the most modern of the arts," because it is a fast, impersonal
way of seeing, competed with Weston's praise of photography as
a new means of individual visual creation. In recent decades the
notion of art has been exhausted as an instrument of polemic;
indeed, a good part of the immense prestige that photography
On Photography                                                   100


has acquired as an art form comes from its declared ambivalence
toward being an art. When photographers now deny that they
are making works of art, it is because they think they are doing
something better than that. Their disclaimers tell us more about
the harried status of any notion of art than about whether
photography is or isn't one.
   Despite the efforts of contemporary photographers to exorcise
the specter of art, something lingers. For instance, when
professionals object to having their photographs printed to the
edge of the page in books or magazines, they are invoking the
model inherited from another art: as paintings are put in frames,
photographs should be framed in white space. Another instance:
many photographers continue to prefer black-and-white images,
which are felt to be more tactful, more decorous than color-or
less voyeuristic and less sentimental or crudely lifelike. But the
real basis for this preference is, once again, an implicit comparison
with painting. In the introduction to his book of photographs
The Decisive Moment ( 1952), Cartier-Bresson justified his
unwillingness to use color by citing technical limitations: the slow
speed of color film, which reduces the depth of focus. But with
the rapid progress in color-film technology during the last two
decades, making possible all the tonal subtlety and high resolution
one might desire, Cartier-Bresson has had to shift his ground,
and now proposes that photographers renounce color as a matter
of principle. In Ca11ier-Bresson' s version of that persistent myth
according to which-following the camera's invention-a division
of territory took place between photography and painting, color
belongs to painting. He enjoins photographers to resist temptation
and keep up their side of the bargain.
   Those still involved in defining photography as an a11 are always
trying to hold some lille. But it is impossible to hold the line: any
attempt to restrict photography to certain subjects or certain
techniques, however fruitful these have proved to be, is bound to
be challenged and to collapse. For it is in the very nature of
photography that it be a promiscuous form of seeing, and, in
talented hands, an infallible medium of creation. (As John
Szarkowski observes, "a skillful photographer can photograph
On Photography                                                                     I0l


anything well.") Hence, its longstanding quarrel with art, which
(until recently) meant the results of a discriminating or purified
way of seeing, and a medium of creation governed by standards
that make genuine achievement a rarity. Understandably,
photographers have been reluctant to give up the attempt to define
more narrowly what good photography is. The history of
photography is punctuated by a series of dualistic
controversies-such as the straight print versus the doctored
print,      pictorial     photography      versus     documentary
photography-each of which is a different form of the debate
about photography's relation to art: how close it can get while
still retaining its claim to unlimited visual acquisition. Recently,
it has become common to maintain that all these controversies
are now outmoded, which suggests that the debate has been
settled. But it is unlikely that the defense of photography as art
will ever completely subside. As long as photography is not only
a voracious way of seeing but one which needs to claim that it is
a special, distinctive way, photographers will continue to take
shelter (if only covertly) in the defiled but still prestigious
precincts of art.
   Photographers who suppose they are getting away from the
pretensions of art as exemplified in painting by taking pictures
remind us of those Abstract Expressionist painters who imagined
they were getting away from art, or A11, by the act of painting
(that is, by treating the canvas as a field of action rather than as
an object). And much of the prestige that photography has
recently acquired as an art is based on the convergence of its
claims with those of more recent painting and sculpture: The

  ·
   The claims ofphotography are, of course, much older. For the now familiar practice

that substitutes encOtmter for fabrication, found objects or situations for made (or

made-up) ones, decision for effort, the prototype is photography's instant att through

the mediation of a machine. It was photography that first put into circulation the idea

of an art that is produced not by pregnancy and childbirth but by a blind date

(Duchamp's theory of "rendezvous" ). But professional photographers are much less

secure thau their Duchamp-influenced contemporaries in the estabushed fu1e arts, and

generally hasten to point out that a moment's decision presupposes a long training of
On Photography                                                                       102


seemingly insatiable appetite for photography in the 1970s
expresses more than the pleasure of discovering and exploring a
relatively neglected art form; it derives much of its fervor from
the desire to reaffirm the dismissal of abstract a11 which was one
of the messages of the pop taste of the 1960s. Paying more and
more attention to photographs is a great reliefto sensibilities tired
of, or eager to avoid, the mental exertions demanded by abstract
art. Classical modernist painting presupposes highly developed
skills oflooking, and a familiarity with other a11 and with certain
notions about the history of art. Photography, like pop art,
reassures viewers that art isn't hard; it seems to be more about
subjects than about art.
   Photography is the most successful vehicle of modernist taste
in its pop version, with its zeal for debunking the high culture of
the past (focusing on shards, junk, odd stuff; excluding nothing);
its conscientious courting of vulgarity; its affection for kitsch; its
skill in reconciling avant-garde ambitions with the rewards of
commercialism; its pseudoradical patronizing ofart as reactionary,
elitist, snobbish, insincere, artificial, out oftouch with the broad
truths of everyday life; its transformation of art into cultural
document. At the same time, photography has gradually acquired
all the anxieties and self-consciousness of a classic modernist art.
Many professionals are now worried that this populist strategy is
being carried too far, and that the public will forget that
photography is, after all, a noble and exalted activity-in short,
an art. For the modernist promotion of nai:ve a11 always contains
a joker: that one continue to honor its hidden claim to
sophistication.

It cannot be a coincidence that just about the time that
photographers stopped discussing whether photography is an art,
it was acclaimed as one by the general public and photography
entered, in force, into the museum. The musewn's naturalization
of photography as art is the conclusive victory of the century-long


sensibility, of the eye, and to insist that the effortlessness of picture-taking does not

make the photographer any less of an artificer than a painter.
On Photography                                                  103


campaign waged by modernist taste on behalf ofan open-ended
definition of art, photography offering a much more suitable
terrain than painting for this effort. For the line between amateur
and professional, primitive and sophisticated is not just harder
to draw with photography than it is with painting-it has little
meaning. NaiVe or commercial or merely utilitarian photography
is no different in kind from photography as practiced by the most
gifted professionals: there are pictures taken by anonymous
amateurs which are just as interesting, as complex formally, as
representative of photography's characteristic powers as a Stieglitz
or an Evans.
   That all the different kinds of photography form one
continuous and interdependent tradition is the once stattling,
now obvious-seeming assumption which underlies contemporary
photographic taste and authorizes the indefinite expansion of
that taste. To make this assumption only became plausible when
photography was taken up by curators and historians and regularly
exhibited in museums and art galleries. Photography's career in
the museum does not reward any particular style; rather, it
presents photography as a collection of simultaneous intentions
and styles which, however different, are not perceived as in any
way conttadictory. But while the operation has been a huge success
with the public, the response of photography professionals is
mixed. Even as they welcome photography's new legitimacy, many
of them feel threatened when the most ambitious images are
discussed in direct continuity with all sorts of images, from
photojournalism to scientific photography to family
snapshots-charging that this reduces photography to something
trivial, vulgar, a mere craft.
   The real problem with bringing functional photographs,
photographs taken for a practical purpose, on commercial
assignment, or as souvenirs, into the mainstream of photographic
achievement is not that it demeans photography, considered as
a fine art, but that the procedure contradicts the nature of most
photographs. In most uses of the camera, the photograph's na'ive
or descriptive function is paramount. But when viewed in their
new context, the museum or gallery, photographs cease to be
On Photography                                                 104


"about" their subjects in the same direct or primary way; they
become studies in the possibilities of photography. Photography's
adoption by the museum makes photography itself seem
problematic, in the way experienced only by a small number of
self-conscious photographers whose work consists precisely in
questioning the camera's ability to grasp reality. The eclectic
museum collections reinforce the arbitrariness, the subjectivity
of all photographs, including the most straightforwardly
descriptive ones.
   Putting on shows of photographs has become as featured a
musewn activity as mounting shows of individual painters. But
a photographer is not like a painter, the role of the photographer
being recessive in much of serious picture-taking and virtually
irrelevant in all the ordinary uses. So far as we care about the
subject photographed, we expect the photographer to be an
extremely discreet presence. Thus, the very success of
photojournalism lies in the difficulty of distinguishing one
superior photographer's work from another's, except insofar as
he or she has monopolized a particular subject. These photographs
have their power as images (or copies) of the world, not of an
individual artist's consciousness. And in the vast majority of
photographs which get taken-for scientific and industrial
purposes, by the press, by the military and the police, by
families-any trace of the personal vision of whoever is behind
the camera interferes with the primary demand on the
photograph: that it record, diagnose, inform.
   It makes sense that a painting is signed but a photograph is not
(or it seems bad taste if it is). The very nature of photography
implies an equivocal relation to the photographer as auteur, and
the bigger and more varied the work done by a talented
photographer, the more it seems to acquire a kind of corporate
rather than individual authorship. Many of the published
photographs by photography's greatest names seem like work
that could have been done by another gifted professional of their
period. [t requires a formal conceit (like Todd Walker's solarized
photographs or Duane Michals's narrative-sequence photographs)
or a thematic obsession (like Eakins with the male nude or
On Photography                                                      lOS



Laughlin with the Old South) to make work easily recognizable.
For photographers who don't so limit themselves, their body of
work does not have the same integrity as does comparably varied
work in other art forms. Even in those careers with the sharpest
breaks of period and style-think of Picasso, of Stravinsky--one
can perceive the unity of concerns that transcends these breaks
and can (retrospectively) see the inner relation of one period to
another. Knowing the whole body of work, one can see how the
same composer could have written Le Sacre du printemps, the
Dumbarton Oaks Concerto, and the late neo-Schoenbergian
works; one recognizes Stravinsky's hand in all these compositions.
But there is no internal evidence for identifying as the work of a
single photographer (indeed, one of the most interesting and
original of photographers) those studies of human and animal
motion, the documents brought back from photo-expeditions in
Central America, the government-sponsored camera surveys of
Alaska and Yosemite, and the "Clouds, and "Trees, series. Even
after knowing they were all taken by Muybridge, one still can't
relate these series of pictures to each other (though each series
has a coherent, recognizable style), any more than one could infer
the way Atget photographed trees from the way he photographed
Paris shop windows, or connect Roman Vishniac's pre-war
portraits of Polish Jews with the scientific microphotographs he
has been taking since 1945. In photography the subject matter
always pushes through, with different subjects creating
unbridgeable gaps between one period and another of a large
body of work, confounding signature.
   Indeed, the very presence of a coherent photographic
style-think of the white backgrounds and flat lighting of
Avedon' s portraits, of the distinctive grisaille ofAtget's Paris street
studies-seems to imply unified material. And subject matter
seems to have the largest part in shaping a viewer's preferences.
Even when photographs are isolated from the practical context
in which they may originally have been taken, and looked at as
works of art, to prefer one photograph to another seldom means
only that the photograph is judged to be superior formally; it
almost always means-as in more casual kinds oflooking-that
On Photography                                                 106


the viewer prefers that kind of mood, or respects that intention,
or is intrigued by (or feels nostalgic about) that subject. The
formalist approaches to photography cannot account for the
power of what has been photographed, and the way distance in
time and cultural distance from the photograph increase our
interest.
   Still, it seems logical that contemporary photographic taste has
taken a largely formalist direction. Although the natural or na'ive
status of subject matter in photography is more secure than in
any other representational art, the very plurality of situations in
which photographs are looked at complicates and eventually
weakens the primacy of subject matter. The conflict of interest
between objectivity and subjectivity, between demonstration and
supposition, is unresolvable. While the authority of a photograph
will always depend on the relation to a subject (that it is a
photograph of something), all claims on behalf of photography
as art must emphasize the subjectivity of seeing. There is an
equivocation at the heart of all aesthetic evaluations of
photographs; and this explains the chronic defensiveness and
extreme mutability of photographic taste.
   For a brief time-say, from Stieglitz through the reign of
Weston-it appeared that a solid point of view had been erected
with which to evaluate photographs: impeccable lighting, skill of
composition, clarity of subject, precision of focus, perfection of
print quality. But this position, generally thought of as
Westonian-essentially technical criteria for what makes a
photograph good-is now bankrupt. (Weston's deprecating
appraisal of the great Atget as "not a fine technician" shows its
limitations.) What position has replaced Weston's? A much more
inclusive one, with criteria which shift the center of judgment
from the individual photograph, considered as a fmished object,
to the photograph considered as an example of ((photographic
seeing." What is meant by photographic seeing would hardly
exclude Weston's work but it would also include a large number
of anonymous, unposed, crudely lit, asymmetrically composed
photographs formerly dismissed for their lack of composition.
The new position aims to liberate photography, as art, from the
On Photography                                                   107


oppressive standards of technical perfection; to liberate
photography from beauty, too. It opens up the possibility of a
global taste, in which no subject (or absence of subject) , no
technique (or absence of technique) disqualifies a photograph.
   While in principle all subjects are worthy pretexts for exercising
the photographic way of seeing, the convention has arisen that
photographic seeing is clearest in offbeat or trivial subject matter.
Subjects are chosen because they are boring or banal. Because we
are indifferent to them, they best show up the ability of the camera
to "see." When Irving Penn, known for his handsome photographs
of celebrities and food for fashion magazines and ad agencies,
was given a show at the Museum of Modern Art in 1975, it was
for a series of close-ups of cigarette butts. "One might guess,"
commented the director of the museum's Department of
Photography, John Szarkowski, "that [Penn] has only rarely
enjoyed more than a cursory interest in the nominal subjects of
his pictures." Writing about another photographer, Szarkowski
commends what can "be coaxed from subject matter" that is
"profow1dly banal." Photography's adoption by the museum is
now firmly associated with those important modernist conceits:
the "nominal subject" and the "profoundly banal." But this
approach not only diminishes the importance of subject matter;
it also loosens the photograph from its connection with a single
photographer. The photographic way of seeing is far from
exhaustively illustrated by the many one-photographer shows
and retrospectives that museums now put on. To be legitimate
as an art, photography must cultivate the notion of the
photographer as auteur and of all photographs taken by the same
photographer as constituting a body of work. These notions are
easier to apply to some photographers than to others. They seem
more applicable to, say, Man Ray, whose style and purposes
straddle photographic and painterly norms, than to Steichen,
whose work includes abstractions, portraits, ads for consumer
goods, fashion photographs. and aerial reconnaissance
photographs (taken during his militatycareer in both world wars).
But the meanings that a photograph acquires when seen as part
of an individual body of work are not particularly to the point
On Photography                                                   108


when the criterion is photographic seeing. Rather, such an
approach must necessarily favor the new meanings that any one
picture acquires when juxtaposed-in ideal anthologies, either
on museum walls or in books-with the work of other
photographers.
   Such anthologies are meant to educate taste about photography
in general; to teach a form of seeing which makes all subjects
equivalent. When Szarkowski describes gas stations, empty living
rooms, and other bleak subjects as "patterns of random facts in
the service of [the photographer's] imagination," what he really
means is that these subjects are ideal for the camera. The ostensibly
formalist, neutral criteria of photographic seeing are in fact
powerfully judgmental about subjects and about styles. The
revaluation of na'ive or casual nineteenth-century photographs,
particularly those which were taken as humble records, is partly
due to their sharp-focus style-a pedagogic corrective to the
"pictorial" soft focus which, from Cameron to Stieglitz, was
associated with photography's claim to be an art. Yet the standards
of photographic seeing do not imply an unalterable commitment
to sharp focus. Whenever serious photography is felt to have been
purged of outmoded relations to art and to prettiness, it could
just as well accommodate a taste for pictorial photography, for
abstraction, for noble subjects rather than cigarette butts and gas
stations and turned backs.

The language in which photographs are generally evaluated is
extremely meager. Sometimes it is parasitical on the vocabulary
of painting: composition, light, and so forth. More often it consists
in the vaguest sorts of judgments, as when photographs are praised
for being subtle, or interesting, or powerful, or complex, or simple,
or-a favorite-deceptively simple.
   The reason the language is poor is not fortuitous: say, the
absence of a rich tradition of photographic criticism. It is
something inherent in photography itself, whenever it is viewed
as an art. Photography proposes a process of imagination and an
appeal to taste quite different from that of painting (at least as
traditionally conceived) . Indeed, the difference between a good
On Photography                                                   109


photograph and a bad photograph is not at all like the difference
between a good and a bad painting. The norms of aesthetic
evaluation worked out for painting depend on criteria of
authenticity (and fakeness), and of craftsmanship-criteria that
are more permissive or simply non-existent for photography.
And while the tasks of connoisseurship in painting invariably
presume the organic relation of a painting to an individual body
ofwork with its own integrity, and to schools and iconographical
traditions, in photography a large individual body of work does
not necessarily have an inner stylistic coherence, and an individual
photographer's relation to schools of photography is a much more
superficial affair.
   One criterion of evaluation which painting and photography
do share is innovativeness; both paintings and photographs are
often valued because they impose new formal schemes or changes
in the visual language. Another criterion which they can share is
the quality of presence, which Walter Benjamin considered the
defining characteristic of the work of art. Benjamin thought that
a photograph, being a mechanically reproduced object, could not
have genuine presence. It could be argued, however, that the very
situation which is now determinative of taste in photography, its
exhibition in museums and galleries, has revealed that
photographs do possess a kind of authenticity. Furthermore,
although no photograph is an original in the sense that a painting
always is, there is a large qualitative difference between what could
be called originals-prints made from the original negative at the
time (that is, at the same moment in the technological evolution
of photography) that the picture was taken-and subsequent
generations of the same photograph. (What most people know
of the famous photographs-in books, newspapers, magazines,
and so forth-are photographs of photographs; the originals,
which one is likely to see only in a museum or a gallery, offer
visual pleasures which are not reproducible.) The result of
mechanical reproduction, Benjamin says, is to "put the copy of
the original into situations which would be out of reach for the
original itself." But to the extent that, say, a Giotto can still be
said to possess an aura in the situation of museum display, where
On Photography                                                 110


it too has been wrenched from its original context and, like the
photograph, "meets the beholder halfway" (in the strictest sense
of Benjamin's notion of the aura, it does not), to that extent an
Atget photograph printed on the now unobtainable paper he used
can also be said to possess an aura.
   The real difference between the aura that a photograph can
have and that of a painting lies in the different relation to time.
The depredations of time tend to work against paintings. But part
of the built-in interest of photographs, and a major source of
their aesthetic value, is precisely the transformations that time
works upon them, the way they escape the intentions of their
makers. Given enough time, many photographs do acquire an
aura. (The fact that color photographs don't age in the way
black-and-white photographs do may partly explain the marginal
status which color has had until very recently in serious
photographic taste. The cold intimacy of color seems to seal off
the photograph from patina. ) For while paintings or poems do
not get better, more attractive simply because they are older, all
photographs are interesting as well as touching if they are old
enough. It is not altogether wrong to say that there is no such
thing as a bad photograph-only less interesting, less relevant,
less mysterious ones. Photography's adoption by the museum
only accelerates that process which time will bring about anyway:
making all work valuable.
   The role ofthe museum in forming contemporary photographic
taste cannot be overestimated. Museums do not so much arbitrate
what photographs are good or bad as offer new conditions for
looking at all photographs. This procedure, which appears to be
creating standards of evaluation, in fact abolishes them. The
museum cannot be said to have created a secure canon for the
photographic work of the past, as it has for painting. Even as it
seems to be sponsoring a particular photographic taste, the
museum is undermining the very idea of normative taste. Its role
is to show that there are no fixed standards of evaluation, that
there is no canonical tradition of work. Under the museum's
attentions, the very idea of a canonical tradition is exposed as
redundant.
On Photography                                                 Ill


   What keeps photography's Great Tradition always in flux,
constantly being reshuffled, is not that photography is a new art
and therefore somewhat insecure-this is part of what
photographic taste is about. There is a more rapid sequence of
rediscovery in photography than in any other art. Illustrating that
law oftaste given its definitive formulation by T. S. Eliot whereby
each important new work necessarily alters our perception of the
heritage of the past, new photographs change how we look at past
photographs. (For example, Arbus's work has made it easier to
appreciate the greatness of the work of Hine, another
photographer devoted to portraying the opaque dignity of
victims.) But the swings in contemporary photographic taste do
not only reflect such coherent and sequential processes of
reevaluation, whereby like enhances like. What they more
commonly express is the complementarity and equal value of
antithetical styles and themes.
   For several decades American photography has been dominated
by a reaction against "Westonism"-that is, against contemplative
photography, photography considered as an independent visual
exploration of the world with no evident social urgency. The
technical perfection of Weston's photographs, the calculated
beauties of White and Siskind, the poetic constructions of
Frederick Sommer, the self-assured ironies ofCartier-Bresson-all
these have been challenged by photography that is, at least
programmatically, more nai:ve, more direct; that is hesitant, even
awkward. But taste in photography is not that linear. Without
any weakening of the current commitments to informal
photography and to photography as social document, a perceptible
revival of Weston is now taking place-as, with the passage of
enough time, Weston's work no longer looks timeless; as, by the
much broader definition of naivete with which photographic taste
operates, Weston's work also looks nai:ve.
   Finally, there is no reason to exclude any photographer from
the canon. Right now there are mini-revivals ofsuch long-despised
pictorialists from another era as Oscar Gustav Rejlander, Henry
Peach Robinson, and Robert Demachy. As photography takes the
whole world as its subject, there is room for every kind of taste.
On Photography                                                 112


Literary taste does exclude: the success of the modernist
movement in poetry elevated Donne but diminished Dryden.
With literature, one can be eclectic up to a point, but one can't
like everything. With photography, eclecticism has no limits. The
plain photographs from the 1870s ofabandoned children admitted
to a London institution called Doctor Barnardo's Home (taken
as "records") are as moving as David Octavius Hill's complex
portraits of Scottish notables of the 1840s (taken as «art") . The
clean look ofWeston's classic modern style is not refuted by, say,
Benno Friedman's ingenious recent revival of pictorial blurriness.
   This is not to deny that each viewer likes the work of some
photographers more than others: for example, most experienced
viewers today prefer Atget to Weston. What it does mean is that,
by the nature of photography, one is not really obliged to choose;
and that preferences of that sort are, for the most part, merely
reactive. Taste in photography tends to be, is perhaps necessarily,
global, eclectic, permissive, which means that in the end it must
deny the difference between good taste and bad taste. This is what
makes all the attempts of photography polemicists to erect a canon
seem ingenuous or ignorant. For there is something fake about
all photographic controversies-and the attentions ofthe museum
have played a crucial role in making this clear. The museum levels
up all schools of photography. Indeed, it makes little sense even
to speak of schools. In the history of painting, movements have
a genuine life and function: painters are often much better
understood in terms of the school or movement to which they
belonged. But movements in the history of photography are
fleeting, adventitious, sometimes merely perfunctory, and no
first-rate photographer is better understood as a member of a
group. (Think of Stieglitz and Photo-Secession, Weston and .f64,
Renger-Patzsch and the New Objectivity, Walker Evans and the
Farm Security Administration project, Cartier-Bresson and
Magnum.) To group photographers in schools or movements
seems to be a kind of misunderstanding, based (once again) on
the irrepressible but invariably misleading analogy between
photography and painting.
   The leading role now played by museums in forming and
On Photography                                                                         113


clarifying the nature o f photographic taste seems to mark a new
stage from which photography cannot turn back Accompanying
its tendentious respect for the profoundly banal is the museum's
diffusion of a historicist view, one that inexorably promotes the
entire history of photography. Small wonder that photography
critics and photographers seem <mxious. Underlying many of the
recent defenses of photography is the fear that photography is
already a senile art, littered by spurious or dead movements; that
the only task left is curatorship and historiography. (While prices
skyrocket for photographs old and new.) It is not surprising that
this demoralization should be felt at the moment of photography's
greatest acceptance, for the true extent of photography's triumph
as art, and over art, has not really been understood.

Photography entered the scene as an upstart activity, which
seemed to encroach on and diminish an accredited art painting.
For Baudelaire, photography was painting's «mortal enemy"; but
eventually a truce was worked out, according to which
photography was held to be painting's liberator. Weston employed
the most common formula for easing the defensiveness of painters
when he wrote in 1930: "Photography has, or will eventually,
negate much painting-for which the painter should be deeply
grateful." Freed by photography from the drudgery of faithful
representation, painting could pursue a higher task: abstraction:

  '
      valery claimed that photographyperformed the same service for writing, by exposing
the "illusory" claim of language to "convey the idea of a visual object with any degree
of precision." But writers should not fear that photography "might ultimately restrict
the importance of the art of writing and act as its substitute," Valery says in "The
Centenary of Photography" ( L929). 1fphotography "discourages us from describing,"
he argues,
      we are thus reminded of the limits oflanguage and are advised, as V\rriters, to put
 our tools to a use more befitting their true nature. A literature would purify itself if
 itlet
     :f to other modes ofe>;pression and production the tasks which theycan perform
 far more effectively, and devoted itselfto ends it alone can accomplish . . . one ofwhich
 [isl the perfecting of language that constructs or expounds abstract thought, the
 other e>..-ploring all the variety of poetic patterns and resonances.
On Photography                                                                          I 14


Indeed, the most persistent idea in histories of photography and
in photography criticism is this mythic pact concluded between
painting and photography, which authorized both to pursue their
separate but equally valid tasks, while creatively influencing each
other. In fact, the legend falsifies much of the history of both
painting and photography. The camera's way of fixing the
appearance of the external world suggested new patterns of
pictorial composition and new subjects to painters: creating a
preference for the fragment, raising interest in glimpses of humble
life, and in studies of fleeting motion and the effects of light.
Painting did not so much turn to abstraction as adopt the camera's
eye, becoming (to borrow Mario Praz's words) telescopic,
microscopic, and photoscopic in structure. But painters have
never stopped attempting to imitate the realistic effects of
photography. And, far from confining itself to realistic
representation and leaving abstraction to painters, photography
has kept up with and absorbed all the anti-naturalistic conquests
of painting.
   More generally, this legend does not take into account the
voraciousness of the photographic enterprise. In the transactions
between painting and photography, photography has always had


  Valery's argw11ent is not convincing. Although a photograph may be said to record
or show or present, it does not ever, properly speaking, "describe"; only language de­
scribes, which is an event in time. Valery suggests opening a passport as "proof' of his
argument: "the description scrawled there does not bear comparison with the snapshot
stapled alongside it." But this is using description in the most debased, impoverished
sense; there are passages in Dickens or Nabokov which describe a face or a part of the
body better than any photograph. Nor does it argue for the inferior descriptive powers
of literature to say, as Valery does, that "the writer who depicts a landscape or a face,
no matter how skillful he may be at his craft, will suggest as many differellt visions as
he has readers." The same is true of a photograph.
  As the stiU photograph is thought to have freed writers from the obligation ofdescrib­
ing, movies are often held to have usurped the novelist's task of narrating or story­
telling-thereby, some claim, freeing the novel for other, less realistic tasks. This version
of the argument is more plausible, because movies are a temporal art. But it does not
do justice to the relation between novels and films.
On Photography                                                    I 15


the upper hand. There is nothing surprising in the fact that
painters from Delacroix and Turner to Picasso and Bacon have
used photographs as visual aids, but no one expects photographers
to get help from painting. Photographs may be incorporated or
transcribed into the painting (or collage, or combine), but
photography encapsulates art itself. The experience oflooking at
paintings may help us to look better at photographs. But
photography has weakened our experience of painting. (In more
than one sense, Baudelaire was right.) Nobody ever found a
lithograph or an engraving of a painting-the popular older
methods of mechanical reproduction-more satisfying or more
exciting than the painting. But photographs, which turn
interesting details into autonomous compositions, which
transform true colors into brilliant colors, provide new, irresistible
satisfactions. The destiny of photography has taken it far beyond
the role to which it was originally thought to be limited: to give
more accurate reports on reality (including works of art).
Photography is the reality; the real object is often experienced as
a letdown. Photographs make normative an experience of art that
is mediated, second-hand, intense in a different way. (To deplore
that photographs of paintings have become substitutes for the
paintings for many people is not to support any mystique of"the
original" that addresses the viewer without mediation. Seeing is
a complex act, and no great painting communicates its value and
quality without some form of preparation and instruction.
Moreover, the people who have a harder time seeing the original
work of art after seeing the photographic copy are generally those
who would have seen very little in the original.)
   As most wmks of art (including photographs) are now known
from photographic copies, photography-and the art activities
derived from the model of photography, and the mode of taste
derived from photographic taste-has decisively transformed the
traditional fine a11s and the traditional norms of taste, including
the very idea of the work of art. Less and less does the work of art
depend on being a unique object, an original made by an
individual artist. Much of painting today aspires to the qualities
of reproducible objects. Finally, photographs have become so
On Photography                                                    I 16


much the leading visual experience that we now have works of
art which are produced in order to be photographed. In much of
conceptual art, in Christo's packaging of the landscape, in the
e:u1hworks ofWalter De Maria and Robert Smithson, the artist's
work is known principally by the photographic report of it in
galleries and museums; sometimes the size is such that it can only
be known in a photograph (or from an airplane). The photograph
is not, even ostensibly, meant to lead us back to an original
experience.
   It was on the basis ofthis presumed truce between photography
and painting that photography was-grudgingly at first, then
enthusiastically-acknowledged as a fine art. But the very question
of whether photography is or is not an art is essentially a
misleading one. Although photography generates works that can
be called art-it requires subjectivity, it can lie, it gives aesthetic
pleasure-photography is not, to begin with, an art form at all.
Like language, it is a medium in which works of art (among other
things) are made. Out of language, one can make scientific
discourse, bureaucratic memoranda, love letters, grocery lists,
and Balzac's Paris. Out of photography, one can make passpm1
pictures, weather photographs, pornographic pictures, X-rays,
wedding pictures, and Atget's Paris. Photography is not an art
like, say, painting and poetry. Although the activities of some
photographers conform to the traditional notion of a fine art, the
activity of exceptionally talented individuals producing discrete
objects that have value in themselves, from the beginning
photography has also lent itself to that notion of art which says
that a11 is obsolete. The power of photography-and its centrality
in present aesthetic concerns-is that it confirms both ideas of
art. But the way in which photography renders art obsolete is, in
the long run, stronger.
   Painting and photography are not two potentially competitive
systems for producing and reproducing images, which simply
had to arrive at a proper division of territory to be reconciled.
Photography is an enterprise of another order. Photography,
though not an art form in itself, has the peculiar capacity to turn
all its subjects into works of art. Superseding the issue ofwhether
On Photography                                                      I 17


photography is or is not an art is the fact that photography heralds
(and creates) new ambitions for the arts. It is the prototype of the
characteristic direction taken in our time by both the modernist
high arts and the commercial ru1s: the transformation of at1s into
meta-a11s or media. (Such developments as ftlm, TV, video, the
tape-based music of Cage, Stockhausen, and Steve Reich are logical
extensions of the model established by photography.) The
traditional fine arts are elitist: their characteristic form is a single
work, produced by an individual; they imply a hierarchy of subject
matter in which some subjects are considered important,
profound, noble, and others unimportant, trivial, base. The media
are democratic: they weaken the role of the specialized producer
or auteur (by using procedures based on chance, or med1anical
techniques which anyone can learn; and by being corporate or
collaborative efforts); they regard the whole world as material.
The traditional fine arts rely on the distinction between authentic
and fake, between original and copy, between good taste and bad
taste; the media blur, if they do not abolish outright, these
distinctions. The fme arts assume that certain experiences or
subjects have a meaning. The media are essentially contentless
(this is the truth behind Marshall McLuhan's celebrated remark
about the message being the medium itself); their characteristic
tone is ironic, or dead-pan, or parodistic. It is inevitable that more
and more art will be designed to end as photographs. A modernist
would have to rewrite Pater's dictum that all art aspires to the
condition of music. Now all at1 aspires to the condition of
photography.
On Photograph}'                                                 119




                                         The Image-World

Reality has always been interpreted through the reports given by
images; and pl1ilosophers since Plato have tried to loosen our
dependence on images by evoking the standard of an image-free
way of apprehending the real. But when, in the mid-nineteenth
century, the standard finally seemed attainable, the retreat of old
religious and political illusions before the advance of humanistic
and scientific thinking did not-as anticipated-create mass
defections to the real. On the contrary, the new age of unbelief
strengthened the allegiance to images. The credence that could
no longer be given to realities understood in the form of images
was now being given to realities understood to beimages, illusions.
In the preface to the second edition ( 1843) of The Essence of
Christianity, Feuerbach observes about "our era" that it "prefers
the image to the thing, the copy to the original, the representation
to the reality, appearance to being"-while being aware of doing
just that. And his premonitory complaint has been transformed
in the twentieth century into a widely agreed-on diagnosis: that
a society becomes "modern" when one of its chief activities is
producing and consuming linages, when images that have
extraordinary powers to determine our demands upon reality
and are themselves coveted substitutes for firsthand experience
become indispensable to the health of the economy, the stability
of the polity, and the pursuit of private happiness.
   Feuerbach' s words-he is writing a few years after the invention
of the camera-seem, more specifically, a presentiment of the
impact of photography. For the images that have vil·tually
On Photography                                                    120


unlimited authority in a modern society are mainly photographic
images; and the scope of that authority stems from the properties
peculiar to images taken by cameras.
   Such images are indeed able to usurp reality because first of all
a photograph is not only an image (as a painting is an image), an
interpretation of the real; it is also a trace, something directly
stenciled off tl1e real, like a footprint or a death mask. While a
painting, even one that meets photographic standards of
resemblance, is never more than the stating of an interpretation,
a photograph is never less than the registering of an emanation
(light waves reflected by objects)-a material vestige ofits subject
in a way that no painting can be. Between two fantasy alternatives,
that Holbein the Younger had lived long enough to have painted
Shakespeare or that a prototype of the camera had been invented
early enough to have photographed him, most Bardolators would
choose the photograph. This is not just because it would
presumably show what Shakespeare really looked like, for even
if the hypothetical photograph were faded, barely legible, a
brownish shadow, we would probably still prefer it to another
glorious Holbein. Having a photograph of Shakespeare would be
like having a nail from the True Cross.
   Most contemporary expressions ofconcern that an image-world
is replacing the real one continue to echo, as Feuerbach did, the
Platonic depreciation of the linage: true insofar as it resembles
something real, sham because it is no more than a resemblance.
But this venerable naive realism is somewhat beside the point in
the era of photographic images, for its blunt contrast between the
image ("copy") and the thing depicted (the "original")-which
Plato repeatedly illustrates with the example of a painting-does
not fit a photograph in so simple a way. Neither does the contrast
help in understanding image-making at its origins, when it was
a practical, magical activity, a means of appropriating or gaining
power over something. The further back we go in history, as E.
H. Gombrich has observed, the less sharp is the distinction
between images and real things; in primitive societies, the thing
and its image were simply two different, that is, physically distinct,
manifestations of the same energy or spirit. Hence, the supposed
On Photography                                                    121


efficacy of images in prop1t1atmg and gammg control over
powerful presences. Those powers, those presences were present
in them.
   For defenders of the real from Plato to Feuerbach to equate
image with mere appearance-that is, to presume that the image
is absolutely distinct from the object depicted-is part of that
process of desacralization which separates us irrevocably from
the world of sacred times and places in which an image was taken
to pa11icipate in the reality of the object depicted. What defines
the originality of photography is that, at the very moment in the
long, increasingly secular history of painting when secularism is
entirely    triumphant,        it   revives-in      wholly     secular
terms-something like the primitive status of images. Our
irrepressible feeling that the photographic process is something
magical has a genuine basis. No one takes an easel painting to be
in any sense co-substantial with its subject; it only represents or
refers. But a photograph is not only like its subject, a homage to
the subject. It is part of, an extension of that subject; and a potent
means of acquirir1g it, of gaining control over it.
   Photography is acquisition in several forms. In its simplest
form, we have in a photograph surrogate possession ofa cherished
person or thing, a possession which gives photographs some of
the character of unique objects. Through photographs, we also
have a conswner's relation to events, both to events which are
part of our experience and to those which are not-a distinction
between types of experience that such habit-forming
consumership blurs. A third form of acquisition is that, through
image-making and image-duplicating machines, we can acquire
something as information (rather than experience). Indeed, the
importance ofphotographic images as the medium through which
more and more events enter our experience is, finally, only a
byproduct of their effectiveness in furnishing knowledge
dissociated from and independent of experience.
   This is the most inclusive form of photographic acquisition.
Through being photographed, something becomes part of a
system of information, fitted into schemes of classification and
storage which range from the crudely chronological order of
On Photography                                                 122


snapshot sequences pasted in family albums to the dogged
accumulations and meticulous filing needed for photography's
uses in weather forecasting, astronomy, microbiology, geology,
police work, medical training and diagnosis, military
reconnaissance, and art history. Photographs do more than
redefine the stuff of ordinary experience (people, things, events,
whatever we see-albeit differently, often inattentively-with
natural vision) and add vast amounts of material that we never
see at all. Reality as such is redefined-as an item for exhibition,
as a record for scrutiny, as a target for surveillance. The
photographic exploration and duplication of the world fragments
continuities and feeds the pieces into an interminable dossier,
thereby providing possibilities of control that could not even be
dreamed of under the earlier system of recording information:
writing.
   That photographic recording is always, potentially, a means of
control was already recognized when such powers were in their
infancy. In 1850, Delacroix noted in his journal the success of
some ((experiments in photography" being made at Cambridge,
where astronomers were photographing the sun and the moon
and had managed to obtain a pinhead-size impression of the star
Vega. He added the following ((curious" observation:

  Since the light of the star which was daguerreotyped took
  twenty years to traverse the space separating it from the
  earth, the ray which was fixed on the plate had consequently
  left the celestial sphere a long time before Daguerre had
  discovered the process by means ofwhich we have just gained
  control of this light.

Leaving behind such puny notions of control as Delacroix's,
photography's progress has made ever more literal the senses in
which a photograph gives control over the thing photographed.
The technology that has already minimized the extent to which
the distance separating photographer from subject affects the
precision and magnitude of the image; provided ways to
photograph things which are unirnaginably small as well as those,
like stars, which are unimaginably far; rendered picture-taking
On Photography                                                 123


independent oflight itself (infrared photography) and freed the
picture-object from its confinement to two dimensions
(holography); shrunk the interval between sighting the picture
and holding it in one's hands (from the first Kodak, when it took
weeks for a developed roll of film to be returned to the amateur
photographer, to the Polaroid, which ejects the image in a few
seconds); not only got images to move (cinema) but achieved
their simultaneous recording and transmission (video)-this
technology has made photography an incomparable tool for
deciphering behavior, predicting it, and interfering with it.
   Photography has powers that no other image-system has ever
enjoyed because, unlike the earlier ones, it is not dependent on
an image maker. However carefully the photographer intervenes
in setting up and guiding the image-making process, the process
itself remains an optical-chemical (or electronic) one, the
workings of which are automatic, the machinery for which will
inevitably be modified to provide still more detailed and,
therefore, more useful maps of the real. The mechanical genesis
of these images, and the literalness of the powers they confer,
amounts to a new relationship between image and reality. And if
photography could also be said to restore the most primitive
relationship-the partial identity of image and object-the
potency of the image is now experienced in a very different way.
The primitive notion of the efficacy of images presumes that
images possess the qualities of real things, but our inclination is
to attribute to real things the qualities of an image.
   As everyone knows, primitive people fear that the camera will
rob them of some part of their being. In the memoir he published
in 1900, at the end of a very long life, Nadar reports that Balzac
had a similar "vague dread" of being photographed. His
explanation, according to Nadar, was that

  every body in its natural state was made up of a series of
  ghostly images superimposed in layers to infinity, wrapped
  in infinitesimal films . . . . Man never having been able to
  create, that is to make something material from an
  apparition, from something impalpable, or to make from
On Photography                                                                         124



   nothing, an object-each Daguerreian operation was
   therefore going to lay hold of, detach, and use up one of the
   layers of the body on which it focused.

It seems fitting for Balzac to have had this particular brand of
trepidation-"Was Balzac's fear of the Daguerreotype real or
feigned?" Nadar asks. "It was real . . . "-since the procedure of
photography is a materializing, so to speak, of what is most
original in his procedure as a novelist. The Balzacian operation
was to magnify tiny details, as in a photographic enlargement, to
juxtapose incongruous traits or items, as in a photographic layout:
made expressive in this way, any one thing can be connected with
everything else. For Balzac, the spirit of an entire milieu could be
disclosed by a single material detail, however paltry or
arbitrary-seeming. The whole of a life may be summed up in a
momentary appearance.' And a change in appearances is a change
in the person, for he refused to posit any "real" person ensconced
behind these appearances. Balzac's fanciful theory, expressed to
Nadar, that a body is composed of an infinite series of "ghostly
images," eerily parallels the supposedly realistic theory expressed
in his novels, that a person is an aggregate of appearances,
appearances which can be made to yield, by proper focusing,
infinite layers of significance. To view reality as an endless set of
situations which minor each other, to extract analogies from the
most dissimilar things, is to anticipate the characteristic form of

  '1 am drawing on the account of Balzac's realism in Erich Auerbach's Mimesis. The
passage that Auerbach a11alyzes from the beginning of Le Pere Goriot ( 1834)-Balzac
is desa-ibing the dining room ofthe Vauquer pension at seven in the morning and the
entry ofMadame Vauquer-could hardly be more explicit (or proto-Proustian). "Her
whole person," Balzac writes, "explains the p ension, as the pension implies her person....
The short-statured woman's blowsy etnbonpoint is the product ofthe life here, as typhoid
is the consequence of the exhalations of a hospital. Her k
                                                         nitted wool petticoat, which
is longer than her outer skirt (made of an old dress), and whose wadding is escaping
by the gaps in the splitti11g material, sums lilp the drawing-room, the dining room, the
little garden, annowKes the cooking and gives an inkling of the boarders. When she is
there, the spectacle is complete."
On Photography                                                    125


perception stimulated by photographic images. Reality itself has
started to be understood as a kind of writing, which has to be
decoded--even as photographed images were themselves first
compared to writing. (Niepce's name for the process whereby the
image appears on the plate was heliography, sun-writing; Fox
Talbot called the camera "the pencil of nature.")
   The problem with Feuerbad1's contrast of "original" with
"copy" is its static definitions of reality and image. It assumes that
what is real persists, unchanged and intact, while only images
have changed: shored up by the most tenuous claims to credibility,
they have somehow become more seductive. But the notions of
image and reality are complementary. When the notion of reality
changes, so does that of the image, and vice versa. "Our era" does
not prefer images to real things out of perversity but partly in
response to the ways in which the notion of what is real has been
progressively complicated and weakened, one of the early ways
being the criticism of reality as fas:ade which arose among the
enlightened middle classes in the last century. (This was of course
the very opposite of the effect intended.) To reduce large parts of
what has hitherto been regarded as real to mere fantasy, as
Feuerbach did when he called religion "the dream of the human
mind" and dismissed theological ideas as psychological
projections; or to inflate the random and trivial details ofeveryday
life into ciphers of hidden historical and psychological forces, as
Balzac did in his encyclopedia of social reality in novel
form-these are themselves ways of experiencing reality as a set
of appearances, an image.
   Few people in this society share the primitive dread of cameras
that comes from thinking of the photograph as a material part of
themselves. But some trace of the magic remains: for example, in
our reluctance to tear up or throw away the photograph of a loved
one, especially of someone dead or far away. To do so is a ruthless
gesture of rejection. In Jude the Obscure it is Jude's discovery that
Arabella has sold the maple frame with the photograph of himself
in it which he gave her on their wedding day that signifies to Jude
"the utter death of every sentiment in his wife" and is "the
conclusive little stroke to demolish all sentiment in him." But the
On Photography                                                 126


true modern primitivism is not to regard the image as a real thing;
photographic images are hardly that real. Instead, reality has come
to seem more and more like what we are shown by cameras. It is
common now for people to insist about their experience of a
violent event in which they were caught up-a plane crash, a
shoot-out, a terrorist bombing-that "it seemed like a movie."
This is said, other descriptions seeming insufficient, in order to
explain how real it was. While many people in non-industrialized
countries still feel apprehensive when being photographed,
divining it to be some kind of trespass, an act of disrespect, a
sublimated looting of the personality or the culture, people in
industrialized countries seek to have their photographs taken-feel
that they are images, and are made real by photographs.

A steadily more complex sense of the real creates its own
compensatory fervors and simplifications, the most addictive of
which is picture-taking. It is as if photographers, responding to
an increasingly depleted sense of reality, were looking for a
transfusion-traveling to new experiences, refreshing the old
ones. Their ubiquitous activities amount to the most radical, and
the safest, version of mobility. The urge to have new experiences
is translated into the urge to take photographs: experience seeking
a crisis-proofform.
    As the taking of photographs seems almost obligatory to those
who travel about, the passionate collecting of them has special
appeal for those confmed--either by choice, incapacity, or
coercion-to indoor space. Photograph collections can be used
to make a substitute world, keyed to exalting or consoling or
tantalizing images. A photograph can be the starting point of a
romance (Hardy's Jude had already fallen in love with Sue
Bridehead's photograph before he met her), but it is more
common for the erotic relation to be not only created by but
understood as limited to the photographs. In Cocteau's Les Enfants
Terribles, the narcissistic brother and sister share their bedroom,
their "secret room," with images of boxers, movie stars, and
murderers. Isolating themselves in their lair to live out their
private legend, the two adolescents put up these photographs, a
On Photography                                                    127


private pantheon. On one wall of cell No. 426 in Fresnes Prison
in the early 1940s Jean Genet pasted the photographs of twenty
criminals he had clipped from newspapers, twenty faces in which
he discerned "the sacred sign of the monster," and in their honor
wrote Our Lady of the Flowers; they served as his muses, his
models, his erotic talismans. "They watch over my little routines,"
writes Genet-conflating reverie, masturbation, and writing-and
"are all the family I have and my only friends.)) Fm stay-at-homes,
prisoners, and the self-imprisoned, to live among the photographs
of glamorous strangers is a sentimental response to isolation and
an insolent challenge to it.
   J. G. Ballard's novel Crash ( 1973) describes a more specialized
collecting of photographs in the service of sexual obsession:
photographs of car accidents which the narrator's friend Vaughan
collects while preparing to stage his own death in a car crash. The
acting out of his erotic vision of car death is anticipated and the
fantasy itself further eroticized lby the repeated perusal of these
photographs. At one end of the spectrum, photographs are
objective data; at the other end, they are items of psychological
science fiction. And as in even the most dreadful, or
neutral-seeming, reality a sexual imperative can be found, so even
the most banal photograph-document can mutate into an emblem
of desire. The mug shot is a clue to a detective, an erotic fetish to
a fellow thief. To Hofrat Behrens, in The Magic Mountain, the
pulmonary X-rays of his patients are diagnostic tools. To Hans
Castorp, serving an indefinite sentence in Behrens's TB
sanatorium, and made lovesick by the enigmatic, unattainable
Clavdia Chauchat, "Clavdia's X-ray portrait, showing not her
face, but the delicate bony structure of the upper half of her body,
and the organs of the thoracic cavity, surrounded by the pale,
ghostlike envelope of flesh," is the most precious of trophies. The
"transparent portrait" is a far more intimate vestige of his beloved
than the Hofrat's painting of Clavdia, that "exterior portrait,"
which Hans had once gazed at with such longing.
   Photographs are a way of imprisoning reality, understood as
recalcitrant, inaccessible; of making it stand stilL Or they enlarge
a reality that is felt to be shrunk, hollowed out, perishable, remote.
On Photography                                                    128


One can't possess reality, one can possess (and be possessed by)
images-as, according to Proust, most ambitious of voluntary
prisoners, one can't possess the present but one can possess the
past. Nothing could be more unlike the self-sacrificial travail of
an attist like Ptoust than the effortlessness of picture-taking, which
must be the sole activity resulting in accredited works of art in
which a single movement, a touch of the finger, produces a
complete work. While the Proustian labors presuppose that reality
is distant, photography implies instant access to the real. But the
results of this practice of instant access are another way of creating
distance. To possess the world in the form of images is, precisely,
to reexperience the unreality and remoteness of the real.
   The strategy of Prouses realism presumes distance from what
is normally experienced as real, the present, in order to reanimate
what is usually available only in a remote and shadowy form, the
past-which is where the present becomes in his sense real, that
is, somed1ing that can be possessed. In this effort photographs
were of no help. Whenever Proust mentions photographs, he
does so disparagingly: as a synonym for a shallow, too exclusively
visual, merely voluntary relation to the past, whose yield is
insignificant compared with the deep discoveries to be made by
responding to cues given by all the senses-me technique he called
"involuntary memory." One can't imagine the Overture to
Swann's Way ending with the narrator's coming across a snapshot
of the parish church at Combray and the savoring of that visual
crumb, instead of the taste of the humble madeleine dipped in
tea, making an entire part ofhis past spring into view. But this is
not because a photograph cannot evoke memories (it can,
depending on the quality of the viewer rather than of the
photograph) but because of what Proust makes clear about his
own demands upon imaginative recall, that it be not just extensive
and accurate but give the texture and essence of things. And by
considering photographs only so far as he could use them, as an
instrument of memory, Proust somewhat misconstrues what
photographs are: not so much an instrument of memory as an
invention of it or a replacement.
   It is not reality that photographs make immediately accessible,
On Photography                                                   129


but images. For example, now all adults can know exactly how
they and their parents and grandparents looked as children-a
knowledge not available to anyone before the invention of
cameras, not even to that tiny minority among whom it was
customary to commission paintings of their children. Most of
these portraits were less informative than any snapshot. And even
the very wealthy usually owned just one portrait of themselves or
any of their forebears as children, that is, an image of one moment
of childhood, whereas it is common to have many photographs
of oneself, the camera offering the possibility of possessing a
complete record, at all ages. The point of the standard portraits
in the bourgeois household of the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries was to confirm an ideal of the sitter (proclaiming social
standing, embellishing personal appearance); given this purpose,
it is clear why their owners did not feel the need to have more
than one. What the photograph-record confirms is, more
modestly, simply that the subject exists; therefore, one can never
have too many.
  The fear that a subject's uniqueness was leveled by being
photographed was never so frequently expressed as in the 1850s,
the years when portrait photography gave the first example of
how cameras could create instant fashions and durable industries.
In Melville's Pierre, published at the start of the decade, the hero,
another fevered champion of voluntary isolation,

  considered with what infinite readiness now, the most
  faithful portrait of any one could be taken by the
  Daguerreotype, whereas in former times a faithful portrait
  was only within the power of the moneyed, or mental
  aristocrats of the earth. How natural then the inference, that
  instead of, as in old times, immortalizing a genius, a portrait
  now only dayalized a dunce. Besides, when every body has
  his portrait published, true distinction lies in not having
  yours published at all.

But ifphotographs demean, paintings distort in the opposite way:
they make grandiose. Melville's intuition is that all forms of
portraiture in the business civilization are compromised; at least,
On Photography                                                   130


so it appears to Pierre, a paragon of alienated sensibility. Just as
a photograph is too little in a mass society, a painting is too much.
The nature of a painting, Pierre observes, makes it

  better entitled to reverence than the man; inasmuch as
  nothing belittling can be imagined concerning the portrait,
  whereas many m1avoidably belittling things can be fancied
  as touching the man.

Even if such ironies can be considered to have been dissolved by
the completeness of photography's triumph, the main difference
between a painting and a photogJaph in the matter of portraiture
still holds. Paintings invariably sum up; photographs usually do
not. Photographic images are pieces of evidence in an ongoing
biography or history. And one photograph, unlike one painting,
implies that there will be others.
    "Ever-the Human Document to keep the present and the
future in touch with the past," said Lewis Hine. But what
photography supplies is not only a record of the past but a new
way of dealing with the present, as the effects of the countless
billions of contemporary photograph-documents attest. While
old photographs fill out our mental image of the past, the
photographs being taken now transform what is present into a
mental image, like the past. Cameras establish an inferential
relation to the present (reality is known by its traces), provide an
instantly retroactive view of experience. Photographs give mock
forms of possession: of the past, the present, even the future. In
Nabokov's Invitation to a Beheading ( 1938), the prisoner
Cincinnatus is shown the "photohoroscope" of a child cast by the
sinister M'siem Pierre: an album of photographs of little Emmie
as an infant, then a small child, then pre-pubescent, as she is now,
then-by retouching and using photographs of her mother-of
Emmie the adolescent, the bride, the thirty-year-old, concluding
with a photograph at age forty, Emmie on her deathbed. A
"parody of the work oftime" is what Nabokov calls this exemplary
artifact; it is also a parody of the work of photography.

Photography, which has so many narcissistic uses, is also a
On Photography                                                       131


powerful instrument for depersonalizing om relation to the world;
and the two uses are complementary. Like a pair of binoculars
with no right or wrong end, the cainera makes exotic things near,
intimate; and familiar things small, abstract, strange, much farther
away. It offers, in one easy, habit-forming activity, both
participation and alienation in our own lives and those of
others-allowing us to participate, while confirmin g alienation.
War and photography now seem inseparable, and plane crashes
and other horrific accidents always attract people with cameras.
A society which makes it normative to aspire never to experience
privation, failure, misery, pain, dread disease, and in which death
itself is regarded not as natural and inevitable but as a cruel,
unmerited disaster, creates a tremendous curiosity about these
events-a curiosity that is partly satisfied through picture-taking.
The feeling of being exempt from calamity stimulates interest in
looking at painful pictures, and looking at them suggests and
strengthens the feeling that one is exempt. Partly it is because one
is «here,'' not "there,'' and partly it is the character of inevitability
that all events acquire when they are transmuted into images. In
the real world, something is happening and no one knows what
is going to happen. In the image-world, it has happened, and it
will forever happen in that way.
    Knowing a great deal about what is in the world (art,
catastrophe, the beauties ofnature) through photographic images,
people are frequently disappointed, surprised, unmoved when
they see the real thing. For photographic linages tend to subtract
feeling from something we experience at first hand and the feelings
they do arouse are, largely, not those we have in real life. Often
something disturbs us more in photographed form than it does
when we actually experience it. In a hospital in Shanghai in 1973,
watching a factory worker with advanced ulcers have nine-tenths
of his stomach removed under acupuncture anesthesia, I managed
to follow the three-hour procedure (the first operation I'd ever
observed) without queasiness, never once feeling the need to look
away. In a movie theater in Paris a year later, the less gory
operation in Antonioni's China documentary Chung Kuo made
me flinch at the first cut of the scalpel and avert my eyes several
On Photography                                                                      132


times during the sequence. One is vulnerable to disturbing events
in the form of photographic images in a way that one is not to
the real thing. That vulnerability is part of the distinctive passivity
of someone who is a spectator twice over, spectator of events
already shaped, first by the participants and second by the image
maker. For the real operation I had to get scrubbed, don a surgical
gown, then stand alongside the busy surgeons and nurses with
my roles to play: inhibited adult, well-mannered guest, respectful
witness. The movie operation precludes not only this modest
participation but whatever is active in spectatorship. In the
operating room, I am the one who changes focus, who makes the
close-ups and the medium shots. In the theater, Antonioni has
already chosen what parts of the operation I can watch; the camera
looks for me-and obliges me to look, leaving as my only option
not to look. Further, the movie condenses something that takes
hours to a few minutes, leaving only interesting parts presented
in an interesting way, that is, with the intent to stir or shock. The
dramatic is dramatized, by the didactics oflayout and montage.
We turn the page in a photo-magazine, a new sequence starts in
a movie, making a contrast that is sharper than the contrast
between successive events in real time.
   Nothing could be more instructive about the meaning of
photography for us-as, among other things, a method ofhyping
up the real-than the attacks on Antonioni' s film in the Chinese
press in early 1974. They make a negative catalogue of all the
devices of modern photography, still and ftlm.* While for us

  -
      See A Vicious .Motive, Despicable Tricks-A Criticism ofAntonioni'sA nti-China Film

"China" (Peking: Foreign Languages Press, 1974), an eighteen -page pamphlet ( w1signed)

which reproduces an article that appeared in the paper Renminh Ribao on January 30,
1974; and "RepudiatingADtonioni's Anti-China Film," Peking Re11iew, No. 8 (February
22, 1974), which supplies abridgedversions ofthree other articles published that month.
The aim of these articles is not, of course, to expound a view of photography-their
interest on that score is inadvertent-but to construct a model ideological enemy, as
in other mass educationa.l campaigns staged during this period. Given this purpose, it
was as nnnecessary for the tens of millions mobilized in meetings held in schools, fac­
tories, army units, and communes arotmd the country to "Criticize Antonioni's Anti-
On Photography                                                                    133


photography is intimately connected with discontinuous ways of
seeing (the point is precisely to see the whole by means of a
part-an arresting detail, a striking way of cropping), in China
it is connected only with continuity. Not only are there proper
subjects for the camera, those which are positive, inspirational
(exemplary activities, smiling people, bright weather), and orderly,
but there are proper ways of photographing, which derive from
notions about the moral order of space that preclude the very
idea of photographic seeing. Thus Antonioni was reproached for
photographing things that were old, or old-fashioned-"he sought
out and took dilapidated walls and blackboard newspapers
discarded long ago"; paying "no attention to big and small tractors
working in the fields, [he] chose only a donkey pulling a stone
roller"-and for showing w1decorous moments-"he disgustingly
filmed people blowing their noses and going to the latrine"-and
undisciplined movement-"instead of taking shots of pupils in
the classroom in our factory-run primary school, he filmed the
children running out of the classroom after a class." And he was
accused of denigrating the right subjects by his way of
photographing them: by using " dim and dreaty colors" and hiding
people in "dark shadows"; by treating the same subject with a
variety of shots-"there are sometimes long-shots, sometimes
close-ups, sometimes from the front, and sometimes from
behind"-that is, for not showing things from the point of view
of a single, ideally placed observer; by using high and low
angles-"The camera was intentionally turned on this magnificent
modem bridge from very bad angles in order to make it appear
crooked and tottering"; and by not taking enougll full shots-"He
racked his brain to get such close-ups in an attempt to distort the
people's image and uglify their spiritual outlook."
   Besides the mass-produced photographic iconography of
revered leaders, revolutionary kitsch, and cultural treasures, one
often sees photographs of a private so11 in China. Many people
possess pictures of their loved ones, tacked to the wall or stuck


China Film" to have actually seen Chung Kuo as it was for the participants in the
"Criticize Lin Piao and Confucius" campaign of 1976 to have rea.d a text of Confucius.
On Photography                                                  134


under the glass on top of the dresser or office desk. A large number
of these are the sort of snapshots taken here at family gatherings
and on trips; but none is a candid photograph, not even of the
kind that the most unsophisticated camera user in this society
finds normal-a baby crawling on the floor, someone in
mid-gesture. Sports photographs show the team as a group, or
only the most stylized balletic moments of play: generally, what
people do with the camera is assemble for it, then line up in a row
or two. There is no interest in catching a subject in movement.
This is, one supposes, partly because of certain old conventions
of decorum in conduct and imagery. And it is the characteristic
visual taste of those at the first stage of camera culture, when the
image is defined as something that can be stolen from its owner;
thus, Antonioni was reproached for "forcibly taking shots against
people's wishes," like "a thief." Possession of a camera does not
license intrusion, as it does in this society whether people like it
or not. (The good manners of a camera culture dictate that one
is supposed to pretend not to notice when one is being
photographed by a stranger in a public place as long as the
photographer stays at a discreet distance-that is, one is supposed
neither to forbid the picture-taking nor to start posing.) Unlike
here, where we pose where we can and yield when we must, in
China taking pictures is always a ritual; it always involves posing
and, necessarily, consent. Someone who "deliberately stalked
people who were unaware of his intention to film them'' was
depriving people and things of their right to pose, in order to look
their best.
   Antonioni devoted nearly all of the sequence in Chung Kuo
about Peking's Tien An Men Square, the country's foremost goal
of political pilgrimage, to the pilgrims waiting to be photographed.
The interest to Antonioni of showing Chinese performing that
elementary rite, having a trip documented by the camera, is
evident: the photograph and being photographed are favorite
contemporary subjects for the camera. To his critics, the desire
of visitors to Tien An Men Square for a photograph souvenir
On Photography                                                  135



  is a reflection of their deep revolutionary feelings. But with
  bad intentions, Antonioni, instead of showing this reality,
  took shots only of people's clothing, movement, and
  expressions: here, someone's ruffled hair; there, people
  peering, their eyes dazzled by the sun; one moment, their
  sleeves; another, their trousers . . . .

The Chinese resist the photographic dismemberment of reality.
Close-ups are not used. Even the postcards of antiquities and
works ofart sold in museums do not show part of something; the
object is always photographed straight on, centered, evenly lit,
and in its entirety.
   We find the Chinese nai:ve for not perceiving the beauty of the
cracked peeling door, the picturesqueness of disorder, the force
ofthe odd angle and the significant detail, the poetry of the turned
back. We have a modern notion ofembellishment-beauty is not
inherent in anything; it is to be found, by another way of
seeing-as well as a wider notion of meaning, which
photography's many uses illustrate and powerfully reinforce. The
more numerous the variations of something, the richer its
possibilities of meaning: thus, more is said with photographs in
the West d1an in China today. Apart from whatever is true about
Chung Kuo as an item of ideological merchandise (and the Chinese
are not wrong in finding the film condescending), Antonioni's
images simply mean more than any images the Chinese release of
themselves. The Chinese don't want photographs to mean very
much or to be very interesting. They do not want to see the world
from an unusual angle, to discover new subjects. Photographs
are supposed to display what has already been described.
Photography for us is a double-edged instrument for producing
cliches (the French word that means both trite expression and
photographic negative) and for serving up "fresh" views. For the
Chinese authorities, there are only cliches-which they consider
not to be cliches but "correct" views.
   In China today, only two realities are acknowledged. We see
reality as hopelessly and interestingly plmal. In China, what is
defined as an issue for debate is one about which there are "two
On Photography                                                    136


lines," a right one and a wrong one. Our society proposes a
spectrum of discontinuous choices and perceptions. Theirs is
constructed around a single, ideal observer; and photographs
contribute their bit to the Great Monologue. For us, there are
dispersed, interchangeable ('points of view"; photography is a
polylogue. The current Chinese ideology defines reality as a
historical process structured by recurrent dualisms with clearly
outlined, morally colored meanings; the past, for the most part,
is simply judged as bad. For us, there are historical processes with
awesomely complex and sometimes contradictory meanings; and
arts which draw much of their value from our consciousness of
time as history, like photography. (This is why the passing oftime
adds to the aesthetic value of photographs, and the scars oftime
make objects more rather than less enticing to photographers.)
With the idea of history, we certify our interest in knowing the
greatest number of things. The only use the Chinese are allowed
to make of their history is didactic: their interest in history is
narrow, moralistic, deforming, uncurious. Hence, photography
in our sense has no place in their society.
   The limits placed on photography in China only reflect the
character of their society, a society unified by an ideology of stark,
unremitting conflict. Our unlimited use of photographic images
not only reflects but gives shape to this society, one unified by
the denial of conflict. Our very notion of the world-the capitalist
twentieth century's "one world"-is like a photographic overview.
The world is "one" not because it is united but because a tour of
its diverse contents does not reveal conflict but only an even more
astounding diversity. This spurious unity of the world is effected
by translating its contents int:o images. Images are always
compatible, or can be made compatible, even when the realities
they depict are not.
   Photography does not simply reproduce the real, it recycles
it-a key procedure of a modern society. In the form of
photographic images, things and events are put to new uses,
assigned new meanings, which go beyond the distinctions between
the beautiful and the ugly, the true and the false, the useful and
the useless, good taste and bad. Photography is one of the chief
On Photography                                                                           137


means for producing that quality ascribed to things and situations
which erases these distinctions: "the interesting." What makes
something interesting is that it can be seen to be like, or analogous
to, something else. There is an mi and there are fashions of seeing
things in order to make them interesting; and to supply this art,
these fashions, there is a steady recycling ofthe artifacts and tastes
of the past. Cliches, recycled, become meta-cliches. The
photographic recycling makes cliches out of unique objects,
distinctive and vivid a11ifacts out of cliches. Images of real things
are interlayered with images of images. The Chinese circumscribe
the uses of photography so that there are no layers or strata of
images, and all images reinforce and reiterate each other.' We
make of photography a means by which, precisely, anything can
be said, any purpose served. What in reality is discrete, images
join. In the form of a photograph the explosion of an A-bomb
can be used to advertise a safe.

To us, the difference between the photographer as an individual
eye and the photographer as an objective recorder seems
fundamental, the difference often regarded, mistakenly, as
separating photography as art from photography as document.
But both are logical extensions of what photography means:

  '
   The Chinese concern for the reiterative function of images (and of words) inspires
the distributing of additional images, photographs that depict scenes in which, dearly,
no photographer could have been present; and the continuing use of such photographs
suggests how slender is the population's understanding of what photographic images
and picture-tal'ing imply. In his book Chinese Shadows, Simon Leys gives an example
from the "Movement to Emulate Lei Feng," a mass campaign of the mid-1960s to in­
culcate the ideals of Maoist citizenship bttilt arow1d the apotheosis of an Unknown
Citizen, a conscript named Lei Feng who ilied at twenty in a banal accident. Lei Feng
Exhibitions organized in the .large cities included "photographic docwnents, such as
'Lei Feng helping an old woman to cross the street,' 'Lei Feng secretly [sic] doing his
comrade's washing,' 'Lei Feng giving his lunch to a comrade who forgot his lw1eh box,'
and so forili," with, apparently, nobody questioning "the providential presence of a
photographer dudng the various incidents in thelife ofthat humble, hithetto unknown
soldier." I.n China, what makes an image true is that it is good for people to see it.
On Photography                                                  138


note-taking on, potentially, everything in the world, from every
possible angle. The same Nadar who took the most authoritative
celebrity portraits of his time and did the first photo-interviews
was also the first photographer to take aerial views; and when he
performed "the Daguerreian operation" on Paris from a balloon
in 1 855 he immediately grasped the future benefit of photography
to warmakers.
   Two attitudes underlie this presumption that anything in the
world is material for the camera. One finds that there is beauty
or at least interest in everything, seen with an acute enough eye.
(And the aestheticizing of reality that makes everything, anything,
available to the camera is what also permits the co-opting of any
photograph, even one of an utterly practical sort, as art.) The
other treats everything as the object of some present or future
use, as matter for estimates, decisions, and predictions. According
to one attitude, there is nothing that should not be seen; according
to the other, there is nothing that should not be recorded. Cameras
implement an aesthetic view of reality by being a machine-toy
that extends to everyone the possibility of making disinterested
judgments about importance, interest, beauty. ('' Thatwould make
a good picture.") Cameras implement the instrumental view of
reality by gathering information that enables us to make a more
accurate and much quicker response to whatever is going on. The
response may ofcourse be either repressive or benevolent: military
reconnaissance photographs help snuff out lives, X-rays help save
them.
   Though these two attitudes, the aesthetic and the instrwnental,
seem to produce contradictory and even incompatible feelings
about people and situations, that is the altogether characteristic
contradiction ofattitude which members ofa society that divorces
public from private are expected to share in and live with. And
there is perhaps no activity which prepares us so well to live with
these contradictory attitudes as does picture-taking, which lends
itself so brilliantly to both. On the one hand, cameras arm vision
in d1e service of power-of the state, of industry, of science. On
the other hand, cameras make vision expressive in that mythical
space known as private life. In China, where no space is left over
On Photography                                                  139


from politics and moralism for expressions of aesthetic sensibility,
only some things are to be photographed and only in certain ways.
For us, as we become ftu1her detached from politics, there is more
and more free space to fill up with exercises of sensibility such as
cameras afford. One of the effects ofthe newer camera technology
(video, instant movies) has been to tmn even more of what is
done with cameras in private to narcissistic uses-that is, to
self-surveillance. But such currently popular uses of
image-feedback in the bedroom, the therapy session, and the
weekend conference seem far less momentous than video's
potential as a tool for surveillance in public places. Preswnably,
the Chinese will eventually make the same instrumental uses of
photography that we do, except, perhaps, this one. Our inclination
to treat character as equivalent to behavior makes more acceptable
a widespread public installation of the mechanized regard from
the outside provided by cameras. China's far more repressive
standards of order require not only monitoring behavior but
changing hea11s; there, surveillance is internalized to a degree
without precedent, which suggests a more limited future in their
society for the camera as a means of surveillance.
   China offers the model of one kind of dictatorship, whose
master idea is "the good," in which the most unsparing limits are
placed on all forms of expression, including images. The future
may offer another kind of dictatorship, whose master idea is "the
interesting," in which images of all sorts, stereotyped and
eccentric, proliferate. Something like this is suggested in
Nabokov's Invitation to a Beheading. Its po1trait of a model
totalitarian state contains only one, omnipresent art:
photography-and the friendly photographer who hovers around
the hero's death cell turns out, at the end of the novel, to be the
headsman. And there seems no way (short of undergoing a vast
historical amnesia, as in China) of limiting the proliferation of
photographic images. The only question is whether the function
of the image-world created by cameras could be other than it is.
The present function is dear enough, if one considers in what
contexts photographic images are seen, what dependencies they
On Photography                                                      140


create, what antagonisms they pacify-that is, what institutions
they buttress, whose needs they really serve.
   A capitalist society requires a culture based on images. It needs
to furnish vast amounts of entertainment in order to stimulate
buying and anesthetize the injuries of class, race, and sex. And it
needs to gather unlimited amounts of information, the better to
exploit natural resources, increase productivity, keep order, make
war, give jobs to bureaucrats. The camera's twin capacities, to
subjectivize reality and to objectify it, ideally serve these needs
and strengthen them. Cameras define reality in the two ways
essential to the workings of an advanced industrial society: as a
spectacle (for masses) and as an object of surveillance (for rulers) .
The production o fimages also furnishes a ruling ideology. Social
change is replaced by a change in linages. The freedom to consume
a plurality of images and goods is equated with freedom itself.
The narrowing of free political choice to free economic
consumption requires the unlimited production and conswnption
of images.

The final reason for the need to photograph everything lies in the
very logic of consumption itself. To consume means to burn, to
use up-and, therefore, to need to be replenished. As we make
images and consume them, we need still more images; and still
more. But images are not a treasure for which the world must be
ransacked; they are precisely what is at hand wherever the eye
falls. The possession of a camera can inspire something akin to
lust. And like all credible forms oflust, it cannot be satisfied: first,
because the possibilities of photography are infinite; and, second,
because the project is finally self-devouring. The attempts by
photographers to bolster up a depleted sense of reality contribute
to the depletion. Our oppressive sense of the transience of
everything is more acute since cameras gave us the means to <'fix"
the fleeting moment. We consume images at an ever faster rate
and, as Balzac suspected cameras used up layers of the body,
images consume reality. Cameras are the antidote and the disease,
a means of appropriating reality and a means of making it
obsolete.
On Photography                                                    141


   The powers of photography have in effect de-Platonized our
understanding of reality, making it less and less plausible to reflect
upon our experience according to the distinction between linages
and things, between copies and originals. It suited Plato's
derogatory attitude toward images to liken them to
shadows-transitory, miniJnally infoTmative, unmaterial,
impotent co-presences of the real things which cast them. But the
force of photographic images comes from their being material
realities in their own right, richly informative deposits left in the
wake of whatever emitted them, potent means for turning the
tables on reality-for turning it into a shadow. Images are more
real than anyone could have supposed. And just because they are
an unlllnited resource, one that cannot be exhausted by
consumerist waste, there is all the more reason to apply the
conservationist remedy. If there can be a better way for the real
world to include the one of images, it will require an ecology not
only of real things but of images as well.
On Photography                                                     143




                      A BriefAnthology of Quotations
                                              [HOMAGE TO W.B.]


I longed to arrest all beauty that came before me, and at length
the longing has been satisfie d.
                                      -Julia Margaret Cameron


I long to have such a memorial of every being dear to me in the
world. It is not merely the likeness which is precious in such
cases-but the association and the sense of nearness involved in
the thing . . .the fact of the very shadow of the person lying there
fixed forever! It is the very sanctification of portraits I think-and
it is not at all monstrous in me to say, what my brothers cry out
against so vehemently, that I would rather have such a memorial
of one I dearlyloved, than the noblest artist's work ever produced.
                                                    -Elizabeth Barrett
                               ( 1 843, letter to Mary Russell Mitford)


Your photography is a record ofyour living, for anyone who really
sees. You may see and be affected by other people's ways, you
may even use them to find your own, but you will have eventually
to free yourself of them. That is what Nietzsche meant when he
said, "I have just read Schopenhauer, now I have to get rid of
him." He knew how insidious other people's ways could be,
particularly those which have the forcefulness of profound
experience, if you let them get between you and your own vision.
On Photography                                                    144


                                                     -Paul Strand


That the outer man is a picture of the inner, and the face an
expression and revelation of the whole character, is a presumption
likely enough in itself, and therefore a safe one to go on; borne
out as it is by the fact that people are always anxious to see anyone
who has made himself famous . . . . Photography . . . offers the most
complete satisfaction of our curiosity.
                                                    -Schopenhauer


To experience a thing as beautiful means: to experience it
necessarily wrongly.
                                              -Nietzsche


Now, for an absurdly small sum, we may become familiar not
only with every famous locality in the world, but also with almost
every man of note in Europe. The ubiquity of the photographer
is something wonderful. All of us have seen the Alps and know
Chamonix a11d the Mer de Glace by heart, though we have never
braved the horrors of the Channel . . . . We have crossed the Andes,
ascended Tenerife, entered Japan, "done" Niagara and the
Thousand Isles, dtunk delight of battle with our peers (at shop
windows), sat at the councils of the mighty, grown familiar with
kings, emperors and queens, prirna donnas, pets of the ballet, and
"well graced actors." Ghosts have we seen and have not trembled;
stood before royalty and have not uncovered; and looked, in short,
through a three-inch lens at every single pomp and vanity of this
wicked but beautiful world.
                            -"D.P.," columnist in Once a Week
                                             [London], June 1, 1861


It has quite jusdy been said of Atget that he photographed
[ deserted Paris streets] like scenes of crime. The scene of a crime,
too, is dese11ed; it is photographed for the purpose of establishing
evidence. With Atget, photographs become standard evidence
On Photography                                                   145


for historical occurrences, and acqmre a hidden political
significance.
                                       -Walter Benjamin


Ifl could tell the story in words, I wouldn't need to lug a camera.
                                                     -Lewis Hine


1 went to Marseille. A small allowance enabled me to get along,
and I worked with enjoyment. I had just discovered the Leica. It
became the extension of my eye, and I have never been separated
from it since I found it. I prowled the streets all day, feeling very
strung-up and ready to pounce, determined to "trap" life-to
preserve life in the act of living. Above all, I craved to seize the
whole essence, in the confines of one single photograph, of some
situation that was in the process ofunrolling itselfbefore my eyes.
                                         -Henri Cartier-Bresson


             It's hard to tell where you leave off
                    and the camera begins.
A Minolta 35mm SLR makes it almost effortless to capture the
world around you. Or express the world within you. It feels
comfortable in your hands. Your fingers fal l into place naturally.
Everything works so smoothly that the camera becomes a pa11 of
you. You never have to take your eye from the viewfinder to make
adjustments. So you can concentrate on creating the picture . . . .
And you're free to probe the limits of your imagination with a
Minolta. More than 40 lenses in the superbly crafted Rokkor-X
and Minolta/Celtic systems let you bridge distances or capture a
spectacular "fisheye" panorama . . .

                           MINOLTA
       When you are the camera and the camera is you
                                    -advertisement ( 1976)
On Photography                                                  146


1 photograph what I do not wish to paint and I paint what I cannot
photograph.
                                                       -Man Ray


Only with effort can the camera be forced to lie: basically it is an
honest medium: so the photographer is much more likely to
approach nature in a spirit of inquiry, of communion, instead of
with the saucy swagger of self-dubbed "artists." And contempora1y
vision, the new life, is based on honest approach to all problems,
be they morals or art. False fronts to buildings, false standards in
morals, subterfuges and mummery of all kinds, must be, will be
scrapped.
                                                 -Edward Weston


I attempt, through much ofmy work, to animate all things-even
so-called "inanimate" objects-with the spirit of man. I have
come, by degrees, to realize that this extremely animistic
projection rises, ultimately, from my profound feat and disquiet
over the accelerating mechanization of man's life; and the resulting
attempts to stamp out individuality in all the spheres of man's
activity-this whole process being one of the dominant
expressions of our military-industrial society. . .. The creative
photographer sets free the human contents of objects; and imparts
humanity to the inhuman world around him.
                                       -Clarence John Laughlin


You can photograph anything now.
                                                  -Robert Frank


I always prefer to work in the studio. It isolates people from their
environment. They become in a sense . . . symbolic of themselves.
I often feel that people come to me to be photographed as they
would go to a doctor or a fortune teller-to find out how they
are. So they're dependent on me. I have to engage them. Otherwise
there's nothing to photograph. The concentration has to come
On Photography                                                     147


from me and involve them. Sometimes the force of it grows so
strong that sounds in the studio go unheard. Time stops. We
share a brief, intense intimacy. But it's unearned. It has no
past . . . no future. And when the sitting is over-when the picture
is done-there's nothing left except the photograph . . . the
photograph and a kind of embarrassment. They leave . . . and I
don't know them. I've hardly heard what they've said. If l meet
them a week later in a room somewhere, I expect they won't
recognize me. Because I don't feel I was really there. At least the
part of me that was . . .is now in the photograph. And the
photographs have a reality for me that the people don't. It's
through the photographs that I know them. Maybe it's in the
nature of being a photographer. I'm never really implicated. I
don't have to have any real knowledge. It's all a question of
recognitions.
                                                  -Richard Avedon


The daguerreotype is not merely an instrument which serves to
draw nature . . . [it] gives her the power to reproduce herself.
                              -Louis Daguerre ( 1838, from a notice
                                       circulated to attract investors)


The creations of man or nature never have more grandeur than
in an Ansel Adams photograph, and his image can seize the viewer
with more force than the natural object from which it was made.
   -advertisement for a book of photographs by Adams ( 1974)


        This Polaroid SX-70 photograph is part of
       the collection of the Museum of Modern Art.
The work is by Lucas Samaras, one of America's foremost artists.
It is part of one of the world's most important collections. It was
produced using the finest instant photographic system in the
world, the Polaroid SX-70 Land camera. That same camera is
owned by millions. A camera of extraordinary quality and
On Photography                                                     148


versatility capable of exposures from 10.4 inches to infinity. . . .
Samaras' work of art from the SX-70, a work of art in itself.
                                       -advertisement ( 1977)


Most ofmy photographs are compassionate, gentle, and personal.
They tend to let the viewer see himself. They tend not to preach.
And they tend not to pose as art.
                                               -Bruce Davidson


New forms in art are created by the canonization of peripheral
forms.
                                          -Viktor Shklovsky


. . . a new industry has arisen which contributes not a little to
confirming stupidity in its faith and to ruining what might have
remained of the divine in the French genius. The idolatrous crowd
postulates an ideal worthy of itself and appropriate to its
nature-that is perfectly understandable. As far as painting and
sculpture are concerned, the current credo of the sophisticated
public, above all in France . . . is this: "I believe in Nature, and I
believe only in Nature (there are good reasons for that). I believe
that Art is, and cannot be other than, the exact reproduction of
Nature . . . . Thus an industry that could give us a result identical
to Nature would be the absolute of art." A vengeful God has
granted the wishes of this multitude. Daguerre was his Messiah.
And now the public says to itself: "Since photography gives us
every guarantee of exactitude that we could desire (they really
believe that, the idiots!), then photography and Art are the same
thing." From that moment our squalid society rushed, Narcissus
to a man, to gaze at its trivial image on a scrap of metal . . . . Some
democratic writer ought to have seen here a cheap method of
disseminating a loathing for history and for painting among the
people . . . .
                                                         -Baudelaire
On Photography                                                  149


Life itself is not the reality. We are the ones who put life into
stones and pebbles.
                                            -Frederick Sommer


The yow1g artist has recorded, stone by stone, the cathedrals of
Strasbourg and Rheims in over a hundred different prints. Thanks
to him we have climbed all the steeples . . . what we never could
have discovered through our own eyes, he has seen for us . . . one
might think the saintly artists o.f the Middle Ages had foreseen
the daguerreotype in placing on high their statues and stone
carvings where birds alone circling the spires could marvel at their
detail and perfection . . . . The entire cathedral is reconstructed,
layer on layer, in wonderful effects of swilight, shadows, and rain.
M. Le Secq, too, has built his monument.
                                              -H. de Lacretelle, in
                                        La Lumiere, March 20, 1852

The need to bring things spatially and humanly "nearer" is almost
an obsession today, as is the tendency to negate the unique or
ephemeral quality of a given event by reproducing it
photographically. There is an ever-growing compulsion to
reproduce the object photographically, in dose-up . . . .
                                            -Walter Benjamin


It is no accident that the photographer becomes a photographer
any more than the lion tamer becomes a lion tamer.
                                             -Dorothea Lange


If I were just curious, it would be very hard to say to someone, "I
want to come to your house andl have you talk to me and tell me
the story of your life." I mean people are going to say, "You're
crazy." Plus they're going to keep mighty guarded. But the camera
is a kind oflicense. A lot of people, they want to be paid that much
attention and that's a reasonable kind of attention to be paid.
                                                     -Diane Arbus
On Photography                                                    ISO



. . . Suddenly a small boy dropped to the ground next to me. I
realized then that the police were not firing warning shots. They
were shooting into the crowd. More children fell. . . . I began taking
pictures ofthe little boy who was dying next to me. Blood poured
from his mouth and some children knelt next to him and tried
to stop the flow of blood. Then some children shouted they were
going to kill me . . .. I begged them to leave me alone. I said I was
a reporter and was there to record what happened. A young girl
hit me on the head with a rock. I was dazed, but still on my feet.
Then they saw reason and some led me away. All the time
helicopters circled overhead and there was the sound of shooting.
It was like a dream. A dream I will never forget.
                        -from the account by AlfKhumalo, a black
                         reporter on the Johannesburg Sunday Times,
                  of the outbreak of riots in Soweto, South Africa,
                                published in The Observer [London],
                                              Sunday, June 20, 1976


Photography is the only "language" understood in all parts ofthe
world, and bridging all nations and cultures, it links the family
of man. Independent of political influence-where people are
free-it reflects ttuthfully life and events, allows us to share in
the hopes and despair of others, and illuminates political and
social conditions. We become the eye-witnesses of the humanity
and inhumanity of mankind . . .
                                             -Helmut Gernsheim
                                    ( Creative Photography [ 1962])

Photography is a system ofvisual editing. At bottom, it is a matter
of surrounding with a frame a portion of one's cone of vision,
while standing in the right place at the right time. Like chess, or
writing, it is a matter of choosing from among given possibilities,
but in the case of photography the number of possibilities is not
finite but infinite.
                                               -John Szarkowski
On Photography                                                   151


Sometimes 1 would set up the camera in a corner o fthe room, sit
some distance away from it with a remote control in my hand,
and watch our people while Mr. Caldwell talked with them. It
might be an hour before their fa.ces or gestures gave us what we
were trying to express, but the instant it occurred the scene was
imprisoned on a sheet of film before they knew what had
happened.
                                      -Margaret Bourke-White


The picture ofMayor William Gaynor ofNew York at the moment
of being shot by an assassin in 1910. The Mayor was about to
board a ship to go on holiday in Europe as an American
newspaper photographer arrived. He asked the Mayor to pose
for a picture and as he raised his camera two shots were fired from
the crowd. In the midst of this confusion the photographer
remained calm and his picture of the blood-spattered Mayor
lurching into the arms of an aide has become part of photographic
history.
                                            -a caption in " Click":
                      A Pictorial History of the Photograph ( 1974)

I have been photographing our toilet, that glossy enameled
receptacle of extraordinary beauty. . . . Here was every sensuous
curve of the "human figure divine" but minus the imperfections.
Never did the Greeks reach a more significant consummation to
their culture, and it somehow reminded me, forward movement
of finely progressing contours, of the Victory of Samothrace.
                                                -Edward Weston


Good taste at this time in a technological democracy ends up to
be nothing more than taste prejudice. If all that art does is create
good or bad taste, then it has failed completely. In the question
of taste analysis, it is just as easy to express good or bad taste in
the kind of refrigerator, carpet or armchair that you have in your
home. What good camera artists are trying to do now is to raise
art beyond the level of mere taste .. Camera Art must be completely
On Photography                                                   152


devoid oflogic. The logic vacuum must be there so that the viewer
applies his own logic to it and the work, in fact, makes itselfbefore
the viewer's eyes. So that it becomes a direct reflection of the
viewer's consciousness, logic, morals, ethics and taste. The work
should act as a feedback mechanism to the viewer's own working
model of himself.
             -Les Levine ("Camera Art," in Studio International,
                                                   July/August 1975)


Women and men-it's an impossible subject, because there can
be no answers. We can find only bits and pieces ofclues. And this
small portfolio is just the crudest sketches of what it's all about.
Maybe, today, we're planting the seeds of more honest
relationships between women and men.
                                                -Duane Michals


"Why do people keep photographs?"
   "Why? Goodness knows! Why do people keep
things-junk-trash, bits and pieces. They do-that's all there
is to it!"
   "Up to a point I agree with you. Some people keep things. Some
people throw everything away as soon as they have done with it.
That, yes, it is a matter of temperament. But I speak now especially
of photographs. Why do people keep, in particular, photographs?"
   "As I say, because they just don't throw things away. Or else
because it reminds them-"
   Poirot pounced on the words..
    "Exactly. It reminds them. Now again we ask-why? Why does
a woman keep a photograph of herself when young? And I say
that the first reason is, essentially, vanity. She has been a pretty
girl and she keeps a photograph of herself to remind her of what
a pretty girl she was. It encourages her when her mirror tells her
unpalatable things. She says, perhaps, to a friend, 'That was me
when I was eighteen . . . ' and she sighs . . . You agreet'
   "Yes-yes, I should say that's true enough."
On Photography                                                   153


   "Then that is reason No. l . Vanity. Now reason No. 2.
Sentiment."
   "That's the same thing?"
   "No, no, not quite. Because this leads you to preserve, not only
your own photograph but that of someone else . . .A picture of
your married daughter-when she was a child sitting on a
hearthrug with tulle round her. . . . Very embarrassing to the
subject sometimes, but mothers like to do it. And sons and
daughters often keep pictures of their mothers, especially, say, if
their mother died young. 'This was my mother as a girl."'
   ''I'm beginning to see what you're driving at, Poirot."
   "And there is, possibly, a third category. Not vanity, not
sentiment, not love-perhaps hate-what do you say?"
   "Hate?"
   '<yes. To keep a desire for revenge alive. Someone who has
injured you-you might keep a photograph to remind you, might
you not.("
                                        -from Agatha Christie's
                                      Mrs. McGinty's Dead ( 1951)

Previously, at dawn that day, a commission assigned to the task
had discovered the corpse of Antonio Consel11eiro. It was lying
in one of the huts next to the arbor. After a shallow layer of earth
had been removed, the body appeared wrapped in a sorry
shroud-a filthy sheet-over which pious hands had strewn a
few withered flowers. There, resting upon a reed mat, were the
last remains of the "notorious and barbarous agitator" . . . . They
carefully disinterred the body, precious relic that it was-the sole
prize, the only spoils of war this conflict had to offer!-taking the
greatest of precautions to see that it did not fall apart . . .. They
photographed it afterward and drew up an affidavit in due form,
certifying its identity; for the entire nation must be thoroughly
convinced that at last this terrible foe had been done away with.
                                       -from Euclides da Cunl1a' s
                                  Rebellion in the Backlands ( 1902)
On Photography                                                    154


Men still kill one another, they have not yet understood how they
live, why they live; politicians fail to observe that the earth is an
entity, yet television (Telehor) has been invented: the "Far
Seer"-tomorrow we shall be able to look into the heart of our
fellow-man, be evetywhere and yet be alone; illustrated books,
newspapers, magazines are printed-in millions. The
unambiguousness of the real, the truth in the everyday situation
is there for all classes. The hygiene of the optical, the health of
the visible is slowly filtering through.
                                     -Laszlo Moholy-Nagy ( 1925)


As I progressed further with my project, it became obvious that
it was really unimportant where I chose to photograph. The
particular place simply provided an excuse to produce work. . . .
you can only see what you are ready to see-what mirrors your
mind at that particular time.
                                                 -George Tice


I photograph to find out what something will look like
photographed.
                                   -Garry Winogrand


The Guggenheim trips were like elaborate treasure hunts, with
false clues mixed among the genuine ones. We were always being
directed by friends to their own favorite sights or views or
formations. Sometimes these tips paid offwith real Weston prizes;
sometimes the recommended item proved to be a dud . . . and we
drove for miles with no payoffs. By that time, I had reached the
point of taking no pleasure in scenery that didn't call Edward's
camera out, so he didn't risk much when he settled back against
the seat saying, ''I'm not asleep-just resting my eyes"; he knew
my eyes were at his service, and that the moment anything with
a "Weston" look appeared, I would stop the car and wake him
up.
     -Charis Weston (quoted in Ben Maddow, Edward Weston:
                                               Fifty Years [ 197 3 ] )
On Photography                                                   155


        Polaroid's SX-70. It won't let you stop.
   Suddenly you see a picture everywhere you look. . . .
Now you press the red electric button. Whirr. . . whoosh . . . and
there it is. You watch your picture come to life, growing more
vivid, more detailed, until minutes later you have a print as real
as life. Soon you're taking rapid-fire shots-as fast as every 1 .5
seconds!-as you search for new angles or make copies on the
spot. The SX-70 becomes like a part ofyou, as it slips through life
effortlessly . . . .
                                         -advertisement ( 1 975)


. . .we regard the photograph, the picture on our wall, as the object
itself (the man, landscape, and so on) depicted there.
     This need not have been so. We could easily imagine people
who did not have this relation to such pictures. Who, for example,
would be repelled by photographs, because a face without colour
and even perhaps a face in reduced proportions struck them as
inhuman.
                                                   -Wittgenstein


Is it an instant picture of. . .
       the destructive test of an axle?
       the proliferation of a virus?
       a forgettable lab setup?
       the scene of the crime?
       the eye of a green turtle?
       the divisional sales cha11?
       chromosomal aberrations?
       page 1 73 of Gray's Anatomy?
       an electrocardiogram read-out?
       a line conversion of half-tone a11?
       the three-millionth 8e Eisenhower stamp?
       a hairline fracture of the fom1h vertebra?
       a copy of that irreplaceable 35mm slide?
       your new diode, magnified 13 times?
       a metallograph of vanadium steel?
On Photography                                                 156


       reduced type for mechanicals?
       an enlarged lymph node?
       the electrophoresis results?
       the world's worst malocclusion?
       the world's best-corrected malocclusion?
As you can see from the list . . . there's no limit to the kind of
material that people need to record. Fortunately, as you can see
from the list of Polaroid Land cameras below, there's almost no
limit to the kind of photographic records you can get. And, since
you get them on the spot, if anything's missing, you can re-shoot
o n the spot . . . .
                                           -advertisement ( 1976)


An object that tells of the loss, destruction, disappearance of
objects. Does not speak of itself. Tells of others. Will it include
them?
                                                    -Jasper Johns


Belfast, Northern Ireland-The people of Belfast are buying
picture postcards of their city's torment by the hundreds. The
most popular shows a boy throwing a stone at a British armored
car. . . . Other cards show burned -out homes, troops in battle
positions on city streets and children at play amid smoking rubble.
Each card sells for approximately 25 cents in the three Gardener's
shops.
   "Even at that price, people have been buying them in bundles
of five or six at a time," said Rose Lehane, manager of one shop.
Mrs. Lehane said that nearly 1,000 cards were sold in four days.
   Since Belfast has few tourists, she said, most of the buyers are
local people, mostly young men who want them as "souvenirs."
   Neil Shawcross, a Belfast man, bought two complete sets of the
cards, explaining, "I think they're interesting mementoes of the
times and I want my two children to have them when they grow
up."
   "The cards are good for people," said Alan Gardener, a director
of the chain. "Too many people in Belfast try to cope with the
On Photography                                                   157


situation here by closing their eyes and pretending it doesn't exist.
Maybe something like this will jar them into seeing again."
   "We have lost a lot of money through the troubles, with our
stores being bombed and bmned down," Mr. Gardener added.
"If we can get a bit of money back from the troubles, well and
good."
                  -from The New York Times, October 29, 1974
            ("Postcards of Belfast Strife Are Best-Sellers There�>)


Photography is a tool for dealing with things everybody knows
about but isn't attending to. My photographs are intended to
represent something you don't see.
                                              -Emmet Gowin


The camera is a fluid way of encountering that other reality.
                                          -Jerry N. Uelsmann


Oswiecim, Poland-Nearly 30 years after Auschwitz concentration
camp was dosed down, the underlying horror of the place seems
diminished by the souvenir stands, Pepsi-Cola signs and the
tourist -attraction atmosphere.
   Despite chilling autumn rain, thousands of Poles and some
foreigners visit Auschwitz every day. Most are modishly dressed
and obviously too young to remember World War II.
   They troop through the former prison barracks, gas chambers
and crematoria, looking with interest at such gruesome displays
as an enormous showcase filled with some of the human hair the
S.S. used to make into cloth . . .. At the souvenir stands, visitors
can buy a selection ofAuschwitz lapel pins in Polish and German,
or picture postcards showing gas chambers and crematoria, or
even souvenir Auschwitz ballpoint pens which, when held up to
the light, reveal similar pictures.
             -from The New York Times, November 3, 1974 ("At
              Auschwitz, a Discordant Atmosphere of Tourism'')
On Photography                                                  158


The media have substituted themselves for the older world. Even
if we should wish to recover that older world we can do it only
by an intensive study of the ways in which the media have
swallowed it.
                                         -Marshall McLuhan


. . . Many of the visitors were from the countryside, and some,
unfamiliar with city ways, spread out newspapers on the asphalt
on the other side of the palace moat, unwrapped their
home-cooking and chopsticks and sat there eating and chatting
while the crowds sidestepped. The Japanese addiction to snapshots
rose to fever pitch under the impetus of the august backdrop of
the palace gardens. Judging by the steady clicking of the shutters,
not only everybody present but also every leaf and blade of grass
must now be recorded on film, in all their aspects.
       -from The New York Times, May 3, 1977 ("Japan Enjoys 3
      Holidays of'Golden Week' by Taking a 7-Day Vacation from
                                                           Work")


I'm always mentally photographing everything as practice.
                                              -Minor White


The daguerreotypes of all things are preserved . . . the imprints of
all that has existed live, spread out through the diverse zones of
infinite space.
                                                  -Ernest Renan


These people live again in print as intensely as when their images
were captured on the old dry plates of sixty years ago . . . . I am
walking in their alleys, standing in their rooms and sheds and
workshops, looking in and out oftheir windows. And they in turn
seem to be aware of me.
                            -Ansel Adams (from the Preface to
                    jacob A. Riis: Photographer & Citizen [ 1974])
On Photography                                                    159


Thus in the photographic camera we have the most reliable aid
to a beginning of objective vision. Everyone will be compelled to
see that which is optically true, is explicable in its own terms, is
objective, before he can arrive at any possible subjective position.
This will abolish that pictorial and imaginative association pattern
which has remained unsuperseded for centuries and which has
been stamped upon our vision by great individual painters.
   We have-through a hundred years of photography and two
decades of film-been enormously enriched in this respect. We
may say that we see the world with entirely different eyes.
Nevertheless, the total result to date amounts to little more than
a visual encyclopaedic achievement. This is not enough. We wish
to produce systematically, since it is important for life that we
create new relationships.
                                     -Liszl6 Moholy-Nagy ( 1925)


Any one who knows what the worth of family affection is among
the lower classes, and who has seen the array of little portraits
stuck over a labourer's fireplace . . . will perhaps feel with me that
in counteracting the tendencies, social and industrial, which every
day are sapping the healthier family affections, the sixpenny
photograph is doing more for the poor than all the philanthropists
in the world.
           -Macmillan's Magazine [London], September 1871

Who, in his opinion, would buy an instant movie camera? Dr.
Land said he expects the housewife to be a good prospect. «All
she has to do is point the camera, press the shutter release and in
minutes relive her child's cute moment, or perhaps, birthday
party. Then, there is the large number of people who prefer
pictures to equipment. Golf and tennis fans can evaluate their
swings in instant replay; industry, schools and other areas where
instant replay coupled with easy-to-use equipment would be
helpful. . .. Polavision's bounda1·ies are as wide as your
imagination. There is no end to the uses that will be found for
this and future Polavision cameras."
On Photography                                                  160


                       -from The New York Times, May 8, 1977
                 ("A Preview of Polaroid's New Instant Movies")


Most modern reproducers of life, even including the camera,
really repudiate it. We gulp down evil, choke at good.
                                              -Wallace Stevens


The war had thrust me, as a soldier, into the heart of a mechanical
atmosphere. Here I discovered the beauty ofthe fragment. I sensed
a new reality in the detail of a machine, in d1e common object. I
tried to find the plastic value of these fragments of our modern
life. I rediscovered them on the screen in the close-ups of objects
which impressed and influenced me.
                                           -Fernand Leger ( 1923)


575.20 fields of photography

        aerophotography, aerial photography
        astrophotography
        candid photography
        chromophotography
        chronophotography
        cinematography
        cinephotomicrography
        cystophotography
        heliophotography
        infrared photography
        macrophotography
        microphotography
        miniature photography
        phonophotography
        photogrammetry
On Photography                                                161


       photomicrography
       photospectroheliography
       phototopography
       photo typography
       phototypy
       pyrophotography
       radiography
       radio photography
       sculptography
       skiagraphy
       spectroheliography
       spectrophotography
       stroboscopic photography
       telephotography
       uranophotography
       X-ray photography

          -from Roget's International Thesaurus, Third Edition


The weight ofwords. The shock of photos.
                                  -Paris-Match, advertisement

June 4, 1857.-Saw today, at the Hotel Drouot, the first sale of
photographs. Everything is becoming black in this century, and
photography seems like the black clothing of things.

November 15, 1861 .-I sometimes think the day will comewhen
all modern nations will adore a sort of American god, a god who
will have been someone who lived as a human being and about
whom much will have been written in the popular press: images
ofthis god will be set up in the churches, not as the imagination
of each individual painter may fancy him, not floating on a
On Photography                                                   162


Veronica cloth, but fu::ed once and for all by photography. Yes, I
foresee a photographed god, wearing spectacles.
          -from the Journal of Edmond and Jules de Goncourt


In the spring of 192 1 , two automatic photographic machines,
recently invented abroad, were installed in Prague, which
reproduced six or ten or more exposures of the same person on
a single print.
   When I took such a series of photographs to Kafka I said
light-heartedly: "For a couple of krone one can have oneself
photographed from every angle. The apparatus is a mechanical
Know-Thyself"
   "You mean to say, the Mistake-Thyself," said Kafka, with a faint
smile.
   I protested: "What do you mean? The camera cannot lie!"
   "Who told you that?" Kafka leaned his head toward his
shoulder. "Photography concentrates one's eye on the superficial.
For that reason it obscures the hidden life which glimmers through
the outlines of things like a play of light and shade. One can't
catch that even with the sharpest lens. One has to grope for it by
feeling . . . . This automatic camera doesn't multiply men's eyes
but only gives a fantastically simplified fly's eye view."
                 -from Gustav Janouch's Conversations with Kafka


Life appears always fully present along the epidermis of his body:
vitality ready to be squeezed forth entire in fixing the instant, in
recording a brief weary smile, a twitch of the hand, the fugitive
pour of sun through clouds. And not a tool, save the camera, is
capable of registering such complex ephemeral responses, and
expressing the full majesty of the moment. No hand can express
it, for the reason that the mind cannot retain the unmutated truth
of a moment sufficiently long to permit the slow fingers to notate
large masses of related detail. The impressionists tried in vain to
achieve the notation. For, consciously or unconsciously, what
they were striving to demonstrate with their effects of light was
the truth of moments; impressionism has ever sought to fix the
On Photography                                                  163


wonder ofthe here, the now. But the momentary effects oflighting
escaped them while they were busy analyzing; and their
"impression" remains usually a series of impressions
superimposed one upon the other. Stieglitz was better guided.
He went directly to the instrument made for him.
                                             -Paul Rosenfeld


The camera is my tool. Through it I give a reason to everything
around me.
                                               -Andre Kertesz


      A double leveling down, or a method of leveling down
                   which double-crosses itself
With the daguerreotype everyone will be able to have their portrait
taken-formerly it was only the prominent; and at the same time
everything is being done to make us all look exactly the same-so
that we shall only need one portrait.
                                           -Kierkegaard ( 1854)


Make picture ofkaleidoscope.
                                        -William H. Fox Talbot
                                  (note dated February 18, 1839)
On Photographr                                                165




                                           About this Title
RosettaBooks is the leading publisher dedicated exclusively to
electronic editions of great works of fiction and non-fiction that
reflect our world. Rosetta Books strives to improve the quality of
its electronic books. We welcome your comments and suggestions.
Please write to Editor@RosettaBooks.com

We hope you enjoyed On Photography. If you are interested in
learning more about the book and Susan Sontag, we suggest you
visit the RosettaBooks Connection at:

    www.RosettaBookscom.com/OnPhotography
