      American Review of Canadian Studies




      ISSN: 0272-2011 (Print) 1943-9954 (Online) Journal homepage: https://www.tandfonline.com/loi/rarc20




Fred Herzog: Modern Color

Jacques P. Talbot

To cite this article: Jacques P. Talbot (2018) Fred Herzog: Modern Color, American Review of
Canadian Studies, 48:4, 432-434, DOI: 10.1080/02722011.2018.1493784

To link to this article: https://doi.org/10.1080/02722011.2018.1493784




       Published online: 24 Sep 2018.



       Submit your article to this journal



       Article views: 5



       View Crossmark data




                      Full Terms & Conditions of access and use can be found at
             https://www.tandfonline.com/action/journalInformation?journalCode=rarc20
AMERICAN REVIEW OF CANADIAN STUDIES
2018, VOL. 48, NO. 4, 432–439



BOOK REVIEWS

Fred Herzog: Modern Color, by David Campany, Hans-Michael Koetzle, and Jeﬀ
Wall, Berlin, Hatje Cantz, 2017, 320 pp., CAN$60.00 (paper), ISBN: 978-3-7757-4181-1

Fred Herzog arrived in Canada as a young man in his early twenties. Born Ulrich Herzog in
Bad Friedrichshall, Germany, Herzog suﬀered the loss of both parents just a few years apart.
His mother’s passing in 1941 was followed by the bombing of nearby Stuttgart, which had
reduced the city to rubble by the mid-1940s. Following his return from the war, his father
passed shortly thereafter, in 1946. Herzog began working in a hardware store, making his ﬁrst
advances in photography with the popular Kodak Retina camera, with which he documented
his annual hiking trips in the Alps. Intrigued by a relative’s job oﬀer from Canada, in 1952,
Herzog boarded a ship bound for Montreal, subsequently traveling by train to Toronto.
Herzog stayed just a year in Toronto, relocating to Vancouver in 1953 and ﬁnding work
aboard the Cassiar of Union Steamships (18). It was aboard these ships that Ulrich became
“Fritz,” and thereafter “Fred.”
   Herzog began an (initially unpaid) position as a medical photographer at St. Paul’s
Hospital in the late 1950s. Transferring to the Department of Biomedical Communication at
the University of British Columbia (UBC) in 1961, medical photographer proved a vocation
that was to occupy Herzog for the remainder of his career, aside from teaching posts during
the late 1960s and early 1970s. Herzog’s appointment at the UBC coincided with increased
amounts of time spent in downtown Vancouver, notes David Campany: “Dunsmuir, Hastings,
Robson, and Pender streets, but also Chinatown and … the Downtown Eastside” (4), which
Herzog documented fastidiously with a Leica 35-mm camera over the ensuing decades. Fred
Herzog: Modern Color presents a selection of these photographs.
   Featuring essays by Campany, Michael Koetzle, and Jeﬀ Wall and over 260 illustrations,
Modern Color is committed to Herzog’s photography from the late 1950s to the early 2000s,
with a notable concentration in the late 1950s and the 1960s. Herzog’s compositions feature
street intersections, storefronts, bystanders, signage, vistas, the occasional portrait, and
children at play, several examples of which are reminiscent of Helen Levitt’s iconic
New York photographs. The volume is comprehensive, including images from Herzog’s
travels to the United States, Mexico, Guatemala, and Europe amidst the majority of photo-
graphs of downtown Vancouver. Though his photographs were counter to the tradition of
black-and-white ﬁne art photography of the time, Herzog’s choice was instinctive, suggests
Koetzle: “Because color is a part of everyday life. Because colors deﬁne a culture as a
particular moment. Because colors are symbols” (26). Working in color, then, is integral to
Herzog’s obsession with documenting life in Vancouver’s core.
   Herzog’s choice of Kodachrome, a positive transparency ﬁlm, was also driven by technical
and practical necessity. The rich grain and tonal depth was suited to capturing nuances in the
spectrum and tactile qualities of his surroundings. Kodachrome also necessitates a slower
and more deliberate pace of work due to its requirement for relatively prolonged exposures.
Consequently, “Photos are constructed, not captured, seen, not sensed” (Koetzle, 19). The
convenience of remote processing also aﬀorded Herzog time savings, enabling him to
photograph continuously amidst the demands of his career and family life. The ﬁlm was
returned to Herzog in slide format, which proved practical for sharing his work during
presentations at the Lion’s Gate Camera Club and the Arts Club.
                                                AMERICAN REVIEW OF CANADIAN STUDIES       433


    1960s Vancouver was progressive in its reception of photography as a ﬁne art medium,
and Herzog’s practice gained increasing recognition from the 1960s onwards. 1968
proved an especial highlight for Herzog when a photograph was chosen for the cover
of Artscanada magazine. Herzog achieved greater national exposure in 1969, when three
dozen prints toured Canada in a group show featuring Robbert Flick and Jack Dale.
Presentation House was also instrumental in Herzog’s exposure, prominently featuring
his work in the 1986 show Transition: Postwar Photography in Vancouver and 1994’s The
Just Past of Photography. With the advent of digital technologies that improved accessi-
bility to Herzog’s archive, interest gained greater momentum still, resulting in a ﬂurry of
solo exhibitions culminating in Vancouver Art Gallery’s 2007 retrospective, international
exposure, and the exhibition Fred Herzog: Selections from Modern Color at Equinox Gallery
in 2017.
    Herzog’s unwavering commitment to street photography invites comparison to other
proponents of the genre. He found Robert Frank’s canonical The Americans in 1959 and,
according to Campany, “was impressed by the apparent ease with which Frank photo-
graphed in the ﬂow, closing the gap between daily experience and picture-making” (7). A
few years later, when visiting Seattle, Herzog was introduced to the work of Walker Evans. Of
the two, the consensus is that Evans is the greater inﬂuence. Campany, speciﬁcally, pinpoints
the aﬃnities between Evans’s and Herzog’s choice of motifs as integral to their conceptua-
lization of their experiences: “Both understood that the minor things that come under acute
pressure from the force of progress are often the keys to understanding the particular
signiﬁcance of an era” (8).
    It is of equal importance, however, to acknowledge the degree to which Herzog’s photo-
graphs are inﬂected by his unique aspirations and identity. Herzog as ﬂâneur is addressed
directly by Koetzle, who cites being in and about the city and the element of chance
discovery as fundamental to Herzog’s modus operandi (26). This notion of individuality
may be pushed further when we consider Herzog as an emigrant and his personal relation-
ship to the city, in addition to Herzog as medical photographer by trade and his relationship
to photography, notes Koetzle: “It is rather a precise, considered, economical approach that
leaves nothing to chance—the science photographer Fred Herzog also appears in his
independent work” (30).
    It is well documented that magazines including Modern Photography, Popular
Photograph, Camera 35, and Colour Photography kept Herzog informed early in his career.
In 1974, Popular Photography featured an article on New York photographer Mark
Feldstein, whose photographic regimen mirrors Herzog’s own. Of particular note is
Feldstein’s concentration upon a speciﬁc tract of lower Manhattan, which he revisited
in depth akin to Herzog’s exploration of downtown Vancouver. Irrespective of whether
Herzog encountered Feldstein’s work in Popular Photography, the parallels between these
two photographers on opposing coasts and a country apart are captivating. Herzog’s
Vancouver and Feldstein’s New York are unique and unrepeatable portraits of cities to
which each respective photographer evidently felt a substantial connection. Fred Herzog:
Modern Color is the strongest tribute to this relationship to date, and a volume in which
other street photographers, in North America or further aﬁeld, might recognize some-
thing of themselves and their city.
    Modern Color is an indispensable document for those interested in revisiting
Vancouver’s past. Therein is the question of the integrity of the photographs as docu-
ments vis-à-vis works of art. In truth, Herzog’s photographs rise to meet both criteria. His
portrait of Vancouver is unquestionably of social and historical relevance, notes Campany
“as a document of his adopted city … (the) architecture, informal social spaces, and
layering of material history” (11). However, Modern Color is also a deeply personal tribute
434      BOOK REVIEWS


from a photographer to his city: “In Herzog’s work it is late afternoon or evening when he
releases the shutter. He photographs perforce in the evening hours, when the light is also
milder, warmer, but without the play of shadows” (Koetzle, 27). In this sense, Herzog’s
Vancouver is at once empirical, ritualistic, and wholly unique.

                                                                           Jacques P. Talbot
                                             Department of Art & Design, University of Alberta
                                                                         jtalbot@ualberta.ca
                                                                           © 2018 Jacques P. Talbot
                                                     https://doi.org/10.1080/02722011.2018.1493784




Margaret Laurence Writes Africa and Canada, by Laura K. Davis, Waterloo, ON,
Wilfred Laurier University Press, 2017, 177 pp., CAN $29.99 (paper), ISBN 978-1-
77112-147-7

During the writing of this review, a plaque honoring Margaret Laurence as a person of
national historical importance was unveiled at the Margaret Laurence House in Neepawa,
Manitoba. As Laura Davis notes in the introduction to her monograph, Parks Canada
recognized Laurence as a “person of national historical signiﬁcance” in 2016. This is one
example that Davis oﬀers of Laurence’s fame, which is both scholarly and public. Davis points
out that despite Laurence’s canonical status, there are aspects of her oeuvre that have not
received as much critical attention, namely the connections between her writings on Africa
and Canada, especially as both relate to decolonization and national identities. In Margaret
Laurence Writes Africa and Canada, Davis argues that Laurence’s writing denounces Canadian
and international colonialism, lauds cross-cultural communication, works against violence
and patriarchy, and is both feminist and nationalist. The image of the divided subject recurs
throughout, as a way to understand both Laurence and her characters. Ultimately, Davis
posits that Laurence’s “life work, as exempliﬁed by her literature and correspondence, shows
how she fought forcefully against the oppression of peoples, even as she was limited by her
entanglement within Western imperial ideology” (146–7).
   Following a short preface that delineates the key terms and terrain of the book, and a
longer introduction on Laurence’s connections to Africa and Canada, the monograph is
divided evenly into two sections, “Writing About Africa” and “Writing About Canada,” each
containing two chapters. The ﬁrst close literary reading in the book addresses Laurence’s
1963 memoir, The Prophet’s Camel Bell, which recounts the time Laurence spent living in
Somaliland in 1951 and 1952. Davis points out that Laurence distances herself from British
colonialism by emphasizing her Canadian-ness, even as her Western feminism ﬂounders in
the face of cross-cultural interactions with Somali women. Mainstays of mainstream Canadian
nation-building, such as the stereotype of the hardy pioneer or Canada’s self-distancing from
Britain, play out in a setting in which “simply being a white married woman in Africa
constructed her as a colonial” (26). The rest of the ﬁrst chapter focuses on This Side Jordan,
a novel set in the Gold Coast, where Laurence lived from 1952 to 1957. Davis’s points out the
ways in which This Side Jordan both reinforces and deﬁes Western colonial misconceptions of
Africa as feminized and exoticized. Here, Davis draws on theoretical conceptions of the
abject, which come up again in her analysis of The Stone Angel, to show how a character’s
encounter with a prostitute brings him face-to-face with the African, feminine, maternal, and
mortal abject in his own past. The postcolonial theory of Anne McClintock is inﬂuential here
