or part of a day of potential work. 20 2 more replies u/okaysian avatar okaysian • 5y ago Amateur or not, take a deposit for gigs. I always explain to my clients that a deposit is
necessary to hold their date. 5 1 more reply 1 more reply u/freshstepbrand avatar u/freshstepbrand • Promoted Same odor control, same love of cats. Now easier to carry and pour.
Fresh Step Light Weight. Is it crazy, or is it love? Febreze is used under license from P&G. Shop Now walmart.com Thumbnail image: Same odor control, same love of cats. Now easier
to carry and pour. Fresh Step Light Weight. Is it crazy, or is it love? Febreze is used under license from P&G. u/tamper avatar tamper • 5y ago Recommend you use a simpler font,
like Calibri, to make it more professional in appearance and easier to read. To show possession, use an apostrophe, e.g. "Client's stated requests" and "Client's personal use"
Remove fluff words like happily and cheerfully because were this contract to go to court, they can't be enforced in a dispute. Be as specific as you can about schedule dates and
times. Look up scope of work agreements for examples of what else to include. Your contract should be very clear about the exact services you WILL and WONT provide. 54
ThatDiamondMustache OP • 5y ago Thanks for the advice! 11 MissionSalamander5 • 5y ago What font did you use? I can't see that info in view-only mode and don't want to guess.
Regardless, don't use Calibri. I mean, you can, but serif fonts tend to be easier to read with extended text like we have here and in printed texts (sans serif fonts used to be
better on the web, now they're basically equal), and Calibri is MS Word's default typeface, which is reason enough not to use it. The text is perfectly fine and readable as it is,
and the font is perfectly fine and professional. Ignore that advice. (Typography is one of my other hobbies, if you can't tell…) I would, however, suggest adjusting the spacing. If
you made the document in Google Docs, then I would suggest using Word, Pages, etc., where you can specify the spacing according to the point size using the "Exactly" option, which
should be 120% of the point size and no bigger than 145%, e.g. the spacing with 12 point font should be 15, 16, or at the most 17 points. Then you can set "after paragraph" spacing
to between 50 and 100% of the text point size; this can also be done using styles so you only have to do it once at the beginning. I took the liberty of retyping the text making
some minor copyediting corrections; there are other sentences which experienced photographers and lawyers will want to revise or eliminated (I only took out the two paragraphs
critiqued above, seeing as they don't actually specify anything in their current form.) I used EB Garamond for the typeface (it's free and similar enough to your original face)
with 12 points for the size, 15 point line spacing, 10 points for inter-paragraph spacing. and generous margins of 1.7 inches on letter paper (you can adjust this, but 45-90
characters per line is the sweet spot, and I prefer closer to 70), 16 2 more replies u/TheMariannWilliamson avatar TheMariannWilliamson • 5y ago Lawyer here - there’s a lot of
fluff in the contract and missing some very important legal terms. Good starting point for telling a lawyer what you are personally looking for, but I’d strongly caution against
anyone relying on this on their own and question the purpose of dissemination of this on this sub. You can easily find generic contract forms online that are being offered by
lawyers generically (not as legal advice, per the usual disclaimers) that would be a much better form to start with and actually have some legal and contractual mechanics actually
being useful for someone who doesn’t have those locked down yet. 29 1 more reply u/dan_marchant avatar dan_marchant • 5y ago You should definitely get a lawyer to do your contract.
Your limit of liability is good but you You have nothing about jurisdiction and nothing about when you will be paid and you have at least two clauses that are completely
meaningless. 16 u/anonymoooooooose avatar anonymoooooooose • 5y ago 'if you think lawyers are expensive, try doing business without one' 16 2 more replies u/altitudearts avatar
altitudearts • 5y ago This is very nice, but PLEASE use one made or at least approved by a lawyer before exchanging money. The most basic levels of ASMP and PPA include custom
contracts, tailored to your company and the types of shoots you do. Source: 20-year pro. Zero lawsuits. 9 1 more reply u/HomeDepot avatar u/HomeDepot • Promoted This Memorial Day,
get up to an extra $1000 off, plus free delivery on select appliances, like LG, at The Home Depot. Tackle pool towels and kids' camp laundry with a large capacity washer, and host
with a fridge dispensing Craft Ice™, Mini Craft Ice™, cubed, and crushed ice. Shop through June 3. 30 in. 6.3 cu. ft. Electric Single Smart Oven Range with Air Fry Fan Convection
and EasyClean in Stainless Steel 30 in. 6.3 cu. ft. Electric Single Smart Oven Range with Air Fry Fan Convection and EasyClean in Stainless Steel $699.00 $999.00 24 in. Top Control
Standard 46 dBA Dishwasher with QuadWash, 3rd Rack, Blastzone Bottle Wash in Stainless Steel 24 in. Top Control Standard 46 dBA Dishwasher with QuadWash, 3rd Rack, Blastzone Bottle
Wash in Stainless Steel $699.00 $1,049.00 26 cu. ft. 3 Door French Door Refrigerator with Ice and Water Dispenser and Craft Ice in PrintProof Stainless Steel 26 cu. ft. 3 Door
French Door Refrigerator with Ice and Water Dispenser and Craft Ice in PrintProof Stainless Steel $2,199.00 $3,099.00 1.6 cu. ft. 30 in. W. Over-the-Range Microwave Oven with
EasyClean in Stainless Steel 1.6 cu. ft. 30 in. W. Over-the-Range Microwave Oven with EasyClean in Stainless Steel $229.00 $299.00 27 in. 1 cu. ft. Laundry Pedestal Washer with
Slim DD Motor in Graphite 27 in. 1 cu. ft. Laundry Pedestal Washer with Slim DD Motor in Graphite $699.00 $849.00 CTDubs0001 • 5y ago If you want to be a professional, hire a
lawyer. I know how to take a good picture. They know how to write a contract. It is too essential a piece of your business and your security to crowdsource on Reddit. 8 1 more
reply u/tcphoto1 avatar tcphoto1 • 5y ago That is perhaps the most vague document I've ever seen in the business, there is no definitive description of the project, number and
format of the deliverables, retainer or payment schedule, etc. An Attorney would roll their eyes and start from scratch. 13 u/ROKMWI avatar ROKMWI • 5y ago Seems likely they left
that stuff out on purpose, in the version they posted on reddit... 3 PN_Guin • 5y ago Thank you for sharing. Looking forward to the discussion and further input. 3 Blestyr • 5y ago
I don't have a contract yet. This helps me get something to start with it. Thank you. 7 New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with
Email Continue with Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. People also ask about section People also
ask about Photography contract suggestions and tips Procurement tips for photographers Best lenses for portrait photography Tips for capturing stunning landscapes How to improve
low-light photography skills Employment r/probation • 5y ago Employment 4 upvotes · 7 comments Can anyone share some release and contract templates please? r/photography • 1y ago
Can anyone share some release and contract templates please? 14 comments u/LinkedInAds avatar LinkedInAds • Promoted Some things are designed to look good. Others are designed to
work. Most marketing budgets confuse the two. Thumbnail image: Some things are designed to look good. Others are designed to work. Most marketing budgets confuse the two.
business.linkedin.com Learn More You are not entitled to a career in photography r/photography • 10d ago You are not entitled to a career in photography 345 upvotes · 258 comments
Never do paid photo work without a contract. It's easier than you think. r/photography • 23d ago Never do paid photo work without a contract. It's easier than you think. 159
upvotes · 78 comments Give me your worst experience with a photographer r/photography • 22d ago Give me your worst experience with a photographer 23 comments Venue just sent me a
"Photographer Agreement" a year after couple booked me — am I overreacting? r/WeddingPhotography • 2mo ago Venue just sent me a "Photographer Agreement" a year after couple booked
me — am I overreacting? 497 upvotes · 205 comments Photography Competitions r/photography • 5mo ago Photography Competitions 5 upvotes · 15 comments Travel Wedding Photography
Contract r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago Travel Wedding Photography Contract 2 upvotes · 5 comments Finding a Photography Agent? r/photography • 9mo ago Finding a Photography Agent?
2 upvotes · 10 comments Professionals, what does your contract look like? r/photography • 10y ago Professionals, what does your contract look like? 135 upvotes · 19 comments A
Contract Template for Freelance Photography r/photography • 8y ago A Contract Template for Freelance Photography 126 upvotes · 16 comments Festival contracts r/photography • 3d ago
Festival contracts 2 upvotes · 28 comments Wedding Contract Must-Haves r/photography • 2y ago Wedding Contract Must-Haves 1 upvote · 7 comments How do you feel about your
photography? r/photography • 13d ago How do you feel about your photography? 60 upvotes · 137 comments Non-editing photography r/photography • 1mo ago Non-editing photography 81
upvotes · 199 comments Photographers: Do you use contracts before every session? If so, how much do you pay for them (or how did you get yours)? r/photography • 1y ago
Photographers: Do you use contracts before every session? If so, how much do you pay for them (or how did you get yours)? 24 upvotes · 37 comments Official Question Thread! Ask
/r/photography anything you want to know! May 08, 2026 r/photography • 23d ago Official Question Thread! Ask /r/photography anything you want to know! May 08, 2026 8 upvotes · 266
comments Wedding contracts r/WeddingPhotography • 7y ago Wedding contracts 3 upvotes · 10 comments Wedding photography contract template? r/photography • 3y ago Wedding photography
contract template? 6 upvotes · 5 comments Is anyone a part of a photography community? r/photography • 1mo ago Is anyone a part of a photography community? 87 upvotes · 78 comments
Client citing themselves as photographer in post instead of the actual photographer r/photography • 2mo ago Client citing themselves as photographer in post instead of the actual
photographer 79 upvotes · 50 comments Photographer missed deadline. When do I reach out again? r/photography • 5mo ago Photographer missed deadline. When do I reach out again? 19
upvotes · 38 comments [PubQ] first publishing contract help r/PubTips • 5y ago [PubQ] first publishing contract help 3 upvotes · 34 comments What are the perks of your terms and
conditions? r/photography • 5y ago What are the perks of your terms and conditions? 113 upvotes · 84 comments What would like to get as a gift as a photographer r/photography • 3mo
ago What would like to get as a gift as a photographer 10 upvotes · 76 comments VIEW POST IN 繁體中文 Русский 简体中文 Tiếng Việt 日本語 See more Community Info Section r/photography Join
Photography /r/photography is a place to politely discuss the tools, technique, art and culture of photography and to post topics that would be of interest to other photographers.
Show more Public TOP POSTS Reddit reReddit: Top posts of March 20, 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of March 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2021 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User
Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Home Popular News Explore RECENT r/mcp RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise
Developer Platform Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Best of Reddit Best of Reddit in Portuguese Best of Reddit in German Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your
Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Skip to main content photography generic contract forms Sign Up Log In Expand user menu Skip to Navigation
Back to Reddit Answers New question New question photography generic contract forms Sources: r/WeddingPhotography, r/photography, r/weddingplanning +1 more Photography Generic
Contract Forms — What Redditors Recommend Essentials To Include Legal Review Recommended: Many advise hiring a lawyer to draft or review your contract rather than relying solely on
templates. "If you plan on doing many more weddings, pay a lawyer to write you a contract." Clear Scope of Services: Spell out dates, start/end times, locations, number of edited
images, delivery method, and turnaround time. "Coverage includes eight hours, beginning at 2 PM... The client will receive 200 fully edited high-resolution images delivered via an
online gallery within six weeks of the event." Payment & Deposit Terms: Include deposit amount, refundability, payment schedule, and what happens on cancellation. "If you take
deposits, you should have a deposit clause that if the event is canceled before a certain date the deposit amount is non-refundalble." Limitations of Liability & Indemnity:
Standard to limit damages to fees paid and include force majeure/acts of God clauses; clients often push for carve-outs for gross negligence. "This was in my contract for both
photo and videography. From what i've heard from others, this is fairly normal." Replacement/Backup Photographer Clause: Permit an associate or replacement if you cannot perform;
this is common and prevents last-minute scrambling. "These are pretty standard contract terms... the replacement clause - it's saving you scrambling at the last minute." Usage /
Copyright / Model Release: State who retains copyright and how images may be used for marketing. "Most photographers retain the rights to their photos... You’re free to use your
pictures for personal reasons... but you can’t submit them... without photographer approval." Deliverables & Client Responsibilities: Clarify meals, second shooters, extra fees
(e.g., if another professional shoots photos), and what constitutes valid reasons for termination. "Looks good!... I have a clause stating that if the photography session is more
than 4 hours long, the client is responsible for feeding me and my team." Form & Presentation (Templates vs CRMs) Use Trusted CRMs/Templates for Presentation: Many use HoneyBook,
17hats, Pixieset or Studio Ninja to deliver contracts and handle signing. "Mine goes to clients from my CRM (17hats)... Having it managed feels much more legit... Before I had the
CRM, though, I used an attached PDF." Keep Design Minimal & Professional: A lawyer-like, plain, easy-to-read PDF is preferred over decorative designs. "Honestly I think the less
creative-looking it is, the more professional it will feel... keeping it black and white with minimal design would be optimal." Templates Are Useful Starting Points: Community
templates and vendor-provided templates exist, but they still recommend legal review. "This contract has not been looked over by a lawyer... Good starting point for telling a
lawyer what you are personally looking for..." Common Red Flags & Clauses To Question Overbroad Indemnity / No-Gross-Negligence Carve-Outs: Clients sometimes request language
excluding willful misconduct or gross negligence; sellers may resist. "I've asked him to include... 'except where caused by willful misconduct or gross negligence'... He says no."
Non-Refundable Deposit Without Conditions: Standard, but ensure there's clarity about refunds if the photographer cancels. "If the Photographer cannot perform... then the
Photographer will return all fees to the Clients but shall have no further liability." Exclusivity/Fees for Other Photographers: Clauses charging fees if another pro shoots can be
contentious—clarify scope (videographer vs photographer). "This means if you hire two shooters, they have to work together... It can mean videographer also. Most professionals work
this out when setting up." Non-Disparagement / Review Restrictions: Be aware of clauses attempting to limit truthful negative reviews; federal guidance exists (Consumer Review
Fairness Act). "This is the one I'd have problems with and would push back on..." Practical Steps to Get a Reliable Form Start With a Reputable Template or CRM: Use Pixieset,
HoneyBook, or vendor templates as a baseline. "Sires with client management systems like Honeybook or Pixieset have these on hand." Tailor to Your Jurisdiction & Services: Laws
vary by state/country—have a lawyer adapt the template. "Laws can be very different state to state... pay money and consult an attorney to make it your own in your own state."
Review Regularly: Update periodically as laws and business practices change. "I’d let someone look at it once every few years... law is rapidly changing." Use PDFs and Signed
Digital Workflows: PDFs preserve formatting; CRMs provide signing and legitimacy. "Use a PDF: Don't send clients a Word document... most PDF readers have 'Fill & Sign' type tools."
Communities for Further Discussion r/WeddingPhotography r/photography r/weddingplanning r/Weddingsunder10k Use a reputable template or CRM as a starting point, then have a lawyer
tailor and review it for your jurisdiction. Generated from these posts: 1 r/WeddingPhotography Description of services for contract. 2 · 9 2 r/photography Photography Contract 348
· 86 r/photography - Photography Contract +9 View all Related photography contract template examples essential clauses for photography contracts how to write a photography contract
Responses are AI-generated from posts and comments and may not be accurate. Ask a followup Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility • Reddit,
Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Home Popular News Explore RECENT r/mcp RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Developer Platform Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers
Press Best of Reddit Best of Reddit in Portuguese Best of Reddit in German Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All
rights reserved.