     (CONTINUED FROM FRONT FLAP)                                                                                                                                   MORGAN                                R E V I S E D   &   E X P A N D E D
                                                                                        Praise for      E ATING THE BIG FISH                                                                                                                                               $29.95 USA/$32.95 CAN
perspective to market, building a prominent and                                                                                                                                                             S E C O N D      E D I T I O N




                                                                                                                                                                     EATING THE
emotionally appealing identity, implementing a                         “Eating the Big Fish is on fire with ideas. Best in the marketplace.”


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      O
                                                                       —STEVE HAYDEN, Vice Chairman, Ogilvy Worldwide                                                                                                                                             nce upon a time, spirited David
pervasive communication strategy, and focusing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  challenged the towering Goliath.
intently on ideas rather than consumers.
                                                                       “Adam Morgan’s brand advice is among the most practical and useful there is. My                                                                                                            Forty years ago, rental car company
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Avis challenged Hertz—the big fish in its
This new edition explores what needs to change
and what needs to stay the same for Challenger
                                                                       team is responsible for helping drive the success of brands like Axe and Degree
                                                                       deodorant in the United States, and Eating the Big Fish has shaped our thinking, driven
                                                                       our teams to adopt ‘Challenger’ behavior, and helped us dramatically grow
                                                                                                                                                                                                        E AT I N G                   T H E            industry—and won a larger, more profitable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      share of the market by “trying harder.” Today,
brands in the shifting communications landscape




                                                                                                                                                                                                        BIG FISH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Challengers such as method, JetBlue, Nintendo
of media, technology, and the Web. Most                                our market share.”
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Wii, and Linux successfully compete with much
important, it affirms that Challenger brands are                       —KEVIN GEORGE, Vice President and General Manager, Unilever United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      bigger brands in their markets by redefining in
alive, well, and hungry. If you want to increase




                                                                                                                                                                  BIG FISH
                                                                       “My bedtime reading when we were setting up innocent.”                                                                                                                         their favor the criteria consumers use to make
the profile and the profitability of your brand
                                                                       —RICHARD REED, cofounder, innocent                                                                                                                                             choices. The leaders in any market are never
against bigger competitors, this book puts the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in reality invulnerable; they just seem that way
big fish on your menu.
                                                                       “I devoured Adam’s book and used his thinking to create method as a Challenger                                                                                                 before a smart, focused, Challenger brand takes
                               z                                       brand to take on the giants of the soap industry. To say we live his principles daily is                                               How Challenger Brands Can               them on.
ADAM MORGAN is a partner in eatbigfish
(www.eatbigfish.com), an international brand and
                                                                       an understatement. This book will give you the framework to run through the legs of
                                                                       Goliath—and create relentless growth.”                                                                                               Compete Against Brand Leaders             Updated and revised with additional chapters
                                                                       —ERIC RYAN, cofounder, method                                                                                                                                                  and thirty new examples of Challenger brands
marketing consultancy specializing in Challenger
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in action, the Second Edition of Eating the Big Fish
brand strategy, behavior, and culture. Previously
                                                                       “ ‘Challenger’ isn’t a state of market, it’s a state of mind. This way of thinking is as                                                                                       reflects recent developments in the marketplace
an executive with TBWA\Chiat\Day, one of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and media since the publication of the bestselling




                                                                                                                                                                   How Challenger Brands Can
                                                                       important and powerful for a hugely successful brand as it is for a start-up, and this
world’s largest advertising agencies, he has worked
                                                                       book will show you why.”                                                                                                                                                       and influential first edition. Author Adam
with clients like IKEA, Unilever, Virgin, and Apple.
                                                                       —ANDY BERNDT, Managing Director,                                                                                                                                               Morgan—who, with his company, has researched
He and his partners together run The Challenger                                                                                                                                                                                                       and worked with Challengers over the last
                                                                        Google Creative Lab
Project, the evolving research into how Challenger                                                                                                                                                                                                    decade—presents and analyzes the effective
brands think and behave, on which their thinking,                                                                                                                                                                                                     marketing tactics Challenger brands use to raise
writing, and speaking is based.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       their profiles and take market share.




                                                                                                                                                                        Compete Against Brand Leaders
                               z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Morgan provides practical advice and plentiful,
          J AC K E T D E S I G N : PAU L M c C A RT H Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      easy-to-follow examples to show how a Chal-
J AC K E T I M AG E S : C O M P O S I T E o f © G E T T Y I M AG E S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      lenger brand can get noticed and steal customers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      from competitors with much bigger advertising
                                                                                                                                                                   SECOND                                                                             and marketing budgets. He presents eight
                                                                                                                                                                   EDITION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Challenger credos that stress bringing a fresh
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ADAM MORGAN                   AdweekMedia          (CONTINUED ON BACK FLAP)
FM_1   01/07/2009   2
FM_1   01/07/2009   1




                        E A T I N G T H E

                        BIG FISH
FM_1   01/07/2009   2
FM_1   01/07/2009   3




               EATING THE
            BIG FISH      How Challenger Brands Can
                        Compete Against Brand Leaders
                            SECOND EDITION


                              ADAM MORGAN




                               John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
FM_1   01/07/2009   4




              Copyright c
                         2009 by Adam Morgan. All rights reserved.

              Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey
              Published simultaneously in Canada
              No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or
              transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying,
              recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as permitted under Section 107 or 108
              of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior written per-
              mission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate
              per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive,
              Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax (978) 646-8600, or on the web at
              www.copyright.com. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be
              addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River
              Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, (201) 748-6011, fax (201) 748-6008, or online at
              http://www.wiley.com/go/permissions.
              Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have
              used their best efforts in preparing this book, they make no representations or
              warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of the contents of this
              book and specifically disclaim any implied warranties of merchantability or
              fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by
              sales representatives or written sales materials. The advice and strategies
              contained herein may not be suitable for your situation. You should consult with
              a professional where appropriate. Neither the publisher nor author shall be
              liable for any loss of profit or any other commercial damages, including but not
              limited to special, incidental, consequential, or other damages.
              For general information on our other products and services or for technical
              support, please contact our Customer Care Department within the United
              States at (800) 762-2974, outside the United States at (317) 572-3993 or fax
              (317) 572-4002.
              Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content
              that appears in print may not be available in electronic books. For more
              information about Wiley products, visit our website at www.wiley.com.
              Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
              Morgan, Adam.
                Eating the big fish : how challenger brands can compete against brand
              leaders / Adam Morgan. – 2nd ed.
                   p. cm.
                Includes bibliographical references and index.
                ISBN 978-0-470-23827-1 (cloth)
              1. Product management. 2. Brand name products–Management.
              3. New products. I. Title.
                HF5415.15.M67 2009
                658.8 0 27–dc22                                           2008022827
              Printed in the United States of America.
              10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
FM_1   01/07/2009   5




                        For Ruth
FM_1   01/07/2009   6
FM_1   01/07/2009    7




            Contents


            Preface                                                                         xiii
            Foreword by Antonio Lucio                                                       xxi


            PART 1 The Size and Nature of the Big Fish                                       1

              1 The Law of Increasing Returns                                                3
                    The task facing a Challenger in competing strongly against a Market
                    Leader is more intimidating than we might have imagined.
                    This chapter explores the scale of the advantages their superior
                    size—and the fact of leadership—brings, and points to why we
                    need as Challengers to consider a different kind of strategic
                    approach in order to succeed.


              2 The Consumer Isn’t                                                          13
                    Marketeers step into this new business world equipped with a
                    set of basic assumptions about their business that have by now
                    become dangerously flawed. The fundamental premises underlying
                    everyday marketing vocabulary such as consumer, audience, and
                    category require careful reexamination, and the implications of their
                    weaknesses need to be understood—in particular, the consequent
                    need for ideas, rather than communications, as the new currency
                    of growth.


              3 What Is a Challenger Brand?                                                 24
                    This chapter offers an entirely new kind of brand model for
                    second-rank brands finding themselves threatened by the Brand
                    Leader—the model of the Challenger brand. A Challenger brand is
                    defined through three attributes: a state of market, a state of mind,
                    and a rate of success. This chapter concludes by explaining how
                    the core brands considered in Part 2 came to be chosen, and gives

                                                                                             vii
FM_1   01/07/2009    8




              viii   CONTENTS



                     an example of how the book attempts to turn each significant
                     Challenger case history into a relevant exercise that can be
                     valuably applied to the marketeer’s own brand.


              PART 2 The Eight Credos of Successful
                     Challenger Brands                                                           33
                     What marketing characteristics do the great Challenger brands
                     and companies of the past 15 years share? If we could identify those
                     characteristics, how could we apply them to our own situation
                     to generate a source of personal business advantage?
                         This section identifies and discusses the common marketing
                     strands these brands have shared and devotes eight chapters to
                     discussing each in turn.


                4 The First Credo: Intelligent Naivety                                           35
                     The great wave makers in any category are those who are new to
                     it—like Jeff Bezos, who came out of finance to change the
                     way books were sold, or Eric Ryan of method, who left advertising
                     to reinvent the household cleaning business. This chapter looks at
                     the need for marketeers to break free from the clutter of little pieces
                     of knowledge that are the basis of their strategic thinking in order
                     to see the real opportunities for radical growth. It also offers ways for
                     those already deeply experienced in a category to achieve this vital
                     innocence.


                5 Monsters and Other Challenges: Gaining
                  Clarity on the Center                                                          61
                     Once you have explored the potential opportunities available to
                     you as a Challenger, it is time to be clear about what your challenge
                     to the category or another category player is going to be.
                     This chapter explores a structure for thinking about that central
                     challenge and discusses the key options open to us; this clarity
                     is also a key part of laying the foundations for the strategic thinking
                     that follows.


                6 The Second Credo: Build a Lighthouse Identity                                  80
                     Success as a Challenger comes through developing a very clear
                     sense of who or what you are as a brand/business and why—and
                     then projecting that identity intensely, consistently, and saliently
FM_1   01/07/2009    9




                                                                                  Contents    ix



                    to the point where, like a lighthouse, consumers notice you
                    (and know where you stand) even if they are not looking for you.
                    This chapter looks at the roots, source, and nature of such identities
                    and how successful Challengers have built them.


              7 The Third Credo: Take Thought
                Leadership of the Category                                                   109
                    Marketeers tend to talk as if there is one Brand Leader in every
                    category. In fact, there are two: the Market Leader (the brand with
                    the biggest share and the biggest distribution) and the Thought
                    Leader—the brand that, while it may not be the largest, is the one
                    that everyone is talking about, that has the highest ‘‘sensed
                    momentum’’ in the consumer’s mind. In this chapter the nature of
                    Thought Leadership is analyzed, and the methods of achieving
                    it are explored.


              8 The Fourth Credo: Create Symbols
                of Re-evaluation                                                             134
                    Successful Challengers are brands in a hurry: they desire (and need)
                    to puncture the consumer’s autopilot and create reappraisal of
                    themselves and their category swiftly and powerfully. To do so,
                    they create big, impactful acts or marketing ideas that capture the
                    indifferent consumer’s imagination and bring about a rapid re-evaluation
                    of their image in the consumer’s mind, and role in the consumer’s
                    life. This chapter discusses some of the most striking of these
                    symbols, what specifically it was about them that achieved the
                    results they did, and what set them apart them from being just
                    another publicity stunt.


              9 The Fifth Credo: Sacrifice                                                   156
                    Challengers have fewer resources in almost every aspect of the
                    business and marketing mix than do the Big Fish—what they
                    choose not to do, that is, what they choose to Sacrifice, is therefore
                    as important to their success as what they choose to do. The
                    nature of this Sacrifice and some of its key dimensions are the
                    focus of this chapter.


            10 The Sixth Credo: Overcommit                                                   171
                    The converse of Sacrifice is Overcommitment: the idea that, following
                    the process of Sacrifice, if the marketeer or businessperson has
FM_1   01/07/2009    10




              x     CONTENTS



                     chosen to drive success through one or two key activities, then
                     these must be successful—and to achieve that success the
                     marketeer must not just commit but overcommit. This chapter
                     looks at examples of Overcommitment, and how we can reframe
                     our own thinking and approach to key activities to ensure
                     their success.


              11 The Seventh Credo: Using Communications
                 and Publicity to Enter Social Culture                                          189
                     For a Challenger, who is outgunned and outresourced in almost
                     every other area by the Market Leader, the use of communications
                     to create genuine salience in the world around us remains one of
                     the very few remaining sources of competitive advantage
                     open—but only if systematically embraced as such within the
                     company. In this chapter, what it means to treat communication
                     ideas and publicity as high-leverage assets in this way is discussed,
                     as well as the changes in the communications development process
                     that are required.


              12 The Eighth Credo: Become Idea-Centered,
                 Not Consumer-Centered                                                          218
                     Success is a very dangerous thing—it causes brands and people to
                     stop behaving in the way that made them initially successful. The
                     eighth credo, then, encompasses how a Challenger maintains its
                     momentum once it has become successful, in particular moving the
                     organization from being consumer-dependent to focusing on the
                     generation and implementation of ideas—ideas that constantly
                     refresh and renew the relationship with the consumer.

              PART 3 Applying the Challenger Program                                         241

              13 Writing the Challenger Program:
                 The Two-Day Off-Site                                                           243
                     For the marketeer interested in beginning a Challenger Program,
                     this chapter offers an outline of a two-day Challenger workshop,
                     designed not to supplant a more rigorous and longer-term strategic
                     process, but to kick-start it with a core group of colleagues. Using
                     cases discussed in the book, it builds a series of exercises that can be
                     powerfully applied to the marketeer’s own business to reveal the
                     opportunities and potential that will allow it to compete aggressively
                     against the Brand Leader.
FM_1   01/07/2009    11




                                                                                Contents      xi



            14 The Scope of the Lighthouse Keeper                                        270
                    This chapter looks at what it means to be the person building and
                    protecting a Lighthouse Identity, particularly in a new media world.
                    After discussing who is the real ‘‘Lighthouse Keeper’’ in a new kind
                    of consumer relationship where your users’ blogs can be as influential
                    as your own media campaigns, it questions much of the misleading
                    sound-bite journalism about the new marketing world, in particular
                    the notion that the consumer is in charge and that new media is
                    electronic and social media. It notes the four key vectors of change
                    in modern brand building that are driven by our Lighthouse Identity—
                    convenience and instant gratification, polysensual product experience,
                    interactive participation, and social and environmental responsibility,
                    and how the new breed of Challengers is leaning into one or more of
                    these to further delineate their unique position in the world.


            PART 4 Mind-Set, Culture, and Risk                                           291

            15 Challenger as a State of Mind: Staying Number
               One Means Thinking Like a Number Two                                      293
                    Being a Challenger is not a series of actions in and of themselves—it
                    is as much as anything else a state of mind. Therefore, although
                    the book is primarily geared toward the particular needs of Challenger
                    brands, this chapter pauses to consider the possible broader
                    relevance of Challenger thinking and behavior in the marketplace. In
                    particular, it looks at the lessons to be gained from a new generation
                    of Brand Leaders and how they illustrate the way in which the rules
                    of Brand Leadership have fundamentally changed—namely, why staying
                    Number One now means thinking and behaving like a Number Two.

            16 Risk, Will, and the Circle of Rope                                        303
                    The book concludes by discussing the more intangible characteristics
                    of Challengers—luck, emotion, and the preparedness to embrace
                    risk.

            References and Sources                                                         315
            Acknowledgments for the Second Edition                                         321
            Photo Credits                                                                  323
            Index                                                                          325
FM_1   01/07/2009   12
FM_1   01/07/2009    13




            Preface


                    ‘‘Everybody pulls for David, nobody roots for Goliath’’
                                                                  —Wilt Chamberlain1




            I  n the beginning was Avis. The little fish, aiming to reverse the food
               chain.
                And Avis begat the Pepsi Challenge.
                And the Pepsi Challenge begat Apple 1984.
                And they all had a love child together called Richard Branson. Who
            was then knighted by Her Majesty the Queen for services to The
            Underdog.
                And that was the way we thought Challengers went, really. All doing
            the same sort of thing, all very successfully. All plucky underdogs, all ask-
            ing us to take a position. All creating the impression that this hugely
            crowded category was in reality simply a matter of a two-horse race and
            asking us whose side we were going to take: Were we with the little guy
            or the big guy here?
                And from then on, every decade there seemed to be one new iconic
            battle between Challenger and leader. And those iconic battles always
            seemed to take essentially the same form: Small Challenger makes pub-
            lic challenge to Market Leader, in open pursuit of column inches, news
            footage, sympathy, and sales. A charmingly scrappy David against a visi-
            ble and, now we realize, strangely sinister Goliath. There was nothing
            wrong in any of these Challengers and everything right about this
            stance, of course—but it was always at its heart exactly the same stance.
            David versus Goliath.
                Yet the past 15 years have seen a remarkable new diversity and flow-
            ering of Challenger thinking around us, in three important and distinct


                                                                                      xiii
FM_1   01/07/2009   14




              xiv   PREFACE



              senses: the number of brands openly adopting a Challenger stance, the
              diversity of Challenger stances they have taken, and the change that
              some of the most successful of these Challengers have made to the fun-
              damental way we think about and interact with long-established
              categories.

              THE NUMBER OF BRANDS OPENLY ADOPTING
              A CHALLENGER STANCE
              The first significant recent development in the world of Challenger
              brands is in the number of brands (and other entities—countries and
              cities, for example) explicitly adopting this Challenger brand stance:
              Large companies from North America to Singapore to South Africa
              openly declaring they want and need to think like Challengers,
              company-wide. And alongside them we find an even larger number of
              commentators discussing brands through this explicit lens: If you Goo-
              gle ‘‘Challenger brand’’ today, you find people writing about the Chal-
              lenger brand approach in business from India to Australia to Mauritius,
              ranging from the fields of politics to education, via soap powder and
              social networking sites along the way. The concept and language of a
              Challenger brand has become a mainstream and explicit part of the mar-
              keting landscape (whether it is always fully understood or not).


              THE DIVERSITY OF CHALLENGER STANCES
              The second key development in Challenger brand thinking over the past
              15 years lies in the diversity of Challenger stances we see taken by Chal-
              lengers in their chosen marketplace. One of the purposes of the second
              edition of this book, in fact, is to help us intelligently look at options
              other than the default Challenger model (which one might characterize
              as essentially a cluster of attributes around the David versus Goliath
              theme). Understanding this broader diversity, and how we use it to our
              advantage, is going to be central to our success.
                  It is not hard to see why there has been this overarching focus, histor-
              ically, on ‘‘David versus Goliath’’ as to what it really means to be the
              Challenger. It is undoubtedly partly the influence of the four iconic Chal-
              lengers we noted earlier, and how well that stance has worked for them.
FM_1   01/07/2009   15




                                                                           Preface   xv



            And may well also be to do with the implicit influence of military
            metaphor that underlies so much of the language of marketing (targets,
            share battles, etc.). For what has been the most influential thinking on
            how a Challenger succeeds within military conflict? The doctrine of guer-
            rilla warfare, whose philosophical authors and successful practitioners in
            the real world—Che Guevara, Mao, the Viet Cong, Lawrence of Arabia—
            have made this perhaps the most famous military strategy in the
            world.
                 But of course there is a much wider range of Challenger stances one
            can take than this. For a long time the real scope of the diversity of stan-
            ces available to us seemed more genuinely visible in the spectrum of
            political, rather than business Challengers. At either end of the tonal
            range, for example, one might put the open confrontation of the rioting
            Paris students of 1968 on the one hand, and the gentle (but more effec-
            tive) challenge by Gandhi to the British on the other. In between we have
            seen political Challengers combine the strident with the charming, the
            steel with the velvet glove: look at the self-styled ‘‘Raging Grannies’’
            who doorstepped President George W. Bush over Iraq, for instance, or
            the smiling Katharine Hamnett, chatting cordially with Mrs. Thatcher in
            Downing Street while simultaneously wearing a T-shirt that screamed
            ‘‘58% don’t want Pershing’’ (the cruise missiles scheduled to be sited in
            the United Kingdom). What a brilliant combination of charm and stiletto
            each wielded—and how intriguing to wonder, we thought, how we as
            Challenger brands might achieve that kind of potent combination.
                 But in the recent brand world, too, we are finally coming to see a far
            richer range of Challenger attitudes, natures, and tones. JetBlue, Red
            Bull, flickr, Zara, Linux, innocent—each of these has taken a very differ-
            ent approach in order to succeed. They have had to—for, of course, the
            stance you take as a Challenger is of necessity heavily influenced by the
            cultural and category context in which you find yourself. (So, for
            instance, if there are 150 drinks in the energy drink category, and they
            are all being irreverent mavericks, then one thing a genuine Challenger
            to Red Bull is not going to try to be is yet another irreverent maverick. It
            will need to find a different way to challenge the conventions of the cat-
            egory or the culture around it.)
                 And with this fresh diversity from both the physical and digital brand
            worlds has therefore come the ability to better define the potential
FM_1   01/07/2009      16




              xvi     PREFACE



              choices available to us of the different kinds of stances a Challenger can
              take in their chosen marketplace. For instance:

                      i) The Missionary—like Dove, as an agent of change in the beauty
                         category
                     ii) The Visionary—exemplified by method’s vision of a relationship
                         with cleaning that transcends functional germ kill
                    iii) The Enlightened Zagger—typified by Camper’s championship of
                         ‘‘slow’’ in a fast world
                    iv) The Real and Human alternative—personified by Ben & Jerry’s
                     v) The People’s Champion—a torch famously carried by Wikipedia
                         and Linux
                    vi) . . . As well as, yes, of course, the stance of the feisty little David

                  These six different stances, and six others are discussed in detail in
              Chapter 12. In that chapter we will also go on to explore how the nature
              of this diversity may shed some insight on how long-lived Challengers
              successfully and continually renew their relationship with the consumer.
              It will suggest, in fact, that perhaps the whole notion of how one main-
              tains Challenger longevity lies in intelligently evolving across this Chal-
              lenger typology.


              THE CHALLENGE TO THE FUNDAMENTAL WAY WE THINK
              ABOUT LONG-ESTABLISHED CATEGORIES
              The third key development in the centrality of Challenger thinking to
              marketing and business is the way in which some of the new Challengers
              are not simply gaining share or changing brand rankings, but threaten-
              ing to fundamentally overturn entire categories and our frameworks for
              thinking about them. Twenty years ago, we saw Establishment brands
              threatened by new Challengers (IBM); now we see the fabric of entire
              industries and the behavioral cultures we attach to them threatened by
              this new generation.
                  Let’s briefly consider some obvious examples. While YouTube is
              evidently a Challenger to television in terms of offering its own live
              TV channels as well as being an alternative source of entertainment,
              it has also in the process in effect redefined our notion of quality
FM_1   01/07/2009   17




                                                                         Preface   xvii



            entertainment. Quality in visual entertainment, one could argue, is no
            longer about wonderful production values or compelling narrative—
            post YouTube, it is now simply about how good or fresh the idea is
            and the emotional effect it has on us (and the person we pass it on to).
            Wikipedia challenges not only the way we receive authoritative informa-
            tion (Microsoft’s Encarta and Encyclopedia Britannica are casually
            brushed aside by a site that now accounts for one in every 200 online
            visits), but also our long-held notions regarding credible sources of it
            (the ‘‘amateur versus expert’’ debate). The foundations have been
            pulled out from under the conventional music business by iTunes. Game
            changes such as the Tata Nano and the $100 laptop look as though they
            will come to create a profound shift in the automotive and computer
            businesses. Will social networking sites bring down conventional e-mail?
            What will the Kindle e-book reader do (if anything) to the book business?
            Will we see a generation of consumers used to ‘‘free’’ Challengers (free
            music, free entertainment, free texts, free search, free software, free
            newspapers, free gaming, free calls) question the whole value and trans-
            action model more broadly in every aspect of their lives? (And could this
            translate into packaged goods?) What will be the impact of environmen-
            tal Challengers not just on the way we vacation, but on the whole way
            we think about packaging and what we really need and don’t need in
            that packaging?
                And all this structural change before, of course, we have really begun
            to explore the intimately related future of communications.


            A STRATEGIC MODEL, WITH SOME CONSISTENT PRINCIPLES
            While this broad and multifaceted emergence of Challenger diversity
            has been taking place, our context for it—the context of the marketing,
            consumer, and brand landscape—has obviously also been changing
            enormously. In our marketing world, some things are new (social every-
            thing), some things are back (product performance), some things are
            wrongly written off (TV), and some things are trumpeted and then for-
            gotten. And the socio-digital economy has currencies all its own that we
            are having to learn, even as they flex and evolve themselves.
                While we might disagree on this implication or that implication of the
            changes around us, one thing is clear to everyone, it seems: Marketing,
FM_1   01/07/2009     18




              xviii   PREFACE



              or rather the transition that marketing is making, is now to be seen as a
              journey without maps. We know, because influential CMOs have told us,
              that the old marketing model is broken, and certainly we have all lost
              confidence in it. What we don’t yet know—because it is in a state of con-
              tinual emergence and experimentation—is what the nature of the new
              model is that we are supposed to replace it with.
                  So, at one level, a thorough understanding of successful Challengers
              is ever more interesting and important to us. Even if we yet lack a coher-
              ent model, we can at least take some consistent principles with us. And
              perhaps these principles should be Challenger principles, for in a very
              real sense this new world will make necessary Challengers of us all.
                  It is these principles—which we’ll come on to call the Challenger
              credos—that the book offers for us as a framework as we move forward.
              A constant way of thinking for us and our team to help us steer our brand
              into a dynamic and rapidly evolving future.


              CHANGING CRITERIA
              Discussing Challengers in this new world is not without its difficulties,
              though—it is obviously often hard to be entirely clear who is challenging
              what. Who and what is Facebook challenging, for example? MySpace?
              Google? E-mail? Basic human concepts of what it means to be friends?
              What are we to make of the new brands from India and China—that Tata
              Nano, for instance (a four-seater car costing $2,500)? It is not going to
              be sold in Peoria or Paris any time soon, but it will significantly affect the
              shape and nature of car purchasing and thinking in emerging markets.
              And China’s Infosys, Wipro, Lenovo—are they Challengers? Or still, in
              effect, products and services with logos (to the Western world at least)?
              What of the new brands to Africa, such as One Laptop per Child (OLPC)?
              Not yet a threat to Dell’s sales, but it certainly challenges our concep-
              tions of what can be done with technology in poor economies—and it
              certainly stops and makes me think about exactly what I need from a
              highly overspecced computer that I am going to buy for my 13-year-old
              sons in London.
                 So I have modified in one significant way over the past 10 years my
              definition for Challengers to include in the study. When we researched
              the book originally, my partners and I wanted to see three to five years
FM_1   01/07/2009   19




                                                                            Preface   xix



            of success before writing about any of the brands we considered. Now,
            if we were to wait and give each brand the five-year test, we’d either be
            risking many of the more famous ones becoming clichés, or perversely
            ignoring some of the most profound potential shifts any of us as market-
            ers have to consider. So let us, with our eyes wide open, embrace a
            slightly different approach in this edition. Let us look at well-established
            Challengers, for the main part, but accept that we will need to consider
            some of the more important new contenders before it is yet clear what
            their real mid-term trajectory is going to be. And we accept as we go
            along that there are some much larger challenges posed to the funda-
            mentals of the world around us, and we explore these toward the end of
            the book.


            AN OVERVIEW OF THE FLOW
            After exploring some of the key challenges facing us as number two,
            three, or four brands and reviewing the argument about why we need to
            think differently from a Market Leader, the book then goes on to discuss
            the key commonalities Challengers seem to share in terms of Attitude,
            Strategy, and Behavior. (See the following page.)
                Once we have looked at each of these principles in turn, we go on to
            look at what it means to be a Challenger brand driver (or Lighthouse
            Keeper) today, and close by discussing the ‘‘ghost in the machine’’ for
            all of this: how Challengers manage and indeed lean into risk.
                For those of you familiar with the first edition, each of the credo chap-
            ters has been substantially updated and considerably revised, and there
            are two wholly new chapters (Chapter 5, ‘‘Monsters and Other Chal-
            lenges,’’ and Chapter 14, ‘‘The Scope of the Lighthouse Keeper’’).
                Finally, the book is designed to be practical, and a series of exercises
            towards the end is intended to provide stimulus when applied to your
            business. In addition, you can see some of the interviewees talking on
            video by following relevant links to a web site for the book; these links
            are indicated at the end of each chapter. This is not simply to be digitally
            current; it is because in many ways it is the way Challengers talk, as well
            as what they say, that is the crucial factor in understanding the underly-
            ing Challenger mindset we will need in order to succeed.
FM_1   01/07/2009   20




              xx    PREFACE


                                     The Challenger Strategic Approach

                                                     Stage 1: Attitude & Preparation



                                                                                   Clarity on the
                                           Intelligent Naivety
                                                                                     Challenge




                                                       Stage 2: Challenger Strategy



                              Lighthouse                            Thought                          Symbols of
                                Identity                           Leadership                       Re-evaluation



                                                      Stage 3: Challenger Behaviour



                                                                                                        Enter
                               Sacrifice                         Overcommitment
                                                                                                    Popular Culture




                                                Stage 4: Sustaining Challenger Momentum



                                           Being Ideas Centred                       Evolving
                                            not Consumer Led                    Challenger Narrative
FM_1   01/07/2009   21




            Foreword


            T    he true test of an idea, a model, an organization or a brand, is
                 whether it can withstand the test of time. There has never been so
            much testing in such a short period of time as in the last nine years.
                Nine years ago, Google and YouTube did not exist; the iPod was one
            idea, of many, in Steve Jobs’s head, and the founder of Facebook was
            not even allowed to drive. Cable fragmentation and consumer zapping
            were the issues marketers dealt with, not streaming, downloading, or a
            la carte and on-demand viewing and listening. We had desktops and
            laptops then, but no BlackBerries or Treos to check at midnight or
            before brushing our teeth in the morning. The world seemed to have
            more curvature; now it feels it is virtually flat with competition for goods,
            services, and labor coming from anywhere and everywhere. Nine
            years ago, there was no 9/11 and institutional data mining for surveil-
            lance and consumer journalism were the subjects of only fiction books
            and movies.
                Eating the Big Fish was also published nine years ago. At the time,
            Adam Morgan made waves describing the philosophy, profile, and
            behavior of a Challenger brand trying to dethrone ‘‘The Big Fish,’’ per-
            ceived to be infallible and invincible. He was clear in articulating the
            amplified challenges of a Challenger brand within the changing con-
            sumer dynamics of the time. He spoke of: a consumer who was not lis-
            tening, believing, or consuming like she used to; the fluidity and
            permeability of categories that would no longer fit within the well-
            defined segmentation boxes of a marketer; and the ineffectiveness of
            communication that could not capture consumer’s imagination in a
            world where no one was actively listening.
                Adam described the Challenger mind-set as ‘‘An ambition that
            exceeds conventional marketing resources and the preparedness to
            accept the marketing implications of the gap.’’ Challengers can break

                                                                                      xxi
FM_1   01/07/2009    22




              xxii   FOREWORD



              through by understanding their Big Fish and radically simplifying con-
              sumer choice, or by creating new criteria for evaluating a category, or by
              dramatically changing the sand box. It is all about making tough
              choices; not about focus, but about Sacrifices. It is about letting go and
              saying ‘‘no’’ to the existing multiplicity of marketing options; to concen-
              trate energy on the ones that matter the most. Within this framework,
              Adam created the Lighthouse brand concept. Lighthouse brands have a
              clear and unapologetic point of view and invite consumers to navigate
              around them. They are not afraid to flaunt their values even at the
              expense of alienating some consumers. And they live to consistently
              delight and surprise consumers, using every possible angle at their
              disposal, especially the nontraditional. Brands like the Mini Cooper,
              Harley Davidson, The World Wrestling Federation, Mountain Dew, and
              Unilever’s Axe have lived by the Challenger principles for many success-
              ful years.
                  I read Eating the Big Fish in the year 2000 as I was beginning my
              journey as Chief Marketing Officer of PepsiCo Beverages International.
              Leading the marketing efforts for the quintessential Challenger brand
              company in its most intense category and its most competitive market
              gave me the playpen to bring Adam’s concepts to life. I have been a
              believer ever since.
                  But times change, thinking evolves, and in nine years, the winds of
              change have been transformed into the typhoon of change. Wired mag-
              azine called our times the Petabyte age, an age where infinite informa-
              tion can be stored, processed, and organized to drive innovation in
              every field and every industry and provide more customized choices
              than ever before. In this world of algorithm-based thinking there is
              sometimes the tendency to eliminate or discard the models of the past,
              even when the past is measured now in months or years instead of deca-
              des. As marketers then, one of the toughest questions we will face
              before embracing new options is: ‘‘Within this ocean of change, what
              are the key principles and process that we must maintain?’’ I will submit
              to you that in a world where information overflows our capability to
              absorb it and the foundations of science and marketing are challenged
              by it, where consumers are wired 24-7 and are blessed and cursed
              by choice, where institutions, leaders, and brands are exposed by
              the vigilant and omnipresent eye of consumers, Adam’s Challenger
FM_1   01/07/2009   23




                                                                        Foreword   xxiii



            brand and Lighthouse Identity principles are more vital and vibrant than
            ever.
                I was very happy when Adam told me that he was going to revise
            Eating the Big Fish and was truly honored when he asked me to write
            its foreword. I have enjoyed this assignment thoroughly. In this revised
            edition, Adam confirms the principles of his 1999 book but brings them
            to life through new and up-to-date examples of Challenger brands
            behaving as such within the new world order. Like a lighthouse itself,
            there is semper aliquid novi, or always something new, but the book is
            firmly grounded within the bedrock of the original Challenger brand
            essence.
                My journey through this book was different from the first time,
            though. Life has taken me into new adventures and now I am blessed to
            manage a truly phenomenal Big Fish. So I have reread his book from a
            very different point of view. In spite of my eternal agnostic mind and my
            firm belief in constant evolution, I was still able to confirm its concepts.
            In fact, I now firmly believe that the new world order requires a Chal-
            lenger brand mentality even when you lead. Categories are constantly
            being restructured and competitions have been amplified by the ste-
            roids of technology and the democratization of media. Megacategories
            like personal computers, software, music, beverages, and financial serv-
            ices are being resegmented every day, opening the doors to new
            leader-Challenger discussions. This forever changing environment,
            where consolidation and fragmentation coexist, implies that potentially
            every David could play Goliath and every Goliath could play David in
            any aspect of a broad-based business.
                Importantly, as the pressure for returns on investment continues for
            companies and their marketing investment, affordability, and predict-
            ability of available media will force everybody to break with convention.
            Therefore, breaking and transforming needs to be not only the privilege
            of the Challenger but also, the obligation of the leader.
                For overexposed, overinformed and overwhelmed consumers, a
            brand with Lighthouse Identity can truly be more relevant than ever. It
            can be an aid for navigating the storm of choice, a trusted haven to sat-
            isfy all her needs within a defined space. The new order requires that any
            brand with aspirations, Challenger or not, relies on a solid rational bed-
            rock, is enhanced by a strong and authentic emotional connection, but is
FM_1   01/07/2009    24




              xxiv   FOREWORD



              also inspired by a true sense of mission in the world. All of this guided by
              a thorough understanding of its history and DNA coupled with a genu-
              ine and authentic sense of purpose. Within this model, the Lighthouse
              Identity brand understands the need for total transparency and consis-
              tent dialogue with its consumer, without forgetting its self-referential
              and unapologetic essence.
                  Finally, Adam’s Challenger mind-set presents three timeless princi-
              ples of universal appeal. First, ‘‘Intelligent Naivety’’ will encourage any
              business to consistently embrace doubt and ask the tough transforma-
              tional questions required for constant innovation and rejuvenation. Faith
              is, after all, an active exercise in doubt. Second, to have a self-referential
              and unapologetic point of view, the brand will have the obligation to
              answer to itself its big questions first. This means big questions cannot
              be delegated to consumers because consumers ‘‘do not know what they
              do not know’’ and their opinions are always grounded on what is and not
              in what can and must be. Third and last, the Roman poet Lucretius’s call
              for Semper Aliquid Novi, or always something new, reminds us of the
              need to constantly delight and surprise but always within the essence of
              the lighthouse.
                  As I said, this is a timeless book and its principles transcend market
              share position. To transcend, we must challenge, especially when we
              lead!

                                                                       Antonio Lucio,
                                               Global Chief Marketing Officer, Visa, Inc.
c01_1   01/06/2009   1




                           PART    1
                          THE SIZE AND
                         NATURE OF THE
                               BIG FISH
c01_1   01/06/2009   2
c01_1   01/06/2009   3




                     1
              THE LAW OF
              INCREASING RETURNS



              A     t one level, we know all about the benefits for a Market Leader of
                    critical mass—the advantages at consumer, company, and com-
              petitive levels the Brand Leader enjoys over every other player in the
              game due to their size advantage. And these are of course enviable
              advantages: Who would not want the distribution power of Anheuser-
              Busch over the trade, or the ubiquitous consumer visibility of Coca-Cola,
              or the research and development resources of Procter & Gamble?
                  But this is not the key point we are going to recognize here. Nor is
              the preference given to the social acceptability of the brand leader by
              the uncertain consumer (whatever Wilt Chamberlain thinks); nor indeed
              the formidable trust and reassurance it enjoys; nor yet the power of its
              monstrous marketing budget relative to ours. These are odds we know
              and understand. These all merely lead us as Challengers to talk generally
              about ‘‘trying harder’’ and ‘‘differentiating in our advertising,’’ and
              ‘‘focus.’’ Everything we are already trying at the moment.
                  What we are going to look at first is how, even knowing all this, we
              are still underestimating the difficulty of the situation facing us: The true
              dynamic is actually worse than this. For it is not just that Brand Leaders
              are bigger and enjoy proportionately greater benefits: The evidence we

                                                                                         3
c01_1   01/06/2009                      4




               4                       EATING THE BIG FISH



               are going to consider suggests that the superiority of their advantage
               increases almost exponentially the larger they get.


               THE LAW OF INCREASING RETURNS
               The simplest illustration is that of the relationship between share of voice
               and share of market. We all know, from theory and experience, that
               there is a strong correlation between the two: that your share of market
               will usually correspond strongly with your share of voice, and if you want
               to increase your share of market you will have to increase your share of
               voice. John Philip Jones’s work has shown clearly that smaller brands
               need to spend proportionately more than larger brands simply to main-
               tain equilibrium. Recent analysis confirms this to be true of growth as
               well: If one analyzes brands that have sought to grow, smaller brands
               have to disproportionately increase their share of spend ahead of share
               of market in order to grow, while larger brands, conversely, have to
               make relatively smaller increases in share of voice to derive those same
               market share increases.
                   This is illustrated in Figure 1.1. This graph examines the data of almost
               900 growing brands where the growth was proven econometrically to


               FIGURE 1.1 Small brands need greater excess SOV to grow.

                                       16.0%
                                       14.0%
                                       12.0%        14.6%
                                                                                       13.5%




                Ave SOV-SOM reported
                                       10.0%
                                        8.0%
                                        6.0%                         10.3%
                                        4.0%
                                        2.0%
                                        0.0%
                                       –2.0%                                                             3.9%
                                       –4.0%

                                                                                                                         –2.0%
                                                    0–5%             6–10%            11–20%           21–30%            >30%

                                                                                    SOM range

               Source:                      Les Binet and Peter Field, ‘‘Marketing in the Era of Accountability,’’ part of the IPA
                                            Datamine series.
c01_1   01/06/2009   5




                                                         The Law of Increasing Returns   5



              come from the way they used communications. The horizontal axis on
              this graph groups the brands by their share of the market: the left-hand
              column, for instance, represents brands with 5 percent share of their
              market or lower, while the one on the far right represents brands with
              more than 30 percent market share. The vertical axis represents the per-
              centage they have had to spend in share of voice ahead of their share of
              market to achieve that growth—the taller the bar, the more they have
              had to spend ahead of their share of market to achieve their growth.
              And what we see is that once you reach a certain size as a brand—
              20 percent—you start to have to spend proportionately much less to in-
              crease your share of market.
                  We can go on to see that this ‘‘law of increasing returns’’ plays out in
              a very similar way in four other key dimensions that are relevant to us.
              The easiest way to illustrate these differences is to map out the brand-
              consumer relationship into three stages (albeit rather crude ones) and
              look at the relative performances of the Brand Leader at each stage rela-
              tive to a second- or lower-ranked brand in the same category. We then
              come on to look at the impact on profitability.


              STAGE ONE: CONSUMER AWARENESS
              First, awareness. Who does our target think about first?
                  Top-of-mind awareness, sometimes called salience, is the propor-
              tion of consumers for whom a certain brand comes to mind first when
              they are thinking about your category. An acknowledged key driver of
              purchase in lower-interest or impulse markets, like burgers and snacks,
              top-of-mind awareness is also an underestimated factor in shopping
              higher-interest categories. General spontaneous awareness, on the
              other hand (the proportion of people who are aware of your brand at all
              without prompting), is obviously important at some level to a brand’s
              success—people rarely buy an unfamiliar brand—but tends to reflect
              brand size and share of market: It often corresponds roughly to market
              share.
                  The assumption marketeers generally make is that the relationship
              between the two is a linear one—one’s total spontaneous awareness and
              top-of-mind awareness will rise in roughly equal proportions. Figure 1.2,
              however, taken from analysis of the relationship between the two among
c01_1   01/06/2009                       6




               6                        EATING THE BIG FISH


               FIGURE 1.2 Top-of-mind awareness versus total spontaneous awareness.

                                        30




                                        20




                top of mind awareness

                                        10




                                         0
                                             10        20         30         40         50        60   70   80
                                                                          spontaneous awareness


               Source:                       U. van de Sandt/Lintas (now Lowe)


               packaged goods brands in France by the advertising agency Lintas (now
               Lowe) in 1990, shows otherwise.1
                    What is striking here is that top-of-mind awareness increases quasi-
               exponentially in relation to total spontaneous awareness. That is to say,
               if I as Brand Leader am twice as big as the Number Two or Three, and
               spontaneous awareness is linked to market dominance, my top-of-mind
               awareness is on average close to four times as great. By the same token,
               if I as Brand Leader starting from a higher base increase either of these,
               my return will be almost exponentially greater, gain for gain, than that of
               a Challenger making the same gains lower down the scale.
                    Not only, it seems, do Brand Leaders have more muscle and re-
               sources to start with, but it earns them almost twice as much top-of-mind
               awareness in return. Udo van de Sandt, the French strategic planner
               whose work this was, found the same relationship existed between
c01_1   01/06/2009                    7




                                                                                          The Law of Increasing Returns      7



              ‘‘spontaneous brand awareness’’ and ‘‘usual/preferred brand.’’ We may
              have to differentiate more sharply than we thought.


              STAGE TWO: SHOPPING
              What happens when the consumer leaves the house?
                  What happens is that this law of increasing returns is translated
              directly into shopping behavior. Imagine our consumer is shopping for a
              truck, for instance. Well, from a marketing point of view, you would
              expect that the more you advertised your new truck, the more footfall
              in-store you could generate compared to the competition. And this is
              true, up to a point. If one takes the U.S. compact pickup market, for
              instance, and plots the relationship between advertising spend and
              shopping across three consecutive years for each brand (Figure 1.3),

              FIGURE 1.3 Hypershopping in the truck market.

                                                              Regression Analysis Details


                               35.0


                               30.0                               Ford
                                                        F3                     F2

                               25.0                                 F1                    C3




              Share of Shops
                                                                         T3
                                                              T1               T2
                               20.0                                                                 C1    D3
                                                                                           C2
                                                             D2
                               15.0                                                                              Legend
                                                                         D1
                               10.0                                                                              C = Chevrolet
                                                                                      82% of variation in        T = Toyota
                                                                                      shopping is explained      N = Nissan
                                5.0
                                                                                      by share of voice          D = Dodge
                                          N3    N2    N1
                                0.0
                                      0.0%   5.0%    10.0%        15.0%       20.0%   25.0%     30.0%    35.0%   40.0%
                                                                         Share of Voice


              Source:                  Cindy Scott/Allison Fisher
c01_1   01/06/2009    8




               8     EATING THE BIG FISH



               there will be a close fit along a straight line for every brand—except the
               Ford Ranger. It alone did not obey the normal laws of proportionate
               returns.2
                   Why? Because the Ranger was the compact pickup segment leader
               and as such enjoyed a dramatically higher share of shopping, even
               when supported by a comparatively low share of voice. And we see all
               around us Market Leaders playing this card, knowing the strength of it
               for an important group of consumers, from Clarins talking in its advertis-
               ing about its being ‘‘The European Leader in Luxury Skin Care’’ to a
               Singaporean bus side informing us that ‘‘Seoul Gardens is the world’s
               largest chain of Table Barbeque Restaurants.’’ If you are looking for a
               recommendation for somewhere to eat this evening, you can’t argue
               with that, it seems.
                   It looks as though, then, as an ambitious Number Two we will need to
               offer a greater source of differentiation, not just in our image, but in a
               way that genuinely impacts the entire shopping process. We cannot
               compete effectively with the brand leader under the existing rules.


               STAGE THREE: PURCHASE AND LOYALTY
               A picture is emerging. It translates even into purchase and loyalty, albeit
               in a less dramatic fashion.
                   Double jeopardy is a brand phenomenon that has been studied and
               modeled by researchers in marketing for over 45 years across a variety
               of markets in cultures as diverse as the United States and Japan. It refers
               to the combined effects of two benefits that high-share brands profit
               from relative to low-share brands. The first of these benefits is the
               obvious one: High-share brands enjoy higher penetration (i.e., simply
               have more buyers) than low-share brands. The second, more interesting
               observation is that the buyers of high-share brands buy them more often
               than the buyers of low-share brands purchase those low-share brands
               (e.g., see Figure 1.4).
                   The cumulative effect of these two factors taken together leads to
               relative scale of increase in the number of purchases tending toward the
               exponential effect observed in the work on salience shown in Figure 1.2.
               (Some researchers, indeed, have claimed to observe variances for very
               high share brands greater even than this.)
c01_1   01/06/2009      9




                                                                     The Law of Increasing Returns              9


              FIGURE 1.4 Annual penetrations and average purchase frequencies (leading
                         brands of U.S. instant coffee in their market-share order).

                                                                                         Average Purchase

              Instant Coffee (USA, 1981)         Market Share          Penetration      Of Brand        Of Any

              Any Instant                          100%                   67%               —               7
              Maxwell House                         19                    24                3.6             9
              Sanka                                 15                    21                3.3             9
              Tasters Choice                        14                    22                2.8             9
              High Point                            13                    22                2.6             9
              Folgers                               11                    18                2.7             9
              Nescafe                                8                    13                2.9            10
              Brim                                   4                     9                2.0             9
              Maxim                                  3                     6                2.6            11
              All other brands                      13                    20                3.0             9
              Average Brand                         11                    17                2.8             9
              
              purchases per buyer of the brand
              Source:   MRCA/Professor A.S.C. Ehrenberg/R & DI3




              THE CONSEQUENCE: PROFITABILITY
              What, of course, all this leads up to is Brand Leaders making more damn
              money than we do. Figure 1.5 is taken from the Profit Impact of Market
              Strategy (PIMS) database; it shows the return on investment for a Brand
              Leader (split into two different kinds—dominators and marginal leaders)
              compared to second- and third-ranked brands.


              FIGURE 1.5 Return on Investment % (average over four years).

                                     United                                          Consumer      Consumer
              Market Rank            States      Europe   Industrial     Service     Durables     Non-durables

              Dominator                32          40           30         46          32             45
              Marginal Leader          21          27           20         34          22             33
              Rank Two                 18          26           17         33          16             29
              Rank Three               12          12           13         17           7             11
              Follower                  8           7            8         15           6              5
              Source:   PIMS database of performance of 3,679 businesses, 2007, www.pimsconsulting.com
c01_1   01/06/2009   10




               10    EATING THE BIG FISH



                   Look at the overall figure for the United States (the left-hand column):
               While a second-rank brand makes half as much profit again as a third-
               rank brand, a brand leader that dominates the category makes almost
               triple that. Or take durables: A second-rank brand makes twice as much
               as a Number Three, but a dominator doubles that again. I bring this up
               not just as a stockholder issue, but as a further compounding of the dif-
               ference in resources between us. Those with an aversion to data tables
               may find the profitability of a market dominator illustrated a little more
               vividly by the remuneration of Roberto Goizueta, the late CEO of Coca-
               Cola, who became the first CEO to earn $1 billion in salary and bonuses
               alone. That has yet to happen at PepsiCo or Dr. Pepper.
                   If profit allows a company to make choices, to invest resources in
               finding sources of future competitive advantage, then this disparity
               serves to widen the discrepancy between the chips the Brand Leader
               has at its disposal and the pile we have to play with. As we have seen,
               each of a Brand Leader’s chips seems to win for it twice as much as ours.
                   Which is one of the reasons why so many Brand Leaders in fast-
               moving consumer goods (FMCG) markets, for instance, are exactly the
               same brands that were Market Leaders 60 years ago.
                   So what?
                   The point of all this is not to suggest that it is difficult for second-rank
               brands to catch the Number One; as we will come to see, that is rarely
               their objective anyway. Nor is the point that at a crude level we as sec-
               ond-rank brands are outgunned more comprehensively than we thought
               (though we are). And we have not even come to talk about the kind of
               aggressive business practices pursued by Market Leaders to diminish
               the impetus, will, and opportunity for their lesser competitors.
                   What the law of increasing returns means is that we have to swim
               considerably more vigorously than the Brand Leader just to remain in
               the same place. Up to now, this has largely translated itself into conver-
               sations about relevance and focus: decisions about communication
               strategy and customer targeting.
                   But what if staying where we are in the future will not be enough?
               What if profitable survival in our category requires the achievement of
               rapid growth, in a probably static market, in the face of three new kinds
               of competition? Knowing that to follow the model of the Brand Leader is
               to help it increase its market advantage?
c01_1   01/06/2009   11




                                                       The Law of Increasing Returns   11



                  It would mean that we would need to abandon conservatism and in-
              crementalism and start thinking like a Challenger just to survive healthily.
              It would mean we would have to behave and think about the way
              we marketed ourselves in a completely different kind of way. Find a dif-
              ferent way of thinking about our goals and strategic objectives. Require,
              in fact, a different kind of decision-making process altogether.
                  A financial analyst was quoted approvingly in Financial World for
              commenting, ‘‘There is a certain trust associated with the McDonald’s
              brand name.’’ Continued the magazine, ‘‘Of course, [the analyst] has
              paid McDonald’s the ultimate compliment a service brand could hope
              to receive.’’4
                  A service brand? Any service brand? A Brand Leader, maybe, but cer-
              tainly not a Number Two or Three looking for growth. Of course trust is
              important—perhaps more important than ever before. But the curren-
              cies of quality, reassurance and trust, though they may well have been
              adequate until relatively recently for dominant Establishment brands,
              are woefully inadequate as the only basis for the kind of relationship we
              are going to need with our consumer. Facing the Law of Increasing
              Returns, Number Two brands are going to need to deal in altogether
              more potent currencies: those of curiosity, desire, and reevaluation. To
              succeed, they are going to have to create an emotional identification, a
              strength of belief in the brand, a sense that we are one to watch or
              explore—active expressions of choice and loyalty that will make some-
              one walk by the big, convenient facings of the Brand Leader and lean
              down to pick out the little blue can at the side. As a second-rank brand,
              we don’t just want to create desire, we want to create intensity of desire.
                  This demands a different kind of marketing altogether, a different
              approach. We will come to see that it will demand a change, in fact, not
              just in strategy but in the attitude that precedes that strategy and the
              behavior that follows. Fundamental to each decision taken and each
              way of thinking will be the concept of mechanical advantage—the physi-
              cal principle describing a machine that manages to create greater out-
              put from the same or lesser input. Getting more results, in short, from
              fewer resources. Not only is this going to be the framework for our entire
              way of thinking, but it is also going to be the brief for the way we rethink
              the internal working structure, processes, and behavior of the company
              and people behind the brand.
c01_1   01/06/2009   12




               12    EATING THE BIG FISH



                   And at the heart of mechanical advantage in marketing—its currency,
               in fact—are ideas.


               SUMMARY
               There are considerable advantages in being a Challenger: We don’t
               have to be all things to all people; we can choose a place to stand and
               something to believe in; we can focus on brilliantly delivering that and
               that alone—even if, while some people love us, others sail right on by.
                   But let us go into this challenge with our eyes wide open. The reality
               is that the middle ground will be an increasingly dangerous place to
               live—it is not for nothing that Wal-Mart talks dismissively about ‘‘the
               mush in the middle.’’ To allow yourself to continue to be just another
               second-rank brand is, by default, to put yourself into the mouth of the
               Big Fish and wait for the jaws to close. Caught in the new food chain
               between the new hunger of the Brand Leader, the speculative sharks
               from other categories crossing over into ours, and the crocodile smile
               on the face of our retailer, the only path to medium- and long-term
               health is rapid growth. We are not necessarily seeking to be Number
               One; there is a perfectly healthy living to be made as Number Two or
               Number Three in our market (or large market sector). But to be one of
               those brands, we have to put some air between ourselves and the com-
               petition. We cannot be just another middle-market player; we have to
               be a strong Number Two.
                   And we can’t get there by behaving like a smaller version of the Big
               Fish.
c02_1   01/06/2009   13




                     2
              THE CONSUMER ISN’T
                     I rarely go out to lunch. I consider it an interruption in my workday.
                     I review news clippings during my lunch minute.
                                                                            Donald Trump1




             I  f consumerism were a brand, we would say that the person on the
                street had developed significantly different usage, attitudes, and
              behavior toward that brand over the past three decades—and yet the
              vocabulary we still use to talk about it remains essentially unchanged.
              The old underlying structures and concepts that we still refer to implicitly
              every time we use words like consumer and audience and category are
              thus now left fundamentally flawed. These were concepts, after all,
              coined at the beginning of the packaged goods mass market, when
              families watched television together and being a consumer meant
              something because—certainly in the United States—consumerism was
              embraced by the general public as a healthy sign of being part of, or
              aspiring to, the middle class. But although our vocabulary fails to
              acknowledge it, the world is very different today. Consider what has
              happened to just those three basic concepts—audience, consumer, and
              category—over the past 30 years.


              THE AUDIENCE ISN’T
              Ant Farm was a radical collective of American architects/artists, best
              known for two pieces of installation and performance art. One, called
              Cadillac Ranch, consisted of a row of Cadillacs buried nose down in

                                                                                        13
c02_1   01/06/2009     14




               14     EATING THE BIG FISH



               Texas. The other, Media Burn, was more of a polemic performance
               piece, where, in 1975, in front of an invited crowd in a small arena in the
               Cow Palace in San Francisco, a car accelerated up to and crashed
               through a stack of 42 burning televisions. The meaning of the event was
               introduced by the self-styled ‘‘Artist President,’’ who addressed the
               crowd before the car set off on its last run. ‘‘Who can deny,’’ he asked
               the crowd with feeling, ‘‘[that] we are a nation addicted to television and
               the constant flow of media?’’2
                   Ant Farm’s prescient cri de coeur was, of course, in vain. More than
               35 years later, the addiction to a constant flow of media is one of the
               defining qualities of modern life across the developed world. To the
               point, of course, where consumers, particularly the younger generation
               of so-called digital natives, are experiencing and interacting with many
               of those media flows simultaneously.
                   Figure 2.1 is a chart from a piece of research by OMD and Yahoo!,
               looking at how an average global citizen (specifically a family-based
               citizen) spends time during an average day. You can see that if you add
               together all these units of activity with the time individuals spent on each
               one, they cumulatively add up to 43 hours of activity per person in what


               FIGURE 2.1 What does the average global citizen do in a day?



                7.9hrs with technology                           Half spent on the essentials
                IM, landline phone, cell phone SMS,              (47%, 20.3hrs)
                MP3 player, online, console games,
                PDA, online journals/blogs,
                                                            43
                emailing, listening to music (not radio),                     Sleep 7.1hrs
                going to the movies

                                                                                    Commuting 1.2hrs
                8.7hrs with media
                3.6hrs internet
                2.5hrs watching TV                 30                         10     Work 6.4hrs
                1.3hrs radio
                0.7hrs newspaper
                0.6hrs magazines
                                                                                   School 2.7hrs


                6hrs with family and friends                20               Chores, errands,
                4.5hrs with Family                                           cooking, cleaning 2.9hrs
                1.5hrs with Friends



               Source:    Yahoo! and OMD study3
c02_1   01/06/2009   15




                                                                 The Consumer Isn’t    15



              we would have historically thought of as a 24-hour day (including 7 hours
              of sleep). The reason, of course, is because people are doing a number
              of these key activities at the same time.
                  And of course this rate of activity is operating at a time when many
              consumers feel—in part because of this multiplicity of stimulus—more
              stressed than ever before. So much has been written about the con-
              sumer’s sense of being time-poor and stressed today that it has become
              a cliché. But the fact that it has become a cliché should not blind us to
              the fact that it is profoundly true and is having a considerable effect on
              the way that consumers interact with marketing activities, communica-
              tions, and ideas. One of the most important shifts that has resulted, from
              our point of view, is the relationship that people are looking for in the
              media they use.
                  In a poll a few years ago, 94 percent of all American adults stated that
              a primary use of their free time was to recuperate from work. If true, this
              is one of the most important pieces of marketing data to have emerged
              in recent years, and it describes a profound shift in the way consumers
              use one of the principal marketing tools at our disposal, namely, the tel-
              evision. It implies that there has been a profound shift in our society,
              from a work/leisure society (i.e., one that self-consciously divides itself
              between two basic types of activity, work or leisure) to one that divides
              its time between three: a work/recuperation/leisure society.
                  Why is this important to us? Because recuperation is a very different
              thing from leisure. You use recuperation time in a different way, and you
              look for different kinds of experiences. Look at yourself. Exhaustion is, in
              every sense, a great leveler. At a very profound level, the consumer is
              yourself on a Thursday night after a tough four days. What kind of adver-
              tising do you want to watch, or have pop up on your screen? The answer,
              of course, is none at all. At nine o’clock on a Thursday night, all you want
              to do is escape a little. Relax. Eat peanuts and scratch your stomach.
                  It is not simply a question of boredom thresholds or tolerance levels
              decreasing—even in serious relationships (with a local divorce rate run-
              ning at 68 percent, one county in the American Midwest has been con-
              sidering compulsory prenuptial counseling before granting a marriage
              license). It is a question of the pace at which we live profoundly im-
              pacting quite basic levels of human need. We live in a world in which
              companies are monitoring the amount of bathroom tissue that is used
c02_1   01/06/2009   16




               16    EATING THE BIG FISH



               to demonstrate that people go to the bathroom less often when they are
               working more intensely. We take less time between activities—we con-
               stantly hurry on to the next. We show no surprise when we read the
               CMO of Quiznos saying, entirely seriously (based on their research),
               ‘‘The average lunch hour has shrunk to 23 minutes.’’4 Well, it used to be
               an hour, but we take less than half that now, before we propel ourselves
               on to the next task we need to achieve today. If individuals, social ani-
               mals with physical needs, are cutting down on such basic requirements
               in order to get through the day, what slack are they going to cut us, the
               people trying to communicate with them? In this context, when their
               prime evening motivation is recuperation and escape, advertisers have
               moved beyond being clutter. They are no longer in the communication
               business, they are in a new kind of business altogether: the nuisance
               business. And our brilliant response to this as communicators has simply
               been to increase the number of different ways we try to throw our mes-
               sages at them. Gas pumps, post office queues, ATMs—is it any wonder
               that the mayor of São Paulo has now banned all outdoor advertising as
               visual pollution? Are we not pouring kerosene on the problem rather
               than genuinely addressing it? And if we think Sa     ~o Paulo is a little
               extreme, let us at least consider Figure 2.2.

               FIGURE 2.2 Annoyance with TV Advertising is increasing.

                          35%


                          30%


                          25%


                          20%


                          15%
                                1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002

                                 TV ads are annoying (% agreeing)
                                 Enjoy ads as much as TV programmes (% agreeing)

               Source:   Target Group Index c BMRB 2008
c02_1   01/06/2009       17




                                                                         The Consumer Isn’t    17



                  They have less energy to give to us, they are doing more things at the
              same time, and the relationship with much of conventional advertising is
              slowly and insistently degrading.
                  Which means that the audience is not an audience. To call them an
              audience presupposes they are listening. In fact, we, the brand, are
              merely one of the three or four acts that are on stage simultaneously,
              each vying for the attention of the potential audience. Children, conver-
              sation with one’s partner, food, magazines—video research of consum-
              ers watching television shows that they are anything but a captive
              audience, even when the programming is on. In the UK, for instance,
              36 percent of texting takes place in front of the television, while in the
              United States one study suggested that 23 percent of golf programming
              plays to an empty room. So an audience’s attention to advertising is get-
              ting even more selective (see Figure 2.3).
                  Referring to audience, then, although that word is used almost inter-
              changeably to refer to our target, is fundamentally flawed. Our target is
              not an audience, for that would presuppose they were watching or lis-
              tening. While it may have more usefully described our target at the be-
              ginning of the intersection of mass marketing and television (and even
              this is arguable), it certainly does not do so now. The audience isn’t.



              FIGURE 2.3 ‘‘Do you recall seeing any commercials while watching the
                         program (American Idol or Desperate Housewives)?’’

                                                                                        Yes
                                                                              67
                                                                                        No
                                                                                        Don’t Know
                                             52
                                                               45
              Percent   36 35
                                                          39
                                        34
                                29
                                                                         24

                                                   14               16
                                                                                   9

                        Non-DVR              DVR           DVR Live      DVR Recorded

              Source:    OMD Proprietary DVR Study 2006
c02_1   01/06/2009     18




               18     EATING THE BIG FISH



                     And neither, in fact, in any very useful sense, is it a consumer.5


               THE CONSUMER ISN’T
               Implicit in the idea of a consumer is someone who is engaged in an
               activity—namely consuming. Basking in this, as marketeers we eagerly
               add rational information for consumers to absorb and inform themselves
               with our packaging, brochures, in-store material, and direct mail. Don’t
               put it in the body copy, we say, confidently—we’ll get our consumers to
               pick it up in the nutritional information.
                    In fact, consumption for the vast majority of our target of anything
               other than the product itself is passive at best, and with very rare excep-
               tions, it is centered around the actual moment of purchase or use—people
               don’t have the energy or inclination to be continuously engaged with
               regard to a product. They are simply using your product and getting on
               with their lives. In most cases, the smaller the interaction—the less they
               have to react to—the better. There is evidence to suggest that people
               want fewer nutritional claims, less choice, and less information to have
               to deal with in the things they buy every day, whatever they actually tell
               you in groups.
                    Furthermore, to say they are willing consumers of a product is not to
               say they are necessarily open-minded consumers (or even consumers at
               all) of its marketing. It is well-known that the happy coexistence between
               marketeer and consumer of 30 years ago has been strained by the cyni-
               cism toward institutions of all types (from the government down)—to the
               point where they have become inoculated against many of the market-
               ing claims in each category. It is not simply that people are marketing-
               aware in concept and vocabulary (the knowledgeable contemporary
               consumer is the exact antithesis of Vance Packard’s unprotected inno-
               cent), it is that as victims of hype and oversell by flagging players in
               maturing or overmature markets, they don’t intend to trust anyone but
               themselves. One might forgive them for scoffing at advertising images
               of smiling flight attendants pouring drinks, when the evidence of experi-
               ence has denied the gloss for so long; more startling is the disbelief
               when a genuinely superior product comes onto the market. This is not
               new: Even 10 years ago, when Sony PlayStation at launch in the United
               States tried, as a possible communications route, to talk about its
c02_1   01/06/2009      19




                                                                             The Consumer Isn’t   19


              FIGURE 2.4 Trust is eroding.

                             Trust in brands has eroded

                                   60

                                   50

                                                            average trust endorsement
                                   40


                         percent   30

                                   20

                                   10

                                   0
                                        1997      2001      2003         2005           2006

              Source:   Y&R/Brand Asset Valuator USA 1997, 2001, 2003, 2005, 20066


              genuine product advantages (360-degree movement, 3-D graphics, and
              higher resolution), the teenage target exposed to these concepts simply
              sneered—not because these were not things to be desired, but because
              Sega and Nintendo had tried to sell their ailing 16-bit technology on
              such claims and lied. Burnt once, twice, the target was not about to be
              fooled again. And, as Figure 2.4 shows, this weak trust in brands has fur-
              ther halved since then across all categories.
                 So, how much of your marketing does your consumer really want to
              consume? I suggest to you that your consumer isn’t consuming in any
              really useful sense. The consumer, in fact, isn’t.
                 And neither, perhaps, is your category.


              THE CATEGORY ISN’T
              To begin with, we are all much too close to our own categories: Con-
              sumers simply don’t see them in the clearly defined way that we see
              them. If one lays out 16 products in front of focus group respondents
              and asks them to sort the products by which criteria they—the product
              users—regard as being the same and which as being different, one fre-
              quently finds that what we would regard as the ‘‘category’’ groupings
c02_1   01/06/2009   20




               20    EATING THE BIG FISH



               are the least interesting, least useful (and often emerge surprisingly late)
               in the different ways the products can be sorted. Where we as marke-
               teers see each product category as being substantially different from
               another, the target very often doesn’t. Consumers are making compari-
               sons of relative use and value across categories that transcend the crude
               ways we ourselves divide them. A woman asked in a focus group to sort
               out female toiletries divided them into two piles: one she called ‘‘Pret-
               ties,’’ and one she characterized as ‘‘Things you throw in the basket with
               the frozen chicken.’’7 Quite apart from being a more accurate portrayal
               of her relationship with, for instance, underarm deodorants than our own
               physical description of what the category offers, this is also a far more
               revealing and useful way of thinking about the problems and opportuni-
               ties for your brand. Instead of considering minor package changes for
               relative standout compared to the competition, for instance, our time
               might be better spent considering how we would turn something that
               was just for ‘‘throwing in the basket with the frozen chicken’’ into a
               ‘‘pretty.’’
                   In any case, the most powerful brands have an emotional role that
               transcends their historical category usage—and in the digital space
               much of the point is that people are finding their own applications for
               what brands are giving them. For instance, a traveler recently going to
               Hawaii researched a hotel he was considering staying at (the Fairmont
               Orchid), by using other people’s photographs on flickr, postings on You-
               Tube, and comments on TripAdvisor because he wanted to avoid the
               glossy unreality of the hotel’s own website.8
                   Does this make flickr a photo sharing site, or a travel research tool? It
               is whatever its consumer wants it to be: We are limiting the potential of
               our own brand by thinking purely in terms of our own category.
                   Furthermore, what boundaries they do draw are not always the ones
               we ourselves live by; they are in fact being encouraged by product de-
               velopment within even apparently complementary categories to break
               down the walls even further. Technology is an obvious example—if one
               offers the consumer a machine that is simultaneously a phone, a camera,
               an e-mail device, and an Internet browser, which category are we in? But
               this blurring is not limited in any way to technology. Historically, for
               instance, you would have said that the hotel business and the luggage
               business were complementary—greater use of one encouraged greater
c02_1   01/06/2009   21




                                                                The Consumer Isn’t      21



              need of the other. But as Samsonite reinvigorated its product range for
              the travel-jaded road warrior a few years ago, making it lighter, faster,
              more convenient to carry and stow, the Four Seasons Hotel in Chicago
              introduced ‘‘No Luggage Service,’’ where, far from needing to minimize
              your luggage, you can in principle travel with absolutely no luggage at
              all—you can have the clothes you walk in wearing cleaned while you put
              on one of a range of men’s or women’s apparel that the hotel lends out.
              The Four Seasons realized, it seems, that the question one typically asks
              of consumers in luggage focus groups—‘‘What kind of bags do you really
              want?’’—is in a very real sense starting too far downstream: People
              these days simply don’t want to have to deal with the hassle of carrying
              bags at all.
                  Besides, in certain key respects, consumers don’t want to see catego-
              ries as being entirely different; in many ways, they want their service
              aspects, for instance, to have more in common. Twenty or so years ago,
              every service category had developed its own rules of engagement with
              its consumers—car dealers treated you one way, fast food treated you in
              its own fashion, airlines were airlines, and so on. And the consumer, in
              turn, generally accepted this. But today, consumers have become aware
              of what is possible—and indeed what they should be expecting for their
              money—in any category. Educated by quality of service or experience in
              one business, they transfer those expectations to every category in
              which there is a service transaction. A respondent at a focus group on
              airlines put the case with some verve:

                 You know, I have a dry cleaner at the end of my street. It’s just a
                 little Italian guy doing his own thing, no big company or anything.
                 I took him a work blouse on Monday, and I needed it in a hurry.
                 ‘‘No problem,’’ he says. So on the way home I picked it up in the
                 evening and it turns out it’s missing a button and he’s replaced it
                 with another just the same, without even making a big deal about
                 it. Doesn’t charge me anything extra; like it’s all just part of the
                 service.
                      Well, then on Wednesday I get on the flight to New York, and I
                 ask for an extra packet of peanuts because I haven’t eaten any
                 lunch, and the flight attendant tells me I can’t have any more
                 because she only has one bag of nuts per passenger to give out.
c02_1   01/06/2009     22




               22     EATING THE BIG FISH



                     And that doesn’t hold up for me. When I look at how much more
                     money I give the airline each year than my dry cleaner, and how
                     many more people they have working for them, and the infra-
                     structure and everything, I just don’t understand how they can
                     hold their heads up and say stuff like that.

                   Ask them in focus groups in Des Moines what the blueprint for a new
               camera company would be like, and they answer the name of a com-
               puter/media/electronics company: Apple. Today, quality of experience
               and the expectations that it engenders travel beyond the category in
               which they were first experienced.
                   Our category, in summary, isn’t.
                   In conclusion, then, the language that we use every day in our jobs is
               a legacy from a past that is no longer relevant, leaving that same vocab-
               ulary and the concepts it represents fundamentally flawed premises for
               the new world in which marketeers say they are beginning to find them-
               selves. Implicit in those concepts are numerous assumptions that may
               have been correct when the language was first coined but that are dan-
               gerously misleading today. Now, I am not going to attempt in the rest of
               this book to pursue this caution into the invention of a replacement
               vocabulary—it would make for tiresome reading, besides distracting us
               from the principal thrust of the book, which is the study of Challenger
               brands. For the moment, it will serve to remain keenly aware of those
               implicit pitfalls and think of the old marketing language we still use as
               like a rotten wooden floor—it will take our weight as long as we realize
               we have to walk gingerly and understand the nature of the drop
               beneath.
                   Which brings us back to the imperative of mechanical advantage and
               the importance of ideas.


               COMMUNICATION DOESN’T
               The shift in the way we need to think about the category, the audience,
               and the consumer suggests that we should not be thinking of our mar-
               keting goal as communication. The sum of all this is that communication
               doesn’t, or rather, that communication doesn’t necessarily. Commu-
               nications suggest active listening, but our target doesn’t want to be
c02_1   01/06/2009   23




                                                                  The Consumer Isn’t    23



              communicated to, isn’t waiting for a further message. Put bluntly, there-
              fore, anyone who talks about ‘‘communications’’ or ‘‘integrated commu-
              nications’’ is again using a flawed concept in the current business
              environment. The only business to be in is the ideas business (integrated
              or otherwise); for implicit in the ideas business is not simply the idea of
              communication, but also that of engagement—seizing the audience’s
              imagination.
                  The combination of category blurring and the consumer’s changed
              relationship with television has significant implications for advertising: In
              a very real sense, our competition in this new world, particularly this new
              world of recuperation is now all advertising, not just our principal com-
              petitor’s share of voice. If total ad spending in the United States was
              $210 billion in 2006, and we are a brand that spends $21 million on ad-
              vertising a year, our real share of voice is 0.01 percent. If we are in the
              laundry detergent business, our competition is not the appalling com-
              mercials our competitors deploy for laundry detergents but the other
              commercials our target are engaged by, and respond to, across every
              category: pizza, online dating, cola, beer. A competitive advertising
              review must be all the competitive advertising the target sees: our action
              standards measured in terms of which of those—whether within or out-
              side what we call ‘‘our category’’—the consumer finds relevant and
              appealing.
                  Which is why, as a Challenger, we need ideas. Implicit in the concept
              of ideas, quite apart from the content, is that they are engaging, provoc-
              ative, and self-propagating. The unexpected pairing that an idea con-
              sists of seizes or engages the attention and imagination of the target
              rather than assuming what ears are already waiting to hear; it provokes a
              response rather than allowing the listener’s indifference to be main-
              tained; and it is self-propagating in that, once seeded, it does not
              require constant external feeding to flourish.
                  This concept of ideas will run throughout the book. Indeed, most of
              the Eight Credos have at their heart the development and implementa-
              tion of ideas.
c03_1   01/06/2009   24




                     3
               WHAT IS A
               CHALLENGER BRAND?
                     I’m going to upset the whole world.
                                                                       Muhammad Ali, 1964




               N     ot least among the difficulties in abandoning, as we are attempt-
                     ing to, the natural reactions we fall back on in times of marketing
               adversity is the daunting prospect of facing a journey we have not made
               before—a journey that seems almost by definition to be one for which
               there is no map or precedent. It takes more time, energy, and effort to
               create something new than to mimic something old, and these are the
               three commodities of which we feel most deprived. We need new brand
               models to guide us, to give us an overall sense of direction—an intuitive
               marketing compass we can fall back on in the fog of war. We look envi-
               ously at the precedents of the legal world; would that we had new
               precedents of our own to help shortcut decision making.
                  Well, we do. They’re just not the precedents we used to use—the Brand
               Leaders. Instead, we have to look to another kind of model—from a type of
               brand that is far more relevant to us. The criteria for a brand we (as, at best,
               a Number Two in a category) should be looking to emulate are three:

               1. They should be at best a second-rank brand themselves.
               2. They should have demonstrated a period of sustained and dramatic
                  growth.
               3. They should be from a category other than our own.

               24
c03_1   01/06/2009   25




                                                         What Is a Challenger Brand?   25



                 It is these kinds of second-rank brands we shall call Challenger
              brands.


              WHAT IS A CHALLENGER BRAND?
              The expression Challenger brand may be thought to simply evoke a
              Number Two or Number Three brand that is up against a much bigger
              and more muscular Brand Leader—the Establishment brand. Images of
              David against Goliath come again to mind: attitude and a single shot
              against confidence and power. And isn’t the Challenger naturally the
              Number Two to the Establishment brand rather than any rank lower?
              Can one really challenge from the position of fourth, fifth, or sixth?
                  One might have agreed with this up until the 1960s. But when Avis,
              which explicitly introduced the whole concept of the Number Two brand
              to modern consumer and marketeer alike, launched the celebrated
              ‘‘We’re Number Two, so we try harder’’ positioning, the brand wasn’t
              quite in the close second place its advertising suggested; it was certainly
              in the following pack, but at some distance from Hertz. The brilliance of
              the strategy was that its claimed position took it out ahead of the chas-
              ing pack, apparently snapping at the heels of the gigantic Hertz. One
              would get the impression from the advertising, in fact, that they were
              the only two players of any significance in the market at all. Two decades
              later, Richard Branson’s Virgin Atlantic played the same game with
              British Airways in its home market. Although there are a huge number of
              choices of carriers to cross the Atlantic, Virgin has created the impres-
              sion for the domestic consumer that there are only two choices on the
              routes it flies: itself and British Airways.
                  The classification of brands we examine throughout the rest of the
              book are consequently deliberately broad, both in the ranking of the
              Challenger within its market (if it has one—Second Life, for example, ef-
              fectively created an entirely new market) and indeed in the definition it
              embraces of what is and is not a brand. The reader immediately comfort-
              able with New Zealand and Daniel Radcliffe alongside Burger King and
              method as brands, and the Blue Man Group and Dubai alongside Lexus
              as Challengers can move directly to the First Credo (Chapter 4). For
              those who prefer greater preliminary clarity, the rest of this chapter looks
              to define exactly what we mean by the term ‘‘Challenger brand.’’
c03_1   01/06/2009     26




               26     EATING THE BIG FISH



               THE THREE CRITERIA FOR A CHALLENGER BRAND
               There are three criteria for a Challenger brand: a state of market, a state
               of mind, and a rate of success:

                   1. State of Market. Challengers are by definition not the Number
               One brands, nor are they niche.
                   2. State of Mind. This is what really characterizes all these players—
               being Number Two (Number Six, or 18) is simply an accident of birth.
               Challenger brands have a mind-set that encompasses two key
               differentiators:
                    Ambitions that exceed their conventional marketing resources, and,
                    A preparedness to accept the marketing implications of the gap
                     between their ambition and their marketing resource.

                  The latter is an important distinction—ambition in a marketing plan is
               not enough; being smaller and hopeful, without a preparedness to be-
               have in whatever way is necessary to fulfill that ambition will lead to
               nothing but being small and disappointed. And note that in talking
               about a ‘‘Challenger mind-set’’ we are not necessarily talking about
               aggression. Taking a historical perspective, both the Sex Pistols and
               Gandhi were Challengers, but only one of them was aggressive; a deter-
               mination to change the status quo doesn’t necessarily require a full
               frontal attitude.

                  3. Rate of Success. The final criterion for a Challenger has to be, for
               our purposes, success. There is no point in imitating an aggressive brand
               that has failed—this is not challenge, merely arrogance or misguided
               ambition. We shall require of all our brands that they have enjoyed signifi-
               cant and sustained growth through their marketing actions. This is not to
               say that they are still always growing at the same rate (e.g., Oakley), but
               that there is a period of their life we can learn from, a period in which they
               enjoyed rapid growth. This is what Challengers can offer us over the
               Brand Leaders—an illustration of how to do it quickly.

                  The antithesis of the Challenger brand is the Establishment brand. The
               most dominant example of this is the Brand Leader, but other brands—
               even long-standing Number Two brands—can fall into this category if they
               lack either the ambition or the acceptance of the marketing implications.
c03_1   01/06/2009   27




                                                        What Is a Challenger Brand?   27



              THE PRINCIPAL CHALLENGER BRANDS CONSIDERED HERE
              I have chosen brands that I have been able to get good primary or sec-
              ondary data on, or have worked on myself. Although, therefore, not a
              scientific study in the sense that the brands can be said to be a repre-
              sentative sample of all brands, I have attempted to include a broad mix
              of the following:

                 Launches (method, Facebook) versus relaunches (Burger King, Dove)
                 U.S. brands versus international brands
                 Challengers that continue to enjoy strong growth (innocent) versus
                  Challengers that have displayed strong growth in the past, even if
                  recent performance has plateaued (the Schrager hotels)
                 Categories as diverse as, for instance, packaged goods, services, fast
                  food, cities, automotive, online retailers, and entertainment

                  I have included some brands the reader may not be familiar with,
              either because they are regional brands within the United States
              (Umpqua Bank) or because they are brands from countries and markets
              with which the reader may be unfamiliar (e.g., South Africa). These are
              included not simply to leaven their more familiar costars, but because
              each has an enviable growth rate that has strikingly outperformed
              the category—and the Brand Leader—they compete against. method,
              for instance, may be at some level relatively small ($150 million in sales
              in 2007), but it is at once the seventh-fastest-growing company in the
              United States and the world’s largest eco-cleaning brand. Equally, inno-
              cent is a UK smoothie brand that, though it began without any advertis-
              ing support at all, has grown to become the UK’s fastest growing
              packaged goods brand, and in the process has redefined much of
              the way the British marketing world thinks about the role and power of
              packaging. These are brands I have felt it is worth trading a small amount
              of explanation for in order to reap the rewards of their experience.
                  Category aside, these fall into four groups, as shown in Figure 3.1.
              Each of the four sections of the grid represents a different kind of
              Challenger. Most of the discussion in the book centers on group A;
              these are launches or relaunches that have challenged the Brand Leader
              in the category. Group B includes brands that have either created their
              own category or succeeded by moving outside what had been thought
c03_1   01/06/2009   28




               28    EATING THE BIG FISH


               FIGURE 3.1 Different kinds of challengers.

               A. Challenger Brands                   B. ‘‘Challenger’’ Brands

               Launches or re-launches into a         Challengers that have succeeded
               category with an established Brand     by inventing their own category
               Leader (e.g. Dyson, Target)            (e.g. Red Bull)

               C. Challenger ‘‘Brands’’               D. Historical Challengers

               Challengers that are not brands as     Historical Challengers (e.g. Gandhi,
               such (e.g. Bikram ‘‘hot’’ yoga, soy)   America 1776–1941, The
                                                      Sansculottes)




               of as their ‘‘natural’’ category altogether. They accomplished growth in
               slightly different ways from group A—if growth is caused either by in-
               creasing their market share or increasing their market, then brands
               in the top right of the grid increased their market: Cirque du Soleil, for
               instance, redefined its competition from other circuses to be ‘‘every
               other show in town’’ and aimed to attract the occasional show-goer by
               being one of the two things they went to see that year. Brands in the
               group A, on the other hand, were as likely to take share from the Brand
               Leader as they were to grow the market.


               WHAT’S A SEARCH ENGINE GOING TO TELL ME
               ABOUT SELLING SHEET METAL?
               The problem with marketing case histories such as the list of Challengers
               we have just mentioned is this: If they are in our category, we already
               know all about them, and they have long since lost the ability to stimu-
               late or inspire (far less offer an opportunity to derive competitive
               advantage). If, conversely, they are outside our category, we don’t know
               what to do with them. Take the most discussed Challenger (and now
               dominant leader, in search at least) of the past 10 years: Google. Much
               featured, much feted, but what do we make of it if we don’t sell search?
               Or how do we apply the learnings from Zara? The clothing market is
               fascinating, but it’s an image market, and I’m competing on service. Oh,
               and don’t talk to me about New Zealand—my distribution system is
c03_1   01/06/2009   29




                                                        What Is a Challenger Brand?   29



              nothing like the tourism business. Like looking through a piece of
              textured glass, one thinks one grasps the application of the point the
              author is trying to make, but it doesn’t really seem to match the lines
              and structures we actually live with every day. And so we put this other
              marketing world down and forget about it, the bridge unfinished
              between them and us.
                 Yet a key thrust of this entire book, and the strategic process we are
              going to create, is that there is at least as great an advantage to be
              gained from watching the players in other categories as in analyzing
              the players in one’s own. In order to flourish under the dynamics of the
              new, more voracious marketing food chain, the new brand models we
              should be watching and learning from are not the other brands in our
              own category. They are instead:

                 Second-rank brands (or people who were at the time second-rank
                  brands)
                 Brands outside our category
                 Brands that have demonstrated rapid growth

                  If this is to work, we have to find a way of constructing a bridge from
              an apparently unrelated marketing category to our own in a way that
              is genuinely useful. Let us try to construct a bridge between two such
              businesses, and in doing so derive the first of a series of exercises that
              will form the building blocks of the Challenger strategic process later in
              the book.
                  Google is an interesting case for a number of reasons. When one
              reviews studies of the world’s favorite brands, Google almost always
              lands in the top 10 of all brands and almost always comes in the top 3
              favorite technology brands—and yet it has one very unusual charac-
              teristic compared to the other brands it finds itself in the company of
              in such lists: As a company it has an aversion to marketing. It is worth
              just lingering on this point, because it is so striking: Google has
              grown, as a Challenger (and then as a leader), to become one of the
              world’s favorite brands without actively marketing itself at all. Al-
              though Google is now one of the world’s largest companies, you as a
              consumer will never see any form of conventional advertising for it.
              Yet people love it.
c03_1   01/06/2009   30




               30    EATING THE BIG FISH



                   How has it done this?
                   The answer is a very simple one. The reason that people love Google
               so much is that it is startlingly useful. It delivers this startling usefulness in
               less than a second. It helps people do things they didn’t think possible
               (answer any question, see who has the biggest garden in the neighbor-
               hood, send all the wedding guests a map of how to get from the church
               to the reception), and it offers them ways of exploring their world and
               their potential with tools (from Ad Manager to Google Earth) that are
               easy or dramatic—and sometimes both. And it does all these things for
               free (or free to us, the user), with a simple and unassuming interface. And
               from the combination of these it comes across as a genuinely generous,
               giving brand. What’s not to love?
                   So, what can we learn from this if we are selling cars? Well, first things
               first. In one key regard, of course, Google is using marketing. Whether
               you are a student of the 4Ps or the 7Ps, one of those Ps is product. And
               Google is using the combination of three of these Ps in particular (prod-
               uct, price, and place) to deliver this sense of startling utility—it just isn’t
               using brand building in the ‘‘visible marketing’’ sense of brand building.
               But the product in this case is not an object, it is a service.
                   But the key thing we can learn from this is the value people place on a
               brand being startlingly useful to them—so, applying this, what would it
               mean for a car brand, or perhaps a car dealership, to be startlingly useful
               to people? Well, perhaps we would have to offer a whole range of infor-
               mation or services that we don’t currently offer. Perhaps, for instance, we
               would offer information about brands and models other than our own.
               This information would not be in the form of leaflets out on a table or
               even accessed via the Internet. Nothing startlingly useful about that.
               Perhaps we would offer our own version of Apple’s Genius Bar, with a
               resident techie who would be prepared to help them answer any ques-
               tion they liked, not just questions about car specs. This would not be our
               lead salesperson, perhaps all smiles and suavity in a sharp suit; this
               would be someone who wasn’t trying to sell us anything at all. Just help.
               To be startlingly useful, he or she could offer to tell us ways to reduce
               our commute to work by 10 minutes each way every day. They could be
               the center for neighborhood carpooling services or school ride shares.
               Perhaps our equivalent of Google Earth might be to offer additional
               services like ‘‘great car journeys of the world,’’ wonderful drives in which
c03_1   01/06/2009   31




                                                        What Is a Challenger Brand?   31



              to enjoy our cars, beautifully rendered, with places to stay along the way
              and the kinds of small boutiques, hotels, and cultural museums that
              reflect our particular brand sensibility. Or family picnics—places to take
              the kids, to get them away from the game console, so the family could
              all just mess around together. Bike trails within a 40 minutes’ drive.
              Guides to how to teach your son or daughter fishing, and places to do it
              together. And all done in a way that, as your customers unfold it, makes
              them gasp slightly at the drama of its unfolding.
                  Second, this new service would be very simple to use and enjoy. No
              forms to fill in, no clutter. No one trying to doorstep you on the way and
              sell you stuff. Very approachable and accessible.
                  Third, we would do this for free. We would recognize that there is a
              consumer response to generosity that we will recoup in other ways.
              That, in our case, word of mouth is the best advertising, and certainly as
              people shop for their next car, this would be a unique reason for them to
              come and see us while they are going around their three or four options.
              And if they come in and want to talk to the salesperson on the way out,
              then that would be wonderful. (If we are concerned about the cost, we
              could in fact let the publishers pay, like Google—those little hotels, bou-
              tiques, and fishing rod stores.)
                  And we would have a magic ingredient at the heart of all of this.
              Google has its mythical algorithm, which it is constantly improving (450
              times last year alone). So what would be our magical ingredient, the one
              that renders us both better and unable to be copied, at least in the
              consumer’s mind? Is it our techie? Is it the way we brand that person
              and their service? What is the thing we would be constantly and publicly
              improving, every day of every year?
                  In other words, the relevance of the Google case to us has nothing
              to do with whether we are in the search category or not. If we identify
              the points of emotional value that Larry Page and Sergey Brin created,
              and then look for how we would create exactly those same points of
              emotional value in our offer, even in this entirely different category, the
              relevance is not hard to find. In fact, we will go further. We will create
              the first of a series of exercises that turn a key point of relevance from
              the brand outside our category into an exercise we can apply to any
              category, regardless of the superficial differences and anomalies. These
              exercises take the form of intransitive verbs. The first such verb is this
c03_1   01/06/2009   32




               32    EATING THE BIG FISH



               (and we are going to deliberately change the conventional meaning of
               this verb here):

               To Google vb: to make ourselves startlingly useful to our user.

                  If we can translate each key case history discussed within each of the
               Eight Credos in this way, we will begin to develop a group of exercises
               that allows us to apply profitably the breakthroughs in thinking from other
               categories to our own and thus replicate their challenge and growth.
                  As second-rank brands, of course, we need rapid growth, whether we
               want to challenge or survive. The middle ground, as we saw earlier, is
               going to be an increasingly dangerous place to live.


               THE EIGHT CREDOS
               We shall start with a series of observations about what these brands all
               seem to be doing and then construct a new kind of strategic process and
               series of exercises we can apply to our own brands.
                  It will, of course, be something of a postrationalization. None of the
               people behind the brands we are discussing consciously sat down and
               said, ‘‘Okay, team, I think I’ve worked out the Eight Credos we have
               to follow.’’ They did it instinctively, often because they had to, rather
               than of their own volition. But that doesn’t matter for our purposes; we
               are learning from their experience curve. And in some cases, of course,
               they will be Challengers whose mistakes are as valuable as their
               successes.
                  Finally, at the heart of being a Challenger is precisely the fact that
               marketing is not a science, but rather informed judgment—there is
               opportunity in there being no marketing absolutes anymore. In the spirit
               of that informed judgment, then, while I have substantiated the core
               hypothesis as rigorously as possible throughout, at certain points I leave
               the tarmac road and offer a point of view about the future of marketing
               and the consumer; I telegraph these more subjective observations as
               clearly as possible when they occur.
c04_1   01/06/2009   33




                          PART    2
                       THE EIGHT CREDOS
                          OF SUCCESSFUL
                     CHALLENGER BRANDS
c04_1   01/06/2009   34
c04_1   01/06/2009   35




                     4
              THE FIRST CREDO:
              INTELLIGENT NAIVETY
                     Experience is what gets you through the door, but experience also
                     closes the door. You tend to rely on memory and stick with what
                     has worked before. You don’t try anything new.
                                                                         Twyla Tharp1



              THE VITALITY OF INEXPERIENCE
              Looking at the list of the great Challengers that have really impacted
              their individual markets, the first thing that strikes one is how many of
              them are launches: that is to say, how many of them (and more specifi-
              cally, the people behind them) lack any previous experience in their cho-
              sen category.
                  Even in the days when companies were still being started in garages
              rather than dorm rooms, it is striking how many of these founders knew
              relatively little about the categories they were launching into, and how
              beneficial that freshness proved to be. Both method and innocent, argu-
              ably the most influential packaged-goods brands of the moment in the
              United States and the UK, respectively, were started by people with no
              experience in cleaning products or smoothies. The most influential Chal-
              lenger soft drink in mainland Europe (Bionade) was started by a brewer
              who had never made nonalcoholic drinks before. Jeff Bezos of Amazon
              was in fact a hedge fund manager when he determined there was an
              opportunity to go into online book retailing, and start up in a two

                                                                                    35
c04_1   01/06/2009   36




               36    EATING THE BIG FISH



               bedroom house in Seattle. Richard Branson famously used the money he
               made from selling rock albums to start an airline business. George Hick-
               ton, the CEO of Tourism New Zealand, which has become perhaps one
               of the most admired and successful country brands of the past 20 years,
               had no experience in tourism or marketing: He was an expert in turning
               around businesses. James Dyson (who had studied furniture and interior
               design, rather than engineering, in college) had no experience in vacu-
               um cleaning—his previous invention was a new kind of wheelbarrow.
               Jimmy Lai of Apple Daily came out of clothing to start a newspaper.
               And of course, a whole new generation of entrepreneurs—who have
               never worked anywhere at all very much before—is changing forever the
               media, social, and information landscape. This last group is so successful
               they clearly don’t need the reassurance of any predecents, but they find
               one anyway in Michael Dell, who was himself a college student in Austin,
               Texas, when he realized he could beat both IBM and Compaq by focus-
               ing on the delivery system rather than on the product; by 2007, Dell
               Computers had a revenue of $57 billion.
                   So what’s the point here? The point is that we are taught that catego-
               ry experience is valuable, perhaps essential. There is a natural tendency
               in a company to think of its sphere of business or category as being spe-
               cial, with its own rules, intrinsically different from everyone else’s. And
               whenever one changes jobs or moves within the same job into another
               category of business, there is always that grimly predictable moment
               when the old hand leans across the table and explains over the course
               of an hour or two (rather patronizingly, in my experience) why this busi-
               ness is like no other business you have ever worked for. Our enthusiasm
               and fresh thinking are understandable, it seems, but misplaced—and
               when we know the business a little better, we’ll understand why.
                   And in some rather limited respects, of course, they are sometimes
               right. There are often lead-time differences, or distribution structures, or
               union agreements, or even (very occasionally) consumer purchase cycles
               that shade things a little differently here or there—if one knows a great
               deal about the subject and thinks about it from the manufacturer’s point
               of view. (And in the digital world, the business model might indeed be
               very new.)
                   But the consumers haven’t had the benefit of working on the busi-
               ness for a number of years, either. They don’t think that what they enjoy
c04_1   01/06/2009   37




                                                   The First Credo: Intelligent Naivety   37



              about the experience in one market has to be necessarily any different
              from what they like in another. Indeed, in many ways they’d like the
              experience they get in some categories to be more like those they get
              in another. If they could find an airline that treated them like their favor-
              ite local restaurant, they’d fly it every time.
                  Which is exactly why people have responded so strongly to many of
              the Challengers on our list. Far from category inexperience being a
              drawback, it has proved to have a vitality that has allowed the new play-
              ers to envision fresh possibilities in the category, possibilities that those
              who have worked for years in the category are unable to see because
              they have grown too close to the status quo.
                  And the same is true, I would suggest, of you and me. After all, do we
              not really feel underneath that we understand the possibilities of a market
              better in the first month we work in it than we do three years in? In those
              first few weeks, we are absorbed by and focused on the questions and
              opportunities, uncalcified by the category shibboleths and uncluttered
              by the petty details and manufacturing perspective that obscures our
              judgment later on. It all seems so wonderfully simple and clear; we open
              up the market instead of closing it down. We ask ‘‘Why not?’’ and not
              simply ‘‘Why?’’ We see no real reason why the questions our five-year-
              old daughter would ask of the category are any less valid than those we
              pay our research department to ask: ‘‘Why are vacuum cleaners all so
              gray and ugly?’’ ‘‘Why can’t you rent a car for an hour, instead of a whole
              day?’’ ‘‘Why do healthy products have to be so dull?’’ ‘‘Why are banks
              such cold and silent places?’’ And this beginning is the time, if at all, when
              we tend to change things. Look at Branson, Dyson, Dell: Innocence, intel-
              ligently applied innocence, has changed the face of the categories
              around us more profoundly than all the MBA expertise in the world.
                  This goes beyond marketing. My English literature teacher used to
              claim that the finest writers in the English language in the past 200 years
              were Conrad and Nabokov—neither of whom had English as their first
              language. It was indeed, he contended, the very fact that both of them
              started from another culture, another tongue, that the possibilities of the
              English language opened to them in such striking and unusual ways. So,
              too, the creative breakthroughs of the 1960s, the golden age of U.S.
              advertising, were credited by some New Yorkers at the time in strong
              part to an influx of minorities with strong cultures of their own into a
c04_1   01/06/2009   38




               38    EATING THE BIG FISH



               profession historically dominated by WASPs. Creative thinkers from
               strong Italian and Jewish cultures, the theory went, were able to bring
               fresh insight to familiar categories that those in more mainstream U.S.
               culture were too close to see. The photographer Robert Frank, whose
               1955 masterwork, The Americans, a visual study in 83 images of all levels
               of American society, has been hailed as the photographic equivalent of
               the Great American Novel, wasn’t an American at all; he was a Swiss.
               The only artist to really capture the light in California was an Englishman,
               David Hockney. And so on.
                   In other words, it is what we will call ‘‘Intelligent Naivety,’’ a question-
               ing and insight creation born of dynamically applied inexperience, rather
               than rich familiarity with the category, that has changed the face of the
               categories around us in the most profound way. That has opened up
               new business models, introduced new dimensions of appeal for poten-
               tial consumers, found new ways to build premiums and drive loyalty. It
               might seem easy to confuse Intelligent Naivety with simply flying in the
               face of conventional wisdom, and in truth one does see some Challeng-
               ers espousing exactly such a philosophy. Larry Ellison of Oracle has con-
               sistently remarked that he got to where he is now by doing the opposite
               of what people expected of him. Patagonia’s Yvon Chouinard has said of
               his approach: ‘‘I would never be happy playing by the normal rules of
               business. I wanted to distance myself as far as possible from those pasty-
               faced corpses in suits I saw in airline magazine ads. . . . I wanted to be a
               fur trapper when I grew up.’’2 Yet while the idea of exchanging our nor-
               mal office attire for beaver pelts is in many ways an intriguing one, we
               might, as Challengers wanting to take a larger group with us, need
               something a little more systematic in our approach from a strategic
               point of view. And by Intelligent Naivety we mean in reality something
               more than ‘‘do the opposite of what everyone else is doing.’’ We mean,
               very specifically, to bring a fresh and dynamic set of questions to the
               category, a set of questions that deliberately breaks with the immediate
               past of the category (and our brand, if we are an established player) and
               looks at what we can learn from other categories—both in terms of what
               we can bring that is new, and also in terms of which bits of so-called
               wisdom we need to unlearn in order to break through.
                   Which is why the preparation, the mental preparation of approaching
               or reapproaching the category with a little Intelligent Naivety, is the First
c04_1   01/06/2009   39




                                                  The First Credo: Intelligent Naivety   39



              Credo for Challenger brands. Let us first explore in more detail what its
              value is and then turn to how we might do it.


              ASKING UPSTREAM QUESTIONS
              The first, and most obvious benefit of Intelligent Naivety is that it allows
              us to step back and ask those upstream questions that brands and brand
              owners more immersed in the category have lost the ability to pose.
              Why does the category have to be all about this? Why could it not be
              about that instead? I understand why people don’t care about anything
              but functionality at the moment, but does it really have to be that way?
              What would make them change that? Why do they always talk about this
              particular dimension of the category first when we do focus groups—
              why couldn’t we get them to see it in a wholly different way?
                  In 1999, Eric Ryan was a strategic planner, working in San Francisco.
              He knew he had always wanted to start his own company, create his own
              mass-market brand, and, as he began to look for opportunities across
              the variety of categories in front of him, he was clear in his own mind that
              design was going to be a key part of the way the marketing world was
              going to develop and that the use of design would be a strategic ele-
              ment in whatever he started. He found himself thinking about cleaning
              products, and was struck by how ‘‘problem-solution’’—focused it all
              was—all the existing players were competing on needs, and none were
              even attempting to compete on desires. Ryan recognized that they were
              all much too powerful to go up against on their own terms—that is on
              needs, on effectiveness of germ kill, for instance—and asked himself
              how one could therefore create a very different kind of relationship, a
              higher level of emotional bond between consumers and brands in the
              household cleaning market. So he stepped back and looked at the
              broader context for these cleaning products.
                  He looked at homes, the environments these products lived and
              worked in, and observed that your relationship with your home is per-
              haps, after your family, the highest-involvement relationship you have—
              so why couldn’t cleaning products be part of that high-involvement rela-
              tionship? He looked at the television programs people were making and
              the quantity of programs about home makeovers, and he recognized
              that, with even MTV producing a home show (Rock the House), this
c04_1   01/06/2009   40




               40    EATING THE BIG FISH



               heightened relationship with home was now part of mainstream media
               and consumer culture. Why couldn’t he connect these two things—this
               huge interest in making your house look more beautiful on the one
               hand, and cleaning products on the other? He sat in the park with his
               girlfriend, looked at a Snapple Elements bottle in his hand, and asked
               himself: Why couldn’t pine-scented cleaning products come out of a
               bottle like this? He looked at higher-involvement markets, like hair care,
               and saw that they were driven not by segmentation by product function,
               like cleaning, but by systems, approaches, and regimes, each with a phi-
               losophy at its heart. So why could one not create a master brand with a
               philosophy at its heart, one that would span all areas of home care? And
               when he shared his emergent thinking during a car journey with his old
               college roommate, Adam Lowry, a chemical engineer, Lowry realized he
               could create a naturally derived, environmentally friendly product that
               would deliver both the kind of product Ryan was looking for and per-
               haps premium differentiation as well. Which is how they came to create
               method, a premium home-care brand and now the seventh-fastest-
               growing packaged goods company in the United States.
                   Ryan’s approach to thinking about the market and exploring the po-
               tential to create a powerful new Challenger in it is very different from
               the approach used by most large companies to look for insight about
               where to develop their offers. While he starts by thinking about the
               consumer’s relationship with the category, for instance, he does not
               start to develop his hypotheses by asking consumers how they feel
               about the household cleaning market; instead, he starts by asking him-
               self how one could change the relationship they have with the market
               as it currently stands. He does not, as one might at Clorox, for exam-
               ple, ask how to increase the germ kill efficiency or improve the pine
               fragrance delivery (important though both of those things might be
               within the current parameters of the market). Giants of the industry
               tend to become too close to their own business to become wave mak-
               ers; the more we work on a piece of business, the more we become
               trapped in midstream thinking, particularly if that business becomes
               quietly successful. But Ryan is asking a completely different level of
               question here: How one could create a much higher degree of emo-
               tional involvement with a brand in that category? And the process from
               then on is not a linear one, with verbal concepts being developed and
c04_1   01/06/2009   41




                                                   The First Credo: Intelligent Naivety   41



              sequentially tested. He goes on to answer this key upstream question
              of his by subsequently asking a lot of different questions about the cat-
              egory and its relationship to other categories around it—some of those
              other categories being relatively close to his (home makeover pro-
              grams) and some very different (skin care). This exploratory question-
              ing is a continual process for Ryan: He is as likely to try to find an
              answer in the soft drink bottle in his hand on a Saturday afternoon as
              he is at his desk on a Monday morning. In answering these questions,
              he is doing just that—trying to find connections by asking ‘‘Why not?’’
              rather than ruling out possibilities because they are inspired by what,
              on the face of it, are very different categories.
                  And as a consequence, at the end of all this questioning and connec-
              tion building, it would be difficult to fill in the ‘‘What is the key consumer
              insight?’’ box on a conventional brand essence form for method as a
              Challenger. While the insight is about consumers and their potential re-
              lationship with the category, it isn’t based in a need they could articulate
              at the moment, and in fact it is as much an insight about the opportunity
              within the category as anything else. And it isn’t really a single observa-
              tion—it is a bundle of answers, intelligently joined, which together pro-
              vide the answer to the original question.
                  method is currently, of course, still relatively small compared to the
              total category—$150 million revenue, in a total market currently worth
              around $4.6 billion. (See Figure 4.1 for some of the products in its de-
              veloping range.) But let’s look at some of the dynamics that accompany
              that figure and how the brand is positioned for the future. In terms of
              growth across its constituent categories, IRI tracks method across 15
              different categories: The brand is in triple-digit growth in six of those,
              double-digit growth in another six, and single-digit growth in the re-
              maining three. How many of our brands can we say that trajectory is true
              of? In terms of its relationship with its primary customer, Target has
              given method its own 12-foot branded sets in aisles, allowing it to dis-
              play its product range in a branded grouping—generating a significant
              jump in its sales. In terms of profitability, method products sell at a sub-
              stantial premium to the historic market. And in terms of momentum, the
              company has established clear Thought Leadership in the market (with
              an article in Vanity Fair, for instance). Which of these four dynamics do
              we not wish we had ourselves?
c04_1   01/06/2009   42




               42    EATING THE BIG FISH


               FIGURE 4.1 method’s range of products.




                   Or let’s look at an entirely different market. When Tom Ford was
               handed the Creative Directorship at Gucci, he inherited the difficult task
               of restoring Gucci’s credibility after the cliché it had almost become in
               the 1980s (the sprawling cliché, in fact—at one point it had stamped its
               name on 14,000 different items). His first show would clearly be pivotal:
               Although haute couture accounts for less than 10 percent of Gucci’s
               sales, it defines the fashionability of the rest of the brand—and the
               world’s media were waiting to judge the fashionability of Gucci from
               Ford’s first outing.
                   Fashion works in trends. Almost as a collective, the fashion world tends
               to create one predominant climate or another, and at the beginning of
               the 1990s the climate included asexual clothes and political correctness:
               Clothing styles were becoming almost cerebral. Ford felt dissatisfied with
               this; instead, he swam upstream. He asked himself the deceptively
               obvious question—‘‘Why do people wear good clothes?’’—and kept
               coming back with answers that had nothing to do with the fashion climate
               of the time. Good clothes were, surely, all about attracting people. It
               wasn’t complicated; they wore them to feel sexy. Ford felt this was an
               opportunity for Gucci, so instead of loose-cut greens and beiges, he pro-
               duced a look instead that was very aggressive, sleek, sexy, and glamor-
               ous. Tough chic. It was an instant hit with both critics and the public.
c04_1   01/06/2009   43




                                                  The First Credo: Intelligent Naivety   43



                  What unites both of these cases, then, is someone being prepared to
              step back and ask some really simple upstream questions: the kind we
              ask at first, but quickly forget, or get beaten out of us. Underlying both
              cases is clearly an attempt to really understand what consumers want
              and need, but not by asking them directly. Very often, of course, con-
              sumers are as close as the brand is to the preconceptions about the cat-
              egory. They cannot tell you what they want, because the category has
              effectively defined it for them. In the case of Apple Daily, for instance, a
              newspaper launched in Hong Kong in 1995, they stepped back and
              asked themselves what people really wanted to read in a daily newspaper.
              And the answer wasn’t politics or what the government was doing (the
              fare of the Market Leader); it was something different. When you ask Ap-
              ple Daily what they mean, they illustrate this with a story.3
                  It is 2003. Apple Daily has just launched in its second market, Taiwan,
              and at this point is number three in that market. One day there is a spec-
              tacular bank robbery—complete with machine guns and response units
              (the army had, in fact, to send in a specialized SWAT unit to deal with the
              heavy weaponry the bank robbers were using), most of which was cov-
              ered live on TV. Thousands of rounds were fired, ending with one of the
              robbers dead and wounded on both sides. Apple Daily got its photog-
              raphers to the scene as fast as it could.
                  The next day, the top three Taiwan newspapers hit the streets. The
              Market Leader leads with a public-spirited story about the young men of
              Taiwan going off to serve in the US Navy. The number two newspaper fo-
              cuses on a sober pronouncement from the President on economic policy.
              The number three newspaper—Apple Daily—chooses not to lead with
              either of these stories. Instead, it offers four full-color pages of photo-
              graphs of the shootout (bloody police officers and all), diagrams of the
              firefight, plus (for those interested in a little fuel for social conversa-
              tion) a breakdown of the weapons used by both the bank robbers and
              the police. A story the Taiwanese man and woman on the street
              were not simply interested in reading, but in talking about. In showing
              to their friends. As a consequence, Apple Daily is no longer the num-
              ber three newspaper in Taiwan—it now ties for first place. It has
              arrived there both by taking share from the incumbents and by attract-
              ing a swath of people who previously had been uninterested in
              reading newspapers.
c04_1   01/06/2009   44




               44    EATING THE BIG FISH



                   We hear the same theme echoed by those behind the success of
               Axe in the United States, Unilever’s deofragrance brand that has
               gone from Challenger to Number One in just three years. Axe’s Global
               Brand Director has observed that it was in fact relatively easy to break
               through in the United States, even though this was a very mature market.
               Why? Because the only thing the category had been talking about up
               to that point was problem-solution—efficacy in the gym, efficacy when
               riding your bike, and so on. The existing brands treated deodorant
               more or less like toothpaste—a product that did something functional
               to your body. What Axe introduced, though, was a dialogue that was
               hugely interesting to consumers because it went right to the heart
               of what young guys (or perhaps just guys) spend most of their time think-
               ing about—how to get the girl. If one chooses, then, to ask the ques-
               tion ‘‘Why couldn’t we occupy that space, the high-interest space
               consumers spend all their time thinking about, rather than this current
               space, which they think about for half a second before they apply it in
               the morning?’’ then one very quickly moves into an entirely different
               kind of dialogue, of relationship, and of impact. Asking this kind of ques-
               tion, then—swimming upstream as a mental preparation for challenging
               the category and the Brand Leader—allows us to see what business we
               are really in, or could really be in.
                   So, the first key value of Intelligent Naivety is that it allows us to ask
               the fundamental upstream questions that the rest of the category is too
               close to the industry to ask anymore—to question why the relationships
               with consumers and structures between the groups of constituent
               brands have to be the way they are—because often the nature of that
               relationship needs to be changed in order to succeed: to reduce the rel-
               evance of the germ-kill credibility of the Market Leader, or of reliable
               underarm reassurance when you are in the gym, or to overcome years of
               comfortable familiarity with the country’s top political journalist. It is not
               that Challengers idly amuse themselves with wanting to reinvent catego-
               ries; it is that they have to find a new way in, in order to make obsolete at
               least some of the old criteria for choice in the category as a whole. And
               the very act of asking questions of the category prompts one to move
               higher, even if those questions are wrong. Tom Ford talks of how he
               likes to walk the streets and look at people whose clothes combinations
               he doesn’t think work—the people whose clothes sense really makes
c04_1   01/06/2009   45




                                                  The First Credo: Intelligent Naivety   45



              him wince. He then sits in his office and tries to work out why; he finds
              this as valuable an exercise as starting from what he knows to be aes-
              thetically in tune. Besides asking different kinds of questions, then, we
              should also be looking for the answers in different sorts of places. The
              chances are that the company’s traditional wisdom has been calcifying
              because it has been asking exactly the same questions in substantially
              the same ways for years.
                  We can see that in starting to answer those kinds of questions, to find
              that fresh way in, Challengers start (often intuitively) to use a number
              of related techniques to formulate their potential solutions. They start
              to look to find a currency that the consumer is genuinely interested in
              rather than the self-regarding fare that the category has historically been
              serving up. They look to introduce new kinds of emotions into the con-
              sumer’s relationship with the category. And they see no reason why this
              category cannot play by the rules of an entirely different category
              altogether.
                  Let’s now explore the second and third of these.


              PUTTING A WHOLE NEW EMOTION INTO THE CATEGORY
              One of the key ways that Challengers transform a category, our relation-
              ship with that category, and in effect our criteria for choice in that cate-
              gory, is to introduce a whole new emotion into it. And very often it
              is apparently the dullest and most day-to-day categories that are rein-
              vigorated in this way. We liked Gap, but thought T-shirts and leggings
              were pretty mundane until American Apparel put sex into our daily
              cotton. And we are not alone in finding such clothing a little more inter-
              esting these days: Lovefoxxx, the bouncy front woman for Brazilian
              party rockers CSS, when asked if she likes shopping for fashion replies,
              ‘‘I buy American Apparel leggings that I wear every day. Everything else
              is boring.’’4
                   Let’s continue with some more apparently unexciting categories. A
              key part of Eric Ryan’s answer to the questions he posed to himself was
              for his new brand method to put (in his words) ‘‘lifestyle’’ into household
              cleaning products. Who would have thought that the design aesthetic,
              brand values, and environmental impact of a cleaning product could
              tranform it into an aspirational, premium brand you are proud to
c04_1   01/06/2009   46




               46    EATING THE BIG FISH



               display? Dyson put a different kind of sexiness into vacuum cleaning
               (which would have meant nothing if the functionality had not been
               superb, of course). Altoids put ‘‘pain’’ into mint eating. VitaminWater
               put a rich color (literal and metaphorical) into water consumption. Havai-
               anas has elevated humble $2 flip-flops into a fashion line that has con-
               tenders at $100 a pair.
                   Choosing to look at low-interest categories is simply a test for us
               here, not a definition of our Challenger universe: this kind of insertion of
               a new emotion or emotional range into the consumer’s relationship with
               our brand (and thus with the category beyond us) is, of course, not lim-
               ited to such categories. So Bratz put an urban sassiness into the whole-
               some blondness of Barbie and Sindy. Puma put lifestyle and fashion into
               sports shoes, Samsung high design into mass-market consumer elec-
               tronics. Virgin has always looked to put a new level of entertainment in
               the airline business—yes, it has always been competitive on price, but at
               the center of what has made the Virgin experience consistently different
               has been a less boring, more entertaining flight. This was true with Virgin
               Atlantic in the 1980s and is still true with the launch of Virgin America
               more than 20 years later, which will offer highly competitive fares, but
               also compete on service experience: Virgin America’s branded enter-
               tainment system, called Red, will offer everything from TV channels to
               pay-per-view movies to games to a system for ordering meals. Even in
               more unlikely categories, such as self-protection, we see aspirant Chal-
               lengers trying to change the relationship with the category by introduc-
               ing a new emotion via their brand: The brand Pepperface, for instance, is
               flamboyantly trying to put a new emotion into personal security. In the
               inimitable words of the New York Post: ‘‘They put the chic in kicking
               ass!’’5 How? The pepper spray brand persuaded celebrities to customize
               individual sprays for a charity auction. While Hilary Duff went for some
               optimistic daisies on her pepper spray, Lindsay Lohan opted for, per-
               haps predictably, something a little darker, with a skull and crossbones
               design. Paula Abdul, meanwhile, took the bling route with a spray fash-
               ioned from 18-carat gold, adorned with black Swarovski crystals. The
               point here is not that Pepperface is using PR to create a splash—it is
               that it is using playfulness to try to create a new kind of emotional rela-
               tionship with what is essentially a very serious thing: a weapon for self-
               protection in some of the most frightening situations a woman can find
c04_1   01/06/2009   47




                                                   The First Credo: Intelligent Naivety   47



              herself. Pepperface is looking to create a product that does not sit, drip-
              ping with foreboding, at the bottom of women’s handbags, but is some-
              thing they take out and show their friends with a smile, while dining on a
              low calorie chicken salad at Spago.
                   Is this new emotion always about playfulness, fun, chic, or attitude? A
              young and irreverent Challenger being a little hipper and sassier than
              the Establishment brand? Not at all—sometimes the new emotional di-
              mension is a very serious one. Online dating companies, for instance,
              are also putting something new into the mating game. If I tell you this
              new dimension is partly mathematical, you might think I am talking
              about greater percentages (more + faster = greater chance of meeting
              Ms./Mr. Right, perhaps), but in fact it is the sober confidence of a mathe-
              matical algorithm. eHarmony claims that its 258-part questionnaire, cre-
              ated by a psychologist in 1997, uses an algorithm to match people on
              29 core character traits. Does it work? eHarmony boasts that it was re-
              sponsible for 2 percent of all marriages in America last year. And moving
              nimbly from math to science, the chef Heston Blumenthal has put scien-
              tific precision into cooking—what he calls ‘‘molecular gastronomy’’—
              which has been one of the key factors in his restaurant, The Fat Duck,
              being voted the second-best in the world.
                   As we noted, all of these Challengers are introducing these new
              emotions, not out of whim, but out of necessity. In a world of choice,
              where the rate of launches and relaunches far, far outstrips consumers’
              interest or market capacity (last year saw the launch of 100 super-
              premium vodkas in the United States alone), our task as Challengers
              must be to:
                   (1) Dramatically simplify choice for the consumer by
                   (2) Creating a new criterion for choice in the category, and . . .
                   (3) In doing so, give consumers a way of thinking and feeling about
                       the category in a way that they had not before.
                   innocent, the UK (and emerging European) smoothie brand, illus-
              trates this last point well. At its launch, innocent had (and still has) as an
              intrinsic part of its mission the desire to help people ‘‘do something
              good for themselves every day.’’ But the founders also knew, when they
              started in 1999, that health products were a worthy but dull bunch—
              doing something healthy for yourself in reality involved a certain amount
              of resolution and self-denial. So creating a playful and chatty personality
c04_1   01/06/2009   48




               48    EATING THE BIG FISH



               around the brand and the usage experience was not from a desire to
               introduce a charming quirk for the sake of charming quirkiness; it was an
               attempt to introduce a fundamentally new kind of relationship with a
               product that is ‘‘good for you,’’ because that would be the only way
               innocent could genuinely succeed against its bigger ambition.
                   All of the examples so far center around launches. Yet one can find
               oneself with an even greater need to add a new emotional dimension as
               a Challenger expanding into a more fiercely competitive environment
               than one did when one was smaller. Target has famously put the chic
               into cheap precisely because it made a strategic decision, as it
               expanded into new geographic locations where it would come up di-
               rectly against the might of Wal-Mart for the first time, that it could not
               succeed from now on by competing on price alone: It would need to
               introduce a new element into the shopping relationship with a discount
               store in order to challenge successfully such a powerful incumbent.
                   And sometimes, of course, it is in fact precisely in expanding as an
               existing brand that we start to see the opportunity to really develop the
               new emotion that will set us apart in the future—but only if we still have
               our eyes wide open. Costco, now the third-largest grocery chain in the
               United States, with revenue that doubled between 1998 and 2003,
               started by being the same as any other warehouse club, selling cheap
               supplies to small businesses. But as they expanded, they saw an
               opportunity to sell more—and drive greater differentiation at the same
               time—by offering their business owners products to buy for themselves
               as well. What then began as a push into a broader range of goods has
               now developed into the famous ‘‘treasure hunt’’ concept, where along-
               side the peanut butter you will find a 42-inch plasma TV at a ludicrously
               cheap price, and next to the jars of mayo you’ll see Dom Pérignon 1995
               at $90 a bottle. And it’s a treasure hunt with a timer on it: If you don’t
               buy it this time, it may be gone when you come back. ‘‘We try to con-
               vey a sense of urgency, so if people see it, they better buy it,’’ com-
               ments Costco’s CEO, Jim Sinegal.6 With a policy of never marking up
               beyond 14 percent (tell that to your local champagne seller), it is per-
               haps not surprising that Costco is now the largest wine retailer in
               the United States. The company has, in short, grown to revenue of
               $64 billion by putting a new dimension—an urgent treasure hunt—into
               weekly grocery shopping.
c04_1   01/06/2009   49




                                                  The First Credo: Intelligent Naivety   49



              OVERLAY
              We noted earlier in this chapter that Challengers often bring no experi-
              ence to their category, and this can, if used correctly, be an advantage.
              In reality, though, while they did indeed have no experience in the cate-
              gory they were entering, they frequently brought inspiration from their
              experiences in another category, and sometimes this juxtaposition led
              to the discovery of a fresh opportunity in their chosen new market.
                  The benefit of this kind of overlay of the rules and codes of one cate-
              gory onto another can simply be one of initial inspiration. The CEO of
              ING Direct, Arkadi Kuhlman, for instance, knew that people didn’t like
              banks, and found an inspiration for a different kind of bank in what other
              industries were doing: If IKEA could sell furniture without assembling it,
              and Southwest could sell plane tickets without assigning seats, he asked,
              why couldn’t you successfully offer a stripped down version of a bank?
              Perhaps a bank similar in concept to the way McDonald’s sells fast food:
              Offer a few key products, make it easy and quick to get in, buy some-
              thing, and get out again; be genuinely consumer friendly. We will go on
              to explore in a later chapter some of the key components of how he and
              his team turned this into a reality and created the success it has become:
              ING is now not simply the largest Internet bank in the United States,
              happily banking just over $45 billion in online deposits, but it is the
              twenty-eighth-largest bank in the United States, period.
                  One of Kuhlman’s sources of inspiration, IKEA, is in point of fact also
              an example of learning from an entirely different category. In the early
              days, when IKEA consisted of just three stores in Sweden (and without
              one yet even in Stockholm), its founder, Ingvar Kamprad, went to New
              York. While there, he visited the Guggenheim Museum and found him-
              self struck by a very particular quality about it: They don’t give you a
              choice where you go. They make you go up to the top, then walk down
              past everything on display (there’s no choice), and then walk you out
              through the shop, past the cash register, and out into the street. ‘‘Hmm,
              this is interesting,’’ Kamprad thinks to himself, ‘‘We could do exactly
              the same thing: When we open in Stockholm, we could be just like the
              Guggenheim—we could construct it so we won’t give them a choice
              where they go.’’ So when he returns to Sweden, he briefs his architect,
              and when the first Stockholm IKEA opens (23 years after IKEA was
c04_1   01/06/2009   50




               50    EATING THE BIG FISH



               founded), it is indeed just like the Guggenheim, on the outside as well as
               the inside. And the idea works brilliantly—asking your customers to walk
               past everything you have does indeed increase the length of their visit to
               IKEA, yet it also (particularly if you can couple this with the innovative
               introduction of inspirational room sets) significantly increases the
               amount of spontaneous purchases in what one might have thought was
               a considered-decision market. And now, with the exception of a couple
               of experimental stores in China and the United States, the traffic flow
               system of every IKEA in the world is essentially the same: You do not
               have a choice where you go. And spontaneous purchasing is as vigorous
               as ever.
                   So let us just stop and note two points here. The first is that this
               insight about how to grow the IKEA business did not come from an
               exhaustive study of how other home furnishing retailers sell home fur-
               nishings. It came from a key individual looking at an entirely different
               category and overlaying the rules—or one significant behavior from
               those rules—onto his own. And the second point is that IKEA had al-
               ready been going, in a variety of different guises, for 23 years at this
               point. Let us not think that Intelligent Naivety is the province of the inex-
               perienced founder at launch; it is a mind-set that we as Challengers
               need to be constantly applying, certainly at the outset, but long into the
               life of our brand.
                   Lush cosmetics is instructive in helping us deepen our understanding
               of why Intelligent Naivety is so valuable. We often hear invocations to
               push for groundbreaking ideas in marketing. And one of the reasons this
               seems so intimidating to many of us is that we interpret groundbreaking
               here to mean ‘‘ideas that have never been done before’’—and that
               seems a very high bar. Can we possibly achieve that? But in reality
               groundbreaking doesn’t necessarily mean that at all; it usually means, in
               reality, not ideas that have never been done before, but ideas that have
               never been done before in this context. So take Lush. We are all used to
               the idea of fresh, handmade things; this in itself is not a groundbreaking
               idea (it has been around in prepared foods, for example, more or less
               since Homo australopithecus made the first tool three and a half million
               years ago), but ‘‘Fresh Handmade Cosmetics’’—the same idea in an
               entirely different context—becomes a very groundbreaking idea. In ef-
               fect, what Lush is doing here is taking the principles and codes of a
c04_1   01/06/2009   51




                                                  The First Credo: Intelligent Naivety   51



              delicatessen or a fresh fruit and vegetable shop and overlaying them
              onto cosmetics and bath products—in the appearance and appeal
              of the products, in their manufacture (telling us when they were made
              and the ‘‘best-before’’ date) and in the sensory theater of the stores, lay-
              ing the products out like enormous cheeses to be sliced, or writing on
              blackboards in chalk to cue freshness and artisanal manufacture.
                  This kind of stimulating application of Overlay clearly has a range of
              different scopes: It is obviously not necessarily going to be a blanket
              application. We will want to focus on the dimensions that are most rele-
              vant to creating a new kind of emotional relationship with our brand and
              product experience, and perhaps on those that give us a different kind
              of advantage in our business model. Returning to Apple Daily, for
              instance, there were many who counseled against launching a news-
              paper at the time. This is the postliterate society, they said, and you
              will never get people, particularly 18- to 25-years-olds, to really get
              interested in reading a paper anymore. As we saw earlier, one key way
              Apple Daily overcame that apparent barrier was to choose subject mat-
              ter that the audience was genuinely interested in. The second was its
              celebrated use of color. And the third was the way they treated that sub-
              ject matter and optimized the power of that color—by using narrative
              techniques that Asian youth are very interested in reading, but from the
              very different categories of animation and manga. (See Figure 4.2.) The
              combination of these three elements has created a compelling product
              experience, even for those not previously interested in reading
              newspapers.
                  One last example. Very occasionally, one sees a complete adoption
              of a set of rules from a different category, because it is in effect forced
              on a Challenger. German soft drink Bionade overlaid beer brewing
              principles—and more particularly German beer brewing principles—
              onto soft drinks, because it had no other choice. The flood of imported
              bottled beers to Germany had dislodged a number of the traditional
              smaller domestic brewers, and the Privatbrauerei Peter in northern Bava-
              ria was no exception. Facing bankruptcy, the company explored renting
              out the brewery for parties and events, but realized that this would not
              be enough—the family-run company would have to create a new kind of
              future for itself to safeguard its existence. So the master brewer, Dieter
              Leipold, came up with an idea: What if he were to invent a healthy soft
c04_1   01/06/2009   52




               52    EATING THE BIG FISH


               FIGURE 4.2 Apple Daily.




               drink for children, one that used only natural ingredients, following the
               German purity laws historically used to control the quality of beer?
                   A simple idea, but difficult to do. It took him eight years and $1.5
               million dollars, but eventually he found a way to ferment the product in
               the same way he used to brew beer, but this time turning the ingredients
               not into alcohol, but into gluconic acid, which carried the additional
               benefit of accentuating the sweetness of the sugar added, meaning
               he could put in much less sugar than was contained in the other soft
               drinks Bionade (as he called his creation) would compete against. And
               the company put Bionade into the bottles it had—beer-shaped bottles.
               Or Pilsner-shaped bottles, to be exact (see Figure 4.3).
                   Interestingly, the last Overlay of beer—hip marketing—was some-
               thing that came much later. Originally, the product and packaging
               codes of beer were the only ones the company took on—once it had a
               healthy soft drink, it first marketed it as a healthy soft drink, and for the
               first four years of its life Bionade performed as dully as that tag suggests.
               Then, in 1999, the company redesigned the graphics, appointed a new
c04_1   01/06/2009   53




                                                  The First Credo: Intelligent Naivety   53


              FIGURE 4.3 Bionade bottle.




              marketing director and, using grassroots marketing and PR (as a new
              beer would), repositioned Bionade as a cool lifestyle drink that just
              happened to be healthy.7 The brand took off: Within seven years the
              company was selling 70 million bottles a year.
                  Before we leave the idea of Overlay, let’s note one key danger of it.
              In many ways this is something we do instinctively when starting a new
              job—we naturally see it through the lens of the old brands and the old
              segmentations from the category we have just left. But doing this contin-
              ually through the lens of just one other category may not give us the way
              in we seek; in that search, the value for a Challenger often comes not just
              from thinking about our category from the perspective of software, or
              just thinking about it from the perspective of luxury cars, but from the
              perspective of a diverse range of other categories in sequence. What
              about the lens of the products that people love to spend hours talking
              about socially, like wine? What of brands that have made themselves
c04_1   01/06/2009   54




               54    EATING THE BIG FISH



               iconic, like super-premium vodkas? What about the new wave of enter-
               tainment brands? What of Cirque du Soleil—how could you make pasta,
               for example, as fun and unpredictable as a contemporary circus? It may
               be that we do indeed come to see the future as hinging on overlaying
               the rules of one other category onto our own, but we want to explore (as
               we saw Eric Ryan do) a range of other possible categories to find our
               own ‘‘Aha!’’ moment.


               DELIBERATELY BREAKING WITH THE IMMEDIATE PAST:
               PUTTING EVERYTHING IN PLAY
               Challengers see and realize places to stand in the market that other
               brands have not seen or realized before. Seeing them depends on mak-
               ing oneself innocent again. Realizing them depends on divesting oneself
               of all the baggage a brand acquires over the years in terms of all those
               individual marketing elements that do not in themselves make a differ-
               ence but are thought to be important collectively in differentiating the
               brand from the competition and maintaining consistency with the past.
               So, even for existing brands, challenging is about beginning again.
                   Beginning again when you already have a brand that is substantial
               and not yet in critical decline is a hard thing to contemplate. Much of
               what has been written about Brand Management concentrates on con-
               sistency over time—recognizing your current equities and maintaining
               them through your marketing activities. Indeed, our natural human re-
               action is to protect what we have once we think it has achieved a certain
               basic value; studies have shown that as human beings we are not so
               much risk-averse as loss-averse—the more you already have, the more
               your inclination is not to gamble it. Which is why, of course, the risk-taking
               entrepreneurs tend to be the people who start with nothing.
                   But if we want to Eat the Big Fish, protecting what we already have
               for its own sake seems like out-of-date thinking in a Challenger mind-
               set. Challenger brands seem to deliberately break with their own imme-
               diate past (if they have one)—they intentionally reinvent key aspects of
               themselves in order to force rapid reappraisal from the consumer. To do
               so, they first become prepared to break with every equity, every pre-
               conception about the market, and every current marketing strategy for
c04_1   01/06/2009   55




                                                   The First Credo: Intelligent Naivety   55



              every current marketing tool, and then they need to sacrifice minor equi-
              ties to create major differences.
                   Again, this seems counterintuitive; we are taught to protect and nur-
              ture marketing and advertising equities. But ask yourself this: If any of
              them were all that valuable in the first place, why aren’t we in a better
              position now? As we go through the process of reexamination, what is
              important in our past will rise to the top again; but we won’t see it if
              we’re swimming surrounded by the flotsam and jetsam of the immediate
              past. The question for us about such equities is not ‘‘Are they valuable?’’
              but ‘‘Are they valuable enough?’’ Are they valuable enough for the
              change in growth rate we now need to achieve?
                   The same will be true for practices as much as equities. It is said that
              when Kraft picked up Altoids as a by-product of the of Jacob Suchard
              acquisition, it recognized that the brand—this strange, old-fashioned
              mint in a square tin that cost four times as much as the Market Leader—
              was going to need a very different approach from the way the company
              sold cheese slices. In the brand team’s first meeting with the agency,
              they asked for a break with the company’s past: ‘‘We don’t,’’ they said,
              ‘‘want to do anything the way Kraft usually does it.’’
                   In launching the Nintendo Wii, Reggie Fils-Aimé asked his marketing
              department and his agencies to do the same thing: to break with the
              past, to throw out all the ways they had historically launched a new con-
              sole, and to think of an entirely new way to bring the Wii to market. ‘‘He
              basically challenged us to rethink not only what we do, but how we do
              it,’’ said George Harrison, SVP of Marketing, at the time. It wasn’t just
              that they went after moms, for instance, it was how they went after
              moms: with parties in hotel suites serving champagne, and events that
              were more like ‘‘transgenerational Tupperware parties’’ than conven-
              tional hard-core gamer launch parties.8 By all means, they said, let’s look
              at strategic partnerships, but what about a strategic partnership with
              cruise lines, deliberately courting an older profile of user?
                   And we all know the results. (See Figure 4.4.)
                   Breaking with the immediate past, then, and putting everything in
              play is not the same as mindlessly throwing everything away. It is simply
              a way of asking what is genuinely still relevant to your future, of freeing
              yourself to focus on the questions and possibilities that will make the
c04_1   01/06/2009   56




               56    EATING THE BIG FISH


               FIGURE 4.4 A crude measurement of success.




               difference between being a Challenger brand and being an establish-
               ment brand.
                   If current marketing equities and practices are in fact still significant,
               they will float to the surface again as one reenters the upstream/down-
               stream questioning and listening. But they may be masking something
               more important that you already have in your past. And the effort and
               resource consumed in retaining it may dilute the force of the new direc-
               tion you are about to assume.


               NOT KNOWING WHAT IS POSSIBLE AND IMPOSSIBLE
                      Inexperience erases fear. You do not know what is and is not pos-
                      sible and therefore everything is possible.
                                                                          Twyla Tharp9
                 The final value of Intelligent Naivety for us as Challengers is that
               we don’t know what is possible and what is impossible, so we are not
c04_1   01/06/2009   57




                                                   The First Credo: Intelligent Naivety   57



              going to screen out key opportunities on the grounds that ‘‘it can’t be
              done.’’ There is an interesting distinction between what the UK mar-
              keting press talks about as important in innocent’s success, and what
              innocent talks about as important in innocent’s success. If you listen
              to the marketing press, they celebrate innocent’s innovative market-
              ing. If you talk to the founders, they talk about the primacy of getting
              the product better: The success of innocent, the founders will tell you,
              is 90 percent the product, and 10 percent the marketing, critical
              though the latter undoubtedly is. And the story they tell is that they
              were able to do this only because they didn’t understand that what
              they were doing was impossible. Having had no experience in making
              smoothies (other than mixing their own in a blender), they set about
              trying to find someone who could make what they wanted—a pure
              fruit smoothie with no additives or preservatives. They spent nine
              months being told this was impossible, until they eventually found
              someone who came up with a way to do it; they were the first to do it
              in the category, and that product quality is still central to their
              success.
                   It is striking how often this kind of story comes up for Challengers. If
              you ask Colleen Barrett, President of Southwest, for the defining story
              that encapsulates for her what makes Southwest Airlines the successful
              Challenger it is, she will recount to you the time when, reduced to flying
              a four-plane route with three planes (because legal bills had required the
              company to sell a plane), Southwest had to figure out how to hit a 15-
              minute turnaround time (i.e., land the plane, get the luggage and pas-
              sengers off, clean the plane, and load luggage and passengers on again
              in just 15 minutes). When Southwest did it, Barrett says, and the rest of
              the incredulous U.S. airline industry asked how a small airline, with very
              little experience, had pulled this off, the company responded, ‘‘We
              didn’t know it couldn’t be done, so we did it.’’
                   George Hickton, the CEO of Tourism New Zealand, sees this as a quality
              of New Zealanders as a whole and why they punch disproportionately
              above their weight. ‘‘I think in a sense that New Zealand is an incredi-
              bly young country, and it hasn’t really had the risk-taking knocked out of
              it yet. A New Zealander cracked the atom, a New Zealander climbed
              Everest, the country became nuclear-free—they’re things people said
              you couldn’t do. But we didn’t know they couldn’t be done . . . and as a
c04_1   01/06/2009   58




               58    EATING THE BIG FISH



               consequence for us it seemed obvious: Why wouldn’t you do these
               things; what could hold you back?’’
                   So let’s not be too wise about what is possible and what is impossible
               as we look at these possibilities and ask these upstream questions. Let’s
               not dismiss possibilities because they can’t be done. Perhaps that simply
               means we haven’t historically found a way to do them, which is not the
               same thing at all. Perhaps it simply means they can’t be done if we leave
               everything else the way it is—in which case we will simply have to
               change something, as Southwest changed having assigned seating, in
               order to make it work.


               GIANTS AND CHILDREN
               The famous giant killers of folklore tend to be children. Whether their
               names are David or Jack, it does not occur to them that a small round
               stone cannot successfully take on an eight-foot spear. (If you are going
               up against an eight-foot spear, the one weapon it is foolish to choose is
               a four-foot spear; if you can’t match the length, you need something
               different.)
                   The first foundation of challenge, then, is not experience, but inno-
               cence: the ability to step back upstream and question all the old
               assumptions afresh. Challenge them, in fact, and see which can really
               withstand the inquisition.
                   Then, if one views strategic thinking in terms of upstream (questions
               about the fundamentals of the category) and downstream (refinements
               of product or service offering), it seems that most Challengers have to
               deliberately attempt to compete either significantly upstream or signifi-
               cantly downstream of the Establishment brand. The Brand Leader, hav-
               ing established the codes and conventions of the category, does not
               revisit or attempt to change them in terms of upstream thinking;
               equally, they are too large and cumbersome to arrive at or implement
               innovative downstream thinking with any speed. Once one has made
               oneself innocent, perhaps the first decision to take about eating the Big
               Fish, then, is whether the real opportunity to attack them lies upstream
               or downstream: Do we overturn the category basics (as Swatch), or de-
               velop the product to a point it hasn’t yet reached (JetBlue’s seat-back
               entertainment)?
c04_1   01/06/2009   59




                                                  The First Credo: Intelligent Naivety   59



              HOW DO I MAKE MYSELF INTELLIGENTLY NAIVE WHEN I HAVE
              YEARS OF EXPERIENCE IN MY CATEGORY?
              Intelligent Naivety seems deceptively easy for someone new, of course;
              there is no knowledge there to get rid of in the first place. But how
              do you make yourself inexperienced in your own category? And how do
              you create that climate in others?
                  Andrew Grove fired himself. In 1985, Intel, far from being a Brand
              Leader (or even a Challenger) and at the time a player principally in the
              memory-chip business, seemed unable to match the Japanese price/
              value offer and remain profitable. Grove reached a personal crisis. To dem-
              onstrate emotionally to himself the need to wipe the slate genuinely clean,
              he began again by inviting his chairman to walk out of the Intel building
              with him as if they had both been fired; they would reenter the building
              not as Andrew Grove and Gordon Moore, but as the newly recruited re-
              placements for themselves.
                  Sitting down afresh in the boardroom they had just mentally vacated,
              they looked with new eyes at the business they had been managing for
              the previous few years and identified immediately the key issue the com-
              pany faced: namely, that it was in the wrong business. It had to get out
              of memory and put the entire emphasis of the company behind what
              had up to now been a secondary priority, namely microprocessors. In
              one dramatic moment, Grove created the ability to see through inno-
              cent eyes the solution to a problem they had both been wrestling with
              for months.
                  At this point, then, we invent the second in our new set of intransitive
              verbs. Taken together, they are intended to collectively define the se-
              quence of actions that will take place in the two-day off-site at the end of
              this book, actions that will be involved in turning you into a Challenger.
                  The new verb, then, is this:

              Grove vb: To fire oneself, reenter the building as one’s hard-nosed suc-
                cessor, and identify the core issue facing the company.

                 In other words, identify the Big Fish. We have talked about it up to
              now as if it were another major competitor, but in fact it may not be
              quite as simple as this. It may be that the threat or success of this major
              competitor is a symptom of the problem, rather than the problem itself.
c04_1   01/06/2009      60




               60      EATING THE BIG FISH



                  We then have to instill this sense of innocent vitality not simply in the
               individual but in the whole team around us, or at least enough of them
               to drive the difference through the thinking of the company.


               SUMMARY
               Intelligent Naivety, then, has four purposes:

               1. To establish afresh the core issue facing the brand or the company
                  (the Big Fish); taking a step back and more accurately defining the
                  problem
               2. To help define, therefore, what business we should really be in
               3. To free ourselves to see all the possibilities of the category
               4. To allow us to see what we may need to break with from the past to
                  enable a stronger future

                   It is thus both a valuable mental exercise in itself and critical to mak-
               ing a Challenger a brand of action, rather than just a company of talk.
                   Greg Nugent, the Marketing Director of Eurostar (whose own chal-
               lenge we will discuss later in the book) sums up both the importance of,
               and the inherent caveat within the application of Intelligent Naivety: ‘‘It
               is so important because it puts the magic back into a category. It pushes
               the category forward again, when it starts to become mundane. But you
               have to remember at the same time that you are keeping one foot in the
               category, as well as putting one foot outside it. Some brands have got
               carried away, and completely forgotten they were supposed to be a
               toothpaste, for instance, and just lost the consumer completely. That’s
               when it becomes just naivety, rather than Intelligent Naivety.’’

                     Videolinks for this Chapter:
                     www.eatbigfishfood.com/etbf/intelligentnaivety
c05_1   01/06/2009   61




                     5
              MONSTERS AND OTHER
              CHALLENGES: GAINING
              CLARITY ON THE CENTER
                     I am a noble Internet buffoon fighting the giant of celebrity.
                                                                            Perez Hilton1




              O       nce we have stepped back, broken with our immediate past, and
                      regained a little Intelligent Naivety in exploring the opportunities
              open to our brand, we will have done a great deal of vibrant and diver-
              gent thinking. Now is the time not to close down any of that thinking, but
              we do need to find the center of it, to serve as the pivotal bridge between
              clarity on where we are going to redefine the rules of the market in our
              favor on the one hand, and the foundations of our brand identity on the
              other. We go on to discuss the second part of this Challenger identity we
              are building toward in Chapter 6, but first let’s begin to find our center by
              being clear about the answer to this question: Having explored the possi-
              bilities open to us, what is the key challenge we are laying down to the
              category, or even to the consumer? What do all the possibilities we have
              explored through Intelligent Naivety really represent, at their heart?
                  Before answering this question, let’s be clear on one thing: We are
              not entering or reentering this market in order to offer consumers more
              choice. They have more than enough choice already, in almost any cate-
              gory we are in—there are 160,000 trademarks in the United States

                                                                                        61
c05_1   01/06/2009     62




               62     EATING THE BIG FISH



               alone, and 45,000 lines on U.S. grocery shelves (a number that has
               tripled over the past 15 years). While we may think this degree of choice
               is inherently to the consumer’s advantage, there is substantial evidence
               that more choice in and of itself actually drives consumer purchase inter-
               est in the category down. In a celebrated experiment conducted by
               researchers from Columbia and Stanford universities, while the creation
               of greater choice in a category significantly increased the people
               who stopped and browsed that category, it dramatically reduced the
               number of people who bought from it.2 Once you get past a certain—
               quite finite—level of genuine choice, it seems more choice isn’t really in
               the consumer’s interests, and it certainly isn’t in ours.
                   So, we are not here to offer more choice. What we are here to do is
               offer a significantly better choice, and indeed to radically simplify choice
               for the consumer in our chosen category. And a key way in which we are
               going to do that is by changing the key criteria for choice for a significant
               body of people in our favor.


               DEFINING THE CHALLENGE WE ARE MAKING
               One might say that Challengers are, by definition, challenging some
               quality or dimension of choice in the existing category. How we express
               that challenge externally in our communications is obviously still some
               way from being decided, but we will certainly need first to be clear inter-
               nally what that central challenge is going to be, because it will be critical
               to shaping what we offer, how we behave, and the kind of Challenger
               brand we want to be. Clarity here will help give us sharpness and energy
               from the outset.
                   The range of potential challenges that we can make lie in one of the
               following:

                    Challenging some fundamental dimension or driver of our category
                    Challenging some aspect of the way the consumer shops for, experi-
                     ences, or consumes our product
                    Challenging the culture surrounding the category
                    Challenging some broader aspect of contemporary culture
                    Challenging some dimension or quality of the competition/Market
                     Leader
c05_1   01/06/2009   63




                          Monsters and Other Challenges: Gaining Clarity on the Center   63



                  What we will see, as we start to explore each of these, is once we
              have a clear sense of what they are, they will then lead to a fork in the
              road—namely, in whether we choose to be implicit or explicit in publicly
              stating the nature of that challenge. That is, we can either use the under-
              standing of what we are challenging simply to shape our nature, offer,
              product, and personality, or we can take it further and use it to explicitly
              lay down a public challenge of some kind. We will come on to explore
              this later in Chapters 11 and 12.
                  First, let us look at each of these kinds of challenges in turn, devoting
              most of our time to the first and the last of them.


              Challenging a Fundamental Dimension or Driver of Our Category
              Often, the initial sense of what you stand for as a Challenger, and the
              challenge you are going to make, comes from first knowing what you
              reject within the existing category.
                   Take, for example, the Blue Man Group. What is now a highly suc-
              cessful global entertainment brand, with a number of interesting Chal-
              lenger qualities, began as three friends working in a New York catering
              company in the mid-1980s. Interested in moving into the arts, their early
              sense of what they wanted to do was inspired by an almost visceral re-
              jection of everything they saw in the existing category of the 1980s New
              York art world, namely that it was ‘‘an elitist bullshit art-speak scene,’’ in
              the eloquent words of one of the founders, Chris Wink.3 Their very first
              performance was, accordingly, driven by this rejection—they decided
              that the first outing of the Blue Man in 1988 would be, in a very literal
              sense, a funeral for the 1980s and everything they hated about it. They
              filled a wood coffin with what they perceived as all the rubbish of that
              decade, from effigies of yuppies to Rambo dolls, and carried it on their
              shoulders through the streets of Manhattan before setting fire to it and
              burning it in Central Park. Inviting, of course, MTV to film them all en
              route. (See Figure 5.1.)
                   Clearly, while still irreverent and creative, the sense of the group’s
              identity has now evolved beyond this initial ‘‘hate’’ into a clear identity
              and thriving business, watched by millions with no interest in the 1980s
              art scene, and who would neither be interested in nor perhaps recognize
              artistic pretension if it smacked them on the nose. In 2007, Blue Man had
c05_1   01/06/2009   64




               64    EATING THE BIG FISH


               FIGURE 5.1 Blue Man’s funeral for the 1980s.




               simultaneous shows in nine cities, including their permanent installation
               at the Venetian in Vegas. Their live shows have now been seen by 12
               million people around the world. And it was first understanding what
               they rejected about their category that then gave them the initial step
               toward understanding who they really were, around which they built
               their distinct and compelling entertainment offer.
                   So one way to see this challenge is to ask ourselves very simply: What
               is the category orthodoxy that we reject? What do we think is wrong, or
               what will we have to ‘‘break’’ (i.e., prove wrong) in order to succeed?
               And as we explore it, the way the category currently thinks usually yields
               a very rich variety of potential sources of challenge.
                   Perhaps we might wish to challenge the mundanity of the way the
               category thinks about its nature and role—that vacuum cleaners have to
               be dull gray boxes. Or perhaps there is an inherent and taken-for-
               granted assumption about what is good and bad that is so hardwired
               into the category’s relationship with the consumer that we have to chal-
               lenge it to succeed—that water that is good for you has to be colorless
               and tasteless (VitaminWater).
c05_1   01/06/2009   65




                          Monsters and Other Challenges: Gaining Clarity on the Center   65



                  Perhaps there is an elitism we could take on: the fact that some
              aspect of the category is available only to the wealthy. As a player who
              has a key value component, for instance, we can go beyond simply
              advertising prices and question the value system. So we see a billboard
              from Daffy’s (a U.S. family-run discount clothing chain, whose line is
              ‘‘Clothing bargains for millionaires’’) showing an item of lingerie, and
              challenging us with: ‘‘At $30 it’s sexy, at $125 it’s obscene.’’ Here Daffy’s
              is not just selling a value line, but taking on the whole concept of over-
              priced lingerie, and inviting us to question that with them.
                  Perhaps there is a disease we need to overcome—sometimes one
              that only we can see, something only we can be the solution to.
              Recently, we have seen Audi in the United States kicking against tradi-
              tional automotive luxury before looking to set out its own stall, and
              JetBlue famously setting out to overcome the dehumanization of do-
              mestic air travel in the United States, which has had a ‘‘cattle truck’’ men-
              tality that the existing players were either too close to see or too set in
              their ways to care about.
                  Surf detergent challenges the mundanity, the drudgery, and the
              chore of doing laundry. It complements the vivid sensory fragrances
              it has introduced by using packaging that is bright, happy, exotic,
              and projects the spirit it champions; in Latin America, for instance,
              Surf has deliberately used the cheerful, chatty, and colloquial format
              of a woman’s magazine, rather than a conventional packaging ap-
              proach, to converse with its users in an entirely different way. (See
              Figure 5.2.)
                  So, we have a broad canvas here, but let’s not confuse broad with
              fuzzy. We need within each of these options to be very clear about
              where we are, and are not, challenging the status quo.


              Challenging an Aspect of the Way the Consumer Shops for,
              Experiences, or Consumes Our Product
              If we are trying to build a new kind of behavior within our chosen category,
              we are probably challenging existing habits, those ways of thinking
              and interacting with the category that consumers now have and follow
              almost by rote. These are notoriously difficult to break, so we often have
              to create from the outset a juxtaposition that jolts the audience.
c05_1   01/06/2009   66




               66    EATING THE BIG FISH


               FIGURE 5.2 Surf packaging.




                   At their most challenging, these habits can be to do with your chosen
               consumer simply not thinking about, or engaging with, the category you
               are trying to sell them at all. So, for example, I am sitting in a yellow cab
               one day on my way to JFK airport in New York, when a large brown truck
               pulls up alongside me. It is a Brink’s security truck, and on the side of it is
               a large question in white writing. I read it. It says something like:

               ‘‘Why throw your business documents away, when you could just mail
                  them direct to your competition?’’
c05_1   01/06/2009   67




                          Monsters and Other Challenges: Gaining Clarity on the Center    67



                  Why is this question powerful? Because it doesn’t just speak to me
              about an emotional benefit of ‘‘peace of mind,’’ or some other bland
              cliché—and rightly so: I had been feeling nothing but peace of mind
              about it until then, because the issue simply wasn’t a concern for me at
              all. Instead, this question directly challenges my complacency as a busi-
              ness owner. That very stark ‘‘There are only two real choices you have to
              make here’’ juxtaposition slips me a burrowing little worm of paranoia, to
              wriggle around inside me on my plane ride home. It is the beginning
              of unraveling my unthinking confidence in my company’s security; it
              prompts me to begin to go out and do something about it. And the bril-
              liance of this question is that it gets my options down to just two choices
              of action. At the beginning of the chapter, we saw how a Challenger’s role
              is to create a radical simplification of choice; here, Brinks has presented
              such a radical simplification to me, when I hadn’t previously thought
              about the choice at all. In this case, the challenge is simply driving Brink’s’
              communication strategy, but clearly you could structure every aspect of
              your product experience around it. In the case of Nintendo with the Wii
              (and to some degree the Nintendo DS), the issue had been the same:
              The brand had deliberately chosen to try to engage a target that wasn’t
              interacting with the category at all. In the words of Satoru Iwata, the Presi-
              dent of Nintendo, ‘‘We are not competing against Sony or Microsoft.
              We are battling the indifference of people who have no interest in video
              games.’’4 And as we see in later chapters, everything from product re-
              design, to game experience, to the nature of games, to marketing strat-
              egy flowed from this clear understanding of the challenge.
                  It may be that the fundamental trend in consumer product usage is
              going against you, and you need to be clear on whether you are going
              to accept or challenge this. The United Kingdom was historically a nation
              of ale drinkers—with a taste for the dark, character-filled, bitter beer
              traditionally drunk at room temperature. Over the past 40 years, how-
              ever, the national palate has gradually but profoundly shifted to lighter,
              much less bitter lagers, and the bitterness levels of even this easier taste
              profile has, in the past six years, been muted further still by serving lager
              brands extra cold (which suppresses the taste) or with fruit flavorings,
              which masks any remaining bitterness entirely. So, what do you do if
              you are an unreconstructed bitter ale? Hobgoblin is a brand that has
              chosen to challenge this trend to blandness head on. It recognizes that
c05_1   01/06/2009   68




               68    EATING THE BIG FISH


               FIGURE 5.3 Hobgoblin’s challenge.




               there are a number of drinkers who have a portfolio of both lagers and
               ales, and it needs to give them a reason to include itself as an ale in
               that portfolio, and reinforce the emotional and masculine imagery of
               ale at the same time. So Hobgoblin does this by putting out a direct
               challenge: ‘‘What’s the matter, lagerboy—afraid you might taste some-
               thing?’’ (See Figure 5.3.) Hobgoblin uses the trend toward the blandness
               of lager, in effect, as another surface to grip against.
                   Sometimes, of course, there are habits in the category that consum-
               ers themselves would like to change, but just have trouble actually
               changing, particularly in the area of health and wellness. Here the
               opportunity is for the Challenger to own, even to brand, that better
               habit. Thus LesserEvil snacks describe themselves as being ‘‘the anti-
               dote to snackcidents.’’
c05_1   01/06/2009   69




                          Monsters and Other Challenges: Gaining Clarity on the Center   69



                What is a snackcident? The company helpfully defines it for you:
              Snack  ci  dent [snay k-si-duh nt] n.
                1. The consumption of a snack that leaves you unsatisfied and/or
                   remorseful
                2. An infringement on the LesserEvil mission to Stop Bad Snacking
                3. Spilling your Krinkle Sticks—(see also: tragedy)5

                  This is a brand, of course, whose entire name and nature is structured
              to make the most of this position. But that opportunity to take and own,
              through branding, the behavioral problem we are looking to overcome
              is an opportunity for us all.


              Challenge the Culture Surrounding the Category
              Some Challengers recognize that in order to genuinely break through,
              to genuinely change the criteria for choice in the category in their favor
              longer term, they need to challenge the cause and not the symptoms:
              the underpinning beliefs and prevailing culture that have been wrapped
              around that category by Establishment brand and consumer alike.
                  We might want to debunk this surrounding culture because we
              think it is simply wrong and not in the consumer’s best interests. Fred
              Franzia, CEO of Bronco Wine and creator of the legendary ‘‘Two Buck
              Chuck,’’ the nickname for the Charles Shaw range wines (essentially
              offering good-quality drinking for a very low price), is not taking on
              the category of ‘‘other low- to medium-priced wines in the $4 to $10
              range,’’ although that is where his volume is coming from. He is wag-
              ing (in his words) a ‘‘war’’ against pretentious mediocrity, summed up
              for him by much of what the Napa winemaking region and its most
              famous sons stand for, with its conversation about soil, and ‘‘noses,’’
              and all the fancy ritual and language that they wrap around it.6 This
              kind of war is not the sole prerogative of Challengers with pugnacious
              founders: Dove challenged the beauty myth, written up for the past
              20 years by the Beauty Giants on that digital blackboard called the
              television (namely that ‘‘beauty ¼ youth’’ and ‘‘youth ¼ no lines or
              gray hair’’). Dove challenged this for the deception they felt it repre-
              sents, and the pressure it places on women—and it made this chal-
              lenge not simply because Dove cannot compete by trying to be the
c05_1   01/06/2009   70




               70    EATING THE BIG FISH



               same as L’Oréal, for example, but because the people leading the
               brand fundamentally believed the beauty myth was wrong, and a be-
               lief system that needed to be debunked.
                   It may be much less personal than this, though. It may be simply nec-
               essary for us to challenge the existing category culture because as long
               as the existing category culture is alive and healthy, we will not be able
               to succeed. When Mini, for example, launched in the United States, in
               order for such a small car to succeed, the brand team felt they needed
               to challenge the hardwired belief, underpinning all U.S. car culture, that
               ‘‘bigger is better.’’ As we will see in Chapter 6, its whole identity was
               then built around this challenge.
                   The desire to change this culture need not restrict its ambition to sim-
               ply creating a perceptual shift, which will reframe the criteria for choice in
               our favor—it can be part of a bigger mission, with very measurable objec-
               tives. Zipcar is a U.S. Challenger to the conventional rental car business
               and business model. Inspired by a new kind of car club the founders had
               noticed while on holiday in Berlin, Zipcar allows you to rent a car not just
               by the day but by the hour (and conveniently positions its cars around the
               city to make it easier for you to do this). The natural assumption would be
               that in doing this, the company was in fact challenging the rental car cat-
               egory. But in reality the founders of Zipcar don’t see this as the challenge
               they are making at all: They see themselves as challenging car ownership
               itself. And this is not an empty challenge: Almost 40 percent of Zipcar’s
               users either sell their car or halt a purchasing decision after trying Zipcar.
               The result is that, on average, Zipcar members drive 369 miles annually
               compared to 5,295 prior to joining. Zipcar’s stated long-term mission is
               in fact to reduce the national population of cars, working on the principle
               that one shared car equals at least six cars taken off the road.


               Challenge an Aspect of the Broader Contemporary Culture
               We are seeing that with a paucity of genuine unmet consumer needs to
               deliver against anymore, Challengers increasingly look to find another
               surface to rub up against, to give their offer traction in the consumer’s
               imagination and some cut-through in a crowded and noisy marketplace.
               And, while we do and should explore where this defining ‘‘other sur-
               face’’ might lie within the category, and within the culture its inherent
c05_1   01/06/2009   71




                          Monsters and Other Challenges: Gaining Clarity on the Center   71



              beliefs and codes have woven around it, we are also starting to see, with
              examples like Zipcar, that we need to step back and look at popular cul-
              ture itself and where the opportunity (or necessity) might lie for us to
              challenge something bigger.
                  Perhaps there is something about this cultural context that is directly
              impacting people’s relationship with you and your category. Sometimes
              the consumer is interested in the category and interested, in principle, in
              what you have to offer, but has culturally based inhibitors that go be-
              yond the category itself. IKEA, in its global journey, has had to be a pro-
              found Challenger in many of its markets to the way people feel about
              buying new home furnishings, or about buying cheap home furnishings,
              because of local, deep-seated cultural barriers that it has had to identify
              and then face head on. In Switzerland, for instance, which IKEA knew
              was going to be the hardest European market to crack, the Swiss liked
              the design and the furniture, but felt it was embarrassingly cheap: Could
              they really put this in their living rooms and hold their heads up, at those
              sorts of prices? So IKEA faced this head on, campaigning for Swiss con-
              sumers to stop being so snobbish (i.e. IKEA took on an aspect of Swiss
              culture, not just furniture-buying culture). In the UK, where people in re-
              search groups liked the furniture but felt it would not go with their cur-
              rent decorations, IKEA consequently challenged them to throw out what
              they already had (‘‘Chuck out your chintz’’).
                  It may be thought that in talking about popular culture, we are inher-
              ently talking about trends. And there may be such trends—obesity, for
              example—that are easy to see and obviously require groups to combat
              them. But in fact what the brands we are exploring are more commonly
              doing is not so much riding a trend as identifying a mainstream theme
              or prevailing current in popular culture, something that is generally
              thought to be good, and then deliberately swimming against that
              prevailing current. Nextel, before the Sprint merger, had forged consid-
              erable success by challenging the notion that ‘‘Talk is Good’’ in telecom-
              munications and in human connection; no, Nextel said to us, we believe
              ‘‘doing’’ is good, and we are a brand for doers. Club Med for its part
              talked for years about being the ‘‘Antidote to Civilization,’’ a deliberately
              startling statement, because we had all rather naively imagined civiliza-
              tion to be a good thing. Yet Club Med in effect suggested that there are
              effectively two ways of seeing civilization (see Figure 5.4).
c05_1   01/06/2009   72




               72    EATING THE BIG FISH


               FIGURE 5.4 Two ways of seeing civilization.
               How we saw civilization                       How Club Med saw civilization
               The pinnacle of human achievement             Bloodless mundanity
               The cradle of culture                         The stifler of spontaneity
               What separates us from the beasts of          Suppressing the best of what
                 the field                                      it means to be alive
               Noble, aspirational                           Gray and sterile



                   And of course the brand gets our attention precisely because we had
               blithely assumed civilization was a good thing: the pinnacle of human
               achievement, we had thought; the cradle of culture; the thing that sepa-
               rated us from the beasts of the field. Then a Challenger comes along
               and invites us to question that—because that Challenger has a different
               view about civilization: as being gray, as being sterile, as bloodless, as a
               sea of conformity, suppressing all that is good in feeling the breath of
               life in our face. The establishment the Challenger is questioning is not
               another brand, but our underlying assumptions about what is good and
               bad in our culture and the world around us. It is this challenge, and its
               accompanying point of view, that gives Challengers a freshness and
               entirely new kind of relevance we want to engage with.
                   So this kind of challenge lies in explicitly confronting a commonly
               accepted aspect of contemporary culture and, in doing so, the (in the
               Challenger’s view) unquestioning narrow-mindedness of the status quo
               and those who adhere to it.


               Challenging the Market Leader
               Because Market Leaders have very often established the parameters and
               criteria for choice within their category, they are in effect the embodi-
               ment of established thinking about the category—so at one level chal-
               lenging some aspect of the Market Leader can simply be a different way
               of challenging a fundamental driver of the category. But the leader’s
               very singularity lends a clearness and focus to our thinking about what
               we might want to challenge (again, whether we use that Market Leader
               explicitly or not), and by breaking out the individual elements of what
               that leader represents, and creating almost a photographic negative of
c05_1   01/06/2009   73




                          Monsters and Other Challenges: Gaining Clarity on the Center   73



              some or all of those dimensions, we can in effect use that negative as a
              blueprint to define our own identity.
                  So when the South African fast-food chain Nando’s began in Johan-
              nesburg in 1987, it was clear that it wanted and needed to do things dif-
              ferently from the Market Leader in chicken, KFC, in every way. Instead
              of being deep fried, the product would be flame-grilled. Instead of
              being bland fare, Nando’s would offer hot sauces and marinades. It would
              have a personality that was cheeky and irreverent, as opposed to the
              stodgy Colonel. It would aggressively use PR rather than depending
              solely on advertising. In other words, Nando’s realized that the way
              to succeed was in effect to be the exact opposite of what the Market
              Leader in fast-food chicken stood for; every dimension of the new brand’s
              identity, in effect, was to throw down a challenge to the Market Leader.
                  Indeed, this kind of deliberately opposed starting point can create
              Challenger brands whose star continues to shine long after the leader
              they were born to be a counterpoint to has disappeared. Twenty-five
              years before Nando’s, Andrew Loog Oldham had accentuated the
              image of the young London rock band he had discovered to
              be exactly the opposite of the Market Leader, Liverpool’s Beatles. The
              Beatles were wholesome, lovable, and safe, boys you could take home
              to meet your mum; so Oldham’s band would look dangerous, rude, per-
              haps even a little dirty. They called themselves The Rolling Stones. Forty
              years on, their ‘‘A Bigger Bang’’ tour became the highest-grossing tour
              in history.
                  While this kind of wholesale reversal of what the Market Leader
              stands for (creating a ‘‘positive negative,’’ if you like) might end up being
              too broad for us, the process of exploring it in such detail does allow us
              to identify, relatively precisely, the dimensions on which we as Challeng-
              ers will want to be the same as the leader, and those areas in which we
              will want to dramatically differentiate. This exploration may lead us to
              recognize that the center of our challenge to the Market Leader will in
              fact be confined to one very specific dimension. This might be to do with
              the leader’s product—that it’s serving up an inferior, characterless, or
              unnecessarily complicated offering, for example (the Mac versus PC
              campaign). Or we can object to the personality, to the impersonality,
              and to the faceless corporateness of the Market Leader: Aren’t there
              any people in this behemoth who really understand what it is to be a
c05_1   01/06/2009   74




               74    EATING THE BIG FISH



               human being, for heaven’s sake? We might want to push deeper and
               question its motives and interests—perhaps we see the leader as having
               an entirely cynical relationship in its business transactions with the con-
               sumer, and in fact being simply a fat cat, lining its own pockets as it
               pretends to offer the honest hardworking consumer what passes for an
               overpriced product or a poor service. (This is of course a stance that
               Virgin Atlantic and Ryanair have both taken against British Airways.)
                   Whichever we choose, we have to puncture inertia. We have to prompt
               consumers out of their habitual behavior—at best marching somnolently
               to the omnipresent beat of the Market Leader’s drum, and at worst entirely
               satisfied with what they are using, and seeing no reason to change.


               UNDERSTANDING THE CHALLENGE TO THE CATEGORY
               AS A PRELUDE TO UNDERSTANDING THE DESIRED IDENTITY
               OF THE BRAND
               Before we move on to discuss in more detail the relative merits of an im-
               plicit versus an explicit challenge, let us briefly note two things. First, let us
               recognize the value of sometimes needing to determine what we reject or
               even hate before we can be clear about what we love. Being very clear on
               what we are not can be an important prelude to establishing what we are.
                   Second, let’s bear in mind that even if we are (as we will usually be)
               working on a specific brand, there can sometimes be real value in first
               determining our overall stance vis-à-vis the category. As a practical
               example of how the value of recognizing what you stand against can
               help you identify what you stand for within a category, consider the fol-
               lowing example.
                   We were working on an ice cream brand within a large, multi-brand
               company. The company was understandably interested in moving into a
               health and wellness agenda, in line with the consumer macrotrend, and
               at some level in this regard had a little yogurt-envy. Yogurt represented
               health, well-being, fitness, modernity, compared to ice cream’s role as
               an indulgent treat. And this yogurt-envy was an issue: While we might
               aspire to yogurt, we were in reality selling ice cream. So in order to find
               out how we might best start to come up with a place for our ice cream
               brand to stand, we set out to explore what it would mean to deliberately
               juxtapose ice cream with yogurt, in particular by identifying what we
               hated about yogurt (thereby also starting to surface what we loved
c05_1   01/06/2009   75




                          Monsters and Other Challenges: Gaining Clarity on the Center        75



              about ice cream). We talked about it much of the afternoon, and then
              one member of the group working on the project sat down with a glass
              of wine at midnight and wrote this:

                 Ice Cream Philosophy versus Yogurt Philosophy
                 Ice cream people always answer the question ‘‘How are you?’’
                 with ‘‘Great’’ or ‘‘Fine.’’ Yogurt people always answer the question
                 ‘‘How are you?’’ with ‘‘Well, since you ask . . . ’’
                     Ice cream people see the world through a glass half full.
                     Yogurt people see the world through a glass of cabbage juice.
                     Ice cream people get upset if they forget your birthday.
                     Yogurt people get upset if you forget theirs.
                     Ice cream people always let you out in traffic.
                     Yogurt people never let you out; it’s as if those crucial few
                 inches will determine the success or failure of their day.
                     Ice cream people exercise when they can.
                     Yogurt people ride exercise bikes for 20 minutes a day (except
                 for the third Sunday of the month when they make love to their
                 partners).
                     Ice cream people often drop in on their friends on the spur of
                 the moment.
                     Yogurt people make plans to see their friends months in
                 advance.
                     Ice cream people listen to their iPods.
                     Yogurt people listen to Enya.
                     In meetings, ice cream people make sure they say what they
                 think.
                     In meetings, yogurt people make sure they say pertinent things
                 in order to make a contribution.
                     When you go into a yogurt person’s office, there is always a sign
                 on the wall, saying something like this: ‘‘Every morning a lion
                 awakes. It knows it must run faster than the gazelle or it will not eat.
                 Every morning a gazelle awakes. It knows it must run faster than the
                 lion or it will be eaten. Every morning when you awake, it does not
                 matter if you are a lion or gazelle, it is enough that you start to run.’’
                    Ice cream people don’t have signs on their walls. In fact, ice
                 cream people are sometimes in their office, sometimes not.
                 Sometimes they’re at home having a duvet day.
c05_1   01/06/2009   76




               76    EATING THE BIG FISH



                  It was a brilliant juxtaposition, using all that was ‘‘wrong’’ about
               yogurt to help define ice cream’s virtues. Suddenly, as he read it back to
               us the following morning, we no longer had yogurt envy; we felt actually
               that, although we didn’t always behave in these ice cream ways, we
               wished we did—because if you looked at it this way, then it was ice
               cream, not yogurt, that was aspirational. We had started to identify what
               was true and important about ice cream that we could build on. We felt
               that ice cream was important, full stop. We had started to identify a kind
               of person that we were for and not for. We personally felt like, and
               wanted to be, ice cream people ourselves. We were on the way.
                  So we need two surfaces to give us a grip on the consumer’s imagina-
               tion. One will be a clear sense of what we stand for. The other will be the
               surface that we will deliberately rub up against, in the category or in
               popular culture.


               Explicit versus Implicit Challenge
               Now let’s return to the nature of the challenge. As we noted previously,
               in each of the cases we looked at, our challenge can be an explicit
               one or an implicit one. If implicit, it will guide very strongly and clearly
               our identity and activities, but not be directly visible to the consumer.
               The retailer Urban Outfitters, for example, had as part of its starting
               DNA the thought that it was the ‘‘anti-Banana,’’ that is, the opposite
               of Banana Republic. The public never saw this manifested in any
               way—it just drove the way Urban Outfitters designed its clothes,
               store, and experience. In terms of communication, the mask of the
               ‘‘King’’ for the relaunch of Burger King in a sense represented the
               ‘‘anti-clown’’ to McDonald’s, but it was never presented to us explic-
               itly in this way.
                   In a deliberately explicit challenge, on the other hand, we are obvi-
               ously going to make it clear that we have this aspect of the category or
               other player clearly in our sights. Our desire is to create more conflict,
               more drama, and change in some way the narrative of our category in
               doing so.
                   We look more fully at how to do this kind of explicit challenge well
               and badly in Chapter 11, but in order to give us half an eye on one of
               our possible destinations as we start to develop our strategic thinking,
c05_1   01/06/2009   77




                          Monsters and Other Challenges: Gaining Clarity on the Center   77



              let us briefly explore the fertile territory of wars, enemies, and monsters
              before moving on.


              Wars and Monsters
              There is much that we have forgotten from English classes (what is
              the difference between a gerund and a gerundive, exactly?). But among
              the things we do remember, of course, are the basic constructs of a
              good story: the need for a hero, a conflict, and, more often than not, a
              monster.
                  Monsters have a number of important values in stories. They raise
              the stakes; they create drama, emotion, and conflict. They throw up a
              hero (oh, look, that’s us). They give the hero a very visible adversary and
              clearly position the hero as being on the side of right. They highlight
              what his or her virtues are—there is nothing like a little darkness to give
              definition to light. And, perhaps most important from our point of view,
              monsters unite the community against them. This is one of the important
              differences between a monster and an enemy: An enemy is a threat to
              you, but a monster is a threat to the larger community. This is what
              brings the community together. However disparate, divided, or simply
              indolent the community had been up to that point, the presence of a
              monster brings them together in unity against it. In modern storytelling
              and popular film, the nature of the monster ranges from real monsters
              (Jaws, King Kong) to conceptual monsters like big business and large
              corporations (much of John Grisham’s oeuvre) to particular people
              (Dodgeball). And one of the key narrative arcs in such stories, of course,
              is the hero’s struggle to communicate the threat to the community and
              to get them to take it seriously so that they can respond and defeat it.7
                  Some Challengers, then, have been very explicit about creating mon-
              sters that they then oppose. Dove is not the first to challenge the beauty
              industry—Anita Roddick in the 1980s had actually described the beauty
              business as ‘‘a monster selling unobtainable dreams, one that lies,
              cheats and exploits women.’’8 And the legendary Apple ‘‘1984’’ spot
              from Chiat/Day is, in fact, as explicit a monster narrative as it is possible
              to be: A large monster (the dehumanized authority figure on the screen)
              has the community in slavish thrall, and it takes a hero in white with
              a single magical weapon to escape her pursuit and defeat it, thereby
c05_1   01/06/2009   78




               78    EATING THE BIG FISH



               liberating the community. And when did Apple and Chiat/Day show
               this commercial? During the Super Bowl—the one time in the year
               when all of America sits down and watches TV together as a community.
               That is to say, Apple and its ad agency looked to unite the community of
               America against the ‘‘monster’’ through the media plan as much as
               through the spot itself.
                   And actually, if we look at our four classic Challenger examples from
               the beginning of the book—Avis, Apple, Pepsi, Virgin Atlantic—three
               of the four used monsters, though in different ways. Apple demonized
               the threat because it threatened all of us; Avis positioned itself as threat-
               ened by a Big Fish, which threat pushed it to serve us better. Virgin
               Atlantic ingeniously worked the two together: Overall, Virgin looked to
               make British Airways into, if not a monster, then the Fat Cat, and then
               championed ‘‘us against them.’’
                   So, if we choose to follow (or at least explore) this model of being a
               Challenger in our market, then having at least an enemy, and perhaps
               going as far as creating a monster will be an important strand of thinking
               for us. At the very least for the internal unity and energy of our ‘‘commu-
               nity’’ and perhaps as a source of clarity and energy for our external chal-
               lenge, whether we name our enemy or leave it implicit.


               IN CONCLUSION
               The rich sense of possibility for us as Challengers that the application of
               Intelligent Naivety seems to open up will be useless unless subsequently
               disciplined by a fierce clarity as to where our principle challenge to the
               status quo will lie. It is only in very unusual cases that the opportunity will
               be to question every aspect of the category—more often a key part of
               our initial task will be to identify where we can and should be clearly dif-
               ferent, and where we need to be the same. This imposition of this clarity
               may even be championed or led by another individual within the Chal-
               lenger team, but it will be critical as the team as a whole moves toward
               working through exactly what our brand is going to stand for and against
               as a Challenger.9
                  The overall approach we note Challengers taking has been defined
               as eight ‘‘Credos’’—that is to say eight principles into which Challengers
               put their energy, passion, and personal faith, and which collectively help
c05_1   01/06/2009   79




                          Monsters and Other Challenges: Gaining Clarity on the Center   79



              define, shape, and realize their Challenger ambition. What we have
              been describing in this chapter, however, is not a principle so much as a
              key bridge between the divergent thinking of the First Credo and the
              clear singlemindedness of the second. And in establishing a center of
              gravity for the challenge we are going to make it also lays the key foun-
              dations for what our brand is going to stand for when we make it. What
              is going to be the foundation, in other words, of our Lighthouse Identity.
                  Finally, in thinking about the foundation for where we are going to
              stand, we note that one of the key decisions that we as a Challenger
              have to make is whether we will be a brand of opposition or a brand of
              proposition. Are we always going to have as a key part of our identity
              what we are opposed to? Or will we use that to transition to simply
              standing for something that we champion? In rare cases, this opposition
              is something that is inherent in one’s genetic makeup; so Jimmy Lai’s
              open pro-democracy stance in his Hong Kong newspaper, Apple Daily,
              naturally is going to rub up against the ruling Chinese Communist Party.
              (Newspaper brands, in fact, are generally stronger in opposition.) But
              more commonly, this will be a choice that we will need to make as we
              develop our own sense of where we are going to stand, and what we
              are going to stand for.
c06_1   01/06/2009     80




                      6
               THE SECOND CREDO: BUILD
               A LIGHTHOUSE IDENTITY
                        Success means never letting the competition define you. Instead,
                        you have to define yourself based on a point of view you care
                        deeply about.
                                                          Tom Chappell, Tom’s of Maine




               T    he second key characteristic of Challenger brands is that they
                    do not attempt to navigate by the consumer. Instead, they invite
               the consumer to navigate by them. Even if they choose to use another
               player in the market as a counterpoint, they are seeking to communicate
               clearly and insistently where they stand and why they stand there.
                  There is a certain school of advertising one might call ‘‘That’s why’’
               advertising. You can spot an example by the presence of those two little
               words in the middle. Such a television commercial might, for instance,
               go something like this:

                     We open on a person lying back on a sofa reading a business
                     book. They are wearing a vintage Japanese T-shirt, some mid-
                     length drawstring pants, and faintly directional hair, so we can tell
                     they are not an old school businessperson; relaxed on the floor
                     next to them, reading a magazine, is an attractive partner, so we
                     know they are not sad, lonely people who have nothing better to
                     do than read business books on the weekend.

               80
c06_1   01/06/2009   81




                                        The Second Credo: Build a Lighthouse Identity      81



                     Up to date or not, though, we can see that the toils of the week
                 are taking their toll: As they flick through the incisive tome on their
                 lap, we notice their eyelids begin to drift south.
                     The voiceover begins: ‘‘At Milo’s mineral waters, we know how
                 difficult it can be staying awake reading long business books
                 about Challenger brands.’’
                     We see the eyelids fully close. The head starts to loll. The
                 partner looks up, and a flicker of fond annoyance crosses their face.
                     The voiceover continues: ‘‘That’s why Milo’s mineral water
                 contains six times the amount of caffeine of any other mineral
                 water on the market!’’
                     We cut to a fresh shot of the same scene. Our protagonist, fully
                 fresh and wide awake, is reading some of the funnier passages of
                 this obviously excellent business book to their partner, who is laugh-
                 ing radiantly and looking appreciatively into their eyes. This, we can
                 all see, is the stuff that Sunday afternoons were really made for.
                     A tagline pops up: ‘‘Milo’s Mineral Water with extra caffeine.
                 The Joy of Six.’’

                  ‘‘That’s why’’ advertising navigates by reference to consumers. It
              holds up a mirror to their lives—or what the advertiser supposes are
              their lives—and gives them a reason to believe the product we are sell-
              ing contains something that will make their day better in some regard. It
              is very tempting to pursue this kind of advertising for both agency and
              client, because it is so hard to fault if examined logically. Together we
              have identified a real problem—people are tired at weekends and can-
              not do all the things they would like to get done; we have shown con-
              sumers that we understand how they feel about that problem (they can
              see that we are almost living this thing with them); and we’ve given them
              a practical solution—a clear drink with trace elements of essential miner-
              als sourced within 160 miles of where they live, that also contains
              enough caffeine to make you find anything funny.
                  In this situation I, the brand, am acting in effect as a mirror. I see your
              life, and I am showing you that I see how you live.
                  And yet the Challengers we are looking at tend not to do any of this.
              They tend not to do ‘‘That’s why’’ problem-solution advertising; in fact,
              in many cases they don’t really talk about the consumer at all. Instead,
c06_1   01/06/2009   82




               82    EATING THE BIG FISH



               they talk about themselves; they invite the consumer to navigate by
               them. They behave as what we shall call Lighthouse brands, with a Light-
               house Identity.
                  First, we look at the idea of lighthouses and why they might be im-
               portant. Then we take the key dimensions to being a Lighthouse brand
               and discuss the importance of each of these in turn. Finally, we discuss
               the rock on which our Lighthouse brand is built.1


               NAVIGATION, NOT COMMUNICATION
               It’s not that the world is more complex these days. It’s that in many areas
               it’s falling apart. It is hard to overdramatize the recent steady collapse in
               people’s frameworks for living—the breakdown of families, the disap-
               pearance of job security, the disgrace of respected public figures and
               institutions, the financial embarrassment of former business icons, the
               displacement of basic social needs such as face-to-face time with friends
               and family because of the pressures of work, the personal sense of being
               nearly overwhelmed by the legion of pressures we cope with every
               day—whether those of a soccer mom, merchant banker, or magistrate.
               This sense of fragmentation, even collapse is fanned every night by the
               most consistently skeptical and graphic media commentary the Western
               world has yet known.
                    The fact that we are so close to this structural collapse ourselves
               sometimes makes us snow-blind to its effect. But consider one interest-
               ing symptom. The cultural critic David Marc has drawn attention to the
               fundamental change in the nature of popular television programming
               over the past 40 years.2 Figure 6.1 shows the top six prime-time pro-
               grams in the United States, by viewership, in 1960.

                          FIGURE 6.1 Top US Prime Time TV shows 1960–1961.

                          1. Gunsmoke
                          2. Wagon Train
                          3. Have Gun, Will Travel
                          4. Andy Griffith Show
                          5. Real McCoys
                          6. Rawhide
                          Source: TV Ratings Index 1960–1961
c06_1   01/06/2009   83




                                       The Second Credo: Build a Lighthouse Identity   83



                  What do these shows consist of? Essentially, tales of heroism and
              Western grit, aspirational stories about how ordinary men and women
              built America and found happiness and contentment in the world they
              were building.
                  Pan forward to 2007, and look at the key shows on just one network,
              ABC. What does the casual observer notice about all the anchor shows,
              old and new alike? They are all about dysfunction: Lost, Grey’s Anatomy,
              Ugly Betty, Cashmere Mafia, Desperate Housewives. One ABC execu-
              tive indeed remarked at the beginning of the season that there was a
              ‘‘foolproof formula’’ in television now—base a show around four women
              (or men) ‘‘who have everything—except happiness.’’ People lost in the
              world, perhaps, that has been built for them and with them.3 Fueling, or
              fueled, by this context of uncertainty, is the striking shift that what
              we see happening here is a change in the nature and shape of authority
              in the modern world. At a time when we need role models and struc-
              tures to live by, those role models and structures are less and less the
              authority figures of the past but, increasingly, one’s peer group. The
              growth of social networking sites, in some cases dramatically expanding
              the number of active friends in our network (a number that sociologists
              believe for thousands of years consisted simply of 5 close friends, 15
              active friends, and 150 acquaintances), of course, is both a symptom
              and a reinforcement of this shift. Ask yourself this: Is the social network-
              ing phenomenon simply a welcome return to connectedness after a
              period of apparently increasing decline in people’s ability to maintain
              their friendships? Or is that dramatically enlarged social connectness
              a desire for an entirely new kind of stability, where we as nodes are sus-
              pended from 150 points of reinforcement, reassurance, and recommen-
              dation? Noting all of these shifts is not to lament the passing of a
              historical set of structures and values; it is an observation with practical
              consequences for us. People today lack certain core historical frame-
              works that have helped structure previous generations’ lives, and now
              they are creating new ones of their own.
                  Where do brands fit into all of this? In human societies, goods have
              always been a form of communication—to the outside world and to one-
              self. Now I would go a stage further; I would suggest that brands have
              become a form not simply of communication but of navigation. Al-
              though it is too glib to say that brands and products increasingly provide
c06_1   01/06/2009   84




               84    EATING THE BIG FISH



               meaning in uncertain times, it does mean that the brands that flourish
               today are those that have a very clear sense of who they are—that is to
               say, not simply a distinctive identity but a strong and self-referential
               identity; they stand out from the competition by their intensity and their
               confidence in themselves. If we were to pursue the image of the con-
               sumer adrift on uncertain waters, then we might say that the brands that
               flourish in this uncertain environment are those that have what we shall
               call a Lighthouse Identity.
                   That consumers find the self-confidence of such brands appealing
               should be no surprise. In life, people are drawn to strength and to peo-
               ple of character who are true to themselves. In marketing life, in using
               goods as communication or even navigation, people are drawn to
               strong brands. This strength can come from the familiarity and ubiquity
               of a Brand Leader as Number One; if you are a second-rank brand, it
               comes from an intense projection of who you are.


               WHAT IS A LIGHTHOUSE IDENTITY?
               A Lighthouse brand is one that has a very clear sense of where it stands,
               and why it stands there. This sense of self is built on rock—a product or
               brand truth that gives it credible ownership of this place to stand, and
               projected in a point of view about the way the world is, or the way the
               world should be, in everything that it does. And projected in every direc-
               tion, inside and out. The result being that, like a lighthouse, you notice it
               even if you are not looking for it. Let’s break down these key elements of
               Lighthouse brands a little more clearly.

               1. Point of view—they have a very particular take on how they see the
                  world. The predominant purpose of Challenger brands’ every mar-
                  keting action is to tell us where they stand. They offer an emotionally
                  based point of view about the world. They don’t attempt to tell us
                  something about ourselves—and they certainly don’t attempt to
                  navigate themselves with reference to us. (This is important: The
                  Consumer Isn’t.)
               2. Intensity. They offer an intense projection of who they are in every-
                  thing they do. Weak preference will not cut it for a late entrant: Chal-
                  lengers need to be vivid.
c06_1   01/06/2009   85




                                       The Second Credo: Build a Lighthouse Identity   85



              3. Salience. They are highly intrusive; one cannot avoid noticing their
                 activity even if not actively looking in their direction—that is, shop-
                 ping their category. (Important: The Audience Isn’t.) You may not be
                 a wrestling fan, for instance, but you could absolutely tell me what
                 WWE is all about.
              4. Built on Rock. Their identity is built on a product or brand truth that
                 is inarguable. This inarguable truth gives them legitimacy and credi-
                 bility in the stance they are taking, a way of owning it in a very com-
                 petitive world, and a compelling conviction that the stance they are
                 taking is one that is uniquely theirs.

                  In the remainder of this chapter, we discuss each of these in turn,
              along with where the roots of identity may lie and, indeed, how one
              arrives at a strong identity in the first place.


              A Point of View All Their Own
              Challengers do not seem to plot their path by the rest of the world; they
              are confident enough to invite the world to navigate by them.
                  Let’s go back to that statement at the beginning of the chapter by
              Tom Chappell, owner of Tom’s of Maine. He is not saying, ‘‘Ignore the
              competition, and pay no attention to your consumer.’’ What he is say-
              ing, though, is while it will be important to understand both these things
              very well, you should not let the competition define you, and you should
              not confuse understanding your consumer with knowing what your point
              of view is, the view that will represent your unique place and role in their
              world.
                  So, Challengers have a very clear sense, first and foremost, of who
              they are, not just in terms of their own external image, but in terms of
              their own internal identity. This is often because they have a founder at
              the center, many of whose personal beliefs they reflect and amplify.
              Richard Branson is offering his own personal culture within Virgin: the
              smiling revolutionary, the entrepreneur in a fluffy jumper, the debunker
              of the establishment. The sexiness of Dov Charney’s American Apparel
              image is in a different way a projection of his own personal culture:
              Known to conduct interviews in his underwear, he also takes all the pho-
              tographs in his intentionally controversial ad campaign himself. In these
c06_1   01/06/2009   86




               86    EATING THE BIG FISH



               kinds of cases, everything else in the company flows from this sense of
               personal culture—behavior, image, communication.
                   But other Challenger brands we are considering have a less obvious (or
               nonexistent) founder: Dove, for example, Lexus (at launch, certainly), Wii,
               New Zealand, Diesel, Scion, and Camper are all brands that also in their
               own way evince an enormous self-confidence, a sense of who they are,
               without any permission from or reference to the world around them. They
               all seem to share shoe designer Kenneth Cole’s publicly stated belief that
               ‘‘What you stand for is more important than what you stand in.’’4 Whether
               they express themselves most effectively through design or communica-
               tion, their reference point is themselves—no comparative or ‘‘That’s why’’
               advertising here. The delineation between themselves and those around
               them is bold and clear: The differences in identity that mark out these
               Challengers are not the subtle differences that emerge from weeks of dis-
               cussion within the marketing/agency team over nuances of this or that
               word used to describe the brand’s personality. They are differences that
               are immediately observable; they are highly defined, in or out of their cat-
               egory context: a jeans company with its own philosophy of living (Diesel),
               a social networking site that sees itself as a movement (Facebook), a
               sports brand where all the athletes have their own philosophy of life
               (WWE), a country that celebrates that it is 100 percent itself (New
               Zealand).
                   Indeed, some iconic Challengers (like Apple) have achieved such a
               highly defined state of identity that they have become in effect their
               own countries, with their own languages—they don’t have help desks,
               they have Genius Bars; they give you protective coverings for their beau-
               tiful machines in the form of knitted socks; they have ‘On’ lights that
               pulse like a heartbeat.
                   And at the heart of each of these Lighthouse brands is a strong opin-
               ion. A very particular point of view about the way the world should be,
               what counts and does not count in it. They take a position based on a
               deep-seated belief. (This is as true of Challengers as people as it is as
               Challengers as brands, of course.)
                   So Target’s CEO, Bob Ulrich, believes that just because you don’t
               have money doesn’t mean you don’t have taste. Dieter Mateschitz of
               Red Bull holds that his brand is not simply an energizing liquid in a can,
               but a philosophy: ‘‘We believe in individualism, we hate conformism, we
c06_1   01/06/2009   87




                                       The Second Credo: Build a Lighthouse Identity    87



              believe in a civil courage. We believe you have the responsibility to
              make up your own opinion.’’5 Linus Torvalds of Linux believes that ‘‘soft-
              ware is like sex—it’s better when it’s free.’’6 Twitter believes that ‘‘every
              moment has a caption.’’7 Top-Flite is a golf ball brand that believes you
              should always shoot for the pin. Camper, the Spanish shoe brand born in
              the amiably slow-moving island of Majorca, believes we should all
              ‘‘Walk, not Run’’—it hates the increasing velocity of the world; it hates
              Nike and McDonald’s, as twin peddlers of contemporary speed; it be-
              lieves in slowly forged friendships, and the slow, rich pace of island life.
              The emergent Google’s ‘‘Don’t be evil’’—which did not come from the
              founders, but from a company meeting in 2000 to determine the com-
              pany’s values—was in large part a rejection of the (then) competition’s
              practice of mixing paid-for advertising with search results without being
              transparent about it.
                  Let us look at one example in a little more detail—the Mini case. Fac-
              ing a U.S. launch, Mini created a richly developed belief about a new
              driving culture, and what it believed a driving culture should be like, that
              was at direct odds with the natural trajectory of the prevailing category
              culture. The US driving culture that the Mini was launching into was one,
              as we have already seen, in which, on one very critical dimension, it
              could not win: This was a culture at whose heart the key principle was
              ‘‘bigger is better.’’ And it had always been like this—from the days of
              fin-tailed Cadillacs with ‘‘same-day steering’’ right up to a more modern
              love affair with light trucks and SUVs. And Mini was one brand that could
              not win in a ‘‘bigger is better’’ car culture.
                  So the Mini team (no single owner-founder here) looked at this cur-
              rent driving culture and asked themselves: Even if we could be part of
              the predominant American car culture, would we want to? Look at it—a
              culture of people flipping fingers at each other, of road rage, of selfish
              parking. A world of ‘‘eat lunch or be lunch.’’ So they looked to come up
              with and champion a new kind of car culture that they could believe in,
              and one in which they could thrive. A different kind of driving culture:
              one where people volunteered jumper cables, stopped intimidating
              each other, paid strangers’ tolls, and kept their hands off the horn. And
              then, to really make it ownable, the team pushed the thought further:
              They said to themselves that they needed a new piece of language to
              describe this new kind of automotive culture: something other than
c06_1   01/06/2009   88




               88    EATING THE BIG FISH


               FIGURE 6.2 Mini: ‘‘Let’s Sip, Not Guzzle.’’




               driving. So they took up motoring and the rallying cry ‘‘Let’s Motor.’’
               And around this thought they built the idea of a whole alternative driving
               culture into which the wonderfully diminutive car could fit. And one in
               which it could, and did, succeed. (See Figure 6.2.)
                   So, Challengers have a clear point of view, rooted in a unique belief
               or perspective on the world, and sometimes translated into a whole cul-
               ture all their own. And let us note that this is across all Challengers,
               across all kinds of categories. If we are tempted to think this applies only
               to premium goods, let’s look at JetBlue. Think this is more about hard-
               ware and services? Tell that to Stonyfield Farms.
                   Some Challengers famously go beyond championing a point of view,
               into being brands with an overt mission or cause. Tourism New Zealand
               genuinely believes that New Zealand represents something important
               for the world. Kashi, the cereal company (now owned by Kellogg’s), de-
               scribes itself as ‘‘Seven Whole Grains on a Mission,’’ and in its website it
               challenges you to make big and small changes in the direction of a
               healthier life. Dove talks about itself very deliberately as being an ‘‘agent
               of change.’’ Mozilla, the creator of the open source web browser Firefox,
               and Challenger to Microsoft’s Internet Explorer, wants to get the world
c06_1   01/06/2009   89




                                       The Second Credo: Build a Lighthouse Identity   89



              to see the benefits of openness, because it believes that openness will
              benefit the industry as a whole.8 They not only have a point of view
              about the way the world should be, these Challengers: They are going
              to intercede in the world and actually make it that way. In the words of
              Theodor Herzl: ‘‘If we will it, it is not a dream.’’ And they will it.
                  Before we move on, let’s look, by contrast, at a second-rank brand
              that has failed to establish its own identity, either to itself or its con-
              sumers, and the effect this failure has had on its success. Reebok is a
              second-rank brand that has continually failed to define who it really be-
              lieves itself to be, and thus has always posed a weak challenge to
              Nike’s dominance of the footwear market. Instead of accepting that
              Nike has appropriated the high ground of athletic performance (and
              has more claim to it anyway, given the origins of the Nike brand in col-
              lege sports versus Reebok’s origins in aerobics fashion) and uncovering
              another, genuinely differentiating place for itself to live, Reebok has
              spent years as a weak Nike wannabe. It is a brand that lacks an identity,
              lacks self-belief in who it is or can be, and it shows. Born from a group
              of traders, it has no true north; consequently, it has failed to make any
              ground on the leader.


              Emotion and Intensity
              The purpose of a strong identity is to invite and create a more intense
              relationship between Challenger and user, however the latter is defined.
              A Challenger brand does not break through in a mature category by
              being more convenient or trustworthy (though both these might be
              important basics for it to deliver on); it succeeds because it offers the
              consumer an emotional reward and/or relationship that the Establish-
              ment brand cannot match. While key aspects of the product mix
              may satisfy certain rational needs, then, Challengers do not tend to suc-
              ceed through the satisfaction of those rational needs alone (there are
              rarely many rational needs left in any given mature category, anyway);
              instead, through a Lighthouse Identity they invite a realignment of the
              consumer’s emotions.
                  The Challenger brand has to possess a stronger, emotionally based
              relationship with the consumer than the Brand Leader does—for what-
              ever reason. Being equally as strong is not enough. Indeed, I suggest
c06_1   01/06/2009     90




               90     EATING THE BIG FISH



               there is a graduating scale of positive affiliation with a brand that looks
               something like this (let us leave aside negative equity for the moment):

                    Indifference. A decaying brand is treated with indifference. It be-
                     comes a commodity or dies.
                    Reassurance. A well-established Brand Leader that has failed to renew
                     itself offers reassurance. This is valuable for a while in new categories
                     the consumer is afraid of, like technology or art, but it is inadequate in
                     categories wherein a consumer is more confident, like gourmet food.
                    Weak preference is vulnerable to competitive pricing or other ag-
                     gressive retaliatory tactics. It may be sufficient in high-volume, low-
                     interest categories like fast food but will probably be insufficient for a
                     Challenger that needs to build momentum or change buying behav-
                     ior in spite of distributional disadvantages.
                    Enthusiastic preference should be the benchmark to which a Chal-
                     lenger aspires. In a very few categories, this is what the Brand Leader
                     already enjoys—Lexus, for example, in the import luxury car market.
                    Identity is where the preference is such for the user to identify itself
                     with what the brand offers. Apple, in the area of computers rather
                     than iPods, has enjoyed the same emotional identification. The ap-
                     parently innocent statement ‘‘I’m a Mac user’’ masks a host of other
                     related beliefs in the user’s own creativity, perspective on the world,
                     and originality of thought.
                    Enhanced self is where the brand finds itself not simply so in tune with
                     what users want to be or to do that it builds identification, but where
                     it actually confers something on consumers they didn’t realize they
                     wanted but makes them feel, once they experience it, more than they
                     were. Experience brands such as the Schrager hotels at their peak, or
                     digital brands which facilitate a fuller expression of who I am (Face-
                     book) or which facilitate creativity (Threadless), or both (flickr). Much
                     of the velocity of a new generation of digital brands occurs precisely
                     because they deliver this benefit of enhanced self.

                   We can see, then, that as far as a brand is concerned, in all practical
               respects the opposite of love is not hate; it’s indifference. Indifference is
               certainly dangerous to a Challenger, but so is weak preference. Enthusi-
               astic preference is the least a Challenger should be aiming for.
c06_1   01/06/2009   91




                                       The Second Credo: Build a Lighthouse Identity   91



                  In order to achieve this degree of preference, we have to have and
              project a very clear sense of who we are and what makes you different.
              Sympathy and solutions, characterized by ‘‘That’s why’’ advertising, offer
              the consumer a mirror, but not an identity. They may build short-term
              sales on problem solving, but they will not create a strong enough affilia-
              tion to the brand to build medium-term momentum. Nicolas Hayek of
              Swatch put it eloquently: ‘‘Emotional products are about a message—a
              strong exciting, distinct, authentic message that tells people who you
              are and why you do what you do. There are many elements that make
              up the Swatch message. High quality. Low cost. Provocative. Joy of life.
              But the most important element of the Swatch message is the hardest
              for others to copy. Ultimately, we are not just offering watches. We are
              offering our own personal culture.’’


              Salience
              The final characteristic of a Lighthouse is that it intrudes on one’s con-
              sciousness: One notices it even if one is not actively looking for it. So,
              while you may not be a leggings wearer, you could tell me what Ameri-
              can Apparel stands for. You may never fly JetBlue, but you have a fair
              idea of what kind of experience it represents. You might never choose
              to drink Mountain Dew, but you know why and when you would. You
              may never have visited New Zealand, but you know it is 100 percent
              pure, and why that might draw you to it.
                  This salient understanding has partly to do with the identity itself and
              partly with the way the Challenger expresses that identity through its
              marketing communications and behavior. The whole issue of salience
              and how Challenger brands achieve it are covered in more depth in
              Chapters 6, 7 and 10; simply note at this point that its importance to a
              Challenger is rooted, not in the motherhoods of good business practice,
              but in two specific issues discussed in Chapter 2: The Category Isn’t and
              The Consumer Isn’t.
                  Lighthouses are built on rock. We want firm foundations for our point
              of view that we can credibly own, rather than having it be a piece of puff-
              ery. And we need that rock partly also to found a fierce belief in it our-
              selves, to ourselves, to our customers and business partners, and to our
              consumers. One fuels the other: If a clear identity gives differentiation
c06_1   01/06/2009     92




               92     EATING THE BIG FISH



               externally, it also gives self-belief internally—as long as it is founded on
               rock.

               Built on Rock
                     Product obsession is primary.
                                                                    Jim Jannard, Oakley

                   There are, broadly speaking, two kinds of rock available to us: a
               brand (or company) truth and/or a product truth.
                   In the case of the brand or company truth, this often lies either in the
               circumstances and reasons for the original creation of the brand or in
               building from one of the brand’s unique (though sometimes forgotten)
               equities. If we look at MAC cosmetics, for example, its identity—which is
               about a very public embracing of diversity in people—is founded on its
               origins, born as it was from the Toronto drag scene. The identity of
               Altoids, conversely, was rooted in an equity that had been physically
               stamped on its unique tin for 200 years—‘‘The Original Celebrated Curi-
               ously Strong Peppermints.’’ It is hard to argue with that: It’s right there
               on the metal for everyone to see.
                   The other key kind of rock on which to build is obviously a product
               truth—some dimension of product performance. Knowing that our
               brand is different—better than the Establishment brand we are taking
               on in some key dimension—affects not simply our own performance and
               attitude, but the relationship with our customers. Brand Leaders operate
               a ‘‘just enough’’ strategy. Just enough mushrooms in the sauce, just
               enough thoughtfulness in the ergonomics of the bottle, just enough
               quality control in the product sourcing, just enough courtesy at the
               check-in desk—and only one packet of peanuts per passenger per flight.
               There is a story about Henry Ford that dramatizes the ‘‘just enough’’ phi-
               losophy nicely: Ford used to send his people out to scour the scrap
               heaps of America looking for old Ford engines. Dragging them back to
               Detroit, they would look for the parts that hadn’t worn out and then
               downgrade the specifications to save money.
                   Yet while ‘‘just enough’’ is at some level simply good commercial
               sense for a Brand Leader, it creates an opportunity for the Challenger to
               create product enthusiasm, not just product satisfaction. Robin Wight has
               observed that brands that enjoy an iconic status in consumers’ minds are
c06_1   01/06/2009   93




                                        The Second Credo: Build a Lighthouse Identity    93



              not so much engineered (in the broadest sense of the word) as overengi-
              neered: They offer not just product performance but product overper-
              formance—that is, they honor the brand promise by offering the
              consumer in their product dramatically superior performance on some di-
              mension chosen by the Challenger. Absurdly generous quantities of choc-
              olate chunks amid the ice cream, a product that is sourced only from three
              islands in the Honduras, a free chauffeur-driven limousine to take you to
              the check-in desk in the first place. Wight believes such brands have their
              own design standard, one that is based not in research telling them the
              nature of their consumer’s wants and needs, but their own, almost obses-
              sive sense of how the product should perform, how it should be able to
              be experienced. A Land Rover, he will tell you, has a design standard that
              requires it to be able to drive 4,000 miles continually off-road without re-
              quiring anything except more gasoline. It is actually hard to find 4,000
              miles of off-road driving these days south of the Arctic Circle, but that is
              the design standard of the people building Land Rovers. (And, in some
              almost osmotic way, even if Land Rover purchasers are never specifically
              told this, they understand the machine’s extraordinary capabilities.)
                  Many of the Challengers we are discussing reflect Wight’s concept of
              overperformance—indeed, they parade it. They are more deliberately
              extreme than the Brand Leader not simply in the emotion and intensity
              of the way they talk about themselves, but also in the product perform-
              ance they offer. When driving a car, for instance, the occasions in which
              one needs to be able to balance three tiers of champagne glasses on
              one’s hood as the engine approaches 6,000 rpm are relatively rare, but
              Lexus’s launch advertising offered you the ability to do that. Patagonia,
              to take another example, also has its own design standards for function-
              al practicality. While its fashionability leads it to being referred to fondly
              by some of its adherents as ‘‘Pradagonia’’ or ‘‘Patagucci,’’ its founder,
              Yvon Chouinard, has a very different kind of design standard in mind
              when he says: ‘‘You should be able to wash travel clothes in a sink or a
              cooking pot, then hang them out to dry in a hut and still look decent for
              the plane ride home.’’ Able to be washed beautifully in a cooking pot?
              How many other brands have that as a design requirement?9
                  Does overperformance mean premium, or quality? Not necessarily.
              Mountain Dew has a very clear Lighthouse Identity, which is about
              ‘‘Pushing the Limits.’’ And the product rock it is based on is not product
c06_1   01/06/2009   94




               94    EATING THE BIG FISH



               quality but a product quality, or rather two of them: the fact that it is
               almost luminous in color and that it has a healthy dose of caffeine and
               sugar in each can. And it builds an identity that is firmly and un-
               equivocally rooted in that. Or it may be that overperformance in a cer-
               tain kind of reliability is important, if the Challenger is one in the field
               of knowledge, for instance: the thousands of volunteer contributors
               to Wikipedia correct acts of ‘‘vandalism’’ (i.e., malicious re-editing) in
               just 5 minutes, on average. (Even Southwest Airlines, in its own way,
               overperforms—it overperforms on enthusiasm and friendliness. It may
               not be to everyone’s taste, but it is very engaging to those who like it.)
                   Overperformance, then, has many benefits for a Challenger. It is not
               simply an extreme point of difference that justifies the emotional posi-
               tion the Challenger adopts. It is not simply to create fanatics and apos-
               tles in the user base (and therefore mythology, as discussed in Chapter
               11), although all these are important. Its other value is to create supreme
               self-belief and conviction within the company, and this is something that
               can be detected by those outside the company. Overperformance
               shows the company really cares about the product, which in turn means
               it is committed to delivering on the brand promise. And it gives the
               company the confidence to be a Lighthouse.10


               A LIGHTHOUSE IDENTITY, NOT A LIGHTHOUSE IMAGE
               This very clear sense of identity encompasses not simply what the brand
               is, but also what business it is really in—because it is a Lighthouse Iden-
               tity, rather than a Lighthouse Image. Were it the latter, our sense of self
               would simply impact the communications strategy. But as a Lighthouse
               Identity, it impacts in reality every aspect of our business. And as such, in
               fact, is a good test of how clear and directional our belief system and
               point of view is.
                   Look at method, for instance. In its 18-page People against Dirty
               booklet, bound into women’s magazines, the brand laid out how it saw
               the relationship between you and your home (Figure 6.3): ‘‘We believe a
               home is more than just a box,’’ method told us, ‘‘it is a kind of second
               skin.’’ So if this is our belief, how would it impact the way we thought
               about our business? We’d pay a lot of attention to the product nature,
               and how it acted on our skin, not just our bathtub. We’d want to signal
c06_1   01/06/2009   95




                                       The Second Credo: Build a Lighthouse Identity   95


              FIGURE 6.3 method text.




              this very clearly in the way you described our product promise. It would
              move us into a different kind of brand neighborhood: ‘‘skin care,’’ with
              big implications for the quality and aesthetic of the pack, for the kind of
              price you would look to charge. For the kind of emotional promise you
              would be making, and the kind of relationship and loyalty you would be
              looking to generate.
                  If, like Toyota’s Scion, you stand for and champion self-expression at
              the core of your Lighthouse Identity, then this will of course drive the
              kind of advertising and grassroots marketing you do. But it will also drive
              your business model—personalization will genuinely drive every aspect
              of the brand experience and interaction you create, whether it is a cus-
              tomer shopping for and personalizing their vehicle online prior to pur-
              chase, or when that customer goes into a dealership to customize their
              car, or whether that personalization takes place through Scion accesso-
              ries or through aftermarket accessories offered by the dealer. It will drive
              the way you nurture and help sustain the communities of interest around
c06_1   01/06/2009        96




               96        EATING THE BIG FISH



               the brand that you have launched, from hundreds of live events every
               year, to engaging the more than 150 Scion owners clubs that spring up
               (entirely independently), to the creation of Scion City in Second Life,
               where owners can go for further virtual education and inspiration about
               how to personalize their car.
                  This is a Lighthouse Identity, not a Lighthouse image.


               THE SOURCES OF IDENTITY
               Seeing individual Challenger founders talk of their own personal culture,
               it is apparent that an individual drives an identity and its cultural manifes-
               tations with a clarity and a vigor that an idea or a group finds it hard to
               match.
                    But what do the rest of us do about this, attempting as we are to
               transform ourselves into Challengers? Not many of us have a ‘‘strong
               personal culture’’—or at least one that is instantly apparent to the casual
               acquaintance. But an organization can have one, indeed must have one,
               and that in turn can create our own personal culture within the organiza-
               tion. What, then, is the source of a highly defined identity, a point of
               view, for an aspiring Challenger if there is no founder or central
               visionary?
                    First, we should recognize that there is an answer, because we have a
               pool of Challengers we are talking about that are not born just from a
               founder or founders. There is a tendency in larger companies to write off
               Challenger behavior as the province of companies with an owner-driver
               or two, who set the culture and embrace risk and PR (Red Bull, innocent,
               etc.) in a way that a more risk-averse, publicly quoted company (with all
               the concomitant joys of a matrix reporting structure and corporate PR
               police) will not. Yet as we have already noted, many of the Challenger
               brands we talk about here are not brands whose launch or relaunch is
               being driven by an owner-founder. So let us not allow ourselves to slip
               into the comfortable belief that this would all be wonderful when we
               start our own company, but will have to wait till then.



                     
                         The application of Challenger behavior in the latter is more comprehensively dis-
                         cussed in my second book on Challengers, The Pirate Inside.)
c06_1   01/06/2009   97




                                       The Second Credo: Build a Lighthouse Identity   97



                 Broadly speaking, if there is no founder or strong CEO within the
              organization, or if the Lighthouse team members do not have a strong
              personal sense of what they want to put right about the category, there
              are a number of possible sources from which a strong central identity
              can emerge. Chapter 5 looked at the rich inspiration for this that can
              come from real clarity over the challenge we are laying down to the
              market—let us also consider here the reinterpreted past and the rela-
              tionship with hard-core users.


              THE REINTERPRETED PAST
              Leslie Butterfield has observed that the role of brand planning on a ma-
              ture brand is not to add value, but to extract value—that is, to find and
              amplify a part of the brand’s history and essence whose relevance and
              potential power has been lost sight of. In his first weeks back at Apple in
              1997, Steve Jobs made a speech to the resellers in which he talked
              about what Apple stood for. It was not about making boxes that helped
              people do their jobs, he said, though it did that well. The brand, the
              company, was fundamentally about a belief—a belief that people with
              passion could change the world for the better. And, he said, Apple had
              always been about that—the launch of the Mac and the 1984 execution
              being shining examples of this. And, he went on, while he recognized
              that the world had changed enormously (the competition, the pricing,
              the technology, the retailing landscape), beliefs and values should not
              change; instead they should be reinterpreted for a new world.
                  Part of our key task, if we work on a relatively long-established brand,
              is to properly understand our past: why we began, what we believed
              when we began or when we were at our strongest, what our equities
              were then, and amongst whom their strength lay, and why. By under-
              standing and reinterpreting their past for a new world, we see a number
              of Challengers rekindle their Lighthouse flame. For instance, while we
              have in the past tended to think of Kodak as a Market Leader, as it has
              turned the corner into the digital world it has had to learn to be a Chal-
              lenger again. We discuss in some detail in Chapter 9 how Kodak rein-
              vigorated its camera business, and how a key part of determining its
              future direction came from going back—going back to George East-
              man’s vision for Kodak: mass market technology that made it easy for
c06_1   01/06/2009   98




               98    EATING THE BIG FISH



               women, moms in particular, to capture and share memories easily. And
               in really understanding the past, also looking at what it would mean to
               reinterpret that to a new world.
                   New Zealand has drawn on its heritage in a slightly different way.
               Every country should clearly be concerned about sustainability and
               nature, but in New Zealand (and therefore for Tourism New Zealand)
               there is a particular truth on which its unique perspective on sustainabi-
               lity is based: the Maori culture of kaitiakitanga. A very difficult concept to
               put into English. Kaitiakitanga essentially stands for the guardianship of
               the world’s natural resources and the life forces they contain, including
               preserving the land for future generations and, in doing so, practicing
               true sustainability in everything you do. (It can be argued that the Maori
               in New Zealand were, in a very real sense, the first environmentalists.)
                   Or look at Dove. While we as marketing observers feel that this is a
               dramatic new point of view and voice for the brand, those responsible
               for actually creating it are very clear that in reality it is significantly rooted
               in a perspective that the brand has long held. The primary communica-
               tion for the brand for years had been very simple endorsement advertis-
               ing featuring a real woman, talking honestly to camera. And this
               understanding helped give foundations and confidence to the legiti-
               macy of ‘‘Real Beauty’’ as a unique and ownable place to stand for Dove
               moving forward, albeit one that was indeed dramatically reinterpreted.
                   So, we need to surface a deep understanding of the brand’s past, its
               beginnings even. Past equities, why it was started, its initial intent and
               reason for being. Why it was successful when it was successful, and what
               that would mean today. Look for inherent truths that, while we may not
               be able to simply reexpress for a new world, may yet provide a fertile
               source for a long-term, ownable place to stand.


               THE RELATIONSHIP WITH HARD-CORE USERS
               In many cases, our brand will have developed a very clear identity
               among a small group of hard-core users or early adopters: This identity
               has arisen almost despite active marketing, because these users have
               found or projected something onto the brand from the context in which
               they have come to know it. Such was the case with Burger King. For
               years Burger King had done essentially just the same kind of marketing
c06_1   01/06/2009   99




                                       The Second Credo: Build a Lighthouse Identity   99



              as McDonald’s—the same kind of consumer segmentation, the same
              kind of meal extensions—but on a quarter of the budget, thus, in effect,
              just feeding the demand for the Market Leader. And the result had been
              seven straight years of decline. Then Burger King repitched the busi-
              ness, and with a new advertising agency (CPB) looked to redefine what
              it should stand for.
                  The brand team looked at the core 18- to 24-year-old target and de-
              cided to go hard after what it called its ‘‘superfan,’’ that group of just
              under 20 percent of users who account for around 50 percent of visits.
              The company recognized that this group of heavy users didn’t want
              healthy—which was the focus of much of the industry conversation at
              the time. (Think back to Intelligent Naivety and the upstream question:
              ‘‘Just because the world and the Market Leader is rushing into healthier
              eating options, does that really mean we should, too?’’) This group
              wanted something else from a burger. So the brand team identified
              three underleveraged equities—the King, the Whopper, and the idea of
              ‘‘Have It Your Way’’—and combined these in a fresh strategic approach
              that would give Burger King a way to credibly and ownably break
              through again to the superfan.
                  First, they gave ‘‘Have It Your Way’’ a fresh new meaning. What had
              been previously a way of saying ‘‘You don’t have to have the pickles if
              you don’t want to’’ was flipped into a positive: ‘‘Indulge all you like’’—
              and Burger King delivered concretely on this by adding a triple-decker
              to the menu, for instance, and chicken fries. The creative team then
              branded it unequivocally Burger King by re-creating a figure of ‘‘The
              King,’’ whose face was based on the cap to the helium container the
              brand had in the past used to inflate balloons for children’s birthday
              parties, which the agency had found on eBay. Critically, the team then
              extended the concept of ‘‘Have It Your Way’’ from the brand’s attitude
              toward food to its attitude toward life as well. For the mostly blue-collar
              18- to 24-year-old target market at the beginning of their working lives,
              there were not many places in their life that were encouraging them to
              ‘‘have it their own way.’’ But Burger King would be one of them. At the
              time of this writing, Burger King has enjoyed 26 consecutive quarters of
              growth, reversing seven straight years of decline.
                  Hard core here does not simply reflect frequency of visits, of course—it
              can reflect a different kind of intensity of relationship. Unilever’s fabric
c06_1   01/06/2009   100




               100   EATING THE BIG FISH



               conditioner brand, Snuggle, in decline and dwarfed in advertising spend
               by the Market Leader in most of its key geographies, initiated a project to
               look at how to compete as a Challenger again. Quantitative research show-
               ed no real difference between Snuggle’s users and those of the Market
               Leader. But in the qualitative research, the team observed that the Snug-
               gle users were a little more tactile, a little more likely to wear primary col-
               ors in the way they dressed, and a little more likely to do things like bake
               (at home, for school parties, etc.). They seemed, in other words, to be peo-
               ple who were more sensorially motivated, more inclined to make choices
               by the degree to which those choices gratified their senses. The team call-
               ed this group ‘‘Sensory lovers,’’ and looked at what it would mean to build
               an identity that would appeal very strongly to them, even if this meant los-
               ing another segment of the potential target in doing so.
                   First they quantified and made sure they understood this group—
               often looking laterally in their questioning to get a sense of how big a
               group this kind of person represented (did they buy scented candles, for
               instance?). Then they developed a Lighthouse Identity around a brand
               that championed sensory pleasure in clothes, and started developing
               new products against this identity: products with more intense scents
               and more richly evocative packaging. The market research team funda-
               mentally rethought the way they developed and tested their products.
               And the names they gave to their innovation launches projected the sen-
               sory intent of this Lighthouse Identity. Building an identity around this
               very particular group has been critical to Snuggle’s success. Stemming
               its own global share decline, the brand is not simply now growing in a
               declining market, but has been able at the same time to significantly in-
               crease price and profitability, and therefore the abililty to further invest
               in delivering this identity.


               A Lighthouse Isn’t Built in a Day
               So let’s take stock of where we are.
                  Chapter 5 showed the importance of both clarity on the nature of
               one’s challenge and the initial value of having a clear sense of what one
               was going to rub up against in the category or in popular culture to get a
               grip on the public’s imagination. We saw how this sense of what one was
               opposed to helped also define what one actually stood for—it was in
c06_1   01/06/2009   101




                                     The Second Credo: Build a Lighthouse Identity   101



              effect the catalyst for becoming clear on the culture and point of view
              one wanted to challenge instead. In this chapter we have discussed how
              this point of view is often the projection of a deeper belief system or
              culture, and the need for that to be founded on a brand or product truth
              that gives it credibility and ownability, to ourselves and our consumers.
              As sources for that potential identity, besides the opportunities explored
              in the previous chapter, we have also examined the potential in the rela-
              tionship with committed users, and a fresh understanding of our own
              successful past. And we recognize that the product rock itself, as with
              Mountain Dew, may not just be a reason to believe, but an inspiration
              for the larger identity.
                  Yet reviewing some of these Challengers and the strong identities
              that they have created can often create in the reader a combination of
              both inspiration and inadequacy—the sense that while that intense
              sense of self is indeed what we would like to create, we are some way
              short of that at the moment. And it is critical to recognize that, if one
              leaves the artificial world of the retrofitted case history, this sense of
              identity was rarely fully in place right from conception (or reconception).
              While some Challengers, like Virgin Atlantic and American Apparel,
              come out of their corners with the identity more or less complete in their
              minds from the first bell (though in the case of American Apparel, it was
              the second time around for Dov Charney, his previous venture having
              folded a few years earlier), for others the emergence and exact nature of
              their identity hasn’t always been evident straightaway, even to them-
              selves. When Cirque du Soleil, for example, first left its Canadian base
              and crossed the border into an unambiguously English-speaking audi-
              ence (the Niagara Falls area), performers carefully changed their name
              back to something more conventional, translating it into ‘‘Circus of the
              Sun.’’ They were concerned that a U.S. audience might find a French
              name too outré. The name change proved a disaster: The management
              was inundated throughout the season with requests for refunds from dis-
              appointed customers who had thought from the (translated) name they
              were paying to see a conventional circus, complete with lion tamers and
              elephants. Cirque du Soleil learned from this that part of its identity lay
              in playing up its differences with conventional circuses rather than play-
              ing them down, both inside and outside the Big Top. Far from changing
              its name when it travels, Cirque du Soleil now dramatizes the sense of
c06_1   01/06/2009   102




               102   EATING THE BIG FISH



               difference between itself and what the audience is used to seeing. Now
               every show is completely different in mood and style—not simply from
               any other circus the audience is familiar with, but even with previous
               Cirque du Soleil shows that played two years ago.
                   So we see that the crystallization of where the troupe’s center of grav-
               ity was, in terms of their identity, was something that became apparent a
               few years into their journey. And of course, in the previous chapter we
               looked at a whole group of Challengers who started from a sense of
               what they rejected and hated (e.g., the ‘‘Anti-Banana’’)—whether about
               the category or the Market Leader—and then from this clarity about
               what they were not came the clarity about what they actually were and
               what they stood for in their own right. To paraphrase Tom Chappell, they
               used the competition initially to define themselves to themselves, and
               from there came to identify the point of view they cared deeply about.
                   All these stories demonstrate that it isn’t necessary for the final iden-
               tity, that clear point of view, to spring fully formed at birth from the mar-
               keting team’s temples. But the drive for an identity as a foundation for all
               other activity does have to be a credo—something one believes in and
               actively moves toward. Although the identity wasn’t always clear for
               some of these Challengers at the outset, it is something they, unlike
               Reebok, have sought and moved toward—seeking differentiation from
               those around them. It has been well observed that once you have the
               identity established, every other aspect of the brand’s communication
               and behavior should flow out if it. Image, for instance, is often discussed
               as something that can be invented or reinvented at will. In reality, con-
               sumers’ noses have evolved: They can smell a fraud (and will now blog
               about the smell). An image rooted in identity is the difference between
               reality and marketing posture. This is not to say that the image cannot
               evolve or offer radically new ways of thinking about the brand, but that
               it has always to be rooted in the brand’s identity rather than being some-
               thing created or marketed as a discrete entity in itself. Indeed, with Chal-
               lengers, everything has to flow out of the identity: image, behavior,
               product innovation—and not least, the internal culture. And this is the
               reason that founders can be so critical to a Challenger’s success—not
               simply as icons or as focal points for publicity, but because they root the
               belief system, as well as providing a source for it and continual propaga-
               tion of it.
c06_1   01/06/2009   103




                                      The Second Credo: Build a Lighthouse Identity     103



              Everything Projects
              We noted earlier that the impact of a Lighthouse Identity extends far be-
              yond communications.
                  But clearly it does also impact communications: We said as a Light-
              house we are going to project very consistently and insistently in every-
              thing we do. And as we look to do that, let’s not think that we are going
              to simply look for that expression to come in the form of punchy ads or
              supercharged viral marketing. Both of these would and will be wonder-
              ful, but we may perhaps not have the money for either, and certainly we
              will not want to rely on either. We are instead going to look at everything
              we have as a potential medium.
                  And, what a number of the iconic Challengers have shown us over the
              past 10 years is that we all have far more media that we think we do: We
              just may not be seeing them as media at the moment. Our understand-
              ing of packaging, for instance, and how we use it, has undergone a sea
              change over the past decade. Over here, we see method observing that
              in a high-visibility location like your bathroom or by your kitchen sink, the
              packaging is in effect a part of the product, and so the structural aesthe-
              tic of the packaging can be a key part of projecting what you stand for,
              even in a cleaning liquid. Over there, we see VitaminWater using contin-
              ually changing body copy on its packaging, both to counterbalance with
              warmth and approachability the science of its product delivery and also
              to build a one-to-one relationship with each user, one bottle at a time.
                  Our ability and willingness to lean into using media in this way would
              be enhanced if we all used the frame that innocent does. In the UK, inno-
              cent is famous for its informal chattiness (being used strategically, as we
              noticed earlier, to help make a healthy drink a want rather than an ought),
              from the embossing on the bottom of the bottles, to the constantly
              changing package copy, to the delivery vans in the guise of cows or
              fields, to the customized displays on its fridges (all grass and daisies). All
              of these are called ‘‘House Media’’ by innocent—not packaging or vans
              or fridges, but House Media—materials and objects which you have to
              produce anyway and which therefore ambitious Challengers could and
              should be using as media to project what they stand for. One hears a lot
              of talk these days about brands needing to be media-neutral; this is surely
              nonsense, at least for a Challenger. What Challengers need to be is
c06_1   01/06/2009   104




               104   EATING THE BIG FISH



               media-positive—that is, frame the way the organization is seeing every-
               thing at its disposal such that everything is a potential medium for pro-
               jecting what it stands for, what makes it special. Its Lighthouse Identity.
                   And for a Challenger that is a service brand? Denny Clements, the
               General Manager of Lexus until his retirement in 2004, expressed it in a
               slightly different way. He remarked that when he first moved to Lexus
               from Toyota, where he had been Sales Director, his first question to his
               new team was, ‘‘When’s the sales event?’’ He was initially shocked to
               find that Lexus did not hold sales events, until he began to take in
               the real implications of how Lexus was looking to use the quality of the
               dealer and owner experience to create an entirely new dimension in
               the luxury car market. ‘‘It took me a little while to realize,’’ he said, ‘‘that
               every customer interaction was our sales event.’’ They looked to embody
               a whole new attitude toward customer service at every touch point.
                   Tourism New Zealand doesn’t have packaging in the formal sense,
               but it still projects who it is and what makes it unique in everything it
               does. One sees it in the little things—while two of us are interviewing
               the CEO in Paris, for instance, his phone goes off. The ringtone is noth-
               ing we have heard before; ‘‘What is it?’’ we ask. ‘‘It’s a tui,’’ he says, ‘‘a
               New Zealand bird.’’ One sees it in the way the company punches above
               its weight in high-profile events. In Valencia, at the opening ceremonies
               for the America’s Cup, all the countries taking part participated by sail-
               ing past the watching press, officials, and spectators in their boats, all of
               which were unremarkable except for the flags of their countries—except
               for New Zealand. Tourism New Zealand had flown in a Maori war canoe,
               called a waka, that the tattooed crew paddled while singing a Maori
               song—until they reached the point right in front of the press box, where
               they put down their oars, stood up, and performed a haka (a ceremonial
               dance of the kind performed by the All Blacks Rugby team before each
               international). Tourism New Zealand’s sense of proactively embodying
               who it is extends into business relationships, too. We worked on a pro-
               ject with the global Tourism New Zealand team for three days in a Los
               Angeles hotel (perched on the hard shoulder of the 405 Freeway—
               about as great a contrast to the essence of New Zealand as it is possible
               to get); as the workshop closed, the CEO stood and said that, by way of
               thanks to us all, they would like to close the meeting in a New Zealand
               way. He led his group in an a cappella Maori song to the three
c06_1   01/06/2009   105




                                       The Second Credo: Build a Lighthouse Identity     105



              Americans and Brits sitting, astonished, in chairs 10 feet away; it was one
              of the most moving experiences of our business lives. These behaviors
              are not, the Tourism New Zealand team is clear, simply a series of sym-
              bols of New Zealand; they are about always looking for a way to offer, at
              some level, an entire experience of the country, to give people a sense
              of why New Zealand and what it stands for has an importance to the
              world. Lighthouse brands are, as we said, inherently media-positive and
              channel-neutral.
                  So we can see that when we talk about a brand’s identity here, we are
              not talking about it in the sense of a color range, logo, and other kinds of
              visual representation that can be visually policed. We are talking instead
              about its projected meaning, point of view, or voice. For example, inno-
              cent says that its consistency of identity lies in its tone.


              New Media Does Not Necessarily Mean Digital Media
              One last story: It is a Saturday afternoon, and you are going to buy a pair
              of jeans. You try a new street, a new shop, pick up three or four pairs you
              like the look of, and head to the changing rooms. As you pull on the
              second pair, you become aware that the label at the back is not lying
              quite as snugly as it might. You put your hand round to adjust it, and
              realize why: It is about six times as long as a normal label. You try the
              jeans on, admire yourself in the mirror, and then have a look at this curi-
              ously extended label. It is, it seems, a little more than a label. It is a let-
              ter, if you like, to you from the brand that makes the jeans, howies (see
              Figure 6.4). You take the jeans off and read it.
                   It talks about why pure cotton isn’t as pure as you think it is. It talks
              about how much pesticide the world sprays on cotton, and all the rea-
              sons why that is no good for anyone. It talks of pesticide residue in the
              cotton you wear, and reminds you how nicotine patches work—by re-
              leasing chemicals into your body through contact with the skin. It tells
              you these jeans are made of organic cotton, and that they will cost a
              little more, but that you’ll see why it’s best for all sides. You find it un-
              answerable, compelling. You decide to buy the jeans.
                   We talk a lot about new media, and we do indeed need to create
              new media to project what we stand for. But in doing this, let’s not con-
              fuse new media with digital media. This is a new medium, and a very
c06_1   01/06/2009   106




               106   EATING THE BIG FISH


               FIGURE 6.4 howies’ long label.




               powerful new medium for this particular Challenger, but it has nothing
               to do with emerging technology. Digital can and will be an important
               part of what we do, but let’s not lose sight of the possibilities of the old
               in search of the new.
                   Everything can be a medium, if we choose to see it that way.
c06_1   01/06/2009   107




                                      The Second Credo: Build a Lighthouse Identity   107



              CONCLUDING THOUGHTS
              At the center of the Lighthouse Identity is a belief-driven point of view
              about the world. And a point of view that we see evidenced in what
              brands do as well as say. The past decade, by contrast, has also seen a
              lot of paper tigers—brands aspiring to be Challengers (‘‘Here’s what
              we believe! Go to our web site and read our manifesto!’’) without any
              real manifestation in differentiating behavior. But a belief system, if gen-
              uinely evidenced in such a way, does indeed create a trust in Lighthouse
              brands among consumers, a kind of shorthand for them in a world of
              confusing choices and fragmented meaning. Antonio Lucio, the Global
              CMO of Visa, argues in fact that Lighthouse brands have become in ef-
              fect the new gatekeepers—that the trust engendered by the identifica-
              tion of the consumer with what the brand stands for allows it to
              potentially extend its authority beyond its immediate product field. He
              points to Oprah Winfrey as one of the most powerful Lighthouse brands
              of our time—such is the trust in what she represents that mothers will
              listen to her advice on raising children, even though she has no children
              of her own.
                  As the world changes to one of conversation rather than broadcast,
              we will come to see that Challengers will find different ways to manifest
              this projection, but they will always take that viewpoint and belief into
              any interaction and dialogue they have. For instance, the innocent brand
              has embraced a dialogue with its consumers right from the beginning,
              but within that dialogue you always know exactly what the brand stands
              for and what it is committed to.
                  Because they are based in this point of view, or belief system, Light-
              house Identities do not, at their core, change a great deal over time.
              They may be faced with new kinds of market dynamics to respond
              to and new opportunities to meet—they may even be at the center of
              huge relaunches of the business—but at their heart they remain the
              same. It is their implications that change. One sees Challengers deli-
              berately reinventing themselves regularly—whether that means every
              decade (Patagonia’s Yvon Chouinard says, ‘‘Every ten years we have to
              blow this place up,’’9 and it is now aiming to have a product range that is
              50 percent watersports) or every six months (Diesel)—but you know that
c06_1   01/06/2009      108




               108      EATING THE BIG FISH



               the core values of Patagonia and Diesel, their Lighthouse Identities, will
               continue to shine through in their next iteration.
                   Finally, if we begin to put the first two Credos together to create the
               first steps of a Challenger process or strategic approach, we suddenly
               find ourselves with an apparent contradiction: How are we to resolve the
               tension between the need for knowledge about who you are as a brand
               or company (building a Lighthouse Identity) and the need for an intelli-
               gent innocence regarding the confines and opportunities of the catego-
               ry (breaking with your immediate past)? Both need to exist and be vital
               within the company in order for the Challenger to flourish—the latter so
               that we can see the opportunities for growth, and the former so that we
               can realize and own them—but how? Through process or personnel, we
               will need to find ways of creating intelligent collisions between knowl-
               edge of the brand and inexperience of the category. It is from these col-
               lisions that a continual and renewed momentum will come—without
               them, we will lose our freshness and become stale.
                   And it is the question of momentum that lies at the heart of the next
               chapter.

                     Videolinks for this Chapter:
                     www.eatbigfishfood.com/etbf/lighthouseidentity
c07_1   01/06/2009   109




                     7
              THE THIRD CREDO: TAKE
              THOUGHT LEADERSHIP OF
              THE CATEGORY
                     One way of looking at speech is to say that it is a constant strate-
                     gem to cover nakedness.
                                                                       Sir Harold Pinter1




              W        e tend to talk about Brand Leadership as if it were only true of
                       one brand in each category—the largest. In fact, there are two
              kinds of Brand Leader in each category. One is the Market Leader, the
              biggest player, the brand everyone lives with—and, chances are, the
              brand they probably grew up with.
                 But there is also another type of Brand Leader: the Thought Leader,
              the brand in the category that everyone talks about. While not the big-
              gest, it is the brand that is getting the most attention. It’s the one that is
              seen to be picking up momentum, entering the popular culture. At one
              distant point in its life, the existing Market Leader was this brand. But
              with very few exceptions, once the Brand Leader reaches the top, it
              stops making waves.2
                 Most of the brands we are looking at effectively made the decision
              that if they weren’t the first of these, they needed to be the other: If
              they couldn’t be the Market Leader, they needed to be the one every-
              one talked about. The one that was seen to be dynamic, the one with a
              sensed momentum.

                                                                                        109
c07_1   01/06/2009   110




               110   EATING THE BIG FISH



                  They aimed to achieve Thought Leadership not just through product
               innovation or advertising strategy, but through behavior: by surprising
               the consumer in selectively breaking not all, but one or two of the con-
               ventions of the category they were entering or reentering so late.


               BEHAVIOR THAT BREAKS THE CONVENTIONS OF THE CATEGORY
               Marketeers surround themselves with rules or conventions that govern
               the marketing of their product within the category: You have to have
               some relationship with dentists if you are in toothpaste, for instance; or
               if in airlines, a livery that impresses. If you are in financial services, you
               need a serious brand name, unless you are an online bank, when
               you need to sound funky. Consumers have, it seems, expectations
               that you have to deliver on to play in the category: If people go to a
               circus, for instance, they expect elephants, and tamers who put their
               head into a lion’s mouth, and performers on horseback, and clowns
               with big trousers and flappy shoes who run around and squirt water in
               each other’s faces. If people are going to buy a luxury car, they expect a
               prestigious marque. And so on.
                    But the point about these conventions is that they often have little to do
               anymore with understanding what the consumer really wants, or rather
               might want: They have been invented by marketeers (and the Market
               Leader) for reasons now forgotten and so, by default, become the status
               quo. In turn, some secondary brands in each category have eked out a
               comfortable but unspectacular living by playing to the existing conven-
               tions established by the Brand Leader; and this repetition by the Estab-
               lishment brands has in turn shaped consumers’ expectations of how that
               particular product should be seen and how products of that sort are
               marketed. The research the established players commission from time
               to time often confirms the validity of these conventions, because the
               questioner is too close to the category to ask questions in a way that
               doesn’t presuppose the same old answers, and the consumer has never
               really seen what else might be on offer.
                    But a Challenger enters (or reenters) a market late, almost by defini-
               tion. And in entering late into a market, you have to differentiate yourself
               more strongly: You have to offer the consumer a powerful reason to
               choose you.
c07_1   01/06/2009   111




                           The Third Credo: Take Thought Leadership of the Category   111



                  Finding that strong reason is not easy: While there will be times a
              genuine product innovation precedes the creation of a brand (such as
              Dyson, or the blog aggregation tool that became Bloglines), more often
              now the concept for the brand precedes the notion of the shape and
              nature of the product.
                  Category conventions offer a natural point of leverage to create this
              differentiation: The Challenger has to find a genuinely innovative insight
              into what the consumer really wants—and then play to that by taking
              one or two of those conventions and deliberately breaking them in the
              way it markets itself. This offers short-term leverage as the Challenger
              enters the market. It also offers an act of drama if that break is high-
              lighted through publicity or advertising. (This is one of the core philoso-
              phies behind the martial art of Aikido, where you use your opponent’s
              strength to your advantage.) The length of time the convention has
              stood and the degree to which the consumer assumes it is just the way
              the category operates adds to the drama of the convention being genu-
              inely upset. And that is an act of drama—I like Pinter’s invitation to think
              of brand talk as simply a way of covering up that the brand has nothing
              really more to offer us than just talk. What we are looking at here, then,
              for the most part are acts of Thought Leadership—a bridge between
              strategy and action in that they represent things that Challenger brands
              do in order to create a sense that they are the brands setting or resetting
              the agenda in the marketplace.
                  It is important to stress that this kind of convention breaking is not
              just about making a splash to gain attention. While one is certainly look-
              ing to be noticed, the short-term aim is also to use that break with con-
              vention in order to communicate with impact one’s identity and
              positioning, and further the deepened consumer relationship that
              will come from that. Longer term, the goal is to reframe the category
              territory, in particular the consumer’s selection criteria, to territory the
              Challenger has defined itself, and therefore to their own longer-term
              advantage. Changing the rules in the Challenger’s favor.
                  Let’s look at the kinds of conventions that surround any category.
              They are, essentially:

                 Conventions of Representation. How you portray yourself.
                 Conventions of Medium. Where consumers come across you.
c07_1   01/06/2009     112




               112     EATING THE BIG FISH



                    Conventions of Product Performance. What your product actually
                     does.
                    Conventions of (product and service) Experience. What you offer
                     beyond talk or technical performance.
                    Conventions of Neighborhood and Network. The company you
                     keep, the company that makes you strong.
                    Conventions of Relationship. Breaking the plane.

                   As the following examples show, breaks in convention are rarely
               created through whim or even desire; more often they are forced on
               Challengers because of limitations in their own resources—typically
               those of advertising budget, distribution base, or just the time the trade
               will grant them to build up critical mass before making a decision about
               their future. Yet the forced change precipitates the very behavior that
               intrigues and seduces the consumer—as well as changing the rules for
               everyone else.


               Conventions of Representation
               Conventions of Representation are those that surround how and where
               you portray yourself and your identity. These embrace advertising
               (yogurt advertising always shows a close-up of a spoon going into a
               mouth), packaging (mineral water is always in clear bottles), logo, those
               representative figures and codes that categories seem to adopt whole-
               sale (the celebrity muse in cosmetics/perfume advertising, for instance),
               and name. (Advertising conventions in and of themselves are not dis-
               cussed in any detail in this chapter; the reader interested in pursuing the
               breaking of advertising conventions will find the subject admirably and
               comprehensively discussed in another volume in this Adweek series,
               Jean-Marie Dru’s Disruption.)
                   The change in conventions of naming has been enormous over the
               past 20 years, no doubt because the proliferation of new launches has
               demanded it. We have had banks called egg, drinks called Code Red
               and 50 Cent, cosmetic brands called Urban Decay, messenger bags
               called Cheesy Disco and Sticky Date (from Crumpler), and limited edi-
               tion cars available only in one paint color (Envy Green, from Scion).
               Each of these has explicitly sought to take a convention of the category
c07_1   01/06/2009   113




                           The Third Credo: Take Thought Leadership of the Category   113



              (soft drinks must positively romance the new flavor, cosmetics make you
              look more alluring) and inverted that convention with an irreverent
              name the brand chose for itself. Each was operating in hugely cluttered
              marketplaces; each needed a high degree of differentiation to break
              through; but in this situation, each of them, by breaking convention,
              signals not just its desire to be different, but also both its identity and
              its intent to get us to look at the category and the possibilities of the
              category in a fresh way.
                  And if we want to be Thought Leaders, we need to consciously look
              for that opportunity in things we are doing already. Heston Blumenthal,
              the Michelin starred chef, previously only really known among the high-
              end restaurant fooderati, entered popular consciousness with an appe-
              tizer he created and put on his restaurant menu called Snail Porridge. It
              was immediately seized upon, discussed (and sometimes even eaten) by
              most of the British newspapers, and Blumenthal positioned alongside
              this coverage as someone changing the way we think about good
              food—a Thought Leader in fine cuisine. Snail Porridge was not intended
              to be either the template for every dish he made or his most popularly
              ordered item; it was instead one signature product he would consciously
              offer among his range, one that was intended to position him as the chef
              leading the agenda in cooking. He had no advertising budget (he had
              only one restaurant), so he needed to use one of his products, and his
              name for it, to create that perceived momentum for him.
                  Examining more closely what Blumenthal did here is instructive for
              those of us looking to create Thought Leadership ourselves. First, he de-
              liberately created a name that would attract attention because it broke
              the conventions of representation—in this case, what you would call a
              dish on a menu in a high-end restaurant. He remarked afterward: ‘‘I
              could have called the porridge ‘a fricassee of snails with oat risotto.’ No
              one would have batted an eyelid.’’ But Blumenthal didn’t; he deliberate-
              ly called his dish snail porridge. And in calling it this, he broke the con-
              vention of representation by choosing a breakfast nomenclature for an
              evening dish, attaching it to an unusual ingredient. Oh, and the break-
              fast nomenclature was for a down-to-earth, humble dish (porridge),
              which was being served in one of the most expensive restaurants in the
              United Kingdom. Whereas ‘‘fricassee of snails with oat risotto’’—using
              evening language, with a dash of French thrown in, as you would expect
c07_1   01/06/2009   114




               114   EATING THE BIG FISH



               a premium restaurant to talk about its food—would, as he himself says,
               have observed all the conventions of the category, thus ensuring that
               exactly the same product would remain largely unnoticed. The other
               Blumenthal dish people talk about is his egg and bacon ice cream, which
               is essentially the same idea: a down-to-earth, savory breakfast item,
               served up as the key flavor in a dessert for a luxurious dinner.3
                   Thought Leadership is, of course, no substitute for quality: It would
               be easy to pass off this kind of thing as pretentious frippery if the food
               weren’t also extraordinarily good—as noted in April 2006 when a panel
               of international experts voted Blumenthal’s restaurant, The Fat Duck, the
               second best in the world. And Blumenthal has now developed a broader
               reputation as a man with his own unique point of view on cooking, which
               he calls molecular gastronomy.
                   Thought Leadership, then, is not just about the wholesale flaunting of
               convention as an end in itself. If I start a band and call it ‘‘Get Cape,
               Wear Cape, Fly,’’ I am to some degree creating a little publicity for my-
               self because the name is unconventional, but it is not Thought Leader-
               ship as such, because there is no deeper intent behind it to challenge
               the way we think about the possibilities of the music category, nor is
               there the projection of a deeper identity or purpose. It is simply an ec-
               centric name. Compare this with Dove’s Pro Age skin care range, con-
               versely, whose Thought Leadership comes from the direct inversion of
               every convention the category has traditionally represented—antiage,
               antiwrinkle, anticellulite—that is, being against everything that age
               brings. For a brand to invert that convention and lean into a product that
               helps, in effect, celebrate the beauty of age, and then to call it some-
               thing that challenges the conventions of representation in the category,
               is to create an act of Thought Leadership in the category. It is anchored
               in a deliberate intent, born from its unique Lighthouse Identity.
                   For other Challengers, walking away from the conventions of the
               types of icons that typify a category has been a more defining part of
               the brand identity than the name. So the convention in the cosmetics
               category is to choose a ‘‘face’’ for the brand, almost invariably someone
               who is young, Caucasian, and female, and often without a great deal of
               personality of her own (the easier to write on it your own brand values).
               Yet in launching its signature Viva Glam range, MAC cosmetics certainly
               chose a muse, but one who robustly defied this convention. Instead of a
c07_1   01/06/2009   115




                           The Third Credo: Take Thought Leadership of the Category      115



              young, bland, Caucasian female, MAC chose a highly characterful, male
              African American drag artist: RuPaul. This was not through a desire to be
              the cosmetic equivalent of a shock jock, but because MAC needed to be
              the Thought Leader in order to break through, and this choice in fact
              spoke to its Lighthouse Identity about inclusiveness, and indeed its orig-
              inal roots in providing makeup for the Toronto drag scene. The faces
              subsequently used by MAC for Viva Glam included Sir Elton John, who
              is not technically female, either, and k.d. lang, who uses neither makeup
              nor capitals.
                  The opportunity to selectively and intelligently break conventions of
              representation extends further into the key codes and cues that have
              become the landmarks of the category and that helps consumers navi-
              gate it. New World wines are a case in point: Of course, they targeted a
              different kind of drinker at a different price point (initially, at least), and
              of course the product was a good one—startlingly good, particularly to
              the Old World wine producers. But this new generation of winemakers
              also famously changed the way the category talked about itself. Instead
              of the arcane complexities of the terroir the wine came from and the
              reputation of the shipper, the New World winemakers changed the
              way one navigated the category by emphasizing instead the kind of
              grape used: shiraz, chardonnay, cabernet. This change of convention
              was continued into the way the brands selling those wines represented
              themselves as brands: names such as Dead Arm, Two Hands Bad Imper-
              sonator, and Le Cigare Volant reflecting very different ways of talking
              about yourself from ‘‘Chateau Ladidah 1999.’’ And the visual iconogra-
              phy that then accompanies those kinds of brand names is, of course,
              very different to the familiar images of chateaux and vines that continue
              to populate the wine labels of France. The Old World, depositioned and
              a long way from Thought Leadership, has suffered: Around 84,000 com-
              mercial growers in France alone are thought to have left the business
              between 1994 and 2003.


              Conventions of Medium
              Conventions of medium concern the way the brand is delivered, both
              physically and emotionally. They encompass distribution (music, for
              instance, is always sold through music stores, whether brick or online),
c07_1   01/06/2009   116




               116   EATING THE BIG FISH



               message delivery (discount stores advertise in downmarket periodicals),
               and physical packaging structure.
                   People expect individual categories to express themselves in parti-
               cular kinds of media, so the dilemma a Challenger faces is this: Do we
               play in the same media in order to be seen as a legitimate contender in
               the category and accept a low share of voice because of the presence of
               other players there? Or do we leave the beaten path and derive a possi-
               ble (but perhaps uncertain and short-lived) advantage by appearing in
               a context the consumer does not associate with the category we are
               attempting to enter (or reenter)?
                   Often, the decision is forced on a Challenger; it cannot afford the
               convention—it cannot afford three flights of television advertising every
               six months, for instance, rotating five spots at a time. As we have already
               observed, however, the breakthrough comes not in simply realizing that
               we have to play in a medium where we can be more visible, but in realiz-
               ing that there is, by the same token, an opportunity to use the un-
               conventional nature of that new medium to our own advantage.
                   method’s use of structural packaging as a key part of its brand offer
               obviously came from its sense of the opportunity in home care, yet at
               the same time it didn’t have money to advertise—the brand would have
               to speak for itself from the shelf. And so, method didn’t just choose
               to make the bottle look a little nicer; the company deliberately chose a
               famous designer, Karim Rashid, to introduce an entirely new level of
               design aesthetic in home care (Thought Leadership is as much to do
               with degree as direction).
                   Moving farther east, T-box is a Turkish clothing brand launched in
               2003 that has used highly unusual packaging and distribution to create
               a brand with a lot of momentum—but built around very simple pieces,
               even basic clothing. White T-shirts are sold in highly compressed cubes
               a couple of inches across; hats come in packaging that looks like
               wrapped candy. Boxers, flip-flops, beach towels, and blouses have fol-
               lowed, in packaging that looks like ice cream or lollipops. T-box’s distri-
               bution is equally unusual: Its 1,500 purchase points range from vending
               machines (where the change is prepacked into the T-shirt) to luxury
               stores to a range of spontaneous purchase locations, from gas stations
               to malls, but the brand also pushes into one-off retail outlets, like sail-
               boats, that sell T-box products to vacationers out on the water. Where
c07_1   01/06/2009   117




                           The Third Credo: Take Thought Leadership of the Category   117



              T-box has actual retail space, it can be tiny, and takes the form of metal-
              lic walls onto which the highly compressed T-box packages are stuck
              like so many fridge magnets. ‘‘Convention of medium’’ then, does not
              refer solely to the medium of communication. Interpreted in the broader
              sense of ‘‘where you are,’’ it can also encompass product location:
              where the consumer finds you, and unusual forms of dispense. These
              ideas will flow naturally from the fresh perspective on the category you
              are looking to bring: If you see Juicy Tubes lipstick as ‘‘candy for your
              lips,’’ it will be a relatively short step to launch them displayed on giant
              candy sticks.4
                  Thought Leadership in packaging and distribution fuels T-box’s repu-
              tation as a cool brand, even though it is selling everyday, low-ticket
              items.
                  To take a different kind of packaging, consider Puma and the way it
              has packaged its sports stars. Puma has chosen, as a sports brand with a
              much smaller presence and marketing armory than the bigger players,
              to put a strong fashion and lifestyle element into the brand’s offer. This
              fashion element extends into its involvement in sport, and so when
              Puma ‘‘packages’’ its players, it looks for Thought Leadership. For the
              2004 African Cup of Nations, Puma proposed all-in-one green-and-red
              body suits (subsequently banned) for one of the favorites, the flamboy-
              antly talented Cameroon team. If you missed this, then what you will
              have noticed (because the world’s press did) was the Puma costume of
              Serena Williams in the 2002 U.S. Open. The conventions of tennis cloth-
              ing are fairly straightforward: white clothing, relatively loose to allow
              freedom of movement, and the player themselves in these clothes posi-
              tioned primarily as sports stars. Puma, however, outfitted Williams in a
              black, body-hugging catsuit made of Lycra (though it could have passed
              for rubber). The dominatrix went on to win the tournament, and Puma
              rode how it broke the conventions of tennis attire to further build its rep-
              utation as a Thought Leader in its category.
                  So we see that breaking these conventions can be an integral, per-
              manent, and primary part of how you achieve your desired momentum
              (T-box) or simply a smaller-scale idea that is one part of your bigger
              ongoing ambition to be the Thought Leader in the category. These acts
              can be integral to the core presentation of the brand, or at the edges. So
              Veuve Clicquot keeps its champagne bottle shape and graphics always
c07_1   01/06/2009   118




               118   EATING THE BIG FISH



               the same, but is continuously introducing new kinds of playfully theatri-
               cal outer packaging, such as an enormous paint can, always in the
               brand’s signature yellow. Lush has begun to pack its mail-order products
               not in conventional filler but in popcorn. Why? Being 60 percent lighter
               than shredded paper, Lush saves 10 percent on shipping costs, and
               popcorn offers a sensual dimension to something as previously un-
               remarkable as packaging filler—a sensual pleasure that is entirely in
               keeping with what its customers know and love about Lush. Guests for
               fashion shows by John Galliano, the British designer who is currently cre-
               ative director of Dior, have received their invitations in forms as unusual
               as a red-satin ballet shoe, a school report for Miss Suzy Sphinx, a poster
               advertising an amateur boxing competition, a bullet in sand. Through
               the unexpected medium of his invitations, Galliano creates standout in a
               crowded season and heightens anticipation among a generally blasé
               press audience for the creative content of his shows.
                    And, of course, in terms of one’s message, context can and should be
               as critical as the nature of the message itself—so when one comes
               across Target, a discount store, advertising not just in inexpensive down-
               market weeklies but in the upmarket New York Times Magazine, the im-
               pact is even greater. And we can see, through the Target example, that
               one of the primary reasons for changing the conventions of the medium
               in particular is to create a fresh level of engagement with your message.
               It is not simply our familiarity with the kinds of messages that blunts their
               impact; it is that we are always seeing within the category the same kinds
               of messages in all the same kinds of places. Usually, we look as Chal-
               lengers to changing the message to create breakthrough; as often, it
               can be about giving the same kind of message in an entirely different
               kind of medium or context. (Though this may not stay different for very
               long—by the time the fourth car company has set up a showroom in
               Second Life, the opportunity for Thought Leadership has long passed.
               To maintain momentum, we need to continually revisit and refresh.)
                    Let’s conclude this section by looking at an example of how to break
               through by changing the convention of the medium in a far, far tougher
               communications arena than most of us have to face: that of teaching
               math to teens in a school classroom. Within education, there is increas-
               ing prominence given to teachers who are using fresh thinking to
               engage pupils in subjects historically thought to be dull. In the United
c07_1   01/06/2009   119




                           The Third Credo: Take Thought Leadership of the Category   119



              States, one of the most striking examples of this has been a math teach-
              er who was held up by a national newspaper as the Thought Leader in
              her field because she is changing the convention of the writing medium
              in her classes: She is teaching her pupils polynomial equations (what
              some students might be forgiven for regarding as potentially rather dry
              and uninvolving subject matter) using shaving foam. She has found that
              getting them to write a polynomial equation in a writing material that is
              inherently fun, messy, and three-dimensional—a substance that, when
              used for writing, you cannot help but engage with—helps them pay at-
              tention to, engage with, and remember the subject. We might be
              tempted to think this is an interesting but irrelevant bit of color in this
              chapter, but there is an argument to be made that it is in fact the most
              relevant and important example of all: that if you remember just one
              example, this should be it. Because to some degree, if we are in the
              business of being Challengers, then we are all also in the education or
              reeducation business. We all have to ‘‘educate’’ consumers (or stimulate
              them to reeducate themselves) to think that there is a whole new criter-
              ion for choice in the market other than the ones the Market Leader has
              been teaching them for years. And perhaps we all need to make our re-
              education as engagingly three-dimensional—and even as messy—as
              this teacher is making math. In doing so, we make ourselves not simply
              understood, but we become Thought Leaders in the way we made our-
              selves understood.


              Conventions of Product Performance
              These are conventions of pure performance: what your product does,
              over and above what it is expected to do (rather than the experience
              it wraps around it). Recently, we have seen the advent of hybrid tech-
              nology cars give Thought Leadership to Toyota with both its Prius
              model and its luxury hybrids. The performance was vividly dramatized
              with the Prius itself on the central screen that also housed the satellite
              navigation system—press a button and you could watch the flow of
              power to the car switch between the gasoline and electric motors,
              brilliantly dramatizing for driver and passenger alike the invisible,
              barely understood feature and its benefits. For the early Prius driver,
              it was in many ways this dramatization of the product performance,
c07_1   01/06/2009   120




               120   EATING THE BIG FISH



               on top of the performance itself, that gave a sense that the Prius
               brand was ahead of the pack.
                   Bang & Olufsen has for years had a relatively small but premium
               share of the audiovisual electronics market. One of its great strengths
               has been its ability to create an almost visceral desire for its products,
               partly through the beauty of their design, but partly through extraordi-
               nary functionality—functionality that goes beyond anything we would
               expect in the piece of equipment we are considering.
                   Sometimes this has to do with standards. So, on the BeoSound 9000,
               that wonderful-looking CD player Bang & Olufsen sells (even in an iPod
               world) with six CDs displayed in a line, two particular engineering stand-
               ards stand out. The first is that when each disc stops playing, even if you
               have programmed the machine to shuffle between the CDs track by
               track, it will always stop spinning with the disc in exactly the same posi-
               tion as it was when it started. That is to say that if you line up your six
               discs so the image on each disc is ‘‘the right way up,’’ each will always
               return there when not in motion. Why? Because the visual impact of six
               discs being visually aligned in the way you want and originally intended
               is as important to Bang & Olufsen as the audio impact. The second strik-
               ing engineering standard is that the design brief for the engineers was
               that the moving laser unit had to take no longer to go from one CD to
               another CD, find the right track, and start playing it, than it would have
               taken simply to have gone onto the next track on the same CD (which,
               on average, is two seconds). To achieve this between the two outermost
               CDs, the laser unit needs to be able to move at a speed faster than a
               Ferrari to the new CD in order to locate and play the next track without
               the listener noticing any difference. And it is the comparison with the
               Ferrari that they will make to you when you demo the product, and that
               you go on to tell your friends when you buy it.
                   However, sometimes the ability of their extraordinary engineering to
               create Thought Leadership surprises even Bang & Olufsen. The BeoLab
               5 speakers (shown in Figure 7.1, on either side of the BeoSound 9000)
               are designed to ‘‘measure’’ your room according to size and object
               placement, and to calibrate the appropriate level of bass, mid, and tre-
               ble they should be producing accordingly to give you the optimum lis-
               tening experience. To activate this, the owner presses a button on the
               individual speaker, and a sonic probe emerges from the speaker before,
c07_1   01/06/2009   121




                           The Third Credo: Take Thought Leadership of the Category   121


              FIGURE 7.1 Bang & Olufsen’s BeoLab 5 speakers with BeoSound 9000.




              batlike, emitting three different levels of sounds from which it makes its
              measurement and readjusts its outputs for you. In developing the motor
              for this sonic probe, the B&O engineers looked at how often people
              would significantly change rooms or move to a new house so that they
              knew what kind of life to engineer into the motor that moved the probe
              in and out. Would it be 12 times? Surely no more than 20? They set to
              work accordingly.
                  But within months of the new speaker being launched, Bang & Oluf-
              sen’s customer support staff reported that customers were claiming that
              their probes were no longer working. How could this be, the company
              asked itself? Surely these customers weren’t redesigning their living
              rooms every two weeks? No, they weren’t—something else was happen-
              ing altogether. When you bought a new pair of BeoLab 5 speakers, you
              became very keen to show them off to your friends. You would ask them
              to come for a drink or dinner, and they would be struck by the exquisite
              design and the wonderful sound. Then you, the proud owner, would
              show them something a little more. Look, you would say, here’s the
              most amazing thing: It actually has a little thingamajig that measures the
c07_1   01/06/2009   122




               122   EATING THE BIG FISH



               size of the room. Watch. And you would press the button, the probe
               would come out, make its intriguing sonic probing noises, and retreat
               into itself again. Holy cow, your friend would say. Impressive, isn’t it?
               You would casually agree, giving it a proud little pat. And once you had
               shown it to 30 or 40 friends individually over a six-month period, the
               motor would give up, and you would, rather baffled, ring up your local
               Bang & Olufsen dealer.
                  So it is a potent thing, Thought Leadership. Make sure you are pre-
               pared for the consequences of it.


               Conventions of Product and Service Experience
               Conventions of product experience have to do with the experience sur-
               rounding the product or service rather than the actual performance of
               the product itself. At a simple level, the original sound of a Ping putter
               was one way a Challenger built experiential difference in a familiar cate-
               gory. At a more sophisticated level, the range of applications through
               which one could engage with one’s network on Facebook is one of the
               elements of the user experience that gave it such social velocity and
               Thought Leadership. And if I tell you that Eurostar (the train service con-
               necting London, Paris and Brussels) has a new station, St. Pancras, that
               offers not just a champagne bar, but the longest champagne bar in
               Europe, that makes you stop, think, and perhaps even talk. A train sta-
               tion? But aren’t train stations always such functional, in-and-out places?
               And champagne bars are places normally associated with an entirely dif-
               ferent level of experience than the mundanity of normal train travel.
               Which is, of course, exactly the point for Eurostar, in its desire to be the
               Thought Leader in European travel.
                  So it may be that one pushes for Thought Leadership by changing
               the convention of the experience one wraps around the product. This
               indeed has been the driver behind the extraordinary revival of cider in
               the UK alcoholic drinks market. As a traditional, apple-based alcoholic
               drink, cider was for years the cheapest and most palatable way for British
               teenagers to get drunk—and, at the other end of the UK citizen’s life-
               span, it was a relatively cheap way to stay drunk once luck and society
               had abandoned you to the streets. Between these two inevitable life
               stages was the everyday marketing challenge—how to position cider as
c07_1   01/06/2009   123




                           The Third Credo: Take Thought Leadership of the Category    123



              a credible mainstream alternative to beer. It would be hard to quantify
              the marketing and creative brainpower and money expended between
              1970 and 2005 trying to pimp the cider market and its constituent
              brands to young, mainstream beer drinkers without ever really changing
              the image of the drink or the size of the market.
                  And then came Magners, which launched in the United Kingdom as a
              premium packaged cider (the first in a new segment for the category),
              accompanied by a glossy bottle and some unremarkable advertising
              that talked about naturalness, apple blossoms, and conviviality. So far,
              so unexciting. What really captured the consumer’s imagination,
              though, was that as a central part of this mix, Magners introduced an
              entirely new way to drink cider—in a pint glass, full of ice, with the liquid
              poured from the bottle through the ice to chill it through. This introduc-
              tion of a new experiential element added three important components
              that cider had been missing: First, it chilled the liquid, making the taste
              both more accessible and more in line with the trend in lagers to be
              served ‘‘extra cold’’; second, it created an entirely new way to drink a
              ‘‘session pint,’’ with enormous bar visibility; third, filling the pint beer
              glass with ice meant that the pourer always had some left in the bottle
              afterward, which then remained by the pint, branding this experience
              to those around the drinker. This change in the convention of the drink-
              ing experience gave Magners enormous momentum and appeal among
              a much broader group of young beer drinkers who had never taken
              cider seriously before. The brand went on to become the best-selling
              packaged long alcoholic drink in bars and pubs, outselling all premium
              packaged beers, and in its two key markets went on to become one of
              the top 10 drinks, even including draught beers. Its success has grown
              the category 10 percent, while beer as a whole is down. (Its key chal-
              lenge now is how to retain share in a category that has copied this inno-
              vative experience wholesale.)
                  This fundamental change in the user experience is more profoundly
              seen in Nintendo’s Wii. Always sedentary, gaming was becoming lon-
              ger, more involving, more complex, more time-consuming, more expen-
              sive. In Chapters 9 and 10, we discuss the nature of the sacrifice and
              overcommitment represented by Wii, but let’s note here how it high-
              lighted the change it championed in the conventional user experience
              (from static, solo, and silently immersed to noisy, social physicality)
c07_1   01/06/2009   124




               124   EATING THE BIG FISH



               through the events it publicized, the kinds of people it brought in (gran-
               nies and moms representing the enthusiast gamers of the brand)—and
               even a new word: exergaming, meaning ‘‘gaming that helps you exer-
               cise.’’ What exergaming represented had been an ambition of game
               developers for years, but games that historically needed specialized
               equipment to play them had only been seriously adopted by (for some
               reason) competitive professional cyclists. But now, with Wii, people of all
               ages were suddenly on their feet ‘‘playing tennis,’’ even to the point
               where people were starting to promote weight-loss programs using a
               regular regime of Wii gaming. And Wii Fit shortly followed.
                   We do not have to reengineer our entire product experience, how-
               ever. Sometimes it is the conventions of the preparation ritual or the ele-
               ments that accompany the experience that lend themselves to being
               redefined. In the world of spirits, for instance, Hendrick’s bills itself as ‘‘a
               most unusual gin.’’ Launched in the United States in 2000 (and in the
               United Kingdom three years later), it aims to challenge, not the Old
               World gins of Gordon’s and Beefeater, but the new premium brands
               such as Bombay Sapphire and Tanqueray No. Ten. There are many ways
               to make a cocktail with gin, but the standard gin and tonic is an experi-
               ence that has been made up of the same four ingredients for over a hun-
               dred years: gin, tonic, ice, and a slice of lemon. But Hendrick’s, having
               already given its product a different taste through an infusion of rose
               petals and cucumber, wanted to create a unique experience even within
               this apparently finite confine—change the experience and change the
               ritual. So they substituted the slice of lemon with a visibly different kind
               of slice—one of cucumber: vegetable for fruit, green for yellow, gentle
               refreshment for bite and zest. Is this a shift Hendrick’s has tried to build
               the whole brand positioning around? No. But is it something that cre-
               ates conversation among consumers of premium gin, who are always
               looking not simply for fresh brands, but fresh thinking and fresh experi-
               ence around those brands? Yes. It is a small, but highly distinctive and
               ownable piece of Thought Leadership in the world of gin. A little
               momentum behind the new Challenger.
                   In a service business we see exactly the same options open to us:
               either a fundamental reengineering of the category’s service offer, which
               will bring us Thought Leadership, or the deliberate creation of individual
               service ‘‘products’’ within our overall service experience specifically
c07_1   01/06/2009   125




                           The Third Credo: Take Thought Leadership of the Category   125



              designed (a service equivalent of snail porridge, if you like) to break with
              the conventions of expected experience and position us as the brand
              that, in big or small ways, is the brand to watch in the category. For the
              first of these we see Lexus, for instance, which became the Thought
              Leader in the U.S. luxury car market by offering a superb car, certainly,
              but which fundamentally broke through in the United States by deliber-
              ately changing the conventions of the ownership experience. For the
              second, let’s look at Virgin Mobile in Australia. Fourth in its market, the
              brand was launched in 2000, with a Lighthouse Identity centering on an
              attitude—being free-spirited. Around this core thought, the brand de-
              liberately built Thought Leadership by offering a series of services that,
              while not always intended to be income generators themselves, were
              designed to continually position Virgin Mobile as the brand in the mar-
              ket that really understood how its free-spirited users both used and
              abused their phones. ‘‘Dialing Under the Influence,’’ for example, was a
              service introduced in response to a survey the brand had done of its un-
              married users, which showed that if you went out with your friends on a
              Friday or Saturday night and got a little overrefreshed, you were twice as
              likely to call your ex-partner as you were your current partner—and that,
              if you did, no good would come of it. The new service, DUI, allowed you
              to bar outgoing calls to designated numbers on your phone between
              the hours of 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. to save you from yourself when, well,
              you weren’t quite yourself, so to speak. How many people used the ser-
              vice? A relatively limited number. How many discussed it with their
              friends—(‘‘Who would you bar?’’)—in the pub on a Friday night? Rather
              more. How many felt that this was a phone company that understood
              how they really used and abused a phone? A much greater number. This
              has been one of a stream of services designed to generate Thought
              Leadership. So the brand went on to launch its SOS service, whereby if
              you find yourself on a bad date, you can dial 767 (SOS), hang up, and
              within minutes Virgin Mobile will return your call with an excuse to leave
              (even talking you through what to say). And, from the insight that people
              have all sorts of good intentions to remember people’s birthdays and
              other key events, but just forget, the company launched a service
              whereby you can prepare text messages to send at the later, relevant
              date. Each of these services is based on an insight about how Virgin
              Mobile’s free-spirited users live and communicate, for better or worse,
c07_1   01/06/2009   126




               126   EATING THE BIG FISH



               but each breaks with the generic phone services and offers we have
               come to expect from the telecommunications giants. Why? Because the
               Market Leaders are offering services that make us as humans more pro-
               ductive, often based on ‘‘what our technology can do’’; Virgin Mobile,
               on the other hand, is very pointedly offering services based on the kinds
               of human frailty that make life worth living.
                   And herein lies the bigger point for us. We all think that becoming a
               service brand is going to require real estate and large amounts of cus-
               tomer service people. It isn’t. What the Virgin Mobile example illustrates
               is that you can create a series of small-scale, relatively small take-up ser-
               vices that still have enormous value, because the insight they display in
               the way they break the conventions captures the imagination of a much
               broader group of users and potential users, and positions them as the
               Thought Leaders in the category.
                   Finally, if we look at Challenger country brands, we can see Dubai’s
               momentum in the world’s imagination coming through in exactly such
               acts of Thought Leadership. Yes, Dubai’s engineers are building what
               will be (for a while) the world’s tallest building, the Burj Dubai, but this is
               not what sticks in our mind about the city. The two things the person in
               the street knows Dubai for are buildings and properties that break the
               conventions of representation and experience. The Burj Al Arab, built in
               the shape of a billowing sail (a nod to Dubai’s trading past) positions
               itself as the first seven-star hotel—two more than the five stars we
               thought had been the very peak of hotel quality. (Hmm, interesting—
               what is our equivalent of the industry standard five-star rating, and what
               is our equivalent of creating a new scale two stars above it?) And the
               Palm Jumeirah is a series of artificial islands in the shape of a palm tree,
               offering an entirely new experience around beachside holiday homes.
               Effectively doubling Dubai’s coastline, it has been followed by The
               World, a series of artificial islands imitating a map of the world, four kilo-
               meters offshore.
                   Why is this kind of behavior important for a Challenger? Eurostar’s
               Greg Nugent talks about Thought Leadership being not so much a way
               of simply generating publicity as ‘‘a shortcut to the future,’’ a perceptual
               bridge to where you would like to be positioned within the category in
               the future. In the case of Eurostar, the champagne bar we sat in a few
               pages ago signals a desired perceptual transition that Eurostar is
c07_1   01/06/2009   127




                           The Third Credo: Take Thought Leadership of the Category   127



              making, from being ‘‘as good as flying’’ to ‘‘the future of European
              travel.’’ In the case of Dubai, Sheik Mohamed bin Rashid al-Maktoum
              wants to increase the run of double-digit growth in his small country until
              its GDP hits $108 billion (projected in 2015). Yes, much of this will come
              from tourism; but, as important, 25 percent of the Fortune 500 global
              companies have decided to locate their regional headquarters in Dubai.
              There is for Dubai a considerable financial advantage in being the
              Thought Leader.
                  Increasingly, then, Challengers compete and succeed by being in the
              experience business: the anticipation and the delivery of an experience
              that breaks the category convention.


              Conventions of Neighborhood and Network
              The fifth convention we can break is that of neighborhoods and
              networks—who we partner with to create our unique offer. This partner
              can be another brand, another organization, a different network, or our
              user community itself.
                 This type of Thought Leadership is a little different from our other
              potential sources, because very often these kinds of new relationships
              are obviously formed for different and more fundamental reasons than
              the desire to create perceived momentum. Usually the primary role
              of the strategic alliance or community is something much more pro-
              found than this—an essential leverage, authority, distribution, or source
              of content creation for the better realization of the brand’s potential or
              our core purpose. Thus we see Mayor Bloomberg of New York teaming
              up with other mayors to commit to Kyoto targets even though the Bush
              administration would not. Or Heston Blumenthal (he of the snail por-
              ridge), launching a project with the Royal Society of Chemistry to set up
              a new subject in schools called Kitchen Chemistry, in which children will,
              among other things, learn how to use liquid nitrogen to make ice cream.
              Panasonic’s embracing of Leica lenses represented for the former, as a
              Challenger in cameras, an intriguingly unexpected juxtaposition of the
              most respected brand in old-fashioned (i.e., pre-digital) camera optics
              married to a huge electronics company; in a very real sense, it was the
              startling nature of this marriage that caught our attention—one then
              delivered in the quality of the images. MoveOn.org’s ability to raise
c07_1   01/06/2009   128




               128   EATING THE BIG FISH



               money from a grassroots network rather than Big Business in the 2000
               elections helped put nine new people (four senators and five house
               members) into power in Washington. And we are all familiar with the
               brands that have grown their footprints, communities, and offers
               through user-generated content.
                  Now MoveOn.org, Bloomberg, and Blumenthal are not interested in
               doing what they do primarily to be Thought Leaders. They want to influ-
               ence thoughts and actions, and they are doing it this way because they
               have found a new model to create sufficient muscle and mass to exert
               leverage on issues and politicians. Yet the effect of this is to make each
               of them a Thought Leader, even if the primary intent was something
               more fundamental. As the power of the community becomes more
               mainstream, the fact of this kind of community strength, of course, will
               become unremarkable. Instead, the unique ways the community forms
               and shares, and the social objects it attaches itself to, will be the ele-
               ments that distinguish it.


               Conventions of Relationship
               On the business-conference speaking circuit, one of the differences one
               often notices between A-list speakers (the ones who cost $50,000 to hire
               for an hour) and B-list speakers (the ones who cost somewhat less than
               that) is the degree to which the former ‘‘break the plane.’’ Breaking the
               plane in this particular sense has nothing to do any incidental damage to
               aviation equipment, but rather their preparedness to move through the
               invisible, yet still very real, barrier at the front of the stage between the
               audience and the performer. Convention says that the performer stays
               on one side of this invisible plane and the audience stays on the other.
               A-list list speakers don’t observe this rule, though. They like to physically
               mingle, to interact; they ask questions, poke and prod their audience.
               Someone falling asleep? Turn the lights on them. Someone getting
               cocky? Call ’em out.
                   Breaking the plane in this context creates a different kind of energy in
               the room, if the speaker does it well. It creates in equal measure intimacy
               (we are in effect being treated as a group of individuals, and a dialogue
               is being created rather than a mass communication) and a simultaneous
               discomfort (‘‘I hope to God they don’t pick on me in front of everyone
c07_1   01/06/2009     129




                             The Third Credo: Take Thought Leadership of the Category                 129



              else’’). It demands more involvement; it creates more connection with
              person and message; it fosters memorability. Worth every cent.
                  ‘‘Breaking the plane’’ is a common way Challengers have created
              Thought Leadership by breaking the convention of relationship in a
              range of different fields. In the field of music, it is easy now to dismiss
              Iggy Pop as an aging curio, but you have to remember the profound
              effect he had early in his career, not just on the nature of the music busi-
              ness (the arrival of The Stooges just after Woodstock was arguably a first
              death knell for Sixties flower power and the music that accompanied it),
              but also on the nature of how rock front men performed. He was the first
              white singer to deliberately and provocatively break the plane, to get
              down in among the crowd while performing—and effectively invent
              crowd surfing at the same time in order to get back on stage again.
              While crowds now expect and welcome this from their rock gods, it was
              hugely polarizing at the time—some in his early audiences felt very un-
              comfortable, and others were enormously excited to find themselves
              suddenly in the same space as such a charismatic and physically dynamic
              performer. It was one of the elements that gave Stooges concerts an
              entirely different energy from other performers at the time.
                  These kinds of barriers, these invisible planes, with their different kinds
              of physical expression and visibility, have historically existed between all
              kinds of brands and their consumers. And one of the ways Challengers
              seek to create Thought Leadership is to productively break them. Banks
              and the banking culture is an obvious example—which is why we can see
              a Challenger bank, for instance, breaking the plane by having a terminal
              for accessing a customer’s information that requires the customer to come
              around to the same side as the service agent removing the ‘‘plane’’/barrier
              between them, and thereby a working relationship of closeness and equal-
              ity. In fact, in a more metaphysical sense, the increasing visibility and cele-
              bration of the people involved in the creation of brands, which is starting
              to become visible even in packaged goods, is the beginning of a different
              kind of plane being broken, one where the consumer is being invited to
              become a part of the community that the brand represents, rather than
              merely a buyer of something the brand is selling, which leaves them stand-
              ing on the opposite side of the transactional table. We do not have to go

                 
                     The perceptive reader will perhaps detect a certain enviousness at this point.
c07_1   01/06/2009   130




               130   EATING THE BIG FISH



               as far as Threadless.com, where all the T-shirts sold are designed by their
               consumers. We can simply look at the communities a Scion or an innocent
               creates to see the power of this kind of Thought Leadership.
                   Finally, breaking the plane, and the kind of participation it invites, is
               clearly a two-way affair—just as the performer can move into the crowd,
               so members of the crowd may be invited up on the stage, to contribute
               ideas to the future of the brand and the company behind it.
                   And sometimes, if the brand performer either entrances or outrages
               them, the dynamic power of a new world of blogging and social net-
               works means they will, in effect, simply storm that stage anyway.


               SOME MISCONCEPTIONS ABOUT CONVENTION BREAKING
               Breaking convention has become a hot topic. But it is not wholesale rule
               breaking that the Challenger should aspire to. Rather, the Challenger
               needs to understand which conventions of representation, medium, or
               experience to break and which to observe.
                   Lexus, for example, changed some of the conventions of product
               experience but deliberately decided to keep other conventions of repre-
               sentation. The changes were forced on the company; it found in its
               development research that the five key attributes wanted by American
               luxury buyers were prestige, safety, resale value, performance, and styl-
               ing, in that order. But Lexus could not compete on prestige or resale
               value immediately, so it focused on the last of these—performance and
               styling. By breaking the conventions of the product experience, Lexus
               redefined luxury. The resulting product, at the resulting price point,
               redefined what a luxury car should be.
                   But the Lexus launch team didn’t throw out every convention in the
               process of redefining luxury. There was, for instance, a fierce debate
               within the team about whether to include a grille on the new car. Many
               on the Lexus design team preferred to leave out the grille—and indeed,
               the motoring press itself, expecting something more iconoclastic,
               expressed astonishment at some of the early shows when the grille was
               revealed on the new car. But the most senior members, including Kuni-
               hiro Uchida, the chief designer, mandated it.
                   In an interview afterward, Uchida was asked why he decided to in-
               clude a grille—many journalists felt that a car without a grille would have
c07_1   01/06/2009   131




                           The Third Credo: Take Thought Leadership of the Category   131



              been a more futuristic car; he replied that he was confident that a luxury
              car should have a grille. He realized that, in effect, a Challenger couldn’t
              break every rule at once; his new car needed to anchor itself in certain
              conventions of representation in order to allow the broken conventions
              of product experience to be of mass interest.
                  A second misconception about convention breaking is that it will usu-
              ally be welcomed or understood by our consumer without explanation.
              Yet often there is a real risk that the consumer may simply be confused
              by the change of convention, particularly if it is a convention that they
              had become comfortable with. So for instance, when Southwest Airlines
              was forced to offer open seating (i.e., sitting wherever you like rather
              than having an assigned seat), a number of passengers initially found
              this so unfamiliar as to be confusing and off-putting. So Southwest rec-
              ognized this difficulty and helped its customers make the transition by
              framing it to them in a way that used as a reference point something
              similar that they were already familiar with: ‘‘It’s open seating,’’ South-
              west told them, ‘‘like in church.’’ Their customers were immediately
              much more comfortable with the convention change—because while
              unconventional in flying it was conventional in another category they
              participated in every Sunday morning.
                  A third, natural concern about convention breaking is that Thought
              Leadership through unconventional practice may forfeit conventionally
              desired attributes, notably quality ratings. Yet the reality is that the
              whole nature of what quality does and does not mean is shifting dynami-
              cally under our feet. Just look at how sustainability, citizen journalism,
              and YouTube have started to change our criteria for how we judge
              quality. If an organic carrot is grown 30 miles away, but is a little mis-
              shapen and muddy, is that now a low-quality carrot or a high-quality car-
              rot? Is quality news reporting now about a smartly dressed news
              reporter talking at the scene an hour after the event, or does quality
              instead lie in rough footage from a camera phone taken by an amateur
              while the event was happening? (Or perhaps not by an amateur, but by a
              professional, but not a professional camera operator—a professional
              soldier, broadcasting from a video camera mounted on his helmet in
              Afghanistan or Iraq?) Is quality in news today, that is to say, about ana-
              lyzed presentation, the meshing of the news with the viewpoint, or
              instead the transparently immediate record of the event? And if you look
c07_1   01/06/2009   132




               132   EATING THE BIG FISH



               at YouTube’s impact on our perception of quality entertainment, what is
               the definition of quality its product experience represents? Is there any
               consistency in the quality, in fact, of the most-watched items? And the
               answer is that there is, but it has nothing to do with the quality of
               the production values (the old definition of televisual quality). The con-
               sistency here is in the quality of the idea (or the pass-on-ability) that the
               clip represents. Expensive TV ads rub shoulders with poorly shot but
               hugely captivating films of fans crying over Britney. Entire notions of
               quality in terms of how a category talks are being overturned.
                   Finally, there is sometimes confusion between selectively breaking
               with certain conventions and simply being outrageous. The second of
               these does indeed have its followers, and there is a school of thought
               that argues, with some justice, that if you cannot afford a great deal of
               paid-for advertising, you should strive to do something provocative that
               gets you free coverage in media (we discuss the use of publicity further
               in Chapter 11). But in talking here about changing conventions of media
               or experience, for example, we are going far beyond discussing adver-
               tising aimed at generating publicity; we are not looking simply for atten-
               tion, but the deliberate creation of sensed momentum. A brand that is
               resetting the agenda in the category.


               THOUGHT LEADERSHIP AND BEHAVIOR
               The third credo, then, is that of assuming Thought Leadership of the
               category. This is begun by deliberately breaking some of the conven-
               tions of the category while rooting yourself in others.
                   In most of the cases we have looked at, the breaking of convention
               was forced on the brands—usually because they lacked the money or
               pedigree to go the conventional route. But they turned this into an ad-
               vantage by changing the relationship the consumer had come to take
               for granted between the product and the way it represented itself, or
               the product and the medium it used, or the product and the experience
               it offered.
                   The result has been to define the rules in their favor. The success of
               Lexus has meant all the other luxury brands in the United States had to
               raise their customer service experience. Virgin Atlantic’s entertainment
               offering in economy class was the catalyst for British Airways to overhaul
c07_1   01/06/2009   133




                           The Third Credo: Take Thought Leadership of the Category    133



              its own. One of the results of the Wii launch is that now the other video
              game manufacturers are trying to follow Nintendo into this broader de-
              mographic—the December after the Wii launch in the United Kingdom
              saw Xbox, for instance, doing advertorials to demonstrate how much
              family fun its console and games could be.
                  The payback for Thought Leadership may not always be as immedi-
              ate or as measurable as some of our other initiatives. If we are looking to
              create it through limited-edition packaging, for example, the economics
              of the packaging payback may not make sense in absolute volume terms
              for the limited run it accompanies. We have to judge it instead by the
              broader impact it has on our sensed momentum.
                  Finally, we have to be aware that such leadership may not always
              meet with universal acceptance in the beginning. Thought Leaders are
              not always embraced by everyone at the same time. Stepping back a
              moment into the marketing of music, for instance, consider the early days
              of Elvis. While Elvis is now a figure at the center of U.S. music history, in
              reality, the early years were difficult. The man who launched Elvis, the
              legendary Sam Phillips, was unashamedly looking for a fusion that would
              break the musical conventions of the time—a white man with a black
              sound. The salient images of Elvis may now be of a sedate, middle-aged
              man playing to blue rinses in Vegas, but what Elvis unleashed in addition
              to the sound that Sam Phillips sought in the beginning was something
              very different. His stage act for ‘‘Hound Dog’’ was banned as being too
              inflammatory. Radio stations received death threats for playing his music;
              the Parent-Teacher Association called it ‘‘vulgar, animalistic noise,’’ and
              the King a ‘‘rock and roll bum’’ and ‘‘a sex maniac.’’ Police filmed his
              shows, and a year and a half after the release of ‘‘It’s All Right, Mama,’’
              he was still being introduced on programs as ‘‘the most controversial
              name in rock and roll.’’
                  The success of Thought Leadership should be measured initially,
              then, by a more intense relationship with one’s core target rather than
              by its immediate mass-market appeal.



                Videolinks for this Chapter:
                www.eatbigfishfood.com/etbf/thoughtleadership
c08_1   01/06/2009   134




                     8
               THE FOURTH CREDO: CREATE
               SYMBOLS OF RE-EVALUATION


               O       ne morning a group of television journalists are sitting around in
                       the BBC canteen, brainstorming possible television programs
               they could make. And they come up with an idea: They will challenge
               one of their number, Nick Ross, to make the most boring subject in the
               world interesting, on national television. Take something people really
               don’t care about at all and get them genuinely involved in it. Oh, they
               add, and one more thing, ‘‘We get to choose this boring subject that
               you have to make interesting.’’ And after a little more conversation they
               come up with the topic of Road Safety.
                   Road safety in the United Kingdom—or anywhere, really—is some-
               thing that the great British public (aside from the victims and their fami-
               lies) and in reality the great British legislators have no real interest in at
               all. Most ordinary people are pretty complacent about it—they already
               look both ways when crossing the road, and they are a bit more aware
               about alcohol and car keys these days—you know, doing their bit. And
               the authorities for their part felt at the time that they were doing enough
               as well: Road deaths were holding steady at around 6,000 a year, which
               wasn’t too bad, and very much in line with other countries. All parties
               were in a comfortable rut; there were bigger things to worry about.
               Life—and death—went on.

               134
c08_1   01/06/2009   135




                                 The Fourth Credo: Create Symbols of Re-evaluation     135



                 So this journalist, Nick Ross, accepted the challenge. And, as he
              explored it further, he became genuinely and personally involved in the
              question of how one could reduce the number of deaths on British roads
              by snapping the public and the authorities out of the complacent rut
              they were in. Being a television journalist, he did indeed plan to put a
              piece of film at the very center of his response to the challenge, but he
              realized that if he were to really get all sides to sit up and take notice, a
              program on its own couldn’t be the only element of his response. So he
              developed a three-part strategy to puncture the complacency of road
              users and legislators alike.
                 First, he decided he would need to reframe the whole concept of
              what was happening. He realized if people would not engage with the
              topic of road safety, then he would need to set the annual statistics—
              almost an abstract number as far as both sides had become concerned—
              in an entirely different context, both to get their attention and elicit a
              much more emotional response to something they had become too
              familiar with. So he reframed the 6,000 annual road deaths not as just
              another statistic, but as an ‘‘epidemic.’’ That is, something that was not
              inevitable but that could be fought and overcome. A threat to the com-
              munity (a monster, if you like) that we all needed to face up to and fight.
              And he called his BBC documentary about road safety ‘‘The Biggest
              Epidemic of Our Times.’’
                 Second, within this new frame, he recognized that he needed to
              make the abstract numbers more than just abstract numbers. He
              needed to find an idea that would bring them to life for people in an
              entirely fresh way—and in doing so would make them suddenly un-
              acceptable. And he would need to do this very early on—as a com-
              municator, he recognized that for the beginning of his program he
              would need something that would be instantly arresting (he was work-
              ing in a category after all, that allows the most instant brand switching
              in the world—television). So as the opening of his documentary he
              took a typical British market town, Wallingford (population 6,000),
              and filmed the entire town lying down, as if dead. Every year, he be-
              gan, a town the size of Wallingford dies on British roads. And within
              those first three minutes, he had us: We would indeed now sit down
              and lean forward into a program about the topic we had previously
              known as ‘‘road safety.’’
c08_1   01/06/2009   136




               136   EATING THE BIG FISH



                    Third, Ross changed the language for the authorities, as well as the
               frame for the British people. He told the authorities they should revise
               their targets: Instead of 6,000, they should aim to kill only 4,000 people
               a year. The other side was incensed. ‘‘Kill?’’ What on earth was he sug-
               gesting? They thought of themselves, after all, as being in a job about
               saving lives, and here was this journalist suggesting that they were kill-
               ing people. But the jolt that Ross’s inversion from ‘‘saving lives’’ to
               ‘‘killing people,’’ together with his own personal activism—he became
               Chairman of the National Road Safety Committee—led at last to his
               revised targets of 4,000 deaths a year being accepted. Tighter legisla-
               tion and greater investment followed, and UK road deaths are now
               around 3,500 a year, half the average for the previous 50 years. UK roads
               are among the safest in the world and, in significant consequence,
               British mortality rates of people under 50 are among the lowest in the
               world.


               WAKE UP, WORLD
               Excited though we are about our brand and the genuine importance of
               our mission, and effervescent though we may be about the superiority
               of our product or service, or the benefits of our brilliant innovation, peo-
               ple outside in the street are for the most part very happy where they are,
               doing what they are doing. They are not waiting to change their minds
               about the brands they see in front of them, and in the majority of pur-
               chase decisions, they already have a range of brands that happily suit
               their needs (65 percent of women in the United States, for instance, say
               that once they find a brand that satisfies them they usually don’t experi-
               ment with new ones). The purchase decision, in fact, is often not really a
               decision—it is a habit. It is easy to lose sight of this; like the old Stein-
               berg cartoon of a New Yorker’s view of the world, as marketeers we
               naturally distort our target’s world to fit our own preoccupations. Since
               we spend all our time thinking of our targets’ consumption and choices
               in, say, online grocery shopping, there is a natural tendency to be a little
               disappointed in listening to them tell us in focus groups that they don’t
               really think about—or even want to think about—online grocery shop-
               ping at all. What they think about is how to get their sons and daughters
               to soccer practice and ballet class, or how they are going to find the
c08_1   01/06/2009   137




                                 The Fourth Credo: Create Symbols of Re-evaluation    137



              money for college, or why their partner is in such a bad mood, or
              whether the cat needs putting down, or how to get the car cleaned
              before dinner with the Shattocks on Thursday night. That is where their
              time and energy are devoted. In terms of consumption and brand deci-
              sions, they are on autopilot.
                  But autopilot obviously favors the status quo, even the Brand
              Leader; and for that reason a Challenger cannot live in an autopilot
              world, and cannot flourish under the status quo. For a Challenger to
              achieve its objectives, therefore, it will need to look for ways to punc-
              ture the consumers’ complacencies. To wake up the sleepwalkers, if
              you like. Some of this will obviously lie in sustained sampling and other
              ways of motivating behavior change. Some of it will lie in brilliant
              communication. But as brands in a hurry, Challengers also will look for
              ways to create Symbols of Re-evaluation—dramatic symbols or acts,
              often involving startling juxtapositions, that prompt consumers to sit
              up and rethink some of their assumptions about the category, the
              brand, and how they are thinking and behaving in relation to both.
              Acts that sometimes are brief interventions, then disappear, or acts
              that sometimes stay on as a visual symbol showing why the brand is
              different and what its challenge is.
                  Commercial value aside, it is not hard to understand the importance
              marketeers attach to such symbolism in brand building. At its most
              basic, if 70 percent of human communication is nonverbal, it is reason-
              able to look for the expression of one’s identity to be manifested in
              some kind of visual form, over and above a graphic treatment of logo or
              name, simply in order to complete the communication relationship with
              one’s desired consumer. Indeed, as we move to a consumer retreating
              from the marketing relationship and the need for a softer and softer
              verbal sell, striking visual imagery may remain the strongest way of
              rapidly advancing our brand’s case without turning off the consumer.
                  But the inherent advantages for a Challenger brand go far beyond a
              visual manifestation of identity, important though that is. First, they have
              to do with immediacy—an instant signaling of identity. Phil Knight, of
              Nike, has remarked of the Air Jordan Jumpman icon, which came to
              embody the brand’s attitude as it rose in the 1980s, that it saved a lot
              of time—you couldn’t explain much in 60 seconds, but if you showed
              Michael Jordan, you didn’t need to.
c08_1   01/06/2009   138




               138   EATING THE BIG FISH



                   The second advantage for a Challenger would seem to be the com-
               munication of emotion. To continue with the Jumpman example, the
               impending dunk portrayed by the logo is what every amateur basketball
               player dreams of—the theatrical splay of the legs demonstrates not
               just achievement, but effortless, flamboyant achievement. The appeal
               of the image lies in it saying something about the emotions and style of
               the person, as well as the ability of the player. There is indeed an extra-
               ordinary compression in this. But it is the emotions the icon arouses in
               such a short time that make it so valuable.
                   Emotion and speed, of course, are two of a Challenger’s key drivers;
               Challengers are, of necessity, brands in a hurry. It is not just that life is
               speeding up, that we have become a world of shortcuts and quick fixes,
               of skimmers and scanners, or that the postliterate generation has be-
               come expectant of rapid-fire communication and brand conversation. It
               is that both success and survival for Challengers depend on effecting
               change fast: Momentum and critical mass are all-important with both
               trade and consumer. And that change in turn hinges on establishing an
               emotionally centered appeal.
                   When we observe that one of the striking things about the Challeng-
               ers we are considering is a sharp hunger for symbols and iconography,
               we are not talking icons in the mold of Tony the Tiger or the Pillsbury
               Doughboy. We are talking about symbols of change: Challengers de-
               ploy icons and symbols, like the town of Wallingford lying down, specifi-
               cally to prompt reevaluation. They create surprising, striking visual
               devices and events designed to puncture the consumer’s autopilot—
               and at the same time to reflect and communicate what they are.


               PUNCTURING THE DOMINANT COMPLACENCY
               What our target expects the world to be like is, within any one market,
               clearly multidimensional, containing a number of interlocking expecta-
               tions and what we might call complacencies. I have called them compla-
               cencies because they are more than simply an attitude; they are settled
               consumer opinions that have become comfortably embedded in their
               way of thinking about the brand landscape. Some of these complacen-
               cies may be based on truth, while some are simply opinions. That high-
               fat products are bad for you, for example, or that whiskey is my dad’s
c08_1   01/06/2009   139




                                 The Fourth Credo: Create Symbols of Re-evaluation     139



              drink. That the French are chic but aloof. (Test for this year’s graduate
              intake: Come up with a marketing strategy for a high-fat French whis-
              key.) That gaming is for guys, or that cigar smoking is antisocial. That
              Brand X is old-fashioned, or juvenile, or for girls.
                  Although within each market there is an interrelated collection of such
              complacencies and habits, one will be the most important, because it will
              be the central departure point for many other accompanying attitudes.
              Let us call this the dominant consumer complacency. For a brand that is
              late to relaunch, for instance, the dominant complacency may be the weak
              opinion the consumer has of its product. It may be the consumer’s view of
              the category that is the dominant complacency to be overcome (perhaps
              high-fat categories like ice cream, or certain luxury categories like fur).
              Conversely, for a brand launching into markets that are established but
              successful, the dominant complacency may be how the consumer views
              the existing establishment player in the market (e.g., a nation’s view of its
              own national carrier in the airline market). A Challenger cannot hope to
              pick all these locks at the same time; instead, it has to identify the domi-
              nant consumer complacency that it must change. These are the principal
              barriers to a Challenger achieving momentum, and they must be broken.
              And at the same time, the Challenger must use the breaking of them to
              assert who it is: It must build the Lighthouse Identity (our Second Credo).
                  As one might expect, a frequent strategic route for a Challenger
              involves surprise—attacking the dominant complacency head-on. Chal-
              lengers put things together you wouldn’t expect to find together—
              discount stores and art museums, skyscrapers and watches, glamorous
              models and vegetarianism—where the juxtaposition in each case de-
              mands that you reevaluate your position on one of the pair.


              The Dominant Consumer Complacency:
              How the Consumer Sees You
              For Challengers who are looking to relaunch themselves, or at least give
              themselves a significantly new direction, their key complacency to tackle
              will be how the consumer sees them. Brand image is famously hard to
              move, so we see Challengers looking to accelerate the initial impetus
              for themselves in their chosen direction by imaginatively addressing
              these complacencies with symbolic and surprising acts.
c08_1   01/06/2009   140




               140   EATING THE BIG FISH



                   When Target unveiled the Michael Graves range, its first push into de-
               signer lines, it unveiled its new baby not at a store, but at the Whitney
               Museum in New York with 60 of the 200 pieces that would be part of the
               product line displayed throughout the Museum. The very fact of the
               designer range was clearly going to be something of a Symbol of Re-
               evaluation for the brand (as well as a line of products successful in itself),
               and the company deliberately chose to highlight this by choosing a highly
               unusual place for a discount retailer to appear—one of the pre-eminent
               fine art museums in America. This combination of Graves and the venue
               in turn allowed Target to attract a strata of press that would not normally
               have been much interested in what the store was going to do next, includ-
               ing Architectural Digest, Town & Country, and Food & Wine. Discount
               Store News reported at the time, a little breathlessly: ‘‘The unveiling con-
               sisted of a mid-January gala at the Whitney Museum of American Art in
               one of New York’s posher neighborhoods. . . . The 400-plus members
               of the press on hand tended toward the up-market . . . and members of
               Michael Graves’s staff outnumbered Target employees.’’1
                   The symbolic nature of the elevated launch venue gave a huge initial
               impetus to press opinion (and, through them, consumers) about the
               launch, and the shift in perceptions caused by the introduction of the
               Graves line was the beginning of building a bold new image for Target.
                   More recently, for one of the 2008 U.S. Presidential primary debates
               shown live on CNN, YouTube enabled users to submit their questions to
               the candidates on TV. What makes us sit up and reappraise the brand
               here is the nature of the juxtaposition: between YouTube, on the one
               hand (easily dismissed as a place where nothing is of any real conse-
               quence at all—all skateboarding tortoises and Evolution of Dance), and
               the presidential election, on the other, perhaps the most consequential
               decision a citizen makes, outside of their choice of partner and job, and
               one whereby the people of America decide the future of their country
               and themselves. It is the presence of YouTube as a useful tool in helping
               make such a critical decision that creates such a startling juxtaposition,
               and thus a Symbol of Re-evaluation about the potential of the brand in
               our lives.2
                   The car business has historically designed and launched particular,
               highly remarkable models to prompt people to reappraise their brand.
               Recently, for instance, we have seen Audi use the R8, a supercar costing
c08_1   01/06/2009   141




                                The Fourth Credo: Create Symbols of Re-evaluation   141



              $120,000, in exactly this way in the United States. The car’s looks, per-
              formance, and price tag lured people into Audi dealerships who had not
              taken Audi seriously as a luxury car up to that point—people such as
              Porsche owners, for example. The value here to Audi was not just one of
              attention, or indeed a proof point (unlike advertising, the indisputable
              existence of one and a quarter tons of metal brooks no argument),
              though both of these are of course hugely valuable. It is that the car,
              when inspected, has a bigger story to tell: the legend behind Audi, the
              Quattro engine, the racing heritage. If one just runs an ad about racing,
              the people at Audi will tell you, people tune out; but give them an eye-
              popping supercar they want to know more about, and they will listen to
              whatever you want to tell them. The R8 has now an 18-month waiting list
              in the United States.
                  Very occasionally, our Symbol of Re-evaluation will want to remain
              unbranded, at least initially. Where the brand image we are trying to
              change is very poor, we may need to first surprise and disarm our con-
              sumer before revealing what the brand actually is. Top-Flite was once
              one of the most widely used golf balls in America, but its previous
              owners failed to invest in it, allowing it to become a small value line
              known primarily for being the hardest ball on the market, thus earning it
              the nickname of ‘‘Rock Flite.’’ Calloway acquired the brand, bringing to
              the marketing of Top-Flite both a new determination and a new techno-
              logy (‘‘Dimple in Dimple’’), and they gave a new name to the key
              relaunch product—the D2, deliberately chosen to echo military techno-
              logy. The opinion of club pros would be critical to the product and
              brand’s success, in terms of both the influence they carried in their per-
              sonal recommendation to golfers and their influence over whether the
              brand would be stocked in the golf course shop. Top-Flite wanted to
              seed these balls with club pros before the consumer launch, but knew
              that the brand’s ‘‘Rock Flite’’ reputation would be a barrier to this pro-
              fessional audience. So, in approaching the pros, the brand team gave
              them the balls, unbranded, with only the letters RFID 07 stamped on
              them, asked them to try them out, and left them to it. When the pros
              started hitting 64s using these new unbranded balls, they wrote to the
              company and asked what the ball was, and what RFID 07 meant. ‘‘It’s
              the new Top-Flite D2,’’ the team told them. ‘‘And RFID 07 stands for
              ‘Rock Flite is dead in 2007.’ ’’ The D2 has begun to restore the brand to
c08_1   01/06/2009   142




               142   EATING THE BIG FISH



               some of its former sales success: the most successful product launch
               Top-Flite has had since 2001, it sold over 1.4 million units in its launch
               year and opened up distribution at approximately 1,000 golf course
               shops that had not previously carried the brand.3
                   Playing this out a little, one could argue that the Pepsi Challenge
               when it began in 1975 was a Symbol of Re-evaluation, whose reveal was
               individual by individual, initiated by the Challenger. But an even more
               dramatic example in the beverage category was seen a year later in the
               wine business, when a group of French critics and vintners collected in
               Paris in May 1976 to blind-taste the best French wines against a collec-
               tion of American wines. The French were the only judges invited—and to
               their collective astonishment, American wines won in both the red and
               the white categories, as judged by the French themselves. A journalist
               from Time covered the story, which was swiftly passed on through the
               world’s press. The effect of this event, known as ‘‘The Judgement of
               Paris,’’ was not simply to wake up the world to New World quality; the
               power of the result was in a very real way more about puncturing
               the myth of the establishment’s supremacy. This, after all, is where Chal-
               lenger momentum really begins: once the myth of the supremacy of
               the Establishment brand is punctured, the ability of a Challenger to
               make real inroads in terms of image and trial increases considerably.
                   Several brands, realizing that the dominant complacency is in fact
               how the consumer sees them, have carefully orchestrated not one but a
               sequence of Symbols of Re-evaluation to move us from one perception
               to another. Consider Daniel Radcliffe, the boy actor who was cast from
               thousands to play the young Harry Potter and in whose delightfully mop-
               topped and bespectacled company we have all watched Harry Potter
               grow up in front of us on the big screen. Now, if you happen to be Dan-
               iel Radcliffe, this close identification with one role is both a good and
               bad thing. The good news is that it makes you a huge movie star and
               eye-wateringly wealthy; the bad news is that your face and person be-
               come in danger of being irreversibly entwined with this and only this
               one character—a character who lives in a world derived from child-
               rens’ books, who dresses only in gowns and wands, who lives in a
               world where puberty is about chaste kisses at parties and where sex
               doesn’t really exist, and whose character is squeakily wholesome,
               even in the depths of teenage angst. But given that Harry Potter films
c08_1   01/06/2009   143




                                  The Fourth Credo: Create Symbols of Re-evaluation      143



              will cease production when you are in your early twenties, you, as
              Daniel Radcliffe, will need to give yourself the ability to move into dif-
              ferent roles in different genres (your equivalent of different catego-
              ries, perhaps) if you want to remain a successful actor for the rest of
              your life. So what do you do?
                  Radcliffe chose a point, four films into the series of seven, to create
              two key Symbols of Re-evaluation to enhance how we, the film and tele-
              vision audience, see him. First, he appeared in an episode of the televi-
              sion comedy series Extras, a show whose central idea was to have stars
              sending up a version of themselves. On the show, he appeared as Daniel
              Radcliffe, but a Daniel Radcliffe in the grip of a very boyish puberty—
              obsessed with sex and, in one particularly memorable scene, accidentally
              flicking condoms onto the head of Dame Diana Rigg. He goes, in other
              words, through a very unwholesome puberty right in front of our eyes.
              Symbol number one. Fair enough, we think, so perhaps he doesn’t have
              to be a kid all his life, but the question still is: Can he act? Can he do any-
              thing apart from agitate wands in childrens’ movies? So the next time we
              see him, he is on the London stage acting in Equus, in which he plays a
              disturbed adolescent boy who, during the course of the drama, appears
              naked, has sex, smokes, and harms horses. (There is a little more than this
              to Peter Schaeffer’s play, of course, but you wouldn’t have known it from
              the initial press coverage about the ‘‘death of Harry Potter.’’)
                  None of this would have meant much, of course, if he had been no
              good in either of these roles, but he surprised the critics and public alike
              with the quality of the performance. And in two sequenced Symbols of
              Re-evaluation, he enabled himself to move beyond the box that success
              had put him into. He used two carefully managed moments to puncture
              the ways we were typecasting him and to prepare him, and us, for a
              credible transition into other kinds of roles, and a career beyond his
              immediate ‘‘category.’’


              The Dominant Consumer Complacency:
              How the Consumer Sees the Category
              What if the complacencies we need to puncture have to do with peo-
              ple’s perceptions of who the category is and is not for? Sometimes
              events will naturally throw up a symbol that causes one to reappraise a
c08_1   01/06/2009   144




               144   EATING THE BIG FISH



               category and, indeed, a brand within it. For example, the nature of the
               reporting on the tragedy of the Virginia Tech massacre caused most of
               us to reappraise both the future of journalism in general and citizen jour-
               nalism in particular (as its central coverage, CNN showed video images
               from the camera phone of a student who captured the gunfire live, un-
               like the television cameras), as well as the future of Wikipedia, where
               coverage of the unfolding event was updated and edited in real time by
               the contributing community. But more usually, we will have to create our
               own points of reference, our own Symbols of Re-evaluation. This may
               focus on who the category is and is not for—the image of the typical
               user, if you like. PETA has consistently attempted to use visual symbol-
               ism to puncture consumer complacencies about the kind of people they
               represent. We might be lured by right-wing newspapers to think of
               animal lovers and vegetarians as either obsessive grannies or unwashed
               youth—until PETA reveals a number of statuesque spokeswomen such
               as Pamela Anderson and Alicia Silverstone, naked except for some stra-
               tegically placed lettuce leaves. The organization went on to create a
               considerable stir in 2007 by publicly sending Al Gore a letter in which it
               accused him of not telling the world the real truth about climate change.
               This was striking, of course, because the man had become, since losing
               the 2000 US presidential election (or winning it, depending on your
               point of view), the patron saint of climate change awareness and activ-
               ism, winning an Oscar for a key film on the subject and being awarded
               the Nobel Peace Prize for his tireless efforts in this regard. But PETA’s
               point was that the greatest change you could make to your environmen-
               tal impact would be to become a vegetarian, and Gore was neither talk-
               ing about that, nor becoming a vegetarian himself.
                   Think that the only people who are going to be interested in a
               new gaming console are going to be 16-years-olds in basements?
               Nintendo’s US PR machine brilliantly amplified a story about Chicago’s
               Erickson Retirement Communities, whose septuagenarian residents
               were throwing Wii bowling and baseball tournaments.4 Nintendo was
               not sharing this with us, of course, because it was trying to challenge
               more 70-year-olds to reconsider their attitudes to gaming—it was shar-
               ing this with us because if even 70-year-olds are having fun with this,
               then it is certainly no longer just for 16-year-olds. Perhaps even 40-
               somethings like me should check it out.
c08_1   01/06/2009   145




                                 The Fourth Credo: Create Symbols of Re-evaluation    145



                  This startling juxtaposition a Challenger uses initially to push through
              complacency can clearly take the form of comparative facts, as well as
              people and images, but only if you are prepared to really look for those
              facts that will genuinely prompt appraisal. When the world’s most suc-
              cessful TV chef, Jamie Oliver, challenged the British educational estab-
              lishment to improve the quality of school meals, he needed to get the
              public behind him. And to do that, he first had to get them to sit up and
              care about something—school dinners—that most of them had eaten,
              and most of their children had eaten, for years without any real cause for
              complaint. How could he jerk us all out of our complacency and make us
              think that this was something we needed to sit up and pay attention to?
              He had a number of options. He could have given us facts about vitamin
              deficiencies and food groups, but we knew all that already. He could
              have compared the amount we spend on our children’s lunches to the
              much greater amount spent by continental Europeans, for instance. But
              while being thought inferior to foreigners does indeed usually get the
              British blood boiling nicely, even this he felt would be insufficient. No,
              he was very specific, but didn’t use as the other reference point anything
              to do with children or schooling at all. He pointed out (1) that we spent
              less on lunches for our schoolchildren than we did on lunches for our
              prisoners (i.e., less on an innocent member of the future of our society
              than on one guilty of past abuse of it) and (2) that we spent less on our
              children’s dinners than we did on feeding an army dog.
                  Suddenly, he had our attention: We weren’t going to be so damn
              complacent about what they were feeding our little darlings anymore.


              The Dominant Consumer Complacency:
              An Established Brand Leader
              Some Challengers have to juxtapose themselves with the competition to
              subvert the consumers’ understanding of the existing order. Volkswagen
              in the 1960s, of course, innocently pitched itself as the lone voice of rea-
              son in U.S. automobile ownership, and with a highly idiosyncratic prod-
              uct in the context of the U.S. car industry, its symbol became itself. The
              Beetle should by rights never have been introduced in the United States.
              It would have failed every research group and test market, running, as it
              did, against everything the U.S. car market believed in at the time: fins,
c08_1   01/06/2009   146




               146   EATING THE BIG FISH



               ostentation, swimming pools for gas tanks, backseats the size of Ken-
               tucky. And instead of hiding this, the company played to it and sold
               hundreds of thousands of cars. But Volkswagen’s footprint in the United
               States was really the shrewd positioning of an accident of birth, to
               embody a car company hungrily zagging while the rest of the US auto-
               motive industry flatulently zigged.
                   More often, we will have to not simply amplify accidents of birth, but
               create symbols at our birth or rebirth that trigger reappraisal of the Mar-
               ket Leader as well as announce ourselves. Virgin is a brand whose con-
               sistent positioning now, across more or less any category it launches
               into, in any geography, is that of the ‘‘People’s Champion.’’ And it is the
               most celebrated example of a brand who, as it launches in each cate-
               gory, looks to create a Symbol of Re-evaluation which identifies some
               aspect of why the Brand Leader (or perhaps the whole category estab-
               lishment) is nothing we consumers should be happy with.
                   Sir Richard Branson, as the face of Virgin, is always the media magnet
               at the heart of these events. His use of symbolism is rarely subtle, but
               each event has a theatrical gusto that makes it irresistible to press and
               consumer alike. How does Virgin Mobile launch in Australia, for instance?
               It begins with Branson flying into Sydney Harbor, suspended 100 feet
               below a helicopter. The helicopter hovers, he lands on a boat below,
               blows up a cage on the boat, and releases 50 people who swim to shore
               on Virgin Mobile branded buoyancy rings—a drama intended to sym-
               bolize freeing all Australian phone users from the restrictions and rip-
               offs that the dominant players are forcing on them. The event was
               covered on every major Australian news station that night.5 Don’t just
               sit there happily with your Vodafone account, says Branson with this
               televised piece of drama: There are good reasons you need someone
               to rescue you.
                   What we are discussing here, then, is not the clever use of accidents,
               but something more deliberately and strategically introduced—symbols
               that have been deliberately created as part of the long-term marketing
               or remarketing of an entire company. Or, even more dramatically, sym-
               bols that have been strategically stolen from the establishment player
               you are challenging.
                   Focus, a new weekly newsmagazine in Germany was very clear about
               its point of difference (‘‘Facts, facts, facts’’: straight news for people
c08_1   01/06/2009   147




                                 The Fourth Credo: Create Symbols of Re-evaluation    147



              without a lot of time to read news magazines), but was also clear about
              its desire to take a bite out of the Market Leader (Der Spiegel, founded
              almost 50 years earlier). So Focus took two key properties of the Market
              Leader and claimed them as its own. The first was Der Spiegel’s color:
              red. Focus not only used red as its own color, but paraded it
              more boldly and dramatically than Der Spiegel ever had, splashing red
              paint and branding on a widely used commuter ferry in Hamburg, the
              hometown of Der Spiegel, and taking over the side of a whole building
              directly opposite the Market Leader’s building, with ‘‘Good to know
              the facts’’ printed on a huge red background—which had up to then
              been Der Spiegel’s background. Second, Focus cheekily stole Monday.
              Monday had always been publicized as ‘‘Der Spiegel day,’’ though
              never trademarked as such. Now Focus simply claimed it as theirs:
              ‘‘Monday is Focus day.’’ A new generation of news magazine was sym-
              bolically aiming to supplant the Market Leader in its heartland.
                  Focus now has the highest readership among the top decision
              makers of any German magazine.


              THE MOON ROCKET AND ACCELERATION
              What we are discussing, then, is the use of symbols that surprise in
              order to propel the Challenger more rapidly in its chosen direction:
              symbols and icons that prompt consumers to reevaluate their habitual
              attitudes toward the central issue, not with logic, but with emotion. And
              if these symbols can be infused with a sense of drama, they are used
              specifically for acceleration: to help the brand achieve critical consumer
              mass faster. It is famously said that a moon rocket uses half of its entire
              fuel simply to go the first mile—to obtain the critical momentum to
              leave the earth and reach its desired speed; after that, fuel is used
              mainly to change direction and to overcome particularly difficult transi-
              tions in its journey (re-entry, lunar landing, etc.). Although brands don’t
              have convenient interludes of zero gravity to help them on their way,
              the analogy is sometimes used that the same is true of getting a brand
              off the ground—the real effort and difficulty lies in achieving that initial
              critical momentum: Half of one’s disposable fuel should be used for
              that task alone, breaking free of the gravitational pull of consumer
              indifference.
c08_1   01/06/2009   148




               148   EATING THE BIG FISH



                   In the case of Challengers, their proportional media, promotional,
               and trade budgets are comparatively low. How a Challenger divides its
               budget is therefore not so much the question, for the fuel at its disposal
               lies not so much in dollars as in ideas, ingenuity, and passion. It is this
               context in which the deployment of dramatically executed Symbols of
               Re-evaluation must be viewed; if they can create rapid momentum for
               the brand in the eyes of the consumer at the outset of a new marketing
               campaign, given in weeks rather than years, then they must be regarded
               not as idiosyncratic whims of fancy, but perhaps as some of the shrewd-
               est marketing decisions ever made.
                   Look at Swatch’s launch all those years ago in Germany, for example.
               Constructing a gigantic, fully working, orange Swatch 500 feet high,
               the company suspended it outside the tallest skyscraper in Frankfurt,
               which happened to be the headquarters of the Commerzbank, one of
               Germany’s leading financial institutions. (See Figure 8.1.)
                   On the watch were written just three things: Swatch. Swiss. DM 60.
                   What at first sight appeared to be just a spectacular publicity stunt
               was in fact a brilliant piece of repositioning in one simple act. It an-
               nounced Swatch; it broke the myth that all Swiss watches were luxury


               FIGURE 8.1 Swatch launches large.
c08_1   01/06/2009   149




                                 The Fourth Credo: Create Symbols of Re-evaluation    149



              products that took themselves overly seriously (while still claiming Swiss
              quality as its own provenance); and it communicated a price that had
              never been associated with Swiss quality before. And, as Nicolas Hayek,
              the head of SMH, noted, it signaled immediately the essence of the
              Swatch brand promise: ‘‘It was a big provocation to hang a watch from a
              huge, grim skyscraper. And it was funny, fanciful, a joke—joy of life.
              Believe me, when we took it down, everyone we had wanted to reach
              had received our message.’’6 Had Swatch simply pulled off a public rela-
              tions coup in which it stopped the Frankfurt equivalent of Big Ben, it
              would have achieved notoriety, but not momentum.
                  Historical Challengers have, of course, made a great play of symbol-
              ism to capture the imagination and shape the views of the public—the
              latter, of course, being closely linked to propaganda once a Challenger
              gains power. The Russians have always understood the importance of
              the manufacture of icons, and this reached its height (in quantity, if not
              quality) in postrevolutionary Russian art. Or think of Gandhi. Simple
              white robe, shaven head: He understood the power of appearance and
              clothing long before the spin doctors started on Tony Blair. And on an
              entirely different level, the hanging of John Brown at Harper’s Ferry in
              1859 was called by Herman Melville ‘‘the meteor of the [U.S. Civil] war.’’
              This was not wisdom after the event; Longfellow had written in his diary
              the morning of the execution: ‘‘This day will be a great day in our history,
              the date of a new revolution—quite as much needed as the old one.’’
              What aroused the instant sense of it being a turning point was the sym-
              bol it represented: a white man dying for the cause of slavery.
                  But perhaps the most famous, and simple, historical use of an image
              as a Symbol of Re-evaluation is the Pulitzer Prize–winning photograph
              of six Marines raising the U.S. flag over Iwo Jima in February 1944.
              Probably one of the best-known images of the United States this centu-
              ry, it has come to represent a pivotal moment not simply in World War
              II—the U.S. defeat of the Japanese during a 36-day assault that would
              give the victors a base from which to neutralize the enemy’s air and
              naval capabilities—but also in the twentieth century. The image seems,
              in retrospect, to symbolize America as victor in a more general sense:
              ascending from being merely one of the major players on the world
              stage, a young Challenger against the aging European powers, to be-
              coming the unrivaled leader of the Free World. The image of struggle
c08_1   01/06/2009     150




               150      EATING THE BIG FISH



               and courage and achievement by the ordinary American (none of the
               men pictured was above the rank of sergeant) was later re-created in
               bronze as a monument to the dead in Arlington National Cemetery.
               At that unveiling, President Nixon summed up its power thus:

                     This statue symbolizes the hopes and dreams of America, and the
                     real purpose of our foreign policy. We realized that to retain free-
                     dom for ourselves, we must be concerned when people in other
                     parts of the world may lose theirs. There is no greater challenge to
                     statesmanship than to find a way that such Sacrifices as this statue
                     represents are not necessary in the future, and to build the kind
                     of world in which people can be free, in which nations can be
                     independent, and in which people can live together in peace and
                     friendship.

                   Perhaps the most significant thing about the photograph, however,
               for all its power, was that it was not actually taken when the hill was
               originally captured and the flag originally raised. At that time, a smaller
               flag was raised on an existing steel pole by a lieutenant and three
               entirely different men, and the scene was photographed by a different
               photographer.
                   The first turned out to be not a bad photograph, imbuing the actual
               moment with a certain grim sense of accomplishment. But it has been
               largely forgotten by history because it possesses nothing like the power
               of the second image, taken three hours later, by a different photogra-
               pher, when a second group of men were sent by their commanding offi-
               cer to raise a second, larger flag, on a pole they were to raise and plant
               themselves.
                   The point is this: The act is one thing—raising the flag encouraged
               the Marines as much as it demoralized the defenders—but the way
               the act is presented takes it to a whole other level. With Symbols of Re-
               evaluation, the image is the message as much as the act itself. And the
               marine commander, even in the middle of a 36-day all-out assault on
               the Japanese positions, realized that he needed not just a flag flying
               over Iwo Jima, but a big flag flying over Iwo Jima. And with the
               help of Joe Rosenthal, who won the Pulitzer Prize for the second photo-
               graph, he created an image of victory that will inspire and define the
c08_1   01/06/2009   151




                                 The Fourth Credo: Create Symbols of Re-evaluation   151



              U.S. Marine Corps—and indeed the ascendance of the United States—
              for as long as it exists.


              THE DIFFERENT AUDIENCES FOR SYMBOLS OF RE-EVALUATION
              Of course, in seeking to redefine people’s perceptions of the category
              through Symbols of Re-evaluation, one can also position oneself
              through them as the exception to it. Barclays Bank, although a very large
              financial institution, determined in 2005 that it would consciously and
              explicitly introduce a Challenger ethos into the way it approached build-
              ing a fresh relationship with the consumer, and in fact with its own staff.
              Coming out of a campaign called ‘‘Fluent in Finance,’’ which had been
              stylish but opaque at best, Barclays was determined to be a brand that
              would be idea-centric: It would use a stream of ideas, some small, some
              big, to generate a fresh relationship with both the bank and, to some
              degree (in the consumer’s case), banking. Barclays looked at the outset
              for symbols that it could harness to signal this change. One of the first
              such symbols to strike the brand team was something as small as a pen.
              Pens in bank branches are commonly chained to the counters to prevent
              customers from taking them away. While no doubt a very practical way
              of managing one’s pen inventory, this also sends a curious cue to cus-
              tomers: The bank has the customers’ money, the customers come in to
              talk to the bank about their own money—and yet the very first thing the
              bank does at the beginning of this transaction is to suggest its own cus-
              tomers might be thieves. In many ways, this small detail symbolized
              much that was wrong about the bigger relationship between banks and
              their customers. So Barclays’ Marketing Director, Jim Hytner, and his
              team decided to make something as apparently small as chained pens a
              symbol of re-evaluation. Instead of chaining the existing pens so cus-
              tomers could not take them away, they thought, what if we had new
              pens that customers could take away—in fact were encouraged to take
              away? So they replaced the chained pens with boxes dispensing Biros,
              and printed on each Biro a different message that encouraged the cus-
              tomer to take it.
                  The pens were obviously accompanied and followed by a much more
              significant innovation program aimed at improving the customer experi-
              ence, but they remained curiously potent symbols for the consumer, and
c08_1   01/06/2009   152




               152   EATING THE BIG FISH



               in fact became easily understood symbols for two other audiences as well,
               quite apart from the Barclays customers themselves. First, they became
               symbols to the staff of the very down-to-earth, practical ideas that Hytner
               and his team were seeking (not least from the staff themselves) to intro-
               duce into the customer relationship in order to enhance the relationship
               and to position the bank as one that was genuinely thinking about those
               customers. The marketing team fueled this symbolic value within the staff
               by creating annual competitions among them to come up with messages
               for the next generation of pens. And, second, the pens, though an appar-
               ently small detail, became simple, clear symbols to senior management—
               not all of whom either understood or respected marketing—as a function
               of what the marketing team was trying to do and the effect it could have
               on both consumer and staff when it was done really well.
                   As we have observed, then, a Symbol of Re-evaluation doesn’t have
               to be a piece of advertising or marketing; it can be as simple as a dispos-
               able pen—it is the meaning that is important. And we are also seeing
               that these Symbols of Re-evaluation have many consumers. The need to
               signal dramatic change to the consumer is one reason for the break, but
               often as vital is the need to change the thinking within the organization.
               We noted earlier that many Challenger CEOs claim to regard their
               employees as their most important audience; this is self-interest, not
               corporate pseudo-philanthropy: They believe if they can fill their own
               staff with a sense of what the brand needs to be, and with an utter belief
               in its superiority and imminent success, everything else will follow.


               PROJECTS OF REEVALUATION
               Eurostar is the high-speed train service that connects London, Paris, and
               Brussels. Owned by three governments, it is, in effect, a unionized busi-
               ness that has long been a well-run railway, but that operated very much
               in both geographic and operational silos. The marketing department
               was set within the commercial department, but had limited influence
               within it over and above its own communication activity. By 2005, how-
               ever, Paris was falling in travelers’ rankings of top European short-
               holiday destinations, and London had recently been hit by the terrorist
               bombings of 7/7. Eurostar was suffering as a result; its numbers were
               down for seven consecutive months. Then, one day in a sauna, the
c08_1   01/06/2009   153




                                 The Fourth Credo: Create Symbols of Re-evaluation     153



              Marketing Director gets an idea. Dan Brown’s novel, The Da Vinci Code,
              is being made into a film. Sony, who was making the film, would be at
              the very early stages of finding strategic partners for it, and yet the plot
              obviously hinges on Paris and (to a lesser extent) London. Why couldn’t
              Eurostar be the strategic partner for travel when it came to the film? So,
              the Eurostar team gets together with Sony, strikes a deal, and Eurostar
              runs a promotion in conjunction with the release of the movie, built
              around the idea of a ‘‘Quest.’’ The partnership and promotion idea was
              an ambitious piece of chutzpah, in that Eurostar does not actually ap-
              pear in Dan Brown’s book at all—the characters all take the plane (i.e.,
              the Big Fish that Eurostar was trying to eat, so to speak). But it was bold
              in two other, more important ways as well: It was the first time that
              the company had run the same piece of promotional activity in each
              country, and the high-speed run from London all the way through to
              Cannes to open the Cannes film festival was something that had never
              been done before.
                  The promotion was a considerable success. Eurostar was indeed the
              key travel partner for the blockbuster film, and it broke two world
              records: one for the most successful promotion in the world and the
              other for the longest high-speed run. And on that record high-speed
              run, Eurostar had some influential travelers: On the train, in addition to
              film stars Tom Hanks and Audrey Tautou, were four sets of film studio
              executives and 300 broadcast TV journalists, who then obligingly broad-
              cast more than 13 hours of prime-time coverage of Eurostar’s heavily
              branded (for this trip) interiors on this glamorous and record-breaking
              feat. Which made it in turn a considerable success in terms of results:
              Coming off a seven-month decline, the traffic between London and Paris
              then grew every month for the next two years.
                  One of the most important successes of the project, though, was the
              awakening of belief within the organization about what it was capable of.
              The London-Cannes run had been something the organization had ini-
              tially resisted, from a number of the key departments necessary to make
              it work, because they were not sure it was possible. But the Marketing
              Director and his team pushed the company to overcome the problems
              raised by the individual silos and put their collective shoulders to the task
              to make it happen. And the success when it came was celebrated by the
              organization as a whole. Greg Nugent, the Marketing Director, calls this
c08_1   01/06/2009   154




               154   EATING THE BIG FISH



               not a Symbol of Re-evaluation but a Project of Re-evaluation. He notes
               that an apparently small project within an organization preceding a much
               larger one can help that large organization to reappraise what it is capa-
               ble of, perhaps before it starts on a larger, genuinely critical initiative. In
               this case, the success of The Da Vinci Code promotion taught Eurostar as
               a company three critical lessons about itself:

               1. All countries could indeed work together in creating a successful ini-
                  tiative (and when they did so, the rewards were concomitantly
                  higher).
               2. That if Eurostar could push itself as an organization to do something
                  it did not think it was capable of (such as a high-speed run to Can-
                  nes), and succeed, perhaps it should therefore stretch its ambitions
                  about what could be possible. . . .
               3. Success in such a venture hinged on the entire company being
                  aligned, on transcending silos, and on delivering a strategic idea that
                  benefited the consumer and itself.

                  Why was this a significant Project of Re-evaluation across these four
               dimensions? Because two years later the company and brand faced its
               greatest challenge—the relaunch of not simply the brand but of the
               entire service, from a new station in an entirely different part of London.
               And the success of what the company had achieved together in 2005
               encouraged them to successfully stretch their ambition: to position
               Eurostar not simply as a faster train in a new home, but as a brand that
               was now positioned, in a very real sense, to be the future of European
               travel.


               USING WHAT YOU HAVE
               Anything can be a Symbol of Re-evaluation if you look for the opportu-
               nity it represents. Even something as simple as a sweater, if you know
               how to invest it with meaning.
                   Evo Morales, the president of Bolivia, was elected to his country’s
               highest office in 2005. Claiming (controversially) to be the country’s first
               indigenous head of state since the Conquistadors, much of his identity
               as President has been to challenge the old order, old practices (in 2006,
c08_1   01/06/2009   155




                                 The Fourth Credo: Create Symbols of Re-evaluation     155



              he symbolically cut his own salary as president by 57 percent), and old
              alliances—in particular, what he regards as the forces of capitalism and
              the institutions of the world that support it.
                  And while most of the world could not tell you exactly what his argu-
              ments were, they could tell you about the way he dresses—and that he
              has chosen, in his initial interactions with the ‘‘old order,’’ to dress very
              differently from the formal attire of that old order. In particular, he has
              become famous for the blue, red, and white striped sweater known in
              Bolivia as a chompa. What makes this sweater more than just a piece of
              clothing here is the context in which Morales wears it—among the dark
              suits of embassy receptions and gatherings of Heads of State. Wearing
              the sweater in a first visit with Juan Carlos II, the king of Spain, the con-
              servative Spanish press challenged the Bolivian President, wondering
              aloud if there was anyone in Madrid who could lend Mr. Morales a dark
              suit. Others, though, recognized it as the symbol it was intended to be.
              El Pais, for instance, declared Morales’s chompa to be a ‘‘knitted decla-
              ration against invisibility.’’7 They commented that ‘‘while generations of
              Latin American leaders have worn the policies and the clothes of the IMF
              and the World Bank, Mr. Morales was showing that he was a man of the
              people.’’8
                  The key thing about a Symbol of Re-evaluation, then, is not size or
              expense, but that it be noticed and its meaning understood. That it stop
              you and make you reappraise your ingrained thoughts and feelings
              about the category, the brand in question, or the Market Leader you are
              seeking (directly or indirectly) to deposition.



                Videolinks for this Chapter:
                www.eatbigfishfood.com/etbf/symbolsofreevaluation
c09_1   01/06/2009   156




                     9
               THE FIFTH CREDO:
               SACRIFICE
                     A great brand is going to evoke passion. You’re going to love it or
                     hate it. And I’m good with that. I’m good with people loving us.
                     And I’m good with people hating us.
                                                          Peter van Stolk, Jones Soda1




               I  n the world of clutter and information saturation that consumers are
                  faced with, the greatest danger facing a brand is not rejection, but
               indifference. Rejection is easily spotted and easily remedied—you make
               a big change or you pull out—but indifference is a far more insidious and
               expensive problem. Selective listening allows marketeers to convince
               themselves that with a little tightening up here and there everything will
               be all right, and they pour in more and more money, over more and
               more time, for less and less return.
                   We have seen in the last few chapters that the solution to indifference
               for a Challenger lies in both a strong identity and, through this, a strong
               relationship with its consumer base. Inevitably, this means that success
               for the Challenger brand comes from considering very carefully what it
               is going to Sacrifice in order to create this relationship and identity.
                   Indeed, the ability to sacrifice and concentrate one’s focus, voice,
               and actions more narrowly is one of the few advantages a Challenger
               has. Having to fight a war on two fronts weakens the ability to do either
               really well (Hitler’s invasion of Russia in 1941 cost him the ability to hold


               156
c09_1   01/06/2009   157




                                                          The Fifth Credo: Sacrifice   157



              France three years later), and Brand Leaders have to fight on many fronts
              at once. Here frequently lies the opening for a Challenger in taking on a
              Brand Leader—but only if it is used as an opening, which is to say, only if
              the Challenger is prepared to make Sacrifices itself.


              STRONG PREFERENCE IS OUR ONLY CURRENCY
              Kodak is a company that has had to learn the hard way how to become a
              Challenger. A legendary market leader, Kodak was for many years fea-
              tured in all the authoritative rankings of the ‘‘five greatest brands in the
              world.’’ But the company found it hard to deal as quickly as it needed to
              with the rapid changes that overtook its market, and which required it to
              fundamentally change its entire business model and make the difficult
              decision to lay off tens of thousands of employees worldwide in the
              process.
                  But in several areas, at least, it has learned how to become the Chal-
              lenger it will need to be to compete in the new world in which it now
              finds itself. And one such is the digital camera business.
                  Kodak entered the digital camera market in the late 1990s, and suc-
              cess here was intended to become a key plank in the company’s bridge
              from the world of film to the world of digital. Yet Kodak didn’t make the
              start it needed to—and in 2000, the company’s CEO described its digital
              camera business, then sixth in the market, as ‘‘a train wreck’’; the market
              was driven by male purchasers, and Kodak’s cameras lacked the styling
              or distinctiveness to cut through in a very competitive category. Pierre
              Schaeffer, CMO of the digital consumer business, recognized that Kodak
              needed to create a significantly greater impact within the market than
              they were: It was clear that the brand needed, in his words, ‘‘rupture.’’
                  So what did Kodak have from which to build its new positioning?
              Well, it had a new product—a digital camera docking station that made
              it easy, through one button, to transfer pictures from a digital camera
              to a PC, which was the number one consumer issue at the time. But a
              product innovation on its own was not going to be enough: Kodak
              needed a bigger idea, a place to stand that it could wrap around this
              technical innovation, and indeed its entire digital camera range. A place
              to stand that would throw down a gauntlet to the rest of the camera
              category, that would make Kodak a credible Challenger in this emerging
c09_1   01/06/2009   158




               158   EATING THE BIG FISH



               category and, in doing so, carve out a segment of the market it could
               genuinely own.
                   Schaeffer and his team went back to the past in order to find Kodak’s
               future in cameras. They looked at the vision Kodak’s founder, George
               Eastman, had had for his company and his target, and what they saw
               was that Eastman had never seen his company as a company for men—
               he had seen it as a company and a brand for women. Eastman’s vision
               had been to create a product that would be used by the moms of
               America (and the world) to capture the narrative and memories of their
               family life. Because we are now so familiar with Kodak’s traditional mar-
               ket territory, it is hard to see what a radical piece of thinking this was at
               the time, when men were still the purchasers—and often the primary us-
               ers—of almost all leisure technology in the United States. But Eastman’s
               had been a bold concept and a very clear vision, and it had found a
               ready and enthusiastic market. Perhaps this vision—or rather a fresh
               interpretation of this vision for what was obviously a very different
               world—could be the path to the digital future for Kodak, too.
                   So Schaeffer and his team looked at what a new generation of
               women wanted from cameras in the digital world, and how that differed
               from the wants and needs of men from a camera. And they discovered
               that the difference was profound. Men, it turned out, were primarily
               interested in the act of taking the photo—that is, framing the shot, get-
               ting the lighting and composition right, zooming the lens in and out.
               Women, conversely, weren’t really as interested in the taking of the pho-
               to as such: They were interested in what happened after that—sharing
               the photo with friends and family, using the photo almost as a currency
               of bonding with their social and familial networks.
                   So the brand and agency team met for two days to look at how
               they could take these three elements—their product innovation, the
               understanding of Eastman’s original vision, and the insight into how
               women used cameras and photographs in a different way from men—
               and create a bigger place for Kodak to stand, one that would build a
               path to the future and a more profitable business position of second or
               third in the camera market.
                   The concept they came up with was EasyShare—to brand, in effect,
               how easy it was to share the photos once you had taken them. In doing
               so, Kodak would put a new dimension—ease of use—into the category,
c09_1   01/06/2009   159




                                                          The Fifth Credo: Sacrifice   159



              specifically aimed at women (and moms in particular), and make it a
              dimension they could own. EasyShare could be initially supported by
              the product news Kodak had in its digital camera docking station, but
              they recognized that the brand would need to push further to find ways
              of bringing it to life that would genuinely stand out on a noisy shelf in a
              noisy market.
                  We should stop and note at this point that Kodak was making two
              kinds of key Sacrifices in embarking on this strategy. One clearly was to
              do with message: In focusing entirely on ease of use, the brand was giv-
              ing up all kinds of other potentially important communication (technical
              advancement, for instance, or its expertise in photography). The second
              is that the brand was giving up not just half the target market—men—
              but the very half that conventional market wisdom pegged as the key
              buyers and decision makers in that market.
                  Yet Kodak leaned into the Sacrifices it was trying to make, and per-
              haps the boldest illustration of this commitment lay in their approach to
              the packaging. The appearance of the pack, and the way the camera
              presents itself on that pack, are clearly critical to the buying process
              within any noisy retail environment. And the convention within the cate-
              gory had been to put the front of the camera on the packaging, because
              most buyers were men, and men liked to see the camera from the
              front—partly because they wanted to see the design of the camera (and
              thus what the camera would look like as they presented it to the world
              they were going to photograph) and partly because they wanted to be
              able to see and judge the nature of the lens and the zoom.
                  But the team felt that this approach to the pack was entirely wrong
              for their redefined target, and what that target market really wanted.
              Women weren’t interested, they knew, in what the camera looked like;
              they wanted to know how easy it would be to share the photos once
              they had taken them. So, for EasyShare cameras, the back of the camera
              would be more important and useful to see on the packaging—because
              it would feature the camera’s sharing technology (and its emotional end
              benefit) rather than its picture-taking technology. So they decided to
              show the back of the camera, not the front of the camera on the new
              packaging.
                  The boldness of this move was swiftly illustrated by the reception given
              to the new packaging at a meeting with Circuit City, a key American
c09_1   01/06/2009   160




               160   EATING THE BIG FISH



               retailer responsible for an important share of U.S. camera sales. The meet-
               ing was a disaster—the Kodak Sales and Marketing representatives were
               shown out within 10 minutes, and told by the retailer that they simply
               couldn’t turn their back on what men wanted in camera packaging—men
               were the key buyers of cameras. Exposure at the annual Photo Marketing
               Association Trade Show shortly afterward was ambiguous: Some liked it,
               some were skeptical. It was not the most auspicious start.
                  But the team held their nerve; they continued to lean into their deci-
               sion. They continued to focus all their marketing—packaging, products,
               and ad campaign—on women.
                  The April 2001 launch of Kodak EasyShare cameras proved to be the
               most successful digital product launch ever for Kodak, and the team
               subsequently went on to make the entire digital camera portfolio com-
               patible with the new docking system. Kodak went number one in the US
               camera market in 2004, remaining there for the next three years and
               becoming one of the top-three digital camera manufacturers worldwide.


               SACRIFICE AND STRONG PREFERENCE
               Challengers recognize, as Kodak did here, that in order to break
               through, their only currency with the consumer is going to be strong
               preference. If they achieve simply weak preference or parity preference,
               all the other attributes the market leader has on its side will swing the
               vote in its favor: ubiquity, social acceptability, salience, convenience.
               And to create that strong preference, we as Challengers accept that we
               will need to do things that reach out and bind certain groups of people
               very strongly to us. And we will also accept that, in order to create those
               stronger relationships, these same actions or behaviors may (and proba-
               bly will) leave other groups cold.
                   Some Challengers put it even more forcefully: The CEO of Patagonia
               believes that ‘‘if you’re not pissing off at least 50 percent of the people,
               you are not trying hard enough.’’2 Yet while actively seeking such pola-
               rity may indeed have a real value for some kinds of Challengers (certain
               kinds of youth or rebellion brands, for instance, or brands looking to use
               polarizing product attributes to break through in particularly cluttered
               marketplaces, or those Challengers with very small budgets and a real
               burning platform), actively looking for antagonism in this way will not be
c09_1   01/06/2009   161




                                                           The Fifth Credo: Sacrifice   161



              necessary for most of us. However, what we will all share is recognition
              that in many ways the most dangerous currency for a Challenger is not
              rejection, but indifference. Rejection is very easy to see and respond to
              (‘‘Nobody liked that at all? Okay, let’s not do that anymore.’’). But indif-
              ference is a much more insidious and expensive problem—a lot of
              brands spend a lot of time and money tweaking indifference (which is in
              reality what most marketing actually consists of) without it having any
              real effect on their brand performance. So we need strong preference.
              And we will accept, like Kodak, that this preference will be defined as
              much by what we choose to give up, to Sacrifice, as by what we choose
              to stand for and do.
                  The Sacrifices a Challenger makes do not lie in incidentals to the
              business, such as minor line extensions, a research budget, or the assist-
              ant public relations manager. They are instead fundamentals: distribu-
              tion, messages, audiences, even issues like promotional pricing, or our
              deliberate lack of it (T-box, unlike the rest of the ready-to-wear category,
              never offers seasonal discounts). The overriding objective is to have
              significant impact of the right kind on your core audience, to achieve
              critical mass for your voice.


              SACRIFICE IN TARGET: TRADING NUMBERS
              FOR ENGAGEMENT AND LOYALTY
              Kodak’s Challenger camera business traded numbers for engagement,
              giving up men as a primary target to allow itself to really focus on build-
              ing a more powerful relationship with women. Scion, on the other hand,
              looked at a different kind of demographic Sacrifice when the new car
              brand narrowed its profile to really focus on youth, and in particular the
              tuner mind-set: young people who wanted to express themselves
              through personalizing and customizing their cars. Scion had leaned into
              this not simply in the brand positioning and experience, but also with
              the models themselves—while the xA was a small, urban hatchback, the
              xB was a boxy, small compact car. And the market rewarded the brand’s
              preparedness to be distinctive: although a questioning media had ini-
              tially anticipated that the more middle-of-the-road xA would be the bet-
              ter seller because the xB looked so unusual, they found to their surprise
              that it was in fact the more polarizing lines of the boxy xB that became
c09_1   01/06/2009   162




               162   EATING THE BIG FISH



               iconic, and drew strong sales among Scion’s young tuner demographic.
               Scion now has overtaken VW in having the youngest demographic in the
               United States, and the strong relationship it has built through a highly
               distinctive product and brand experience has translated into another
               part of its original strategic objective as a company: a high level of mi-
               gration on to Toyota and Lexus once the customers’ life stage and needs
               change, and they move on from the Scion brand itself.3
                   These kinds of simple demographic distinctions (men versus women,
               younger versus older) seem relatively easy to see—although this doesn’t,
               of course, make the changes any easier to implement. In reality, though,
               we will more often be making distinctions not so much in demographics
               as in psychographics: differentiating between groups of people in terms
               of an attitude or propensity to a certain kind of experience, and choos-
               ing to give up those who are not right for the attitude we are going to
               embody or the experience we are going to offer.
                   Tourism New Zealand, for instance, has chosen to give up almost 90
               percent of its potential target market to focus on a very particular kind of
               traveler. The nature of vacationing in New Zealand is that it does not
               reward the beach lover; while there are certainly times of the year when
               you can take that kind of holiday, and the beaches are good, TNZ found
               that when it surveyed visitors as they left New Zealand, the ones who
               had enjoyed it most were those who had not stayed in one place or city,
               but who got in a car or a camper van and went out and explored the
               country and what it had to offer. So TNZ decided to center all its market-
               ing on this kind of person, whom they called ‘‘the interactive traveler,’’ a
               group that consisted of only around 10 to 15 percent of the company’s
               potential universe but a group that would actually engage with the
               country and enjoy the experience all the more for it. And a group who
               would then go back and tell others—the right kinds of others—about
               how it had been, and why they should go, too. (See Figure 9.1.)
                   Attitudinally, we can anticipate that MAC’s appeal—driven by its
               bold use of unconventional icons such as RuPaul—is not for everyone.
               One can imagine that much of the conservative US Deep South, for
               example, would be left puzzled, if not affronted, by the use of a male
               drag star to champion a makeup range for women. Yet by the same to-
               ken, MAC’s desired cosmopolitan target will for the same reason find it
               bold, daring, intriguing, unmissable.
c09_1   01/06/2009   163




                                                         The Fifth Credo: Sacrifice   163


              FIGURE 9.1 ‘‘100% Pure New Zealand.’’




                  While Homer Simpson is a part of everyone’s culture now, whether
              you are 8 or 68, it is easy to forget that the content of Fox’s ground-
              breaking programming (The Simpsons, King of the Hill, The X-Files, and
              so on) originally turned off many potential older, more conservative
              viewers; in return, however, it rewarded Fox not simply with clear differ-
              entiation against the more amorphous established players, but with two
              kinds of loyalty among the most fickle of audience segments—the 18- to
              34-year-olds. The first kind of loyalty was viewership: Although fourth in
              overall ratings, Fox consistently enjoyed leadership at key periods of the
              week in the premium 18- to 34-year-old and 18- to 49-year-old audien-
              ces. This was lucrative for Fox—an audience for whom advertisers would
              pay a significant premium to reach.
                  The second kind of loyalty was loyalty within the individual program—
              that is, the quality of viewer attention while the program was actually
              on air. In the measure of ‘‘percent of adult viewers claiming to have
              watched at full attention selected nationally aired TV shows,’’ Fox took
              five out of the top seven U.S. shows; even within the individual program,
c09_1   01/06/2009   164




               164   EATING THE BIG FISH



               the network was creating a stronger relationship with its chosen audi-
               ence. One might intuitively hypothesize, in fact, that there is a relation-
               ship between these two types of loyalty, and that one may well be
               a predictor of the other—that is, when attention/involvement within
               the individual program wanes, loyalty of repeat purchase will start to
               wane shortly thereafter. (This may also provide an example of how a
               Challenger can learn from categories other than its own. Most catego-
               ries measure only one kind of loyalty. Why should attention or involve-
               ment loyalty not be a key measure of any Challenger operating in an
               experienced business? Why should this not be an important measure of,
               for instance, supermarket shopping? Or fast food?)


               TRADING NUMBERS FOR IDENTITY: SACRIFICE IN REACH,
               FREQUENCY, AND DISTRIBUTION
               We saw in Chapter 6 an example of a brand clearly stating what it stood
               for: how, one day, purchasers of U.S. women’s magazines such as Real
               Simple found something unusual bound into their monthly read.
               Wrapped in plain brown paper and bearing simply the title People
               against Dirty, it turned out to be an 18-page booklet—nine pages of
               text, nine pages of beautifully shot images—outlining method’s philoso-
               phy toward cleaning.
                   In a sense, this was method’s Super Bowl spot. Just as the fledgling
               Apple could afford to show 1984 in only a single TV spot in the Super
               Bowl, choosing to give up a much greater (and cheaper) frequency of
               airtime in order to write its identity once, loudly, in the imagination of
               the American nation, so method on this occasion, again with limited
               funds, chose to Sacrifice frequency for impact and identity. And the
               identity doesn’t come from simply from the words and images in the
               booklet, of course. It comes in significant measure from the fact that it
               is a booklet. The fact of a booklet bound into a magazine is not in itself
               unusual for readers to come across. But a book from a cleaning products
               company? In a glossy magazine? Outlining a brand philosophy and invit-
               ing us to be a part of it? We noted earlier the brand’s ambition was
               to learn from the skin care category, where consumers buy into a philos-
               ophy or lifestyle and then into a range of products that reflect that: The
               booklet People against Dirty was method’s very public launch of that
c09_1   01/06/2009   165




                                                           The Fifth Credo: Sacrifice   165



              mind-set change. method chose to trade reach and frequency in order
              to give that philosophy the room and depth it needed in order to be
              properly communicated.
                   When Diesel launched in New York, it deliberately chose to open
              opposite Levi’s flagship store as a signal of intent and a statement of
              attitude. Since then, Levi’s moon has waned, and Diesel’s growth has
              given it a very different set of challenges, chief among them how to con-
              tinue to grow while retaining a counterculture, Challenger image. Sacri-
              fice has been critical to Diesel in doing this successfully. Recognizing
              that in order to manage this difficult balance it needs to have much
              greater control over how its brand is portrayed at point of purchase,
              the company has cut non-Diesel retail outlets from 10,000 to 5,500, sac-
              rificing all those that either presented the brand poorly or gave it insuffi-
              cient ability to influence the presentation. While Diesel has invested in
              its own branded stores at the same time (now up to 300), this recogni-
              tion of what it needed to Sacrifice in distribution to preserve and indeed
              strengthen its identity has been critical to maintaining its momentum.
              Although ubiquity in distribution is good for establishment brands like
              Coca-Cola and AT&T, it is dangerous for Challenger brands looking to
              create a stronger affinity with a more focused target, be they self-styled
              fashion rebels, surfing wannabes, or weekend mountain bikers.


              SACRIFICE IN MESSAGE: TRADING DEPTH FOR DEFINITION
              The abyss between the quantity of different messages a company would
              like to communicate, and the single-minded simplicity that it takes to
              stand out to the consumer in communication is the one that most marke-
              teers find hardest to bridge. There appears from our side to be so much
              that needs communicating on our brand’s behalf: market motivators,
              tickets of entry, and, inevitably, at least two or three key competitive dis-
              criminators that the research recommendations will have highlighted.
              We feel somehow that if we could only sit each consumer down for half
              an hour in a room and tell them all the reasons our brand is superior,
              then maybe we could turn them into loyal buyers.
                  But there is no escape: Strong brands are necessarily simple and
              single-minded in their communication, even if it means sacrificing what
              might seem to be important secondary messages. Tourism New Zealand
c09_1   01/06/2009   166




               166   EATING THE BIG FISH



               has been very good at this. It has focused all its messaging around just
               one communication idea—100 percent Pure New Zealand. There were
               plenty of other kinds of messages about how to present New Zealand to
               the rest of the world, all of which were felt to be important by the stake-
               holders: New Zealand’s rapidly developing creative and technical exper-
               tise, for example, was something its government was particularly keen to
               communicate in some form. Yet the team recognized that to break
               through in the world travel market, where they were often dwarfed by
               the budgets of their bigger rivals, they would have to not simply focus
               their advertising on a single message, but focus their whole commu-
               nications budget around this advertising. Before 2000,80 percent of
               the marketing budget had been spent on promotional work in the
               local markets, and only 20 percent in advertising. With the new cam-
               paign, the Tourism New Zealand team, recognizing that they could not
               afford to dissipate all their efforts, spent 100 percent of their budget
               on advertising this very clear message. It remains perhaps the most
               focused and successful country marketing of the last 20 years, in spite of
               operating on a fraction of the media spend of some of its much larger
               competitors.


               SACRIFICE IN PRODUCT RANGE AND LINE EXTENSIONS
               Before starting the Hong Kong newspaper Apple Daily, its founder,
               Jimmy Lai, had set up a clothing retailer in Hong Kong called Giordano.
               Offering 300 lines through four stores, Giordano was doing well enough,
               but nothing remarkable. The new retailing brand’s real growth didn’t
               come, in fact, until he went to New York and walked into Gap. And in
               seeing it, Lai realized there was an opportunity to revolutionize his ap-
               proach. He realized that maintaining a wide range of lines was an un-
               necessarily expensive way of offering choice, because of the intrinsic
               expense involved in producing different cuts of each kind of clothing,
               such as pants and shirts. But if he were to Sacrifice much of the width of
               the range, the savings would then enable him to offer a much greater
               richness of colors, for example, within the lines that were on sale. So Lai
               went back to Hong Kong and cut the number of different style lines his
               stores stocked from 300 to 50—but then produced 19 different colors in
               the cut of T-shirt he did offer, because extending the consumer’s choice
c09_1   01/06/2009   167




                                                           The Fifth Credo: Sacrifice   167



              by dyeing cloth (versus the cost of cutting different patterns) is relatively
              cheap. Within eight years, the overhauled Giordano went from 4 stores
              to around 500, becoming the largest clothing retailer in Asia. Lai had
              changed the concept of choice in his Asian Challenger, by Sacrifice and
              Overcommitment, in effect—what the garment business calls ‘‘focused,
              deep assortment.’’
                  Now there are Challengers whose whole product and experience
              offer is built around an offer of simplicity in a complicated category,
              which represents a kind of Sacrifice in itself—the simple functionality of
              the Flip video camera, for instance, or the pared back offering repre-
              sented by ING Direct. We saw in Chapter 4 that ING’s CEO was inspired
              by players in other categories offering stripped-down essentials, a kind
              of ‘‘fast-food banking.’’ So ING Direct has good rates, no fees, no mini-
              mum balances—but offers only one savings account and one current ac-
              count. In the mortgage category, it offers five-year mortgages and
              seven-year mortgages, but no 30-year mortgages, because consumers
              refinance them so often; if you ring up ING Direct and ask for a 30-year
              mortgage, your contact will recommend an outside lender. Such sim-
              plicity clearly has a value in such a complex and undifferentiated market,
              as ING’s growth testifies. And yet what we are examining in this chapter
              is also the bigger underlying theme about how companies at the same
              time choose to use their available resource. As a Challenger, we have to
              use our more limited resources (people, time, passion, energy, money)
              against the few things that will really make a difference, and this means
              being very clear on both who we are and what we are going to Sacrifice
              to promote that identity. Focus on the products, experiences, and mar-
              keting that will genuinely break through.


              APPLE VERSUS YAHOO
              Let’s put two Challengers back-to-back to highlight the pivotal impor-
              tance of Sacrifice in this regard—two very successful companies that find
              themselves in significantly different situations.
                  Apple, having brought itself to the brink of oblivion by the back end
              of the 1990s by losing sight of what it was (and instead reducing itself to
              creating ranges of unremarkable gray products), brought back a leader
              who believes in Sacrifice—who is said, in fact, to have cut within weeks
c09_1   01/06/2009   168




               168   EATING THE BIG FISH



               of his return the number of projects in development from around 150 to
               just 3: the iMac, the iBook, and the G3 chip, projects that would really
               deliver a new future to Apple, and products that genuinely did ‘‘Think
               Different.’’ Having turned the corner, Steve Jobs has continued to Sacri-
               fice stringently. He observes that the concept of focus is often misinter-
               preted, that people think focus means saying yes to the project or
               commitment that it has already been decided to focus against: ‘‘But
               that’s not what it means at all. It means saying no to the 100 other good
               ideas that there are. You have to pick carefully.’’4
                   Jobs claims in fact to be as proud of what Apple hasn’t done, as what
               it has done; he points out that if Apple had committed to do a PDA, it
               wouldn’t have had the resources to do the iPod, and that it is in large
               part what Apple has chosen to Sacrifice that has enabled it to do so well
               what it did choose to do. Apple in fact is so committed to this principle
               that it goes so far as to Sacrifice winners: The day it launched the Nano
               iPod, it stopped producing the mini, its hitherto most popular line.
                   Yahoo, conversely, burned brightly as a Challenger for a while, but
               is now floundering. Unfocused and reactive, it has become a brand
               that lacks any sense of what it is; it simply proliferates projects without
               any overarching sense of purpose or identity. This may seem a little
               cavalier as a commentary on a brand with 3.5 billion page views per
               day, a company that Microsoft’s bid valued at $45 billion (a whisker
               larger than my own), but then the remarks are not mine: They are
               those of a Yahoo SVP, leaked in the celebrated ‘‘Peanut Butter Mani-
               festo.’’ In it, the writer identified the lack of exactly this very clarity as
               lying at the heart of the internal malaise facing the company. It was, he
               said, precisely Yahoo’s failure to first understand what it was, and
               its lack of courage then to Sacrifice what it was not, that rendered it
               unable to move forward dynamically into the considerable challenges
               of a competitive new world.


               THE STRATEGIC PURPOSE OF SACRIFICE
               Hmm, Sacrifice. Isn’t this just clear prioritization by any other name?
                   The difference between Sacrifice and prioritization is that the latter
               allows secondary and tertiary targets. Sacrifice means not doing these
               secondary and tertiary things at all.
c09_1   01/06/2009   169




                                                          The Fifth Credo: Sacrifice   169



                 Sacrifice’s value, therefore, is not simply one of concentration of
              marketing forces externally; it also has an internal value similar to hard-
              pruning a plant: all the energy, all the dynamism in the company
              becomes devoted to the primary goal.
                 So, we can say from what we have seen in the preceding examples
              that Sacrifice serves three main strategic functions for a Challenger:

              1. Sacrifice concentrates the internal and external expressions of
                 identity by eliminating activities that might dilute it.
              2. Sacrifice allows the creation of strong points of difference by chang-
                 ing the organization’s mind-set from pursuing weak universal appeal
                 to a more intense, narrower appeal (and thereby avoiding becoming
                 the ‘‘mush in the middle’’).
              3. Sacrifice generates critical mass for the communication of that iden-
                 tity and those differences by stripping away other secondary market-
                 ing activity. This is central to maximizing the Challenger’s consumer
                 presence, given its more limited marketing resources.

                  While the Brand Leader perceives its currency to be mass appeal and
              can afford the dilution of preference that creates because it is compen-
              sated for by the convenience of its ubiquity and distribution, Challeng-
              ers need more extreme actions and gestures—they need to create
              a greater proportion of ‘‘committed’’ and ‘‘enthusiastic’’ users through
              real differentiation. Challenger currency is therefore not means but
              extremes: top-box preference scores or nothing. And this in turn means
              we need to create differences for ourselves that may well be sometimes
              polarizing (Lush’s intense scents deter as many as they attract) but that
              also strongly attract as many as they deter; better a room divided than a
              room that doesn’t care. And once we have delineated our identity
              through those points of difference, strip away every marketing activity
              that does not directly support that identity. For any brand, positioning is
              Sacrifice; for a Challenger, it is the path to growth. What it chooses not
              to do defines who and what it really is.
                  There is a story about, I think, Picasso. A visitor to his studio saw a
              huge block of stone sitting in the middle of the studio and asked the
              master what it was to be. A lion, came the reply. And how, pressed the
              visitor, will you make a lion out of this unhewn stone block?
c09_1   01/06/2009      170




               170      EATING THE BIG FISH



                  It’s easy, said Picasso. I simply get a chisel and chip away anything
               that doesn’t look like a lion.


                     Videolink for this Chapter:
                     www.eatbigfishfood.com/etbf/sacrifice
c10_1   01/06/2009   171




                10
              THE SIXTH CREDO:
              OVERCOMMITMENT
                     It is impossible to be too strong at the decisive point.
                                                                                Napoleon




              GETTING INTO THE CLUB
              January in New York. It is cold, very cold; snow fills the sidewalks. You
              have flown your whole family from New Zealand to America because
              you have created your own vodka, a super-premium vodka, and you
              want to get the top five nightclubs in New York to stock it—it is time
              your brand stretched its wings in the Northern Hemisphere a little. And
              you are here to go in person to those nightclubs and persuade them to
              stock this vodka you have created, called 42BELOW.
                  But the thing is, of course, that you are not the only super-premium
              vodka brand in town that is trying to get in to see these nightclubs—
              there is a lot of competition, for these are the key clubs that will, in rea-
              lity, make or break you among those all-important opinion leaders. And
              with 100 new vodkas launching every year, even if you do get in to see
              those key decision makers, how many super-premium vodkas are they
              actually going to be prepared to stock? You know you can’t buy your
              way in, because other vodkas, particularly the vodkas from the Big Fish,
              are going to have much deeper pockets than you. And you can’t afford
              billboards. To paraphrase one of your most famous fellow countrymen:
              You don’t have the money, so you will have to think.1

                                                                                       171
c10_1   01/06/2009   172




               172   EATING THE BIG FISH



                   So you are sitting in your hotel room, thinking, and your wife comes up
               with this idea. Rather than just banging on the door and hoping they will
               see us, she says, let’s do something else. We’ll do something for them
               without being asked, before we have even really introduced ourselves.
               We’ll set up ‘‘42BELOW Snow Patrol.’’ When it starts snowing, two of us
               will show up, two Kiwis in ‘‘42BELOW Snow Patrol’’ jackets outside those
               key nightclubs, and just start shoveling away the snow for them. We won’t
               ask for permission or anything—we’ll just turn up and start doing it. And
               we’ll be doing the bouncers a favor, because they won’t have to do the
               shoveling, and we know they are very important gatekeepers to the clubs
               in many ways, and perhaps those outside guys will then talk about us to
               the inside guys, and so we’ll already be on their good side, and they’ll
               already know us when we go in and actually make our pitch.
                   It’s a great idea, you all agree. Let’s do it.
                   So you do. And in fact it works out even better than you had hoped.
               The bouncers do indeed love you, because you and the 42BELOW Snow
               Patrol keep the pavement clean for them. The people entering the club
               in their Gucci and Prada footwear love you because they don’t get snow
               and slush all over their shoes. And the club owner loves you because the
               pavement looks fabulous outside their club. And the big plus is that the
               papers also love the story—the New York Post’s gossip columnist sees
               the 42BELOW Snow Patrol on their way into one of the clubs and writes
               it up on page 6. And the result is that by the time you approach the peo-
               ple inside those key nightclubs, the people who make the decisions
               about which vodka to stock, those critical decision makers have already
               heard about you, have already read about you, know their customers
               have already seen you, and are already predisposed to listen to you.
               And, frankly, they also recognize that this is a small company with good
               ideas about how to get noticed in a crowded marketplace—and to get
               the throughputs they want, they want to sell vodkas that know how to do
               exactly that.


               GETTING THE RIGHT KIND OF DEALER
               Before we reflect on why about why this kind of behavior, which we are
               going to call Overcommitment, is imperative for Challengers, and what
               characteristics lie at the heart of it, let us consider a rather different
c10_1   01/06/2009   173




                                                 The Sixth Credo: Overcommitment      173



              example, from a much larger company. We will then look at them
              together and note what they have in common.
                  You are a large Japanese car manufacturer—in fact, the second larg-
              est automotive manufacturer in the world. While hugely successful in
              the United States, your brand launched to, and then grew up with, the
              Boomer generation, and your average buyer age is growing older with
              them, so you have a long-term ambition to build a more successful brand
              presence among younger U.S. car buyers, and in particular the young
              trendsetters. While an important target group in themselves, they will also
              be key, long term, in getting a new generation of U.S. motorists into the
              Toyota and Lexus brands as their life stage and needs change and grow.
                  You have initiated a few years previously a significant project specifi-
              cally to tackle this opportunity among youth, called Project Genesis,
              whereby you essentially looked to break with your immediate past and
              market three models—the Echo, the MR2, and the Celica—still under
              the Toyota brand, but with a significantly different overall marketing ap-
              proach toward youth. While relatively successful in selling to young cus-
              tomers, the initiative fell short of its ambitions; although valuable in
              learning terms, it taught you that you were going to have to do more
              than bundle existing products in different ways through existing dealer
              channels. You were going to have to commit to it on a much more holis-
              tic level, embracing product, process, and marketing.
                  So you create a new brand, with two new models, specifically for this
              target. You create a new stand-alone model identity for it—it will not live
              under the parent brand. It will have a different purchase process, ‘‘Pure
              Price,’’ where the price advertised by the dealer is the price consumers
              will pay, with no negotiation expected or given. It will of course need to
              be marketed in an entirely different way to this audience as well—a
              grassroots approach will be required to seed the brand and then create
              genuine participation among this elusive and mobile target. And the
              brand will also need to be genuinely respected and romanced by
              the dealers as a stand-alone, youth-orientated brand, rather than just
              the latest youth-skewed model from Toyota.
                  You determine, therefore, that you will look to create a new and
              unique in-dealer experience, as well as a new kind of mutually beneficial
              contract with those dealers who want to be part of the Scion brand. Not
              every Toyota dealer will need or want to sign up for Scion, but those
c10_1   01/06/2009   174




               174   EATING THE BIG FISH



               who do will themselves need to commit to the new holistic model for
               this new youth brand: They will need to agree to give it a distinct brand
               space all its own in the dealership—a Scion space, rather than simply a
               bit of Toyota space. And because the identity is going to center around
               the championship of self-expression, the signing dealers will need to be
               active proponents of all the different ways you are going to offer in
               which consumers can personalize their Scion. These dealers will need to
               understand that to communicate genuine personalization, they will want
               to have a very different kind of conversation with their customers than
               they have had historically about the traditional and limited accessory
               market, because the level of personalization you are going to offer cus-
               tomers will extend to literally thousands of possible combinations. The
               options available to customers will embrace three different programs of
               your own, together with third-party accessories offered in the dealership
               (the first time this has been done), the dealer’s own aftermarket accesso-
               rization, the choice of car specs the customers choose, and the forma-
               tion of owners’ clubs to share advice and education about how to
               personalize further. And in addition to committing to this holistic model
               and giving the brand its own distinctive space within the dealership, the

               FIGURE 10.1 Customized Scion xB.
c10_1   01/06/2009   175




                                               The Sixth Credo: Overcommitment    175



              participating dealers will also need to commit to an educational pro-
              gram you will put on for them about how to talk to consumers about
              personalization in an entirely new and fresh way when they come into
              the showroom.


              OVERCOMMITMENT
              Different though they are in many ways, what do both of these stories
              have in common? They share both a common need: In order to genui-
              nely succeed, the brand in each case will have to break through barriers
              that the team behind it can already anticipate. And both brands, al-
              though very different in size, share a common way of thinking about the
              solution: Let’s think about those barriers and actively remove them be-
              fore they occur. In other words, let’s not simply commit to make this
              happen, let’s overcommit.
                  In the case of 42BELOW, the Challenger had to get into the right
              bars to break into the New York super-premium vodka market. These
              key bars in turn influenced the stocking policy of the second and
              third tiers of bars, and the crowd who came to party at that small key
              group of nightclubs were themselves the opinion leaders who were
              also therefore the determiners of taste for the other night owls across
              the city as a whole. But, as we said, every other super-premium vodka
              obviously knew this, too—so 42BELOW looked at how it could over-
              come the nightclub ennui of ‘‘another day, another super-premium
              vodka presentation’’ and create not simply salient differentiation but a
              favorable predisposition toward 42BELOW, before the team even
              started presenting.
                  In the case of Scion, Toyota had learned from the Genesis Project
              that marketing alone was not going to be enough to break through
              against this target: The new brand would need the dealer as well as
              the consumer to wholly embrace and participate in a holistic new
              model, and they therefore had to make that holistic model genuinely
              a part of the reality of the dealer and customer experience. If the
              concept of personalization and self-expression simply became a little
              smoke and mirrors, they would fail. So what Toyota and its dealers
              did with the Scion brand was Overcommit. They anticipated all the
              reasons why internal intent might not translate into external behavior,
c10_1   01/06/2009   176




               176   EATING THE BIG FISH



               and structured their business and business relationships to remove
               those potential barriers.
                  Put another way, in these two examples Scion and 42BELOW aimed
               two feet below the brick.


               AIMING TWO FEET BELOW THE BRICK
               Let us suppose you have always wanted to put your hand through a
               brick. You have seen it done, and it fascinates you as an achievement of
               flesh and will. So you seek the instruction of a karate black belt, who by
               chance happens to be a janitor in your building. Teach me, sensei, you
               say. And after making you wax a lot of cars and paint a lot of fences, he
               teaches you this: If you want to put your hand through a brick, you can-
               not succeed by aiming at the surface of the brick. To break through, you
               have to aim two feet the other side. Two feet below it; that is the way to
               ensure you will go through a surface the body will naturally flinch from.
                   In the same way, Challenger brands—and the people behind Chal-
               lenger brands—do not succeed through commitment; they succeed
               through Overcommitment. They do not do just enough for success at
               the crucial point; instead, they Overcommit to ensure success and to
               overcome each identifiable pocket of inertia and resistance they will
               inevitably meet (internally and externally) in attempting to translate
               Challenger intention and strategy into behavior and results.
                   In particular, this will mean Overcommitting in delivering your chosen
               point of difference to your chosen target—particularly if this target is an
               attitudinal one (look at Facebook’s opening up of application develop-
               ment to third-party developers to allow a constant stream of new ideas
               continue to make their brand of social interaction fun, for instance). But
               Overcommitment will clearly also be required in business practice or
               behavior in order to realize some of the ideas that will be necessary to
               prompt reevaluation or to enable Thought Leadership. Sometimes this
               will be Overcommitment in terms of a particular action that will be defin-
               itive in creating appraisal or reappraisal.
                   Take the example of Swatch we looked at earlier—the hanging of
               a 500-foot watch on the Commerzbank in Frankfurt. For Swatch, it was
               one thing to come up with the idea and quite another to make it hap-
               pen. How lucky, we might be tempted to think, that the President of the
c10_1   01/06/2009   177




                                                 The Sixth Credo: Overcommitment      177



              Commerzbank allowed Swatch to carry out such a bold concept. Con-
              sider instead, we mentally add, the inertia and resistance that
              would probably have lain within our own company when an idea like that
              was first suggested. And consider, if we are honest, our own personal
              reaction had someone within our organization suggested something
              similar for our brand in our next key market. Would it have been to begin
              enthusiastically working out how it would need to be done? Or would it
              have been to admire it as an entertaining idea, while mentally writing it
              off as something that would never reach fulfillment within our culture?
                  It is to overcome such hidden mental inertia, as much as overt resist-
              ance, that we need as a Challenger to aim two feet below the brick. In the
              case of Swatch, Overcommitment meant that luck had very little to do
              with the success of the outcome. Germany was potentially the largest
              European market for the new Swiss watch industry; so they had to make it
              succeed. Prior to meeting the bank, then, the Swatch team anticipated
              the barriers that the key decision maker—the President of the Commerz-
              bank—would put up, and answered them before even the initial approach
              was made. They approached the local civic authorities and sought and
              received written permission for the project, so that later, when they actu-
              ally met the President of the Commerzbank, and his first reaction proved
              to be something like, ‘‘You’re crazy; in the first place, the authorities
              would never let us do it,’’ they could reply that such a permit had in fact
              already been issued. When later the President expressed worry about the
              effect it would have on customers’ opinions of the bank, Swatch showed
              him a survey of those very customers suggesting that they liked the bank
              showing its human face through a gesture such as this. By Overcommit-
              ting, by anticipating the barriers to success and overcoming them before
              they were raised, Swatch succeeded at the crucial point.
                  Sometimes this Overcommitment will not be about one action, but
              about setting up a structure that ensures that your key point of differ-
              ence will always be consistently delivered. We saw earlier Scion really
              thinking through the necessary relationship with the dealer to ensure
              this. JetBlue is another example: in resolving to ‘‘restore the humanity to
              air travel,’’ it famously made one of its key decisions of sacrificing meals
              for passengers, and instead spending that money on things that would
              actually make a difference to the quality of the flight for their passen-
              gers, such as multichannel seat-back live TV. As JetBlue’s success grew,
c10_1   01/06/2009   178




               178   EATING THE BIG FISH



               other airlines looked to emulate the concept: JetBlue’s response was
               to actually buy the company that provided the seat-back entertainment
               so that no one else in its category could offer it, to make sure its key
               point of difference would always be delivered. In the same way, we can
               see a blog with great momentum, Gawker (perhaps most famous for
               posting the controversial video of Tom Cruise speaking to his fellow
               Scientologists), actually owning its own servers, so that no outside party
               can pressure the server owner to remove content it doesn’t approve of.
               For Gawker, controversy means footfall, and you don’t want anyone to
               be able to prevent you from the benefits of that footfall.
                   Sometimes the Overcommitment will lie in the decisions you make
               about staffing. To succeed in its ambition of making it easier for the
               British people to do something a little healthier for themselves by drink-
               ing an entirely natural smoothie every day, innocent had to something
               that had not really been done before: to make the man and woman in
               the street really engage warmly with a healthy product. And innocent
               realized that one critical way of doing this was to create an entirely new
               kind of relationship between the person and the packaging—and,
               through the packaging, also the brand. The packaging copy was warm,
               quirky, and chatty, from the way it talked about the brand to the way it
               spoke about the ingredients, and in order to genuinely create the sense
               of a brand that was talking to you and with you, innocent would do
               something that no brand in the United Kingdom had ever done before:
               Not only would it have up to eight versions of each piece of body copy in
               the market at any one time for each of its four initial smoothie mixes, but
               it would change all of them every three months. The pack conversation, if
               you like, would be as fresh as the contents. And, if the innocent pur-
               chasers wanted even more interaction with the company, they could call
               the company on the ‘‘banana phone’’ and/or sign up for a weekly e-mail.
                   The banana phone was in effect a call to the company, and the com-
               pany as a whole would be responsible for answering it—and still does.
               But creating good copy that would be constantly renewed could have
               been the kind of intention that only lasted six months before the real
               world kicked in. So innocent Overcommitted. Even though the company
               consisted of only four people at the time, they hired a friend from col-
               lege, Dan, whose job it would be to write the packaging copy and the
               e-mail newsletter. While a big financial commitment for a fledgling
c10_1   01/06/2009   179




                                                  The Sixth Credo: Overcommitment       179



              company and its owners—they knew that the quality of the one-to-one,
              engaged relationship they would build with each of their consumers
              would be second only to the quality of the product in determining the
              success of the brand. So they Overcommitted to it. And while their first
              weekly e-mail went out to 11 people, it now goes out to 120,000.
                 innocent is now the fastest-growing food and drink company in the
              UK. As the company has expanded to other geographies in continental
              Europe, this structure, of including a carefully chosen native writer as
              part of that initial small group, has carried over as well. They are still
              Overcommitting at this decisive point.


              WHAT ARE OUR DECISIVE POINTS GOING TO BE?
              Like a political party, Challengers are also in a sense fighting an election
              battle; they are campaigning for change, and a change of vote. In that
              campaign, the balance between success and failure in any endeavor is
              much narrower than one might imagine, because the consumer’s deci-
              sion-making process is much more precarious than one might imagine.
              How a particular salesperson speaks to a customer, convincing a key
              trade buyer of the quality of distribution needed, or the extent of the
              news coverage gained at launch—any of these may make the difference
              between preserving or reversing the status quo in the market. To slightly
              paraphrase one of our Challengers, every consumer interaction is a po-
              tential sales event. One reason why ING Direct, for example, while it has
              Sacrificed product range, has in its own way Overcommitted on custom-
              er service for a stripped-down banking service: If you call its U.S. toll-free
              number, you get through to a real person, and one in the same country
              as you. How very refreshing.
                  The first task in Overcommitment, then, is to identify the decisive
              points on which the Challenger must succeed. Clausewitz famously com-
              mented: ‘‘The general must throw his forces at the crucial point where, if
              he succeeds—even if he fails at all other points—victory will be his.’’ In
              this, the Pareto effect (the so-called 80:20 rule) governs action as much
              as targeting; if we had to point to the one or two things we have done
              that have made most of the difference to our business’s success—or
              even to our own personal success—over the past year, we would not
              have much difficulty singling them out. What we more often fail to do,
c10_1   01/06/2009   180




               180   EATING THE BIG FISH



               however, is to anticipate in advance the decisive one or two points of
               difference on which real differentiation and trial will depend so that we
               can Overcommit to them.
                   If, as a Challenger, you are focusing on a few bold sweeps of the
               brush to paint your marketing picture, rather than a flurry of incremental
               activities—then it is relatively easy to anticipate and plan for the one or
               two key points, and the pockets of likely resistance that are hidden
               behind them. Launching into a world full of photo-sharing sites, for
               instance, and wanting to use its own particular sense of community as a
               key differentiator, flickr emphasized making new users feel welcome.
               So right from the beginning, it ensured there would be a member of the
               flickr team moderating the flickr forum 24/7, just to make new people
               feel part of the community. flickr made sure it welcomed each of the first
               10,000 members personally, giving them tips, support, encourage-
               ment—thus overcommitting to creating the initial community that would
               then grow itself.
                   Of course, when the stakes are self-evidently this high or the com-
               pany is small, motivation runs deep and overcommitment comes natu-
               rally. Swatch had the motivation: On the success of the brand’s launch
               hung the success of the Swiss watch industry, and Germany was an enor-
               mous and vital market. If, like Cirque du Soleil opening its first show
               in Los Angeles, you find you have invested so much of your capital in
               the opening night that you don’t have enough money to buy the gas to
               get the trucks back to Montreal if the show fails, you have a wonderful
               incentive for everyone in the company to make it work. There is a saying
               in Norway: The hungriest wolves hunt best.
                   This is a critically important point for us, precisely because most of us
               are not in this situation. We’re not that small, and we still have half a tank
               of gas in the truck. And maybe that’s part of the problem. As would-be
               Challengers, we have to build our hunger into the objectives we set for
               ourselves and the ways we anticipate and overcome resistance inside
               and outside the organization.


               AIMING TWO FEET BELOW THE BRICK: DEFINITION OF OBJECTIVES
               We said Challenger is a state of mind. It goes without saying, then, that
               the leader of a Challenger organization has to first develop that
c10_1   01/06/2009   181




                                                The Sixth Credo: Overcommitment     181



              determination to succeed him- or herself. Personal Overcommitment
              sets the tone for those immediately around you, and high stakes readily
              develop personal Overcommitment at the top.
                  Such personal Overcommitment is characteristic of the great Chal-
              lengers in history, even quite late in their success. Consider Alexander
              the Great, for example—a Macedonian younger than 20 years old
              who defeated the largest army in the Eastern world (the Persians) as a
              prelude to creating an empire encompassing all of what is now Tur-
              key, Syria, Egypt, Iraq, Iran, and northern India. By 325 BC, with the
              defeat of the Persians behind him, Alexander and his Macedonians
              had already conquered Greece and extended his conquests to the
              Punjab, largely on foot. But some of his troops had been fighting for
              10 years, and loyalty began to waver—while much of the army wanted
              to turn back, Alexander wanted to go on. The crux came when they
              laid siege to the hill fort of Multan. The defiant Indians inside repelled
              attack after attack by his increasingly disheartened Macedonians, until
              Alexander sensed that more than the battle hung on the result of the
              next attack.
                  He gambled. Taking a small core of his elite troops, the Companions,
              he personally led a charge with scaling ladders against the wall of the
              fort. The attack was largely repulsed, except for Alexander and three
              Companions, who found themselves standing alone on the parapet,
              with the rest of the Greek troops running back to their own lines. His
              Companions shouted to Alexander to jump down the outside of the
              walls—they would cover him until he was in the safety of his own lines;
              instead, he did the opposite. To the horror of the watching Greeks, he
              leapt inside the walls of the Indian fort into the middle of the enemy and
              out of sight of his own army.
                  The three Companions on top of the wall jumped down along-
              side him and put their backs against the wall in a ring around Alex-
              ander, attempting to hold off the defenders. Meanwhile alarm ran
              along the Greek attackers outside, confronted with the imminent
              death of their leader. Desperate, they launched themselves at the
              walls to rescue Alexander. While some leapt from the shoulders of
              their fellow soldiers to the top of the wall, others broke the ladders
              apart and hammered the splintered rungs as footholds into the clay
              walls.
c10_1   01/06/2009   182




               182   EATING THE BIG FISH



                   This time desperation carried them to success. By the time they
               reached Alexander, two of the three protecting him were dead, and he
               was wounded, but the fort was taken. Their loyalty was renewed. And
               Alexander wove Northwest India into his empire before turning back.
                   Once the business leader, then, has developed a Challenger mind-
               set, the next stage is to drive that same state of mind within the core
               group around him or her. (This is the primary function of Chapter 15. For
               the moment, we shall note this task, but put the nature of its achieve-
               ment to one side.)
                   But how one motivates one’s staff is an altogether different issue.
               Motivation of staff also depends on Overcommitment, but in terms of a
               joint Overcommitment to a new scale of objectives. Overcommitment in
               goals can help create Overcommitment in implementation.
                   The key point to realize is this: We cannot fool the consumer by talk-
               ing about good intentions. They know about mission statements and
               customer-satisfaction programs, and the world that they can see doesn’t
               seem to have changed. These wonderful intentions haven’t led to a uni-
               versal quality of service that they can feel or enjoy or relax with. They
               aren’t really interested in our brand’s intentions; they are interested in
               what we are going to do for them now. And as a consequence of ‘‘claim
               inflation’’—the effective devaluation of the consumers’ inclination to be-
               lieve marketing promises by the gaps they consistently find between
               promise and delivery—they frequently don’t believe you’re actually
               going to do what you say you’re going to do (remember the ‘‘Missouri
               Mind-set’’). So intention is not enough. And the only way to translate
               intention into behavior—if everything hangs on the outcome—is to
               Overcommit.
                   Let us throw this back at ourselves. Assuming for the sake of argu-
               ment that we have some customer interaction built into our brand’s suc-
               cess (be it with end purchaser, trade, or some other audience), let us ask
               ourselves the following three questions:

               1. What are the ambitions of our company’s mission statement when it
                  comes to customer service?
               2. How close are we to delivering on those ambitions, really?
               3. And how much closer have we really come to delivering on those
                  objectives over the past three years?
c10_1   01/06/2009   183




                                                   The Sixth Credo: Overcommitment       183



                The answers for most companies (particularly after that critical third
              beer on a Friday night when one starts being honest about the company
              one works for) will probably be:

              1. ‘‘To exceed our customer’s expectations. To surprise and delight
                 them.’’
              2. ‘‘Sort of.’’
              3. ‘‘Not really.’’
                  Certainly, if we were to then think of ourselves as consumers of the
              wide variety of categories across which each of us may personally
              browse, we could count the brands whose service we can remember
              exceeding our expectations on the fingers of one knee. To generate a
              different kind of strategy and different kind of behavior, then, our study
              of Challenger companies suggests that we need to radically reframe
              the objectives and goals we set our staff—and work through the conse-
              quences. Imagine, for instance, ourselves in a more acute Challenger
              situation, where success is in fact coupled very closely with survival.
              Or imagine that our goals for next year are suddenly doubled—
              both the softer goals of customer satisfaction and the harder goals of
              volume. Next year you are required to achieve double the return with
              the same amount of marketing resources and at the same price point.
              How do you now approach your strategy? Your customer service objec-
              tives? The translation of both of these into a new behavior?
                  I suggest, if taken seriously, all these will change significantly. (A pro-
              minent leader of a large multinational is said to practice a slightly differ-
              ent version of this exercise: When one of his teams is unable to crack
              the problem, he halves the resources and halves the personnel—and
              through this greater adversity forces breakthrough.) One is forced to
              abandon all thoughts of incrementalism, or building on the tactical activ-
              ities from last year, and throw oneself boldly at a few critical points. Set
              objectives that demand Overcommitment to succeed.


              AIMING TWO FEET BELOW THE BRICK: DEALING WITH RESISTANCE
              OUTSIDE THE ORGANIZATION
              When Oakley started to move into eyewear, it had a consumer base
              every bit as vital to it as the trade or its employees—the athletes Oakley
c10_1   01/06/2009   184




               184   EATING THE BIG FISH



               was trying to woo to use its product. Without the deep pockets of a
               Nike, it could not pay the major athletes or even minor athletes enough
               to wear its product unless they genuinely became fans of the new
               Oakley shades. Initially, this proved difficult because of the unusual
               appearance of the product, which had been designed to produce the
               best possible lens for the application, rather than aesthetics alone
               (they were the first lenses to follow the curving contour of the face,
               for example, thus minimizing light distortion). When triathlete Scott
               Tinley was invited into the factory to try on the new range of perform-
               ance eyewear, for instance, Mike Parnell, Oakley’s president, noticed
               a problem. Although Tinley was enthusiastic about the performance
               of the sunglasses, he seemed uncomfortable with the novel styling.
               Invited to try them, Tinley looked at the floor and shook his head
               from side to side, looking for possible distortion or light interference.
               Yes, they seem great, he said to his toes, and he took them off before
               looking up again, apparently reluctant even to lift his head up and
               look at Parnell when wearing them.
                  Parnell realized Tinley was embarrassed about the appearance of the
               new line and knew this was a critical obstacle he had to overcome—
               Oakley needed Tinley, if not actually to flaunt his eyewear, at least to be
               seen as being comfortable wearing them, emotionally as well as physically.
                  Instead of confronting the issue head on, Parnell encouraged Tinley to
               walk around the factory wearing the new glasses and see if he felt
               more comfortable after wearing them for a little while (most of the em-
               ployees were sports enthusiasts themselves, and used to interacting with
               the athletes in the casual California culture of the Oakley factory floor).
                  After having a cup of coffee, Tinley went for a stroll. ‘‘Cool shades,
               Scott,’’ said an attractive young woman in the reception area. ‘‘Really?’’
               said the innocent Tinley, his chin lifting a little.
                  Two other people commented in the next corridor. And another on
               the company basketball court. And the girl in the test lab.
                  By the time he left the building, Tinley was keen to try the new
               glasses on his friends.
                  The people who had all ‘‘spontaneously’’ commented had, of course,
               been planted by Parnell. Hopeful though he was that experience would
               make a fan out of the triathlete, he had left nothing to chance. Parnell
               had aimed two feet below the brick.
c10_1   01/06/2009   185




                                                 The Sixth Credo: Overcommitment     185



              AIMING TWO FEET BELOW THE BRICK: ANTICIPATION
              OF RESISTANCE WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION
              One may be able to buy short-term success through marketing activity.
              Longer-term success will hinge on the everyday behavior of the compa-
              ny and its employees. To get Overcommitment to the delivery of a core
              strand of marketing strategy at the level of the consumer’s experience,
              we have to first get Overcommitment to implementation within the
              organization.
                  There are two simple parts of approaching the achievement of this.
              The first is for us to focus on each of the core tasks or marketing ideas
              we feel success hinges on, and for each one, to identify the three rea-
              sons it will fail. The second part is to then brainstorm the most effective
              way of overcoming each of these hidden barriers before we implement
              the idea.
                  These obstacles are not usually hard to see; it is just that they are
              rarely anticipated specifically in this way. And, as we saw, Challengers
              have ideal circumstances in which to overcome them before attempting
              to implement their core marketing activity.
                  This may be against the more general ambition or identity for the
              brand. Umpqua calls itself the ‘‘World’s Greatest Bank.’’ How do we as
              customers know this? Less because it is written on the walls in every
              store (though it is) and more because every employee, even the CEO,
              has to say ‘‘Hello, welcome to the world’s greatest bank’’ when answer-
              ing the phone. This is less for the benefit of the customers and more to
              create a constant internal prompt of what is expected of them. It keeps
              the bar for each member of the bank staff the highest it can be: If each of
              them say they are representing the world’s greatest bank every time
              they answer the phone, then they had better deliver it every time they
              subsequently serve that customer, or the customer will use it against
              them.
                  It can be Overcommitment against a particular key initiative. The Dove
              team, presenting internally within Unilever, knew that they were going to
              meet with a certain skepticism as to whether their ‘‘Real Beauty’’ strategy
              was going to work. Though the brand and agency team themselves
              were mostly women, they would be presenting their ideas essentially to
              men in their later 40s and 50s, very distant from the younger women
c10_1   01/06/2009   186




               186   EATING THE BIG FISH



               who were relatively insecure about their looks and bodies, the target
               group that Dove was concerned with, and therefore from the strategy
               and campaign they would be recommending. So before they presented
               to this senior male group, the team discovered which of them had
               daughters, and then contacted the mothers of those daughters (i.e., the
               executives’ wives). In talking to them, they asked for a picture, and what
               her daughter did and did not feel comfortable about with her body. The
               team then put together a short piece of film consisting of a series
               of photographs of the daughters, with simple statements about what
               they were uncomfortable with in their own appearance, and played this
               montage at the beginning of their internal presentation to this male
               group of decision makers. It proved an immensely powerful beginning:
               Many of the fathers didn’t know their own daughters felt the way they
               did about their nose, or their freckles, or their hair—and it left them con-
               siderably more open to the strategic intent presented by the Dove
               team. (A fully filmed version of this internal film, obviously using other
               children, subsequently ended up as the Super Bowl spot for the launch
               of the Dove Self-Esteem Fund.)
                   So the key failure for any company attempting to effect a gear
               change in its own performance is not the ability to define its intention or
               to have a good idea, but the inability to translate that intention or idea
               into behavior—in particular, behavior that genuinely helps it stand out.
               The importance of the gap between intention and delivery is highlighted
               by a study a few years ago that suggested that only 14 percent of all
               churn in customer-service businesses comes through dissatisfaction with
               poor treatment or rudeness on the part of a company’s employees.2
               Five times that number—68 percent—switch their loyalty to a different
               brand because of indifference on the part of the service company’s
               employees. This indifference does not arise because executives at the
               top of those individual companies are not interested in growth or be-
               cause they fail to understand the importance of customer service. Even
               money says 85 percent of the ‘‘indifferent’’ companies in the study had
               as part of their mission statement something about a desire to ‘‘surprise
               and delight our customers with the quality of our service.’’ This indiffer-
               ence came because they failed to translate strategic intent into
               behavior.
c10_1   01/06/2009   187




                                                   The Sixth Credo: Overcommitment       187



                 The first Overcommitment exercise we shall call innocent.

              innocent vb: To ask oneself, for each core marketing task, the three irre-
                 futable reasons it will fail (or be diluted into mediocrity). To then brain-
                 storm the most effective way of neutralizing or reversing each of them.
                The second exercise we shall call Jannard, after the founder of
              Oakley.

              Jannard vb: To ask oneself the same question in three different ways:
                 (1) How should we ensure this activity succeeds? (2) How would we
                 approach ensuring that success if our career depended on it? And
                 finally (and this is, if you like, why it is called Jannard), (3) how would
                 we approach it if it was our business, we were down to $300 in the
                 bank, and our family’s livelihood depended on it?

                  This exercise may be seen by some to be a little flippant, but it is in
              fact intended to be serious—it helps resolve the lurking tautology here,
              answering the question: ‘‘How can I plan for something to take more
              than I think it will take? By definition, the revised plan will be what I think
              it will take.’’ As one moves down each level, the answer to that question
              becomes apparent.
                  Its other real value lies in separating natural ‘‘Challenger individuals’’
              from natural ‘‘establishment individuals.’’ When trying the exercise,
              some do indeed, as intended, become more committed, thinking the
              task through and developing more imaginative and compelling ways of
              ensuring success. Others, conversely, do exactly the opposite: As the
              stakes progressively increase, they become progressively more conserv-
              ative until, with their family’s livelihood on the line, they are acting as
              conventionally as possible.
                  You clearly have to decide for yourself which type of person distin-
              guished by this exercise is more likely to help the Challenger company
              succeed.


              SACRIFICE AND OVERCOMMITMENT
              We saw earlier that central to Challenger marketing is ceasing to think
              about marketing as ‘‘strategy’’ and ‘‘execution’’ and breaking our
              actions instead into the Challenger triad of Attitude-Strategy-Behavior.
c10_1   01/06/2009      188




               188      EATING THE BIG FISH



               Challengers are not somehow unusual in that they have a monopoly on
               good ideas; they are unusual, however, in that they make good ideas
               happen. This has to do with three things:

               1. Mental preparation, and therefore preparedness to follow through
                  (the first credo)
               2. A clearer sense of how the use of ideas can define identity, create
                  leadership, and accelerate the consumer relationship (the second,
                  third, and fourth credos)
               3. Planning: anticipating resistance and inertia in implementation, and
                  aiming two feet below the brick (the sixth credo)

               In this respect, Sacrifice is the inverse of, and the enabler of, Overcom-
               mitment: In addition to Sacrifice defining one’s identity, it also allows
               one to Overcommit. As the active clothing brand howies says, ‘‘Having
               the idea is the easy part.’’


                     Videolink for this Chapter:
                     www.eatbigfishfood.com/etbf/overcommitment
c11_1   01/06/2009   189




                11
              THE SEVENTH CREDO:
              USING COMMUNICATIONS
              AND PUBLICITY TO ENTER
              SOCIAL CULTURE
                     Young colleagues ask me: ‘‘What is the advertising budget?’’
                     ‘‘None!’’ I say. The first rule is: Never shit like a bird; shit like an
                     elephant. You ever seen birdshit? Not unless it hits you in the fore-
                     head. But you don’t forget elephant shit. It’s dramatic.
                                                 Adrian Zecha, founder of Aman Resorts1




              M       ost marketing communication is poor. Consumers and newspa-
                      pers are constantly cruising for novelty. The combination of these
              two offers a huge opportunity to aspiring Challenger brands.
                 We saw in Chapter 1 the formidable hurdles we had to overcome in
              any communicated expression of marketing—principally the problems
              of clutter, audience distraction, and claim inflation. The communication
              problems these posed were summed up in a slightly different context
              with more color and less political correctness by a former editor of the
              New York Post to a young protégé:

                 Lemme tell you something, kid. You gotta grab the reader by the
                 throat. He’s on the train. It’s hot. He’s trying to hit on his secretary;

                                                                                         189
c11_1   01/06/2009     190




               190      EATING THE BIG FISH



                     she’s not giving him the time of day. His wife is mad at him. His kid
                     needs braces; he doesn’t have the money. The guy next to him
                     stinks. It’s crowded. You want him to read your story? You better
                     make it interesting.2

                   And he was talking here about news, which is something most of the
               target audience (at the time) paid money to see; the vast majority of ad-
               vertising, on the other hand, which many now pay to avoid, perversely
               fails even the most basic of such requirements. Try this exercise: Sit
               down and watch an hour and a half of commercial television this evening
               with a small bag of peanuts. Take as the basic premise that any good
               piece of communication has to be at least relevant and distinctive.
               Count the number of ads that fulfill this single basic premise and mark
               each one with a peanut on the arm of your chair. Eat the other peanuts.
                   It may be depressing, but at least you don’t go hungry.
                   So, what’s the point here? The point is that, as a Challenger, in very
               rare cases you will indeed have such an extraordinary, game-changing
               product that the world will beat a path to your door. For instance, while
               the Tata Nano may not be a better mousetrap, it is a startlingly cheaper
               mousetrap, and as a startlingly cheaper mousetrap, its website got 4 mil-
               lion hits the day it went up. But the vast majority of us will not be in that
               position. We won’t have extraordinary news naturally oozing from every
               pore of our product or brand, which means that most of us will have to
               create that news ourselves. Which in turn means we need to look for
               opportunity in everything we do to create such news. Our ambition in
               doing this is not simply to shift the awareness needle wildly into the red
               for a while: it is to become a live, and ideally self-replicating, part of pop-
               ular culture.


               THE VALUE OF AN IDEA
               We know already, of course, that the Challenger has no choice about
               trying to stand out; differentiation for us is a question of survival as well
               as profitable growth. Which means that Challengers must demand to
               be noticed: Achieving front-of-mind salience and actively prompting
               change are the watchwords. If our real share of voice is not some artificial
               comparison with the rest of our category, but our media budget as a
c11_1   01/06/2009   191




                            The Seventh Credo: Using Communications and Publicity     191



              proportion of a national spend of $210 billion (bearing in mind that the
              ‘‘Category Isn’t’’), for example, then Challengers need to take a bold
              position in everything they do. And in communications and publicity—
              and the amplified interactivity that can now accompany those—they
              need breakthrough, rather than contentment with awareness and prompt-
              ed satisfaction. And as Challengers we have much less (if any) money,
              of course, so whereas Establishment brands can rely on weight of expo-
              sure, repetition, and ubiquity to drive home a message, for a Challenger
              who aspires to do more with less, clear communication alone is not
              enough—capturing the target’s imagination must be the objective.
                  We have consistently seen the importance of attitude to a Challenger.
              So, while breakthrough in this area is essential, let’s not see the need to
              use publicity and communications to enter social culture as simply
              another enormous mountain to climb. For on the positive side, this per-
              spective on our marketing challenge also represents a huge opportunity
              for Challengers, insofar as this is one of the very few places where the
              Establishment brand is at a potential disadvantage. Trying to protect
              what they already have gained, and the desire to avoid alienating the
              broad mass market does not encourage Brand Leaders into bold adver-
              tising or publicity-generating activities. Most Brand Leaders are by defini-
              tion change-averse, and this leads to a comfortable culture (within Brand
              Leader cultures, one gets all too often promoted to the next level for
              not making a mess of one’s current job) and comfortable advertising. For
              a Challenger, then, creativity (in all forms of communication and the gen-
              eration of publicity) is a business tool, to be ruthlessly sought out and
              deployed as a principal source of competitive advantage against Estab-
              lishment brands.
                  In this context, something like a communication idea doesn’t be-
              come just a part of the marketing mix. It becomes—potentially at
              least—a high-leverage asset. We can go further: Communication ideas
              and the consistent strategic pursuit of the right publicity and word of
              mouth can in fact be the most powerful business tool Challengers have
              at their disposal. And the truth of this, and the breadth of opportunity
              that accompanies it, has clearly dramatically increased over the past
              decade: E-mail culture, the emergence of social networks and other
              kinds of active online communities, the daily global talent contest that
              is YouTube—all these have created, as never before, a new level of
c11_1   01/06/2009   192




               192   EATING THE BIG FISH



               opportunity for Challengers with very limited budgets to rapidly build
               awareness and interaction around their brand idea among consumers.
               As long as it is a brand idea anyone cares about, or can be provoked into
               caring about.
                   For instance, let’s imagine you are a well-established U.S. clothing
               brand looking to expand into Northern Europe. You have a cult pres-
               ence there as a cool brand, but seem to have hit a plateau in terms
               of consumer and trade interest—and the market you are in is declining
               13 percent in value terms year by year. But here’s the real problem: You
               are a brand with surfing roots that wants to sell board-riding clothing in
               Nordic countries, and people don’t surf in Nordic countries. So as a
               Challenger, what do you do?
                   What you do is resolve to create an instant surfing culture where
               there currently is none, and a surfing culture all your own. You determine
               you will not, in effect, be about just the sport: You will represent an atti-
               tude about life, embodied in the way you portray surfboarding within
               this new culture. So, you produce a piece of film. It is a video taken by a
               camera phone of a guy surfing on one of the lakes in Copenhagen.
               Curious, you may say—I wasn’t aware that the lakes in Denmark get that
               tidal. Well, they don’t: The surfer has had a little help. While the boarder
               is paddling out into the middle of the otherwise calm water, one of his
               friends throws a bundle of dynamite hurriedly off the bridge that spans
               it. You watch, disbelieving: They can’t really be going to explode dyna-
               mite in the middle of a city like Copenhagen, can they? And then, boom,
               there it goes, like a depth charge. The water surges up and out, and
               waves begin to rush toward our surfer. He turns away in preparation and
               starts paddling. Catching the first wave, he stands up, rides it until the
               wave runs out, and sinks back down again. The end frame comes up:
               ‘‘Quiksilver. Original Thinking.’’
                   You can’t quite believe what you have just seen. Did they really just
               do that? How on earth did they get away with dynamiting an urban lake?
               You pass it on to a couple of friends: They must see this. And they pass
               it on it turn.
                   And then, a couple of days later, you read a newspaper article: OK,
               so it wasn’t really a camera phone, it seems—they simply degraded the
               film to look as if it was. And they didn’t really dynamite the lake, it was
               CGI, but they had all of us cold on that one, too. The point is, Quiksilver
c11_1   01/06/2009   193




                            The Seventh Credo: Using Communications and Publicity        193



              has now intrigued you: Surfing in Denmark is a wonderfully weird idea.
              And they continue to stimulate you: when you are walking down some
              steps to the metro a couple of days later, you see a sticker: ‘‘Good to
              walk, better to ride the rail,’’ it says. ‘‘Quiksilver. Original Thinking.’’ And
              you read in the newspaper that the brand has turned 10 bus stops into
              skate ramps. So, as a consequence, when you take the bus into town on
              Saturday to buy some clothes, what kind of brand are you going to con-
              sider? And what is your attitude going to be to this Challenger board-
              riding brand that you had never really thought about before a couple of
              weeks ago?3
                  The key here, of course, is that you are not the only one seeing this
              initial piece of film—posted on YouTube, the Quiksilver film to date has
              received 35 million hits. Carefully seeded in advance to create strong
              initial word of mouth among the hard-core surfing sites (almost all surf-
              ing websites worldwide carried it as front-page news), it also benefited
              from a more general buzz between friends: receiving 3.3 million hits in
              the Nordic countries alone (a market, as we noted before, that doesn’t
              surf). And entering social culture in this way obviously dramatically in-
              creased the credibility, desirability, salience, and image of Quiksilver:
              On the back of the publicity, distribution rose 25 percent, and sales
              increased 20 percent in a declining market.
                  What is the conclusion that we draw from this? One could infer that
              Challengers need to be edgy—yet that clearly isn’t always the case (look
              at the nascent Google, or Orange). One could be tempted to draw a
              conclusion about the Internet in particular—that the Internet can spread
              a Challenger’s brand idea broadly within social culture more rapidly (and
              perhaps more cheaply) than any tool a Challenger has had at their
              disposal before, for instance. But, while this inference may be true, let’s
              not get too fixated on the medium just yet. Let’s first focus on the princi-
              ple. And to keep us balanced as we lean into this principle, let’s consider
              alongside it a very famous story about Lexus.
                  The story goes like this. In the first days after Lexus launched in
              the United States, a dealer serviced a car for a customer, but the car
              was returned to the customer with a problem: The morning after the cus-
              tomer picked up his car, he found that his recently serviced Lexus had
              leaked oil onto his concrete garage floor. So they phoned the dealer to
              complain, and the dealer came out to the customer’s house. And this is
c11_1   01/06/2009   194




               194   EATING THE BIG FISH



               where the story gets our attention. Because not only does the Lexus
               dealer fix the car, but instead of simply trying to clean up the little patch
               of oil stain the car has left on the garage floor, the dealer takes up the
               existing floor and lays an entirely new concrete floor, all at his own
               expense. The Lexus dealer, it seemed, wants everything for his customer
               to be perfect. That, people told you (and still do) as they finished the
               story, slightly incredulous, is how committed Lexus is to a great owner-
               ship experience.
                   So let’s compare these two examples—the Quiksilver video and the
               Lexus story. They are very similar. One is an act and one is a filmed act,
               but both created enormous word of mouth, with a value way beyond the
               cost of the act itself. Both are rooted in a truth about the brand: Lexus
               did indeed take customer service to a whole new level; Quiksilver began
               life as a better-thought-out board short. Both spoke volumes about
               the attitude of their respective brands. Both created a slight sense of dis-
               belief. Both cost something less than a conventional communications
               campaign (the Quiksilver campaign cost $50,000, and the Lexus story
               cost the price of a concrete floor—say $2,000). One was edgy, the other
               anything but. Yet what they both did in their own way was to permeate
               social culture and create a self-replicating word of mouth, and approval,
               about the brand.
                   So we all know the examples of brands that have really hit critical
               mass through the Internet over the last few years: Dove’s Evolution film,
               Cadbury’s drumming gorilla, Mentos in Coke. We see that there clearly
               are all kinds of fresh, constantly emerging possibilities for Challengers to
               spread their stories and engage their targets. And we see that this really
               is the Law of Increasing Returns writ large—except that this kind of ben-
               eficially increasing return is uniquely one that we as Challengers can
               profit from as much as—possibly more than—anyone else. But let’s not
               get distracted at this stage by the kinds of media or channels available
               to us at this point, particularly the new kinds. After all, while there is a
               tendency to treat all of this as if it were something very new, the princi-
               ples are very old ones: Social media and networks have been around for
               hundreds of years—forums where people delighted in passing on and
               talking about news and ideas they had picked up—they just were called
               bars, cafes, and pubs. So while of course, there are critical new elements
               and opportunities that the digital world has brought to this opportunity
c11_1   01/06/2009   195




                            The Seventh Credo: Using Communications and Publicity    195



              to engage with social cultures (visual dynamism, interactivity, flow, acce-
              lerated community, and scaled momentum), let us refocus on the com-
              mon principles across both the old and new world first, and then return
              to some of those new dimensions of difference.


              RECOGNIZING THE HUMAN NEED FOR SOCIAL TRANSACTION
              When we talk of consumer needs in marketing we think of (and look for)
              their needs as consumers. That is to say that implicit in all of our ques-
              tioning is their potential consumption of our product. But as we have
              seen they are not in fact consumers: They are simply people who some-
              times buy things. And this misframing of them as consumers means
              that only very rarely, therefore, do we think enough about their broader
              social needs: what they want, and need to be able to do and say in order
              to be able to interact healthily with their peer groups, in those little
              everyday ways that make them happy or unhappy social animals.
                  As an aspiring Challenger brand, then, we need to recognize not just
              this human need to share, but also how and why it can be stimulated,
              from a brand point of view, in a way that benefits both parties: the Chal-
              lenger brand’s need to get people to spread our word for us, and peo-
              ple’s need to enjoy profitable human interaction. And this sharing of a
              brand idea or brand news usually arises because our targets have found
              themselves in one of five situations regarding a brand:

              1. Bragging rights, being on the pulse. They have the sense that they
                 have discovered something valuable, something that makes them
                 feel, and seem to their peers, slightly ahead of the pack; they feel
                 they are one of the first to unearth a new super-premium tequila, for
                 instance, or a new social network application. ‘‘I heard this new band
                 on the radio yesterday, out of Austin. You should check them out—
                 they’re going to be huge.’’ ‘‘Have you seen this video? It’s remark-
                 able; it is made by this hilarious blogger in Japan I am really into.’’
              2. Product enthusiasm. They have come across an aspect of product
                 performance about a brand that is startlingly impressive: that a Land
                 Rover is designed to be able to drive 4,000 miles continually off-road,
                 for example. That Bare Escentuals, a skin care brand, was originally
                 developed for the extremely sensitive skin of sufferers of psoriasis
c11_1   01/06/2009   196




               196   EATING THE BIG FISH



                  and rosacea. That Avaaz.org managed to collate an online petition
                  from 750,000 people over the Burmese government’s crackdown on
                  the ‘‘Saffron Revolution.’’
               3. Aspirational identification. They have found a brand with a strong
                  identity and ethos (perhaps through its authenticity or because it
                  aligns itself to certain social issues, for instance), which they admire or
                  would like to be identified with. If I discover that in a world of sweat-
                  shops, American Apparel is sweatshop-free and in fact makes all its
                  products in downtown Los Angeles, I have a new respect for the
                  brand’s principles: that it has made a presumably expensive but
                  principled decision. If I discover that the board of directors of Rip
                  Curl, an Australian surfing brand, is still required to surf every Satur-
                  day morning, even though the age of Rip Curl’s commercial director
                  is 53, it suggests to me that here is one apparel company that has yet
                  to sell out (perceived authenticity is fundamental to the endurance of
                  a Challenger).
               4. News value. They have come across a piece of marketing activity that
                  has surprised, strongly entertained, or shocked them sufficiently to
                  prompt conversation with their peer group. That the government is
                  spending less on our children’s school lunches than they do on pris-
                  oners’ lunches. That Jones Soda has produced a turkey-and-gravy-
                  flavored soft drink for Thanksgiving. That Sir Richard Branson has
                  ripped his trousers on national television jumping off the roof of a
                  casino in Las Vegas.
               5. Creative fingerprint. They have found or made something that is of
                  valuable enough social currency to be passed on, the value of this
                  clearly being enhanced by adding to it their own creative fingerprint.
                  Recent research among teens, for example, indicates there is a high
                  correlation between the creation of content and talking about that
                  content. If you want them to talk about you for this kind of reason,
                  you need to first enable content creation through your brand. But this
                  motivation will not be confined to teens: One-third of the content on
                  Current TV is created by the people who watch it.

                  A Challenger looking for aggressive growth without using advertis-
               ing, then, will want and need to actively fulfil one, perhaps all of these
               human needs. It will want to have a product that in its own way
c11_1   01/06/2009   197




                            The Seventh Credo: Using Communications and Publicity        197



              overperforms, on which it can be confident. Then although early brag-
              ging rights and a sense of being in the know are valuable to create a
              group of evangelists, the brand self-evidently cannot rely on this after
              launch and early growth, so it will need to build into its identity some
              characteristics that can generate aspirational identification, and use its
              marketing budget to invest in people and ideas that can consistently
              create news value. Finally, if it is genuinely looking to nurture a two-way
              relationship with its target market, one of engagement and participa-
              tion, it will look to create a way those people can put something of
              themselves into their relationship with the brand and the way they inter-
              act with it.
                  Yet in doing this, we need to recognize that some of the biggest
              problems that a Challenger faces in terms of breakthrough in the new
              world are, in one key way at least, exactly the same as the ones it faced
              in the old one. We might look at Quiksilver and feel that a viral film is an
              easy win; but the reality is that with 65,000 new postings put up on You-
              Tube every day, while the opportunity presented to us is indeed greater,
              the concomitant clutter is, if anything, much worse online than it is off.
                  Which is why, more than ever, we need to recognize the strategic
              primacy of the idea.


              THE STRATEGIC PRIMACY OF THE IDEA
              Acknowledging the strategic primacy of the idea does not mean that
              ‘‘any interesting creative idea is the right idea for the brand,’’ nor is it an
              advocacy for beginning to write the idea first (whatever the medium,
              from advertising or design to publicity and direct mail) and retrofit the
              strategy afterward.
                  What it does mean, though, is that ‘‘capturing the imagination of the
              target’’ is a very different brief from ‘‘communicating a message to the
              target,’’ and if one wishes to capture the imagination, then, in the words
              of Jay Chiat, ‘‘Good enough is not enough.’’ In an ideas-dependent
              business, then, which is where a Challenger necessarily falls and rises,
              part of the definition of a good strategy is that it should be fertile ground
              for one or more strong ideas. It should no longer be possible to say,
              ‘‘We had a great strategy, but the creative people couldn’t come up
              with any good ideas,’’ in this new culture. Assuming you have capable
c11_1   01/06/2009   198




               198   EATING THE BIG FISH



               creative people, that just means it was never a great strategy in the first
               place. The overall vision for the brand, therefore, needs to have some
               inherent flexibility in its articulation, and the strategic development pro-
               cess needs to change to allow for such flexibility. If the identified articu-
               lation of the brand strategy fails to produce ideas that can break through
               and seize the retreating target’s imagination, we have to find another
               expression of the strategy. The development needs to be organic rather
               than linear; while not actually developed simultaneously, the strategy
               needs to be flexible enough to encompass the consideration of big new
               ideas if they are close enough to the overall direction the brand needs
               to take.
                   This will be a difficult concept for some to embrace. Surely, having
               arrived at the one correct strategy through analysis and research, they
               will argue, that strategy becomes the rigid railroad that steers the ideas.
               But the premise here is flawed: While there are still indeed certain types
               of problems for which there is only one correct strategic solution that
               can be divined from rigorous deductive thinking, they are increasingly
               rare. Most types of strategic problems in the new business world now
               require imagination as much as rigorous analysis, even at the strategic
               stage.


               AN IDEA THAT RIPPLES—WHY FOLKLORE BEATS
               EQUITY EVERY TIME
               As Challengers, then, we need to enter social conversation: We need to
               get everyone who comes across us to tell our story on our behalf. This
               will partly be because we lack the budget for paid-for media, or it may
               have as much to do with the nature of our ambition—as agents of
               change, we might set, as Dove did, a criterion of success being to
               ‘‘inspire debate’’ about our chosen issue.
                   Yet what the Lexus story above illustrates is that the value of such
               word of mouth obviously goes way beyond even these two advantages.
               Brands that consistently create such social currency begin to create a
               folklore or mythology around themselves. Such folklore is more than
               brand equity; it lives at a level above brand equity. Because, while brand
               equity may be defined as the perceptions or facts a consumer associates
               with the brand when probed, mythology may be defined as those
c11_1   01/06/2009   199




                            The Seventh Credo: Using Communications and Publicity      199



              perceptions or facts a consumer proactively communicates, unasked,
              about the brand. Thus, while brand equity is passive, personal, and
              residual—sitting as a collection of perceptions in an individual’s mind to
              be triggered within that individual when the purchase process is
              embarked on—folklore is active, social, and self-propagating. It is like a
              virus of favorable equity that gets passed on among existing and poten-
              tial user groups. Indeed, it is arguable that at the times of their strongest
              momentum, Challengers live at a level above Brand Leaders, because
              while Brand Leaders enjoy strong equity, Challengers enjoy a strong
              folklore—either at an iconic level through the brand’s advertising and
              marketing, making it a reference point in popular culture, or through
              ground-level word of mouth.4
                  Some Challengers will create such ideas themselves (Quiksilver),
              and some will intelligently find a mutually beneficial relationship with
              them as they emerge. Stride chewing gum, for instance, was a new
              brand launched in 2006, by Cadbury Adams in North America, with
              the line ‘‘The Ridiculously Long Lasting Gum.’’ Inspired by the success
              of Burger King’s ‘‘Subservient Chicken,’’ Stride looked for a way to
              either create or ride on a social phenomenon to support the advertis-
              ing that communicated this positioning. Someone sent a film of a man
              called Matt Harding to Stride’s activation company, who sent it on to
              the brand manager. It was a film Harding had put together of himself
              dancing badly (his words) in various recognizable sites and cities all
              over the world, and had posted on his own site for his friends. Recog-
              nizing that a man dancing nonstop all over the globe was an intriguing
              way of dramatizing the brand’s positioning, the Stride team phoned
              Harding in Austin and asked to meet. He flew to the East Coast, rolled
              out a map of the world on the table, and told them where he was going
              next. They in turn explained that they would like to sponsor him to
              do this full-time. ‘‘And what is it you want from me?’’ asked Harding.
              Sensitive to the way brands had abused such viral ideas in the past,
              Stride replied that they wanted only back-of-house branding—a Stride
              logo in the top right corner of just two of the many scenes of danc-
              ing, an acknowledgment at the end, and a link to the Stride website.
              Harding agreed.
                  Fresh, relevant, and hugely appealing, in 2007 Harding’s Stride-
              sponsored video had nine million views (with the outtakes video getting
c11_1   01/06/2009   200




               200   EATING THE BIG FISH



               another two million) and appeared on the front page of Yahoo. From
               Stride’s point of view, besides the implicit reinforcement of its brand
               positioning and brand salience to its target market, the video is a pri-
               mary driver of hits to its own Stride website. Two years into its life, the
               Stride brand is worth $145 million, and growing.5


               RIPPLES AND RISK
               If you are looking to get talked about, there is of course always the pos-
               sibility that you will find yourself talked about for the wrong reasons as
               well as the right reasons. People are not all the same: What charms me
               may irritate you. What my sons find hilarious, I find gross—and that’s the
               way it should be with parents and sons. So there are inherent risks in
               looking for PR, and we need to pursue these ripples with our eyes wide
               open about the kinds of risks we may need to face up to.
                   The first kind of risk with any such idea is that not everyone will like
               it. So Burger King knew that the decision to use the fixed plastic mask
               for the physical manifestation of ‘‘the King’’ was going to be very
               polarizing—and while some people were amused by the King’s unblink-
               ing smile, others were indeed creeped out. But the determination of
               agency and client was to enter social culture, so they deliberately chose
               an idea that would have a higher likelihood of being picked up by other
               commentators and amplifiers of popular culture (like Jay Leno, as it
               turned out). And they knew that this social salience was going to allow
               them as a Challenger to punch above their media weight. All of which is
               undoubtedly part of the reason why Burger King’s advertising became
               three times more effective, in terms of brand recall and message recall
               per dollar spent, than the Market Leader’s.
                   The second kind of risk is that some consumers may be offended—
               American Apparel’s Dov Charney uses not just sex to advertise his pro-
               ducts, but his own particular brand of sex: younger women, semiclad,
               provocatively posed. The combination of the young age, the nature
               of the poses, and the public places he and the brand frequently dis-
               play these images has some people complaining. Yet here too the
               brand obviously knows exactly what it is doing: The website even has a
               section called ‘‘Provocative Ads.’’ The company doesn’t mind creating
               controversy—on the contrary, it is in many ways part of the ethos of the
c11_1   01/06/2009   201




                            The Seventh Credo: Using Communications and Publicity       201



              brand to agitate (during the 2007 Democratic candidate elections, it
              e-mailed its customer database encouraging them to vote for Obama
              because of his position on immigration), and its founder has described
              his actions and communications as representing ‘‘a salute to contem-
              porary adult and sexual freedom.’’6 But he leans into this; he accepts
              that in doing so there will be controversy.
                  The third, related, risk is that it offends people to the point where your
              brand activity will be rebuked or even banned by the authorities. Again,
              you might even strategically seek this, for the further wave of PR the ban
              will generate, but only if that controversy fits the image of the brand you
              are trying to be. Diesel, for instance, doesn’t mind controversy; it is, in
              effect, part of what gives the brand the image it has. When Diesel is
              hauled up by the Advertising Standards Bureau, for example, because it
              has produced a magazine ad in which topless men and women have
              whiplash marks on their backs in the shape of a game of tic-tac-toe, you
              know that Diesel is not sitting in Molvena thinking, ‘‘Hmm, perhaps we
              went a little too far that time.’’ Pushing the boundaries a little is part of
              the whole nature of that brand, and the Challenger stance it is taking.
                  In discussing these kinds of risks, there is a danger of wrongly convey-
              ing incorrectly the impression that all Challengers need to lean into con-
              troversy. However, pushing or even flouting the boundaries of taste isn’t
              the stance that every Challenger is taking or needs to take. There is
              sometimes a perception that the most vibrant Challengers are all young,
              hip brands, doing edgy communications and PR (whatever edgy means).
              But while that may indeed have been important for certain brands like
              Axe to break through with young men in the United States, it does not
              have to be that way. The brands Kashi and innocent are not trying to be
              hip; method does not court controversy; Dyson isn’t particularly young;
              and I would defy you to find a great deal of edginess in Camper. And
              Matt Harding’s engaging gyrations sponsored by Stride are not going to
              offend anyone, except perhaps dance purists. But each of these brands is
              and will always be actively looking to create PR and brand ideas that can
              ripple. At time of writing, the YouTube posting with the most hits is for a
              guy who performs a routine called the Evolution of Dance onstage in one
              take. This is not edgy, or gross, or in any way pushing the boundaries of
              taste. It involves no special effects or outrageous consumer interaction. It
              is a very simple idea, but one that we have never seen before.
c11_1   01/06/2009     202




               202      EATING THE BIG FISH



                   And the final kind of risk is that you have to accept that it isn’t always
               going to work—perhaps even worse, it may very publicly not go your way.
               Look at Virgin’s Sir Richard Branson. In 2007, at the age of 57, he takes a
               running jump off the side of the 407-foot-high Palm Casino Hotel in
               Vegas, wearing a dinner suit and black bowtie. He is here to publicize the
               inaugural flight from San Francisco to Las Vegas of Virgin America, a new
               domestic airline in the United States. He is attached in a harness to a spe-
               cial rappel-like system, and he has ensured a good-size crowd and some
               television cameras by announcing plans to scatter a few thousand dollars
               worth of free air tickets as he makes his 407-foot journey straight down.
               But he and the organizers have not reckoned on the winds. They blow
               him twice against the side of the building; the seat of his pants rip, and he
               winces in pain.7 This is all captured live on camera, and many TV channels
               and papers show it, mishap and all. So potentially very embarrassing. But
               do we think he is dismayed? Will it deter him from doing it again? I think
               we all know the answer to that: He will simply wear stronger pants.
                   At the center of the pursuit of social salience is the key issue of attitude
               again—not just one of ‘‘What is our attitude toward intelligently taking
               risk?’’ but also one of ‘‘How do we turn it to our advantage even when it
               apparently goes wrong?’’ While publicity can go well or badly, to some
               degree it will always be what you make of it: understanding how you
               should look to reframe even apparently adverse publicity to at least take
               the sting out of it—and perhaps even turn it to your advantage. So, for
               example, Itsu is the London sushi chain in whose Piccadilly restaurant a
               former Russian spy, Alexander Litvinenko, ate before he died of radiation
               poisoning. Caught up in the international media furor surrounding this
               extraordinary event (and in any case needing to remove any lingering ra-
               dioactive residue), Itsu Piccadilly closed in November 2006, not to open
               again till early the following year. But the management immediately
               noticed an interesting ripple: All their other locations were busier than
               usual. A little notoriety, not of their devising, had put Itsu on the map—
               and they leaned into it. They put up a round white sign, framed within the
               interior of a rifled gun barrel (an obvious visual reference to the opening
               credits on a James Bond movie), outside the Piccadilly store, which read:

                     An international espionage incident has transformed this Itsu into
                     a world-famous meeting place. Sad and shocked, we would like to
c11_1   01/06/2009   203




                            The Seventh Credo: Using Communications and Publicity       203



                 thank you for the many emails of encouragement. Our customers
                 and staff are magnificent. We will reopen and we will flourish.
                 Meanwhile, enjoy Itsu’s health & happiness at Hanover Square
                 and 313 Regent Street.

                   Having brilliantly reframed the danger of radioactive fallout as, in
              effect, ‘‘the glamorous world of James Bond,’’ Itsu rode the momentum
              while it could. While it had already been planning to expand to New
              York (at the World Financial Center in Manhattan), it promptly moved
              the launch date forward to ride the publicity from the poisoning. On the
              first day it opened in New York, it sold out of everything in 45 minutes;
              shortly afterward, three more Itsu stores opened in the city.
                   More often, of course, it will not be an isolated event, but a more long-
              term structural or cultural barrier that we need to use social conversation
              to help overcome. In Venezuela, 7Up was up against a large, entrenched
              local player, Chinotto, whose brand name had become synonymous with
              lemonade (it was used as a generic term for the category). People liked
              7Up, and the brand was doing well, but as a foreign brand its emotional
              connection with consumers was inhibited by the fact that Venezuelans
              didn’t know how to order the drink. It didn’t seem to conform to the
              masculine/feminine divisions of the Spanish language—should you be ask-
              ing for ‘‘Un 7Up’’ or ‘‘Una 7Up?’’ (Previous advertising had simply ended
              with a logo, leaving the question open.) The brand turned this apparent
              disadvantage into an idea, producing a multimedia campaign with people
              quarreling over the right way to ask for a 7Up, followed by the end line,
              ‘‘It doesn’t matter how you ask for it, as long as you ask.’’ The campaign,
              and debate, entered the popular vernacular. Top-of-mind awareness rose
              by 40 percent in six months, and a 22 percent sales uplift followed.
                   In other words everything—from something as shocking and violent
              as a supposed assassination by polonium, to as simple an obstacle as
              people not knowing how to ask for your brand—is a potential opportu-
              nity for ambitious Challengers to lean into, if they are open to it and if
              their attitude is right, if they can reframe it to their advantage in words
              and, more particularly, in actions. And to consistently achieve that, we
              as Challengers need to create, within the individual and within the com-
              pany, a culture of constantly looking for the opportunity to create a con-
              versation in popular culture.
c11_1   01/06/2009     204




               204      EATING THE BIG FISH



               LOOKING FOR OPPORTUNITY
               A culture of looking for opportunity often exists naturally in Challenger
               founders or CEOs, particularly when it is based firmly on a very clear idea
               of what their brand’s identity is and the challenge they are laying down
               to the category. Take, for example, Arkadi Kuhlman, CEO of ING Direct.
               He is very clear about the role of his brand in taking on the establish-
               ment of banking—and in doing so representing itself as the champion
               of the ordinary man and woman. So, when in 2005, the banking industry
               lobbied hard for the introduction of a new law that would enable lenders
               to pursue more easily those having trouble paying their bills, Kuhlman,
               although in theory a member of this very industry, joined with Ted
               Kennedy in calling a press conference to criticize the proposal on the
               grounds that it would simply hit the person on the street who was having
               a bad run of luck.8 It was an opportunity to publicly build the brand’s
               identity and its unique Challenger stance within the world of banking.
               Or look at Dunkin’ Donuts. As Starbucks closes its stores for two hours
               to retrain its baristas in a potential symbol of reevaluation of its own,
               Dunkin’ opportunistically and very publicly offers every frustrated Star-
               bucks customer 99-cent coffee at its own stores instead. It’s an opportu-
               nity. Nothing viral here; just always looking for ripples.
                   While constantly looking for ways to lean into such opportunities to
               engage the consumer, and create such ripples, is not confined to a Chal-
               lenger CEO or CMO, very often those leaders do need to be the catalysts
               of this to the organization. Geoff Ross and his team at 42BELOW contin-
               ually operated like this. This is Ross describing how they responded to
               being out of the news spotlight for (in their view) a little too long:

                     Things had been a bit quiet, and so we got together. And in the
                     newspaper someone had read that morning that the government
                     was putting up some of the New Zealand Navy’s frigates for
                     tender, because a couple of them were now too old, and they were
                     going to go for scrap—and you could buy a warship for a few
                     million dollars. So we wrote a letter to the government—which we
                     also sent to the editor of the newspaper—saying ‘‘We’re tendering
                     for the frigate (which by total chance was called F42). We’re going
                     to anchor it, and put a nightclub on it, and also build an office for
c11_1   01/06/2009   205




                            The Seventh Credo: Using Communications and Publicity        205



                 us there. Oh, and we’re going to have duty-free sales, because
                 we’d be anchored offshore, so people can row out, and buy duty-
                 free liquor on it.’’ And we drew up an artist’s impression, so you
                 saw this big picture with disco lights and stuff coming out of the
                 top of the ship from where the nightclub would be, with a picture
                 of our office on it. And we sent that to the newspaper as well.

                  It was a great idea. The newspaper published it. The radio stations
              read the newspaper—and one piece of publicity led to another.
                  Now in generating this publicity for his brand what Ross doesn’t say
              about the process for getting there is as instructive as what he does say.
              He doesn’t say, for instance: ‘‘Things had been a bit quiet, so we shouted
              at our PR company, and told them to come up with five ideas or we’d
              fire them.’’ The 42BELOW team themselves were constantly aware of
              whether they were being talked about or not. They themselves took res-
              ponsibility for coming up with the idea by getting together and thinking
              up something that they could do immediately. Their inspiration was doing
              something as straightforward as reading the newspaper and looking for
              opportunities in it: finding a context that already existed in the national
              news, that they could make themselves a part of. Notice, too, that they
              started implementing their idea that same day. And that they Overcom-
              mitted, in the sense that they drew up and sent a vivid and highly enter-
              taining picture: They understood what the currency of a newspaper with
              this kind of story was, and they didn’t leave it to the newspaper to do it
              for themselves. Overall, then, this is not unlike the approach that we saw
              Eric Ryan take in terms of innovation—just as Ryan’s view was that ‘‘all the
              innovation we could ever need is already out there—we just need to find
              it and apply it to our business,’’ so Ross’s sense is that ‘‘all the opportuni-
              ties for news for his brand are already out there, we just need to find a way
              to appropriate them for our brand.’’ This, then is the first kind of attitude
              toward the opportunity for publicity that we need to engender in our
              team. It is not to say that we cannot and will not strategically be creating
              such events and ripples of our own, but not every month (or every year)
              will yield a 500-foot plastic watch or dynamite surfer, and we need to be
              constantly feeding that social salience and perceived momentum.
                  The second, related discipline we are going to develop in our culture
              around looking for opportunity clearly centers not just on the fact of the
c11_1   01/06/2009   206




               206   EATING THE BIG FISH



               opportunity, or indeed the quantity of the opportunities, but on the
               quality of the opportunity.
                   Tourism New Zealand has continued to drive Thought Leadership
               and a sense of being a ‘‘cool’’ destination by the way it has intelligently
               created the right kinds of publicity. What has characterized its choices
               has been not just the way it has seized opportunities (we saw TNZ earlier
               singing Maori songs from a traditional war canoe to the media and opin-
               ion leaders at the opening ceremonies of the America’s Cup while every
               other country sailed past playing pop music), but also its commitment to
               maximizing the quality of the opportunity for publicity. So, for instance,
               the country’s great passion is the sport of rugby, and a World Cup for
               the sport is held somewhere in the rugby-playing world every four years.
               In 2007, the Rugby World Cup was in France, and four years later it
               would be in New Zealand, so Tourism New Zealand looked for ways to
               capture media attention within the French-hosted World Cup and at the
               same time to begin to create a desire to travel to New Zealand for the
               next one. The concept was to build a vast, inflated rugby ball in a public
               place whose interactive technology within (all made in New Zealand)
               would create an extraordinary experience for those who went inside. It
               would create an immersive, 360-degree experience of apparently being
               inside a rugby ball while it is kicked all the way from France to New
               Zealand, which then rolls around the best of that country’s scenery and
               culture, before being kicked back to France again. The purpose was
               clearly to bring the experience of New Zealand alive to a group of
               potential travelers by dramatizing the nature of what was being shown
               (extraordinary scenery)—and to do it in a way that reinforced New
               Zealand’s burgeoning reputation as a cradle of creativity and technology.
                   But here’s the point. The ball wasn’t going to be situated just any-
               where in Paris, in an inconvenient public park, miles from anywhere.
               Tourism New Zealand wanted to put it as close to the Eiffel Tower as
               possible. Why? Because Tourism New Zealand knew that the French
               were going to suspend a small inflatable rugby ball between the girders
               of the iconic symbol of Paris—and so they wanted to have a much big-
               ger one right underneath it. And so TNZ was very clear that if it couldn’t
               put the giant rugby ball there, it wouldn’t do it at all: The quality of the
               opportunity would directly affect the quantity of the publicity (through
               the juxtaposition of the New Zealand ball with the French ball), as well
c11_1   01/06/2009   207




                             The Seventh Credo: Using Communications and Publicity   207



              as directly affecting the amount of visitors coming to participate in the
              interactive experience. I asked George Hickton, the CEO of Tourism
              New Zealand, how he succeeded in obtaining such an astonishingly
              prime spot. ‘‘We kept on asking,’’ he said, ‘‘and no one said ‘no.’ So we
              just did it.’’ (See Figure 11.1.)


              BUILDING IT INTO OUR STRUCTURE
              In larger Challenger organizations that place a premium on PR-based
              ideas, one sees this constant seeking of opportunity actually structured

              FIGURE 11.1 Big ball, little ball.
c11_1   01/06/2009   208




               208   EATING THE BIG FISH



               into the objectives for the marketing and PR function as a whole. Ryan-
               air, for example, is said at one point to have had a practice of looking
               to issue three press releases a day. It is no accident that this is a brand
               that has always thrived by being in the news—it has created a concrete
               objective for itself that continues to fuel the reason for this salience. So
               let’s pause here to consider this: if we applied this objective to our-
               selves, how would it affect the way we structured our company? How
               would we actually deliver against that diktat? Well, we’d need to have
               more than just a PR director—we’d need to have people within our
               marketing department who were skilled and imaginative manufactur-
               ers of stories, and perhaps a reasonable number of those kinds of peo-
               ple. They would have to be quite well connected to the rest of our
               organization—really plugged in to customer service or the gate staff in
               order to capture stories about where the airline had done well, as po-
               tential germs of stories that they could then work up into something
               more. These storymakers would have to keep a close and beady eye
               on everything the competition was doing and saying, and then look for
               ways to reframe that to their own advantage. They would, in short,
               have to behave very differently from the way most of us in the market-
               ing department behave at the moment. So if we change the objective
               in a very concrete sense like this, we will in turn generate very different
               behavior. We might not, from a brand point of view, want to take all of
               Ryanair’s belligerent scrappiness into our own brand; but when we
               consider that it has for some years enjoyed being the most profitable
               airline in the world, part of which success has been driven by the mar-
               keting and publicity that has accompanied its fiercely competitive pric-
               ing and business model, then it is hard not to feel this is the kind of
               objective we might also profit from having ourselves—in direction, per-
               haps, if not in degree.
                   How does Ryanair actually deliver against such a fierce brief? In large
               part by publicly picking fights: fights with competitors, fights with airport
               authorities, fights with legislators—fights, in effect, with anyone getting
               in the way of its championship of cheap fares for the consumer.
                   Clearly a potent route for certain kinds of Challenger, if done intelli-
               gently, let’s now turn to how and why Challengers pick fights in order to
               create publicity and conversation around their brand idea, and how they
               do this constructively rather than destructively.
c11_1   01/06/2009    209




                            The Seventh Credo: Using Communications and Publicity       209



              BINARY WORLDS, AND THE ART OF BEEF
              Challengers often look to succeed by making the world apparently
              binary. As the world of choice gets more complicated, they radically sim-
              plify it: Look, they tell us, it is very simple. There are in reality only two
              choices here—whether to choose this or that. You can choose that huge
              behemoth, or us, the little human company. You can choose that over-
              priced rip-off, or this fashionable bargain. You can line the pockets of that
              fat cat, or stick it to the man and fly with us. You can help us slay the
              monster, or we can all die. The choices vary, but the principle is the same.
                  These pairings can be complementary, in which we put them together
              in order to reframe the choice we represent (Pork as ‘‘the other white
              meat,’’ for example). More often, though, they are opposed to each
              other: The easiest way to dramatize this kind of ‘‘reduction to binary’’
              is to present a conflict between the two. We know that Sun Tzu
              famously remarked that a direct attack was rarely the most effective stra-
              tegy for the underdog (or words to that effect). Yet, as we saw right at the
              beginning of the book, this in many ways has long been regarded as the
              classic Challenger approach. You pair yourself very publicly and explicitly
              with the Market Leader as a choice for the consumer, and point out some
              flaw in the Market Leader’s offer or intentions, compared to which you
              perform better, and you offer something that is much more in the con-
              sumer’s interest. This kind of explicit pairing alongside the Market Leader
              is not a route for the fainthearted—many potential Challengers flinch from
              directly baiting the leader for fear of a damaging counterattack, in public
              or in the trade, that will be unleashed. Better, they feel, to carve out some
              kind of coexistence, disadvantageous though it may be. So why do Chal-
              lengers pursue it, and how do they do it well?
                  The why is relatively easy to answer here—there are clearly a number
              of critical advantages such a route can have:


                 If a Challenger’s key task is to radically simplify choice, and consum-
                  ers have an almost bewildering range of choices available to them,
                  getting that choice apparently down to just two options, and creating
                  the illusion of a two-horse race, is clearly a very strong card to play.
                 Breaking through habitual purchase behavior is going to be very
                  difficult—so raising awareness that there in fact is a choice to be made
c11_1   01/06/2009     210




               210      EATING THE BIG FISH



                     here, rather than unthinkingly continuing to do the same thing, is
                     going to be an important initial part of prompting reconsideration.
                    It allows you to redefine the criteria for choice (as Miller Lite did at its
                     two moments of greatest success).
                    Using one’s opponent as an ‘‘other surface’’ (see Chapter 5) can help
                     more sharply define your own virtues (not simply product benefits, as
                     in the traditional side-by-side advertising).
                    You can seek to lure competitors into a response—so that they spend
                     their marketing dollars talking about your brand, and the issue you would
                     like consumers to consider when making their purchasing decision.
                    Finally, it can be to your advantage to raise interest in the category as
                     a whole. Roger Enrico, the legendary CEO of PepsiCo famously
                     remarked that the ‘‘cola wars’’ precipitated by Pepsi were good busi-
                     ness for both sides because they raised overall consumer interest
                     (and participation) in the category as a whole.

                   The last is in many ways the one that Challenger teams seem to find
               hardest to embrace. We are so used to negative politics and the self-
               serving war of words in that world that it makes us distrustful of the mo-
               tives and benefits of such a war. Surely it just brings everybody down?
                   In rap, this war of words, and doing it well, is known as ‘‘the Art of
               Beef.’’ Beefing—essentially, where you pick a fight with another artist in
               your own lyrics, sometimes over a series of songs—has been a staple
               part of rap for years. Artists use it to gain initial attention and traction
               and to promote new albums as they are about to break. Take 50 Cent.
               Now one of the most successful musicians in the world, in 2000 he was
               almost unknown outside a small core of fans. He staked his claim as a
               Challenger by writing and producing a track called ‘‘How to Rob,’’ in
               which he offered instruction on how to mug the cream of hip-hop, from
               the Wu-Tang Clan to Jay-Z. Their reaction was obligingly to sing about
               him in their own music, trashing him back—and suddenly every rap fan
               knew who 50 Cent was. In 2003, his debut album became the fastest-
               selling solo album in American history, in any genre. And this strategy
               has continued to work for him. In the case of the Kanye West versus
               50 Cent battle in 2007, when both released albums at the same time
               amid some much publicized mutual rivalry, even though most critics felt
               that his new album had not been 50 Cent’s finest hour, he still shifted
c11_1   01/06/2009   211




                            The Seventh Credo: Using Communications and Publicity        211



              900,000 copies of that album in a single week. As Roger Enrico says, if
              you do a war well, then everybody wins.
                 Beefing, then, is about explicit attack. And while beefing comes very
              much from the roots of rap, it is not confined to it. In fact, 50 Cent would
              have made an interesting companion at dinner for the late Chairman
              Mao—and they together a comfortable table for three with Sir Richard
              Branson. Mao believed fiercely that ‘‘the best tactic in the struggle against
              a prevailing enemy is an adroit elasticity and ceaseless tormenting of the
              opponent’’—he repeatedly talked and wrote about this, particularly with
              reference to the Chinese resistance to the invading Japanese in the
              1930s.9 And Branson, for his part, has frequently looked to pick a fight
              with a larger and more established competitor, partly for the news cover-
              age, partly to throw a spotlight on his own brand’s position as ‘‘the peo-
              ple’s champion,’’ and partly to deposition the Market Leader in the
              process. There are a lot of beefers in the Challenger game (particularly in
              the airline business, for some reason). More recently, in the gaming wars,
              Nintendo’s US CEO Reggie Fils Aimé has represented a new approach by
              Nintendo, where overtly knocking your competition has historically been
              frowned on. Fils Aimé has become known, in part, not simply for his inno-
              vative thinking over the launch of the Wii, but for his publicly pugnacious
              stance against his competitors right from the beginning.
                 While we may, then, want to consider how we publicly square up
              against the competition or the Market Leader, the comparison we choose
              to make doesn’t actually have to be as full-frontal as this. In many ways, it is
              more useful as we work through our strategic approach here to go back to
              the earlier term we used for this idea: that of going binary—in effect, putt-
              ing a set of brackets around just the two of you to separate you from the
              surrounding throng, and asking the consumer to focus just on you two.
              Once you have done that piece of bracketing, created your pair, then you
              can choose how you want to talk about the other player in those brackets.
                 When we then look at the Challengers who have done this well, in
              pursuit of the ensuing public conversation, the comparison of us as Chal-
              lengers with the Establishment brand seems to work best when:

                 It is clever and/or witty, rather than simply rude. We need to emo-
                  tionally engage a broader community rather than to simply dismiss
                  the opposition.
c11_1   01/06/2009     212




               212      EATING THE BIG FISH



                    It has a positive value about the underdog to communicate rather
                     than merely negatively knocking the competition. It represents the
                     championing of something worth having instead.
                    It has substance behind it. In effect, then, it is not just a war of words:
                     There is something real to be gained for the consumer by going
                     with us.
                    It is therefore on the consumer’s side, rather than its own side: The
                     consumer wins if we win.
                    It creates conversation and resets the agenda.

                  When it goes far beyond, in other words, two potty mouths simply
               attacking each other in a public playground.


               MEASUREMENT AND CONFIDENCE
               We observed at the beginning of the book that while the old media
               model had broken down, there was no clear new media model for us to
               move to. And the reason for that lack of an obvious new model is not
               that we fail to see the Challenger brands that we admire behaving in
               different ways from the old model—they increasingly are, and they are
               very clear and public about this. (Red Bull, for example, famously spends
               30 percent of its revenue on marketing, but only around 20 percent of
               that marketing spend on advertising; most is on experiential events such
               as Flugtag and the Air Race.) No, the key reason for our failing to identify
               a clear, new model to move toward is that, if we follow the principle
               about ‘‘you don’t know it’s working unless you can measure it,’’ we don’t
               quite know what we should be measuring anymore. If we can’t measure
               it, we can’t tell whether it is working. And if we can’t tell whether it is
               working, we are perpetually caught in that difficult fork between robustly
               justifying it to our CEO and knowing we need to find a better way to
               engage with our target market.
                   How can we robustly compare the new kinds of media, the media of
               engagement, community building, viral marketing, ‘‘pass-on-ability,’’
               and ‘‘word of mouse’’ with the old, reassuringly quantifiable world of
               Ratings and Opportunities to See?
                   There is a very simple argument to be made here—namely, that in
               reality there always have been two worlds for marketers: the measurable
c11_1   01/06/2009   213




                            The Seventh Credo: Using Communications and Publicity    213



              world and the unmeasurable one. We could always at some level mea-
              sure the effects of sales promotions and advertising, for example, but
              found it much harder even then to measure the effects of PR and word
              of mouth. But in that old world the amount of money we were putting
              through the first of these two worlds represented most of our communi-
              cations budget, so we were content to let that less-measured second
              world ride on the coattails of the first.
                 Yet the reality is that most Challengers have always lived very much in
              the second of these two worlds, anyway—they have had to. Challengers
              have always had very limited advertising/communication budgets and
              have always had to rely on very different ways to engage with consum-
              ers, and their only real measurement in this was sales, customer feed-
              back, consumer feedback, and news coverage. Look at innocent’s
              viewing of its use of packaging, delivery vans, and in-store display as
              ‘‘House Media,’’ and the contribution of that way of seeing the world to
              innocent’s success. Yet that is an approach to marketing that is hard to
              measure in any conventional way, other than sales. But in finding our
              confidence to live in this second world, which may for many of us be in
              effect the new media model we hear so often discussed, we can perhaps
              root that confidence in three key ways of understanding the imperative
              of engaging with our target in this way.
                 First, there is increasing evidence that creating such word of mouth is
              the most significant influence on a brand’s success. In Field and Binet’s
              seminal study of 880 successful communication case histories from the
              IPA databank, what they called ‘‘Fame strategies’’ (i.e., where a brand’s
              campaign worked through creating word of mouth/mouse for itself
              through its communications) were not only the most successful strat-
              egies, if one analyzed the econometrics, but also the ones that had the
              broadest range of business results.10 (See Figure 11.2.) Word of mouth
              has always been valuable, but as the world’s respect for authority and
              authority figures breaks down, reliance on peer group recommendation,
              and the quality of our trust in this as a useful piece of information, will
              increasingly come from here as well. Hence, of course, part of the recent
              considerable interest in the Net Promoter score on the one hand, and
              sources such as TripAdvisor on the other.
                 Second, although the formal metrics do not yet exist, we as Challeng-
              ers obviously need to recognize that there is an entirely different value
c11_1   01/06/2009   214




               214       EATING THE BIG FISH


               FIGURE 11.2 Fame campaigns achieve broader business success.

               60%
                                                     58%
               50%
                                                           48%
               40%                                                                                 Fame
                         39%                                                                       campaigns
               30%                                                               33%
                                                                                       27%         Other
               20%             22%                                                                 campaigns

               10%                                                    11%
                                       8%                                   8%
                0%                          4%
                          Profit        Price           Sales         Loyalty    Penetration
                                      Sensitivity
                                                    Business Metric


               Source:    Les Binet and Peter Field, Marketing in the Era of Accountability. Part of the IPA
                          Datamine series.



               to be attached to an audience who comes to you and engages of their
               own volition, compared to an audience who simply sits through what
               you have to say.
                   Rory Sutherland of Ogilvy draws an analogy to illustrate this. Imagine
               you are watching the Super Bowl at the Raymond Jones Stadium in
               Tampa (seating capacity 66,000). The stadium is packed to capacity.
               And imagine that instead of a rock band, the Marching Band of the
               101st Airborne Division comes out at halftime and plays to the assem-
               bled crowd. And that the very next Sunday, the stadium is again full, but
               this time home to U2. Sutherland makes the point that if one used the
               way one measures audiences at the moment in media, the two musical
               bands would be rated just as successful as each other: Both played to
               66,000 people. Yet in reality the relationship between each of these two
               bands and their audience is very different: U2 drew people to the sta-
               dium, whereas the military marching band was peripheral to what the
               audience really came to see. How does one assign relative value to each
               of these two? What greater value should one put on an audience that
               voluntarily comes and participates? Are they perhaps 10 times more val-
               uable to us in terms of their desire to engage with us, with what we have
               to stand for, and with what we have to offer? 100 times? 1,000? While we
c11_1   01/06/2009   215




                            The Seventh Credo: Using Communications and Publicity      215



              may not know exactly the metrics, we understand Sutherland’s point:
              We recognize which of these two kinds of engagement we will need to
              create in order to succeed, and the media choices we will need to make
              in how we communicate with them—rather than to them.
                  Third, we embrace the opportunity for a greater depth of involve-
              ment in time spent with us, as well as an involvement of openness and
              inclination. Look at the celebrated launch of a Challenger in shaving: the
              Philips Norelco Bodygroom, a new body-grooming shaver for men.
              While the launch included some advertising, the key launch medium
              was a website, shaveeverywhere.com, which featured a man in a terry-
              cloth robe (whom the brand team called Innuendo Man) humorously
              alluding to the benefits of shaving in all the right places through meta-
              phors such as topiary and peaches, and an overall consumer benefit they
              called the ‘‘extra optical inch.’’ In the first month alone, shaveeerywhere.
              com received 1 million hits (extending to 1.75 million over the first year);
              the average site visit in that period lasted for seven and a half minutes.
              And this for a media budget of less than a million dollars.
                  So how do you measure the success of this kind of Challenger ap-
              proach? At one level, the initial response is only 1 million hits: a small
              reach compared to television, and nothing like the viewing figures we
              saw for Quiksilver at the beginning of this chapter, which spent less
              than a tenth as much as Philips Norelco. On the other hand, look at the
              depth of that engagement in terms of time on the site. One way to
              evaluate this is simply to translate the time this represents into some-
              thing those of us approaching the new world from the old world (as so-
              called digital immigrants) can understand a little better. According to
              the Nielsen Media Research blog, if you have a site generating 1.5m
              hits, with a viewing time on average of seven and half minutes, that
              translates into the same as 22.5 million viewings of a 30-second TV
              spot. Yet while trying to translate it back into the old currencies may
              certainly be one way to look at it, surely the key value as a Challenger
              is not the translation back into the old currency, but the value of the
              new currency. If one million people voluntarily spend almost eight min-
              utes of their time engaging with our brand, that has a value very much
              greater than its translation into viewership of advertising that they
              didn’t actually want to see in the first place. If 47 percent of all visitors
              to the site then immediately pass it on to a friend, as they did, that has
c11_1   01/06/2009   216




               216   EATING THE BIG FISH



               a value very much greater than simply chatting about it to someone
               they happen to see at work the following day. And in terms of word of
               mouse, how does one quantify its subsequent appearance on 2,000
               blogs, as well as its discussion on CNBC and in the Wall Street Journal?
               The short answer is that one quantifies it in terms of results, of course:
               eight weeks as Amazon’s number one health and personal care best
               seller, 70 percent share of the category after a year, and increasing
               Norelco’s grooming business 33 percent in the process.
                   None of this is to say in any way that traditional advertising is dead.
               Field and Binet’s work shows that while its reach may be diminishing, in
               fact all the evidence suggests that where it works well, TV advertising,
               for example, is more powerful than ever. But the point is that the new
               possibilities in media are making it abundantly clear that we should be
               setting whole new objectives for whatever we do, and that even simply
               talking in terms of thinking about ‘‘engagement’’ is too loose. Personal
               inclination to engage, depth of participation, the degree of give-and-
               take in that engagement, the value of mood and moment to that inter-
               action, the social currency derived from being able to pass that on, the
               personal emotional and functional utility derived from that interaction—
               all these, which are so fundamental to Challenger success, are going to
               be increasingly pivotal measures for us. And yet we simply have no way
               of measuring most of them at the moment.
                   So the canvas open to us as Challengers is a more exciting one than
               ever before. On the one hand, we see some of the world’s favorite
               brands—Google, Costco, flickr, Zara—never advertising at all, and
               instead illustrating the possibilities of succeeding entirely through how
               they Sacrifice and Overcommit in creating a highly differentiated user–
               store experience and value. On the other hand, we see the digital world
               offering us the potential of a visual dynamism, interactive flow, acceler-
               ated community, and scaled momentum in our ambition to enter social
               culture with communication ideas that we could never have imagined
               20 years ago. And between those two alternatives, we see brands like
               innocent and method completely overturning our understanding of how
               we can use packaging structure and communication to build new kinds
               of relationships on our behalf. We will not be able to measure many of
               these new opportunities open to us in the same tidy ways we could in
               the past. But if we embrace the consistent Challenger principles behind
c11_1   01/06/2009   217




                           The Seventh Credo: Using Communications and Publicity   217



              why and how we use each of them, these can at least give us some
              guidelines to the future.
                  And we can’t just accept that because we can’t measure them now,
              they are unmeasurable. We will need to find our confidence and give
              others confidence through such measurement. We will need to fight
              for newer, better measures—of quality rather than just of quantity—that
              can give us and those around us confidence in how we create the Chal-
              lengers of the future.



                Videolink for this Chapter:
                www.eatbigfishfood.com/etbf/Usingcandp
c12_1   01/06/2009   218




                 12
               THE EIGHTH CREDO: BECOME
               IDEA-CENTERED, NOT
               CONSUMER-CENTERED
                     If we want things to stay as they are, they will have to change.
                                                   Giuseppe di Lampedusa, The Leopard




               S    uccess, of course, is a very dangerous thing. Successfully entering or
                    reentering a category as a Challenger is one kind of problem; sur-
               viving that success without becoming hamstrung by complacency, over-
               expansion, or a new preoccupation with simply keeping the gains you
               have made is quite another. From the big cage rattlers (Body Shop) to
               smarter online services (GeoCities), the marketing battlefields of the West
               are strewn with wounded Challengers who started brightly but found it
               hard to maintain their momentum. And the process we have committed
               ourselves to, of defining the strategic ‘‘software program’’ for a successful
               Challenger, would therefore not be complete if we did not consider as well
               the question of how we address this problem before it occurs—that is, how
               Challengers sustain momentum, rather than regain it through adversity.

               THE TWO KINDS OF MOMENTUM
               Momentum is vital to Challengers for two reasons. Actual momentum is
               the source of the return on investment—and as such, the measure of
               immediate growth in sales and revenue return. Perceived momentum—

               218
c12_1   01/06/2009   219




                 The Eighth Credo: Become Idea-Centered, Not Consumer-Centered           219



              the sense the consumer has that this is the brand making the running in
              the category, that this is a brand to watch—is the basis of its future
              equity, the seeds, perhaps, of a future return on investment that will out-
              strip today’s.
                  The reason most Challengers lose momentum is that they fail to real-
              ize that they have to change in order to remain the same. That is, they
              have to change not their core identity, but the way the consumer experi-
              ences and is stimulated by that identity. The basis for a Challenger
              brand’s initial success in a mature category, after all, is that it develops
              from the beginning a different kind of relationship with its users than
              those users have with the Brand Leader. At the time fresh and different,
              this relationship comes from the consumers’ response to being pre-
              sented with a brand that in some way breaks the mold of what they were
              used to in the category.
                  But the success of one brand means the rest of the category assimi-
              lates the foundations of that success, too; one ice beer leads to another,
              and another, and another, until being an ice beer or an entertaining air-
              line or a photo-sharing site is no longer enough. Ideas, like innovations,
              are replicated (albeit often in more diluted form) and so in turn dilute the
              power of the original idea to sustain the original relationship. So Chal-
              lengers that rely on their original product proposition lose their freshness.
                  And, of course, as consumers we get easily bored; what excited us yes-
              terday jades us today. (This is a human, rather than twentieth-century phe-
              nomenon: When the Roman poet Lucretius commented disparagingly of
              the Roman people that they desired semper aliquid novi—always some-
              thing new—he was writing more than 2,000 years ago.) It is not just that
              we all have a low boredom threshold; it is that our comfort zone expands
              to include what once seemed startling and fresh. But comfort zones favor
              only the Brand Leader—if a Challenger fails to stay just outside that com-
              fort zone, be just a little provocatively different, it becomes an increasingly
              invisible part of the distribution landscape and slowly dies through con-
              sumer indifference. The voracious consumer, hungry for aliquid novi,
              moves on to a newer, more tempting morsel in the category.
                  Which means that the idea or ideas on which the Challenger
              launched itself inevitably cannot sustain it. It needs more frequently to
              feed and refresh the relationship with the consumer, which means in turn
              that it needs to consistently produce ideas that stimulate and provoke
c12_1   01/06/2009   220




               220   EATING THE BIG FISH



               the consumer—not once or twice, but continually. It needs to continually
               keep the relationship fresh: as fresh as it was when the relationship was
               new. We must never lose sight of the fact that the underlying driver for a
               Challenger is momentum—the sense that our brand is making the run-
               ning in the category. Successful Challenger brands can therefore never
               afford to be static. They constantly add to themselves to keep ahead of
               the market in their relationship with the consumer; and the fuel for that
               movement is ideas.
                   Failure to sustain actual momentum leads to the temptation to grow
               volume instead by accepting the potentially poisoned chalices of line
               extension or distribution; with these may come erosion of the core
               equity, loss of the core users, and an erosion of the shape of the user
               base, leading to a relatively rapid decline. This is exactly what Diesel’s
               Sacrifice in distribution that we noted in Chapter 8 is structured to fight.
                   Failure to sustain perceived momentum, on the other hand, can lead
               to the ‘‘freeze-drying’’ of the brand, associated in consumers’ minds with
               being locked in to a particular time or trend in their past when they prin-
               cipally noticed it—and therefore by definition not a brand of the mo-
               ment. The more successful the brand is, the greater this danger. The
               shoe brand Crocs is facing exactly this challenge: Regardless of its actual
               range development, for many, the hugely successful brand is associated
               with a particular style, and perhaps two particular summers: a very par-
               ticular time and a place. The bigger such a Challenger’s success, then,
               the bigger its evolutionary jump will need to be to prevent it from
               becoming flash-frozen at that point in our emotional history.


               MAINTAINING MOMENTUM, PART 1: THE CONTINUAL
               MANUFACTURE OF IDEAS
               To say that a relationship has to be fed by ideas is in no way the same as
               saying it has to be fed by technical innovation or product news. There
               are indeed obvious categories that still rely primarily on innovation to
               drive and renew them (3M, for instance, which historically has taken—
               and still has as its stated ambition to take—30 percent of its revenue
               from products it has introduced in the past five years); and, of course, it
               is a part of marketing motherhood for even non-high-tech firms to pro-
               duce product news at regular intervals for big brands to perk up the
c12_1   01/06/2009   221




                 The Eighth Credo: Become Idea-Centered, Not Consumer-Centered           221



              advertising’s effectiveness. Such news usually takes the form of minor
              product innovations—20 percent more lanolin, or a thicker, crunchier
              coating, or slightly easier home page navigation—and works well for
              Brand Leaders, who by and large simply have to sustain mass. Their
              place as the Establishment brand is easily confirmed by the updating of
              their product, reassuring the consumer that their functional credentials
              are second to none.
                  But when we look at Challengers, we can see that the ideas they
              employ are very different from product news. The difference between
              innovation and an idea is illustrated neatly by recent developments by
              flickr. For the photo-sharing site to launch a place to share video along-
              side photos is an innovation, but to limit that video to 90 seconds and
              call it a ‘‘long photograph’’ is an idea (and one that reflects flickr’s identi-
              ty). In the airline business, electronic ticketing is an innovation, but a bar
              in the first-class cabin is an idea. For the world’s number two champagne
              to launch a four-pack of small bottles for a group of four individuals to
              enjoy is an innovation, but to make that pack come in the form of an
              oversized paint tin is an idea. Challenger ideas do not tend to come out
              of the R&D department; they come out of the core marketing team, or
              an enthusiastic customer, or anyone who happens to be passing the
              founder’s office—and they tend not to be product ideas but marketing
              ideas: very ambitious marketing ideas that will provoke and stimulate
              the consumer’s imagination.
                  At the simplest level, Challengers seem to use such communication
              ideas over and above conventional marketing practices (advertisements,
              promotions, sponsorships, etc.), because in order to unseat the existing
              player in the category, they need to engage the imagination and emo-
              tion of consumers who think their needs have already been satisfied by
              the Brand Leader.
                  Veuve Clicquot is a champagne brand that has turned two or three
              initially interesting Thought Leadership ideas into a regular stream of
              imaginative introductions, some of which you can buy at your local wine
              store, some of which are to enhance brand visibility and image commu-
              nication in the restaurant trade, and some of which are very high end
              limited editions, designed primarily to communicate the brand’s identity
              through PR. All of these ideas in its signature yellow color, and all with-
              out changing the core bottle design or label at all. So the consumer
c12_1   01/06/2009   222




               222   EATING THE BIG FISH



               ideas over the past 10 years have included a stylish yellow cooler case
               with a molded inside, shaped to carry a bottle and two special glasses,
               the introduction (mentioned earlier) of the paint can containing four
               small bottles, a neoprene outer jacket to keep the champagne cool
               (which also acts as a buoyancy jacket if you wish to float your champagne
               in a stream or the pool to cool it), and a piece of outer packaging that
               uses cardboard engineering to open almost like an enormous yellow
               and black flower and turns into an ice bucket, with plastic seals to keep
               the ice secure. Along the way, we notice the Pucci-designed cover for
               the Grand Dame bottle and look for an excuse to justify purchasing it for
               a special occasion. But we also see—in use or in the press—the brand’s
               trade ideas, such as the Tw’ice bucket, whose vivid yellow poly-
               carbonate side holds the champagne, while the aluminium side twists
               elegantly 180 degrees (so it can either sit on top of a table or attach to
               the tabletop’s side). And we desire, but at a little more of a distance,
               some of Veuve Clicquot’s collaborations with high-end designers, such
               as the Karim Rashid Loveseat: two linked chairs with an integrated cham-
               pagne cooler between them to get things going between the happy
               couple. Or the same designer’s specially commissioned Globalight—a
               futuristic cooler that is also a lamp, bathing perfectly chilled rosé cham-
               pagne in a soft pink aura. And of course we wish we could only find room
               in the kitchen for the Porsche ‘‘Vertical Limit’’ wine cellar—$70,000 of
               handmade brushed steel, with 12 individually lit drawers, each keeping
               one magnum of Veuve Clicquot’s finest vintage at a perfectly regulated
               12 degrees. In other words, this is a brand constantly using ideas not
               simply to develop our sense of its own premium lifestyle image, but
               each in its way continuing to push our sense of the possibilities of how
               champagne could be enjoyed—sometimes reverentially, sometimes
               playfully, but always sustaining our sense of it being a brand that is mov-
               ing, that has continual momentum. And that, as I say, without changing
               its core bottle or identity at all.1
                   Vodka brand 42Below has been very specific about building the pur-
               suit of continually refreshing ideas into its culture—inspired from the
               outset, as we saw, not by the marketing of other spirits, but by the prin-
               ciples of categories that relied on constant renewal, such as music and
               fashion. As a result, the company has placed great emphasis on sustain-
               ing a culture of ‘‘speed and hunger’’—a ‘‘hunger to keep feeding the
c12_1   01/06/2009   223




                 The Eighth Credo: Become Idea-Centered, Not Consumer-Centered       223



              brand ideas, new ideas, keep it fresh.’’2 And we see this strongly in fash-
              ion businesses, of course. So T-box, the Turkish clothing brand we dis-
              cussed in Chapter 7, has continued to use ideas that combine
              functionality and creativity in order to sustain the considerable momen-
              tum and Thought Leadership it achieved at launch, precisely because it
              is in the business of fun fashion. Noticing qualitatively that people were
              starting to use the fun packs as small gifts, for example, T-box has deve-
              loped ideas specifically around gifting occasions. It is customary in
              Turkey, for instance, to exchange gifts on New Year’s Day, and T-box
              developed small packages of red underwear that would be fun, and
              talked-about, gifts for this occasion, including bulk packs for offices and
              friends. It has gone on to produce new signature innovations for each
              New Year’s Day, and followed up by offering special sets of paired
              underwear for Valentine’s Day, for example. This combination of func-
              tionality and creativity in product and packaging ideas has been accom-
              panied by following exactly the same two principles in the constant
              development of highly publicized distribution ideas to prompt sponta-
              neous purchase: street vendors selling the T-box range from bicycles,
              temporary tables selling T-box outside cinemas for people in the mood
              for a fun night out, bumboats on the water offering beach hats and
              T-shirts to touring boats. A constant stream of ideas delivering against
              T-box’s ambition of ‘‘speed, fun, and fashion,’’ constantly renewing the
              consumer’s relationship with the brand.
                  But what of brands that are not in a fashion business? That may be
              in fact diametrically opposed to everything the fashion business is
              all about? Is being idea-led really important for them? We have seen
              earlier in the book how Umpqua, a regional bank in Oregon, Washing-
              ton, and Northern California, is determined to be the ‘‘world’s greatest
              bank’’—precisely by not looking and acting like a bank. It has deliberate-
              ly sought to stay fresh and relevant, not by simply defining what it stood
              for and then regularly renewing its advertising campaigns, but by regu-
              larly and significantly developing its offer and then expressing this in a
              continual flow of new ideas. In 1995, Umpqua prototyped a new kind of
              branch, which it had developed by deliberately looking outside the in-
              dustry at other kinds of service and experience companies, such as Star-
              bucks, Ritz-Carlton, and Gap. Wanting to pursue a retailing rather than a
              banking ethos, Umpqua called it a store rather a branch, took down the
c12_1   01/06/2009   224




               224   EATING THE BIG FISH


               FIGURE 12.1 Umpqua store.




               screens and barriers between the customers and the staff, and intro-
               duced a much stronger service ethic inside (with each staff member get-
               ting two weeks of intensive training on this service ethic). It was at this
               point that Umpqua looked at how to bring full engagement of all five
               senses into the store experience—the smell of freshly made coffee,
               chocolates to eat following your transaction, music, and so on. This then
               became the model that it rolled out across the branch/store network,
               integrating acquisitions into that model as they went. (See Figure 12.1.)
                   Seven years later, Umpqua pushed the model again, partly because,
               in the words of the CEO, ‘‘you’ve got to keep going’’ and partly because
               it wanted to ensure the brand gap it created would be maintained, even
               as other institutions (e.g., Washington Mutual) were starting to find new
               ways to differentiate. And the biggest shift for Umpqua here was the
               way of thinking about the store’s role in the community—not just how
               each store looked and behaved once you were in it, but how the store
               behaved in its relationship with the community around it. The comple-
               tion of a new prototype store in 2003—with open seating arrangements
               and projection equipment for showing everything from business presen-
               tations to movie nights—enabled this community concept to take form.
c12_1   01/06/2009   225




                 The Eighth Credo: Become Idea-Centered, Not Consumer-Centered         225



              The model Umpqua had in mind was to become just that: a community
              center rather than simply a retailer of financial products. Always implicit
              in its thinking, the bank now pushed this thought explicitly further: How
              would a community center genuinely behave? And how could Umpqua
              empower the people on the front line to behave in a way that exempli-
              fied and expressed this within each branch? How could it actively experi-
              ment? From this reframing, a constant stream of ideas then flowed, in
              significant part from the briefed and empowered local managers. Ini-
              tially the ideas were simple and straightforward. Ask yourself, they said:
              What would a good member of the community do for valued neighbors
              when they came by? Well, you’d greet them at the door as they came in.
              When they got a bit further inside, you’d want them to feel a warm wel-
              come, so you would change the job title of your receptionist to ‘‘Director
              of Smiles,’’ which would clarify to the receptionists exactly what was
              expected of them in making their customers feel welcome. And if cus-
              tomers weren’t coming in, but just out walking their dog out in the
              neighborhood? You would put out a dog bowl so they could stop and
              have a drink of water. And of course you’d want to get out beyond your
              own front porch, go out and interact with these neighbors of yours—but
              not in a big, corporate advertising kind of way. Umpqua has in fact
              always believed less in conventional communication and more in what it
              calls ‘‘handshake marketing’’—ice cream vans, for example, that simply
              go round and hand out ice cream sandwiches in the community, like
              good neighbors would (and then switch to cups of hot chocolate in the
              winter). One year, in fact, Umpqua cut all its mass-market advertising
              spend and put it into handshake and street marketing such as the ice
              cream vans. For this Challenger handshake marketing is not a gimmick,
              but a fundamental lens through which Umpqua sees the way it builds its
              community and the strong relationship it enjoys with it.
                  But, and perhaps most critically, if you really wanted to put yourself at
              the heart of your community as a bank, you would obviously also ask
              yourself what you could do to turn the branch itself into a community
              center. And perhaps you would recognize that you have a bit of real
              estate that is in fact always there at the center of the community, even
              when it is not open as a bank. So you would open the store to offer
              banking services from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. and then use it to offer some
              other kind of service from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. that would benefit the
c12_1   01/06/2009   226




               226   EATING THE BIG FISH



               community. Reach out to that cool local yoga instructor whom you know
               wants to attract new customers, and partner with her to offer yoga clas-
               ses in the store. Host your own ‘‘stitch and bitch’’ session—a club
               for people who wanted to sew and talk in the evenings. Some of these
               events and services would be regular, some of them would be one-
               offs—so when there is a particularly heavy snowfall, and everywhere
               else closes, you’d put on some coffee, open your doors, and host a
               movie night. Or when a new residential high-rise neighborhood goes
               up, you’d invite locals to come in and get to know one another over a
               rousing round of Wii bowling.
                   And indeed, even within banking hours, Umpqua has created space
               within the bank to support other local businesses in the community,
               whether it is allowing informal meetings to take place on the premises,
               or acting as an environment for more formal gatherings of businesses
               from the surrounding area. They display, and even help sell, the wares
               of local new businesses looking to get established—one branch actually
               sold a rug on behalf of a local merchant. And they start seeding this
               sense of local entrepreneurship early; one summer, Umpqua launched a
               program aimed at small businesses that at the same time encouraged
               children to think entrepreneurially. The bank created its own lemonade
               stands and invited children who wanted to try their hand in a start-up
               business of their own to come along and apply for one; if they got it,
               Umpqua would give them a lemonade stand start-up kit, tips for suc-
               cess, and $10 in start-up capital for the lemons to get them going. A
               huge success in itself, the program in addition brought a dramatic in-
               crease in Umpqua’s small business loans.
                   This impact on the community is starting to be substantive. In Ump-
               qua’s Innovation Lab in the up-and-coming new part of Portland called
               South Waterfront, there’s a Community Wall built from six 42-inch flat-
               panel touch screen displays. This is the place to learn about the neigh-
               borhood, tell a story, post a comment and so on—an engaging, interac-
               tive bulletin board for the community center, if you will. At the time of
               my partner Mark’s visit, someone had posted a question to the commu-
               nity about where they felt the local public transport system should go
               next after the street corner outside the bank (this being a new part of
               town, that is where the service currently ends); a number of options had
               been provided as possibilities. After several days of collecting answers
c12_1   01/06/2009   227




                 The Eighth Credo: Become Idea-Centered, Not Consumer-Centered       227



              from customers and passersby, the store had built up a pretty good
              sample of answers, with a clear preference emerging. The data were so
              good, in fact, that the transport authorities themselves got wind of it and
              came down to the store to learn more. When you can turn a bank into a
              source of real insight about the community in which it operates, then you
              know for sure that you have transcended ‘‘banking as usual.’’
                  Over 13 years, we see here an initial revolution followed by a second
              evolution. But as important in many ways as these two key points is the
              continual stream of smaller ideas that Umpqua has explored with its cus-
              tomers; with an advertising budget that is a fraction of the amount that
              competitors such as Bank of America and Wells Fargo spend, it is these
              ideas that are constantly feeding and renewing Umpqua’s sensed mo-
              mentum. The strategy has never changed, but the way of bringing that
              strategy to life is constantly evolving and being manifested through this
              flow. We are, says Lani Hayward, Head of Creative Strategies (like the
              ‘‘Director of Smiles,’’ a deliberate title change from ‘‘Head of Market-
              ing’’ to denote the different way of thinking), ‘‘constantly hunting for
              new ideas; we never stop.’’
                  How can we judge whether they have succeeded? Two measures to
              think about: One is that over 13 years Umpqua has grown from six
              branches with $140 million in assets to 187 stores and $8 billion in
              assets, and it enjoys consistently strong organic growth even after
              acquisitions. The other is the stream of banks from around the globe
              that continue to visit Umpqua to learn about its strategy. More recently,
              the bank has even entertained well-known retailers who want to see
              what they can learn from how Umpqua is succeeding—precisely, of
              course, because it is not acting anything like a traditional bank. And
              Umpqua itself adds an additional measure: Its emphasis in all of this is
              ROQ (return on quality) rather than simply ROI.
                  Key in making these ideas happen is for Umpqua to have a very clear
              demarcation about where the local store managers and staff are and are
              not empowered. There’s a set process in place for things like customer
              contact and opening new accounts, but the local feel and culture is a
              vision that managers implement themselves according to the particular
              opportunities in their communities. This empowerment has led to occa-
              sional moments of questioning from the key management (‘‘You’re
              going to do yoga in there? What are you thinking?’’), and not all ideas
c12_1   01/06/2009   228




               228   EATING THE BIG FISH



               have been equally successful (the pet psychic evening, for instance, has
               yet to be repeated). But marketing and store management alike have
               been given considerable freedom to experiment.
                   So this continual manufacture of ideas is one of the two key ways in
               which a Challenger like Umpqua, outspent as it is in conventional paid-
               for media, seeks to constantly fuel that critical consumer perception of
               momentum. Ingrained in the culture, and driven from the top, we see
               this same restless searching within Scion, whose core team members
               describe themselves as ‘‘constantly striving for innovation.’’ In their case,
               appealing as they are to not just a younger demographic but the more
               creative and expressive end of that demographic, their customers
               are themselves constantly reinventing their lives; so to stay not simply
               current but ideally one step ahead, the brand team is always looking for
               new ideas. Not once a quarter or once a month, but daily—‘‘It is a con-
               stant dialogue here.’’3 Although Scion is sold only in the United States,
               members of the Scion team are actively studying what is happening in
               Japan, the UK, anywhere they think they can learn or gather ideas—
               looking at how to take the new and fresh and make it their own, and they
               have a deliberately broad suite of 20-plus agencies to make sure they
               have a good supply of ideas from their outside partners, too. As with
               Umpqua, some things are constants—Scion does not change certain
               core aspects of its offer. But almost everything else is an opportunity for
               innovation—the brand has even recently launched a program to allow
               users to customize their own Scion crest.



               A CLIMATE OF EXPERIMENTATION
               The kind of constant experimentation that we saw happening at Ump-
               qua is, of course, a key quality of the digital world. Digital brands, parti-
               cularly retailers or social sites, rapidly prototype everything, from new
               applications to the shape and nature of their stores, every day. If it
               doesn’t work, their consumers let them know quickly, and they change
               it. They are in rapid and constant experimentation, using small groups
               of empowered people who launch and learn. They are not necessarily
               obsessed with big ideas right out of the box, partly because their experi-
               ence within developing digital applications and brands is that you learn
c12_1   01/06/2009   229




                 The Eighth Credo: Become Idea-Centered, Not Consumer-Centered       229



              from the accidents as much as what you were intending to build in the
              first place. Famously, the technology behind flickr was originally
              intended to be a feature for a web-based game, but during its develop-
              ment, flickr recognized that the application was more potent than
              the game it was intended for, and so put its money and energy behind
              the accident instead. And in this sense of having small groups of em-
              powered people constantly launching fresh ideas to strengthen their
              emotional relationship with their consumers and maintain momentum,
              T-box, Umpqua, and the great digital brands are not so far apart.
                  There is a difference in scope, of course. In digital, you can develop
              and test ideas live within a day. You can get small groups of people to
              do large things very quickly—change your entire storefront and see what
              happens. These things are much harder in the bricks-and-mortar world,
              (cardboard packaging, for example, takes six months to redesign, print,
              and ship). But there is an underlying principle here that we see a lot of
              these Challengers in both digital and nondigital worlds sharing: To
              quote Russell Davies, they are ‘‘always in beta.’’4 They are always
              experimenting.


              CONSUMER-INTIMATE, BUT IDEA-LED
              Key here is recognizing the difference between understanding your con-
              sumers and being led by them. While some of these companies (e.g.,
              those moving into fashion or lifestyle areas) are very specifically focused
              on leading their consumers and pay a limited attention to researching
              them, others make a very clear distinction that they are consumer-
              intimate, but idea-led. Ask Scion for its three bits of advice about suc-
              ceeding in launching a new brand among the creative end of the youth
              market, and the first will be ‘‘listen to your consumers’’—but the next
              piece of advice will be to look to bring those same consumers ideas that
              are fresh and new. On the whole, the consumer cannot tell you what
              those ideas should be, but the understanding that you have of them will
              give you that visceral confidence to innovate in the right direction.
                  There is, of course, a changing dynamic here: In talking about our
              target as a whole, we shouldn’t walk past a smaller group of people who
              can and will usefully co-create with us. This can be in one of two ways: by
              observing how they are already customizing or adapting (hacking) our
c12_1   01/06/2009   230




               230   EATING THE BIG FISH



               products and brand for their own enhanced use and pleasure, or by
               actively engaging them in the act of co-creation itself.
                   How one effectively co-creates in this way is the subject of a book in
               itself, but we explore its potential values and limitations in Chapter 14
               (‘‘Areas of Necessary Impact’’).


               ONE, TWO, MANY
               One can see that the force of the Umpqua promise lay in the multiplicity
               and consistency of the ideas it put in front of the consumer. There was a
               Native American tribe that supposedly had no word for three: It counted
               ‘‘One, two, many.’’ In the same way, the cynical and overpromised con-
               sumer, seeing one idea implemented, may feel it is a drop in the ocean;
               seeing two, that the brand is certainly trying but the jury is still out, and
               seeing three, well, three starts to become hard to argue with. So for
               Umpqua it was the insistent demonstration of the promise through suc-
               cessive new ideas that proved compelling.
                   The concept that ideas are fundamental to economic health, inciden-
               tally, is not confined to brands, or the microlevel of a particular market.
               The so-called New Growth Theory, largely made famous by Stanford
               professor Paul Romer, states that ideas are in fact what drive successful
               modern national economies. The value of ideas in driving an economy,
               for Romer, is that they are, like knowledge, abundant; they can build on
               each other; and they are relatively cheap to develop and reproduce.
                   So, while Brand Leaders have historically maintained their mass and
               consumer trust by the use of product news, and updating the satisfac-
               tion of rational needs, the objective for Challengers is to maintain actual
               and perceived momentum, and this is done through the continual de-
               ployment of ideas that feed and constantly restimulate the relationship
               with the target. Inherent in these ideas is their ability to provoke and sur-
               prise the target consumers, take them just beyond what they are already
               familiar and comfortable with. This in turn, as we will come to see,
               springs from our own ability to anticipate rather than simply reflect the
               consumer’s emotional desires.
                   Seems simple, doesn’t it? It is, after all, no different in essence
               from how Challengers came to be successful in the first place. But
               be it complacency or protectiveness, many Challengers, once they
c12_1   01/06/2009   231




                 The Eighth Credo: Become Idea-Centered, Not Consumer-Centered      231



              have reached a certain level of success, fail to continue feeding the
              relationship at the same rate as they did at their period of greatest
              acceleration.
                  I am not making the facile point that it is important to go on having
              good ideas. If there seems to be a natural tendency to relax when one is
              successful (what Claude Bonnange has called ‘‘The Warrior’s Rest’’), and
              yet the Challenger above all other kinds of brands has the need to sus-
              tain momentum—which occurs only by maintaining the freshness of the
              consumer relationship through provocative ideas—then the real issue
              here is that we need to be more systematic about how we build the pro-
              duction of those ideas into the way our company and marketing lives are
              structured.


              MAINTAINING MOMENTUM, PART 2: PROVIDING DIFFERENT
              WAYS TO ACCESS THE IDENTITY/EXPERIENCE
              We have seen that the currency of Challenger momentum—and there-
              fore success—is ideas. Those Challengers that have started strongly and
              then are seen to run dry of ideas, like Yahoo (whether it is true or not),
              peak and start to perceptually slide. Those that consistently manufac-
              ture, and are seen to manufacture, ideas that refresh the relationship,
              like Umpqua, continue to grow.
                   But there is another kind of challenge that a Challenger faces as it
              grows, namely, the change in the meaning of the brand to the con-
              sumer. Whereas Brand Leaders offer the consumer a sense of belong-
              ing, being a part of a greater community, Challengers (at least at the
              outset of their lives) offer the ability to individualize, to be a part of
              something different, perhaps ahead of the curve. For a Challenger to
              sustain its own early pace and momentum is difficult, therefore, not just
              because consumers become bored, but because the brand loses its abil-
              ity to individualize, to be a piece of communication about the consumer.
              Its meaning, therefore, begins to fundamentally change: How can it say
              something of value about the individual consumer if everyone else
              seems to be using it as well? And what does this success and size do to
              its fundamental relationship with its loyal buyer?
                   Successful Challengers, therefore, face a medium-term fork in the
              road: Does one try to preserve one’s early formula for success in order
c12_1   01/06/2009   232




               232   EATING THE BIG FISH



               to maintain one’s core loyalists, or change the nature of one’s appeal in
               order to maintain growth?

               Route 1: The Peter Pan Strategy
               Some Challengers attempt to be Peter Pan and sustain success by never
               growing up, preserving what worked for them in the early days. Quiksil-
               ver speaks of the need to keep the brand authentic—‘‘in the water,’’ as
               the company puts it: Once the committed surfers felt that their clothes
               were available to kids in malls in Chicago, they would stop wearing
               those clothes. Other fashion brands spoke of the need to keep it discov-
               erable—deliberately limiting distribution. Both of these strategies, while
               viable, naturally put a ceiling on volume and momentum in the interests
               of longevity.

               Route 2: The Reinvention Strategy
               Diesel has a policy of reinventing itself twice a year. New lines of clothes,
               yes, but new marketing and new ideas to flow into the consumer rela-
               tionship along with that. Of course, these follow themes that tend to run
               for three- to five-year periods, but the overall feeling the consumer gets
               from the brand in both its ethos and its clothing is that it is constantly
               moving forward.
                   Zara, however, makes the rest of the fashion business look slow. Work-
               ing from a vision of ‘‘freshly baked fashion,’’ it focuses a key part of its
               business model on a much more frequent turnover of its lines, rotating its
               entire stock every two weeks. Zara consumers have no time to become
               complacent, to have a look around the store and then go away and think
               about that little black jacket for a couple of weeks—because it simply
               won’t be there when they get back. This rapid turnover creates, short
               term, a very different relationship with the brand and the local store—
               anticipation (the delivery date of new stock is known by Zara aficionados
               as ‘‘Z Day’’), urgency (‘‘If I don’t buy it now it will be gone’’), and frequen-
               cy of visit (the average Zara shopper goes in 17 times a year, considerably
               more frequently than to stores with just four seasons). Because the brand
               doesn’t advertise, the speed of renewal of the merchandise (Zara pro-
               duces over 10,000 lines a year) also carries the longer-term weight of
               renewing the relationship with the consumer every two weeks.
c12_1   01/06/2009   233




                 The Eighth Credo: Become Idea-Centered, Not Consumer-Centered          233



              Route 3: The Line Renewal Strategy
              Some Challengers that do not begin with multiple access points build
              them in as they grow.
                  We might call this line renewal, then, rather than line extension.
              Whereas line extension offers the same relationship with the consumer,
              expressed in other product forms, line renewal attempts to offer a
              renewal of the relationship by offering ‘‘the same, but different.’’ For Las
              Vegas, it is the new-themed hotels that restimulate interest in the city as
              a whole: The opening of a miniature version of the ultimate city (New
              York) transplanted to the middle of the desert is followed immediately
              by the reconstruction of the most romantic of European cities (Paris).
              And while this is still only half built, ground is already being broken for
              an Italian lakeside village (the five-star Bellagio), created, of course, in a
              state notoriously deficient in water. Each new-themed hotel provides a
              new and rich experience, which, besides being lucrative in itself, offers
              a new access point for the consumer’s relationship with the city as a
              whole. The identity of Las Vegas as a fantasy entertainment destination
              remains the same, but consumers can choose and individualize the fan-
              tasy through which they access that brand experience. Two couples visit
              Las Vegas: One couple prefers Caesar’s Palace, the other Paris, but both
              get to talk about how much they enjoy gambling there. Next time, one
              will stay at Caesar’s, the other will go to the newly opened Venetian—
              one likes the fantasy to stay the same, one likes new experiences. (The
              additional value of new points of access into the brand is that they allow
              the enthusiastic consumers to be ahead of the rest of the pack. Las
              Vegas’s constant creation of new and different ways to access the expe-
              rience is akin in some ways to a fashion brand’s philosophy of keeping it
              discoverable—even though Oakley was talking about it as a factor of
              distribution.) Occupancy rates in Las Vegas are at 95 percent.
                  One might say that the line renewal strategy is also part of Google’s
              continued momentum. While we still know and use Google primarily
              for search, the new products that the company has since launched, such
              as Google Earth, Google Maps, and Google Images, have added
              whole new dimensions to our rational, emotional, and sensory pleasure
              in searching and exploring, using the brand’s simple access and appar-
              ently universal scope.
c12_1   01/06/2009   234




               234   EATING THE BIG FISH



                   We can see, then, that there are four elements to the line renewal
               strategy:

               1. The continual use of ideas rather than simply communication
               2. The construction of new facets or embodiments of the brand, offer-
                  ing fresh departure platforms for such ideas and at the same time
                  differentiated points of access
               3. The creation of fresh ways of thinking about the brand’s identity at
                  each of these new points of access
               4. And, in terms of implementation, doing this systematically and
                  consistently

                   Note that the core identity for each of the two brands discussed ear-
               lier doesn’t change—Las Vegas consistently offers a different kind of
               altered state: the fantasy of glamour, of being a high roller with the
               potential to enjoy permanently the lifestyle whose fantasy surrounds
               you. Google is still all about search. This strategy of line renewal, in fact,
               could not work without a strongly defined core identity: Line renewal of
               a hollow brand, one without a Lighthouse Identity, would simply be one
               of product and brand diffusion.


               Route 4: Developing Your Challenger Stance
               The fourth way we see Challengers sustaining their relationship with the
               consumer and their momentum within their market is by evolving not
               simply their meaning as a brand, but their stance as a Challenger. Being
               in effect conscious of the different ways in which they can engage con-
               sumers with their challenge of the market, and intelligently evolving
               through them between life stages. I mentioned in the preface that it was
               a mistake to allow our thinking about Challengers to get channeled into
               the default Challenger position of ‘‘David versus Goliath’’ (or the arche-
               typal categorization of the Challenger as Outlaw)—the stances open to
               us as Challengers are much more varied than that. Figure 12.2 shows a
               universe of such stances, reflecting broadly the kinds of challenges that
               we discussed in Chapter 5. If the Eight Credos represent the component
               elements of Challenger thinking and behavior, there clearly is an over-
               arching stance that a Challenger will take in the market that structures
c12_1   01/06/2009   235




                 The Eighth Credo: Become Idea-Centered, Not Consumer-Centered         235



              how it uses all those elements, a stance around which it will build each
              piece of its unique Challenger mix. These 12 represent the most com-
              mon stances taken; while there is, of course, a little overlap in some of
              the cases used as examples, we can recognize fairly easily how the stan-
              ces differ from one another, and the different kinds of challenges that
              each has at its center.
                  So the table in Figure 12.2 shows five columns. The first on the left is
              the type of Challenger stance. The second from the left offers a short
              illustrative group of examples, followed by the central column, which
              gives a brief description of the key elements of the stance taken. The
              fourth column from the left, playing this out a little, looks specifically at
              what the Challenger is actively challenging. And finally, the last column
              on the right looks at why groups of the buying public might be attracted
              to this stance.
                  What is interesting to us in discussing how Challengers maintain mo-
              mentum is not simply the initial stance taken by each Challenger brand,
              but how we see some of them subsequently evolve through different
              stances. So in the airline business, we can see the evolution of Value
              Changers into different narrative stances as they gain their confidence,
              develop their consumer base, and grow. Southwest moved from being
              in effect just a low-fare airline to talking about ‘‘Giving America the free-
              dom to fly’’—a Democratizer, in effect, opening up to Americans of all
              income groups the ability to use air travel. Virgin Atlantic started as a
              ‘‘More for Less’’ Value Changer, moved through an Irreverent Maverick
              phase (capitalizing on the existing Virgin image), and has in effect
              evolved to take a ‘‘People’s Champion’’ stance (the overall positioning
              is that of a Robin Hood, taking from the rich and giving to the people). It
              is still irreverent, of course, but it has determined to take a higher-level
              position.
                  Apple has moved from being a Game Changer (with the Apple II) to
              being a David (‘‘1984’’) to being an Irreverent Maverick (a user image
              that sustained Mac users even during the lean product years after Jobs
              was pushed out) and back to Game Changer again (iMac, iPod, iTunes,
              iPhone). Is it in fact a Challenger at all any more? One could argue that
              the iPod advertising is now simply a case of the Market Leader advertis-
              ing the category generic, and owning it through the white iconography.
              Yet as Apple pushes beyond its core businesses, it is of course
                                                                                                                                                                       c12_1

      FIGURE 12.2 Twelve Challenger stances.
      Challenger Stance                Example                       Brief Description                Challenging What?              Reason for Attraction
      The People’s Champion            Virgin Atlantic, Linux,       Consciously sets self up         Motives and Interests of the   They are fighting for me – I      01/06/2009
                                       Wikipedia, Avaaz, Daffy’s     as on the side of the            Market Leader                  win.
236
                                                                     consumer, often specifically
                                                                     against the ‘‘cynical’’/fat
                                                                     cat market leader                                                                                 236

      The Scrappy David(vs. Goliath)   Miller Lite 2005, Ryanair,    Stick it to the King             The dominance of (and          ‘‘Nobody roots for Goliath’’ –
                                       Avis 1960s, Pepsi Challenge                                    unthinking consumer            people like underdogs.
                                                                                                      preference for) the
                                                                                                      market leader

      The Enlightened Zagger           Camper, Nextel, PETA,         The enlightened brand            A prevailing and commonly/     Engaged by the counter (often
                                       Fosters                       deliberately swimming            unthinkingly accepted          un PC) stance.
                                                                     against the prevailing           aspect of contemporary
                                                                     cultural tide. Often takes       culture
                                                                     low status/blue collar stance

      The‘‘Realand Human’’             Southwest, Ben and Jerry’s,   A ‘‘real’’ people brand in a     The joyless impersonality      ‘‘Thank god for some real
      Challenger                       Sam Adams, innocent           faceless category.               of the market leader or        people who get what I am
                                                                     Sometimes real people            category                       about – and who really care
                                                                     (founders, but not                                              about what they are doing.’’
                                                                     necessarily just founders) are
                                                                     visible behind the brand.
                                                                     Often accompanied by the
                                                                     perception of ‘‘small’’ in
                                                                     stature

      The Missionary                   Dove, JetBlue, Al             A challenger fired up with a   The belief system                Identification with beliefs
                                       Gore 2.0                      view about the world it has to underpinning the category        about category (and way
                                                                     share. Often looking to ‘‘put to date                           category fits into world).
                                                                     the category right’’ in some
                                                                     way

      The Democratiser                 IKEA, Target, Zara, Digg,     A brand that is taking           Elitism, the idea that         They enable me to enjoy living
                                       YouTube, Current TV           something previously             something should be            and participating in the world
                                                                     exclusive (stylish, luxurious,   available only to the          in a way I thought was only for
                                                                     hi tech or ‘‘controlled’’ by a   privileged, wealthy, or        the few.
                                                                     particular profession), and      expert
                                                                     making it much more broadly
                                                                     available to the masses
                                                                                                                                                                c12_1




      The Irreverent Maverick    Red Bull, MAC, Mountain       Countercultural attitude       The complacency and           Identification with the attitude.   01/06/2009
                                 Dew, Crumpler                 in a box                       narrowmindedness of the
                                                                                              status quo and those who keep
                                                                                              to it
                                                                                                                                                                237
      TheVisionary               method, Whole Foods,          Sets out higher vision that    The mundanity of the way the Identification with vision.
                                 Zipcar                        transcends category nature     category thinks about its
                                                                                              nature and role

      The Game Changer           Wii, Lush, Lexus              A brand and product with an The fundamental drivers and       Engaged by fresh perspective
                                                               entirely new perspective on      codes of the category to     on a familiar market. ‘‘Wow, I’d
                                                               the possibilities of a category, date. Not the beliefs or     never thought of the category
                                                               which invites the consumer to values – more the               like that before.’’
                                                               participate in the category in dimensions of the consumer
                                                               a whole new way                  experience it has played
                                                                                                up and played down

      The KillerApp (Productor   Napster, Skype, Joost         A product or service (without The way consumers think         This changes everything. That
      Experience)                                              much branding attached to it) about product in the            product is so good at what it
                                                               that is so revolutionary, it  category                        does, brand loyalty has just
                                                               becomes de facto a                                            become irrelevant.
                                                               Challenger brand

      The Next Generation        Pepsi Next Generation, Silk   That was then and this is now The relevance of the market     New times call for new brands,
                                 soymilk (‘‘The New Milk’’),                                 leader (or perhaps every        and I as a person am part of
                                 Eurostar (the future of                                     player in the market) to the    the new times.
                                 European travel)                                            modern world, or current
                                                                                             generation

      More forless/The Same      ‘‘Two Buck Chuck,’’ 50% of    A challenger offering a        The current value equation     You can’t argue with the price.
      formuchless                insurance companies,          proposition rooted in
                                 Motel 6, Easyjet, early       significantly superior value
                                 private label                 for money



237
c12_1   01/06/2009        238




               238        EATING THE BIG FISH



               challenging both the incumbents in its new categories and many of the
               design and usage drivers and codes of those categories at the same
               time.5
                   So why is it that Challengers move between these different stances? In
               part it is about the desire to refresh the way one presents oneself to the
               consumer—stopping ourselves from becoming just another part of the
               brand landscape, once the consumer has become familiar with our stance
               and the expression of that stance. In part it is about discovering new and
               fresh sources of challenge and conflict, from which to create fresh interest
               in our story, and our ambition within the category in the imagination of
               the consumer. And there may also be a more significant kind of evolution
               here—one might even argue that some of these stances represent higher-
               order positions that Challengers naturally evolve into.
                   But underpinning all of these stances, and transitions between them,
               is perhaps the key requirement for a Challenger, namely, to never be
               seen to win. As a Challenger succeeds in achieving one goal, or over-
               coming (really or apparently) one struggle, it evolves its narrative, and
               public ambition, and moves on to the next. Being a Challenger is, after
               all, in essence about a state of mind, not a state of market.


               ALCHEMY AND ETERNAL LIFE
               Establishment brands and establishment-minded players you talk to are
               eager to disparage Challengers. Take the long view, they say, and they
               point out that while Challengers might be interesting models for short-
               term growth, they are frequently poor examples of steady longer-term
               growth. And this is, of course, true. Challengers can stumble, go stale,
               and/or plateau after initial promise—and the spotlight thrown by that
               initial promise makes their weakness all the more noticeable when it
               comes.
                   I tend to give two answers to this. The first is that to accuse Challeng-
               ers of failing to sustain growth consistently is not actually the issue—all
               brands wax and wane: of the 500 companies that initially made the

                     
                         Those who are interested in exploring the range of challenger stances in more detail
                         on their own brand will find a more thorough unpacking of this strand of thinking,
                         the individual stances themselves, and their relation to archetypal theory at www
                         .eatbigfish.com/12stances.
c12_1   01/06/2009   239




                 The Eighth Credo: Become Idea-Centered, Not Consumer-Centered         239



              Fortune 500 list in 1955, only 71 are still there. No, the failure Chal-
              lengers really face, it seems to me, is the failure to reinvent or re-create
              themselves once they start waning—that is, the failure to understand
              that they have to change in order to stay the same.
                  My second response is that we are not holding up Challengers as
              perfect paragons of business in every way. That we can learn some valu-
              able lessons from their success in building rapid growth for themselves
              against the run of play does not mean we are required to slavishly follow
              their subsequent ups and downs. Or that we cannot narrow our focus in
              looking at the longer term. Some Challengers have put in place mea-
              sures to ensure longer-term success in a way that others didn’t.
                  And in discussing the Eighth Credo, we are, of course, on the most
              speculative ground. This is an extraordinarily difficult and ambitious area
              to consider—we are looking for the marketing equivalent of the alchem-
              ist’s stone, or the secret of eternal life. But if we are prepared to venture
              on, we can see that maintaining momentum will require not just the
              observation of the marketing attitude, strategy, and behavior outlined
              in this chapter, but an underlying cultural change. It is one thing to say
              that it is essential for a Challenger to continually create ideas that seize
              the consumer’s imagination, and it is quite another to do it: Ideas do not
              come along with the punctuality and obligingness of a Pop-Tart (i.e., an-
              nounce you are hungry and in three minutes one pops up, hot enough to
              burn your mouth). Ideas are irregular, rarely arrive on demand, and, even
              when they do, are easily trampled on and lost.
                  We need, then, to reevaluate the whole way we think about support-
              ing the brand and structuring the organization. We need to move, in
              other words, from being a consumer-led culture to an ideas-led culture.



                Videolink for this Chapter:
                www.eatbigfishfood.com/etbf/ideacentered
c12_1   01/06/2009   240
c13_1   01/06/2009   241




                           PART
                      APPLYING THE
                                  3
               CHALLENGER PROGRAM
c13_1   01/06/2009   242
c13_1   01/06/2009   243




                13
              WRITING THE
              CHALLENGER PROGRAM:
              THE TWO-DAY OFF-SITE


              I   said at the outset of the book that, having established the nature of
                 the Eight Credos, I would attempt to turn them into the beginnings of
              a process that we could apply to our own brand. I noted that, although
              this formalization of a Challenger approach constituted an enormous
              postrationalization, in the sense that none of the Challengers as indivi-
              duals had ever formally put themselves through such a process, I was
              interested in structuring a stimulating and clearly understandable way for
              us to try to follow in the steps of their collective marketing intuition. This
              chapter, then, offers a structured series of exercises for those interested in
              practice, as well as theory. But first, some thoughts from reviewing the
              Eight Credos together.
                  Being a Challenger is not a series of actions in and of themselves. It is
              a mind-set, a way of seeing the world, which is manifested in those
              actions. As a mind-set, it is innate or emotionally held and committed
              to, hence the use of the word Credo, as a representation of almost reli-
              gious faith. While our sense of what we have to Sacrifice may change, for
              instance, the belief that we have to Sacrifice cannot.


                                                                                        243
c13_1   01/06/2009     244




               244     EATING THE BIG FISH



                   Reflecting this mind-set, the Eight Credos clearly do not operate
               in isolation of each other; we have already observed that they can be
               seen together as a sequence, a four-stage strategic marketing process
               (in the Preface, on page xx). In this process, decisions or actions taken in
               regard to one Credo are necessarily reflected or dramatized in another—
               the first seven Credos in particular must all center around the one or two
               central challenges and priorities for the brand. The practice rather than
               the theory of this has, I hope, been immediately apparent in the overlap
               in brand examples used among the chapters so far: So, for instance,
               the conventions of the category broken will often be used as Symbols
               of Re-evaluation for the brand, and if the target for this reevaluation is
               external, they will in turn be expressed through dramatic advertising
               or publicity-generating events.
                   Furthermore, although the Credos between them certainly have
               huge implications for marketing strategy, it is clear that marketing strat-
               egy is just one strand in the Challenger marketing triad:

                    Attitude and preparation
                    Marketing strategy
                    Marketing behavior

                   Marketing behavior is a way of thinking about the expression of one’s
               identity and positioning to the consumer that goes far beyond what has
               historically been regarded as the template of the marketeer’s activity,
               namely, the Four Ps (positioning, product, promotion, and price). And
               the Attitude and Preparation has been necessary not only to open the
               mind, to reengender innocence, but also to drive marketing strategy
               into behavior. One of the greatest failings of the marketing company is
               incompletion. Lee Clow, when asked by a client how we could get
               breakthrough thinking from his agency, replied: ‘‘You have to want it.’’
               Incompletion usually occurs because there has been no mental prepara-
               tion: Those involved do not ‘‘want it’’ badly enough.
                   So there is in fact a structural (rather than a necessarily chronological)
               relationship between the Eight Credos.
                   Not all Challengers fit all Eight Credos, of course. Not all Challengers
               are starting from inexperience and Intelligent Naivety, and few of the
               online retail Challengers, for example, have ever offered any dramatic
c13_1   01/06/2009   245




                              Writing the Challenger Program: The Two-Day Off-Site      245



              Symbols of Re-evaluation. This is an important counter, because the
              way to test a hypothesis is, after all, not to try to prove it, but to try to
              disprove it.
                  The response to this falls into two parts. The first is that in drawing on
              so many different Challengers it would be startling to see an absolute
              uniformity of plan: It is more likely that we would see a fit that usefully
              describes the majority of them, much like a piece of regression analysis
              maps a series of points of data to a line of commonality. Some examples
              will fall on either side of the overall pattern here or there, but the overall
              shape and nature of the common thread remains clear.
                  The second part of the answer is that this book is not supposed to rep-
              resent an absolute formula to be imposed in blanket fashion with disregard
              for category, culture, or starting place. It is more usefully viewed as a
              cluster of activities that, taken together in a structured way, can help over-
              come a strategic problem or market blind spot that is inhibiting growth.
                  What is important is that, whatever its application, it is regarded at
              the very least as a cluster of related activities, rather than an à la carte
              menu. Because trying to become half a Challenger is like trying to be-
              come half pregnant—it creates the same amount of mess but is bound
              to lead to disappointing results. When Mao Zedong wrote ‘‘All reaction-
              aries are Paper Tigers,’’ he meant, of course, that there are some who
              affect to be fierce Challengers but who lack the real substance to suc-
              ceed (being made of paper rather than muscle). In the same way, we
              cannot cherry-pick the two or three most interesting Credos, take them
              for a spin, and sit back to see what happens. In the first place, this sends
              confusing signals to the external and internal consumer (are we kicking
              ass and taking names, or not?) In the second, it fails to create a lasting
              momentum. We’re either in, or we’re out.


              PREPARATION FOR THE OFF-SITE
              We are moving from a hardware society to a software society. From a
              business perspective, this means we are moving from companies that
              succeed through physical product to companies that succeed through
              the consumer experience they offer. And just as it’s not the size of the
              box that is important anymore, but what the contents of the box do for
              us, so it’s not the number of people or even the talent of our workforce,
c13_1   01/06/2009   246




               246   EATING THE BIG FISH



               but the way they think about the task and the behavior they adopt that
               will be the key discriminator in the future. And that has to start with the
               behavior and example of the core group at the top. The key figures in
               our company need to run on a Challenger program. We don’t need sol-
               diers; we need apostles.
                   Architects talk about ‘‘programming the building’’—working out how
               the building needs to interact with the people who will be working in it.
               In the same way, since the concept of Challenger is not really a series of
               actions but an underlying way of thinking about the problem, the key will
               not be you or me ‘‘getting’’ that way of thinking, but rather program-
               ming the core group so that they get it—or rather getting that group to
               program themselves. Our programming them is not simply a distasteful
               idea, but it is an impractical distasteful idea. They have to program
               themselves; they have to turn themselves into Challengers. But we can
               give them a goal that makes this imperative, and a way of seeing the
               world that makes this possible.
                   So this off-site, then, is about getting a small group of key figures in
               the company to run a Challenger program, by getting them to program
               themselves. Like a piece of software, the two-day program (and the
               much longer strategic process of which it is only a taste) will again be
               improved and updated by the group in two years’ time—in the spirit of
               the constant updating of a genuine software program, where work on
               the next upgrade has started even before the current one has launched.


               An Agreed Consumer Starting Point
               Our experience in doing this work makes it very clear that while the
               temptation is for a Challenger group to start with everything being
               open, everything in play, in reality you will need one or two fixed points
               to begin to have a productive and directional conversation.
                  The most critical of these is to have a common and shared sense of
               your target consumer before you start, in demographic terms at least.
               This should be shared before the workshop begins, and reprised with a
               20-minute presentation at the beginning of the workshop.
                  You may as your work progresses come on to define a particular mind-
               set or psychographic you will be targeting within this demographic in the
               work you do, particularly in developing your Lighthouse Identity, but you
c13_1   01/06/2009   247




                              Writing the Challenger Program: The Two-Day Off-Site     247



              will need some kind of commonly agreed consumer foundation for the
              conversations you are going to have, that all the group buys into at the
              beginning. Otherwise, you will simply burn up half the workshop debating
              whom you should be talking to; while this is a conversation that needs to
              be had, you don’t want to bring 12 people together to have it.


              PREPARATION
              Our Own
              Then there must be Overcommitment. It may seem obvious, but we, as
              leaders of this initiative, cannot do an exercise like this as a ‘‘toe in the
              water.’’ It has to be viewed by us and others as a watershed, a catalyst
              for a change in attitude.
                  One practical reason for wholeheartedly attacking the exercise in this
              way is that the people whom you will want to be part of the two days will
              have other important issues and conflicting priorities coming up; within
              a week of scheduling, there will always be one prospective member of
              the group who will have one excellent excuse for not being able to at-
              tend. We have to decide what we are prepared to demand in order to
              ensure that everybody will be there, and will be a part of the opening of
              the group’s new thinking. What kind of example are we prepared to set
              that will in turn communicate our expectations of the importance of
              these two days to them?
                  There will also need to be Sacrifice. This group will need to be man-
              ageable—no more than 16 people initially, and preferably 12 to 14.
              Again, this will send a signal; we need to determine carefully our own
              personal objectives for the session. Who will be the core figures who will
              really make the difference—in this meeting and, by implication, there-
              after? Who will be excluded, and what message will that send to them
              and the world? What will be the public message the fact of this group
              sends, and how can we make that message as beneficial as possible?

              Their Preparation
              They should, at the very least, read a 10-page outline of Eating the Big
              Fish, and preferably the book itself. (You can request a 10-page outline
              by contacting adam@eatbigfish.com.) It is important that they each have
c13_1   01/06/2009     248




               248     EATING THE BIG FISH



               some basic knowledge of the benefits of looking at case histories out-
               side their own categories before coming to the off-site.
                   An optional piece of preparation to consider in addition might be
               this: Imagine you have replaced your existing board of directors or VP
               group—replaced not the people, but their titles and job responsibilities.
               Instead of VP of Sales, or Marketing, or Finance, or Customer Service,
               choose a title that reflects some of the ideas we have been talking
               about, for instance:

                    VP of Difference
                    VP of Momentum
                    VP of Offense and Defense
                    VP of the Big Fish
                    VP of Overlooked Equities

                   Give each attendee one of these new titles. Each is required to pre-
               pare and report to the group on the performance of the company over
               the past year with respect to each of these issues. For example, the VP of
               Difference would be required to pull together the five ways this product
               or service is genuinely different from the rest of the category or from the
               Market Leader. These differences will embrace current disadvantages as
               well as obvious advantages. Remember Avis: It was disadvantaged, so it
               tried harder.
                   The VP of the Big Fish would have the responsibility of ensuring the
               company has correctly identified, and is collectively focused on over-
               coming, the one central issue that poses the greatest challenge to a
               healthy and growing future for it. This report would focus on whether
               this was the case last year, whether there was perceived to be explicit
               agreement on the central challenge, the nature of the Big Fish, and
               whether the entire company or marketing group was putting its individ-
               ual and collective energies toward meeting that challenge.
                   The VP of Momentum would have the responsibility of looking at the
               actual (sales) and perceived (consumer impression) momentum of the
               company over the past 5 to 10 years. What were the contributors at
               times of greatest acceleration or slowing at each stage?
                   The VP of Overlooked Equities would have the task of examining the
               equities the brand has created and that have been important at key
c13_1   01/06/2009   249




                              Writing the Challenger Program: The Two-Day Off-Site   249



              points in its life, and why they might have a fresh relevance and meaning
              for a new world.
                  The VP of Offense and Defense would take Dieter Mateschitz’s idea
              of borrowing the structure of one’s marketing department from Ameri-
              can football, and would be tasked with a point of view of what these two
              departments would have as their brief on this brand, and how they
              would be best set up to genuinely deliver on these briefs as potent
              offensive and defensive teams.
                  Of course, there are any number of different kinds of inputs you
              might want to have. These are simply examples; the book may have
              stimulated others in your mind along the way.
                  Why is this stage optional? Because the response to it will depend on
              the kind of people you invite. You may decide your group is naturally
              imaginative and will embrace the lateral view required by an exercise of
              this type. Conversely, you may feel that one of the issues you face is that
              your group is highly rational in their approach and not yet imaginative
              enough. In the latter case, you may want to withhold such an exercise
              until some of the effects of the off-site have set in.
                  Regardless, ask everyone to bring to the meeting their sense of the
              Big Fish: What is the single greatest challenge facing the brand, the
              company, or the business?


              Collectively
              During the off-site, some basic rules of this kind of exploratory thinking
              will need to be observed:

              1. Nobody is allowed to say, ‘‘But my category is different.’’ Instead,
                 each has to work out what the parallel in their own category for any
                 given example would be. The example of how one extracts the rele-
                 vance from Google to a car dealership (in Chapter 3) might serve as a
                 reminder for those prone to forget the way this is done.
              2. All challenge should be positive. We all attend so many workshops
                 these days that this could come as second nature, but apparently it
                 doesn’t. You will need to be watchful for this.
              3. Strategy and ideas will travel together. We will interlink idea genera-
                 tion and tools to prompt bigger strategic thinking, and use one to
c13_1   01/06/2009   250




               250   EATING THE BIG FISH



                  inspire, stimulate, or make concrete the other. This will be particularly
                  valuable for the people in the room who are not used to conceptual
                  thinking; for these, an idea is often going to be the way they ‘‘see’’
                  the strategic path forward for your fledgling Challenger.
               4. Make sure the person with a pen capturing ideas at the front of the
                  room or in breakouts is not an editor. That person’s job (and yours) is
                  not to write up some ideas (the ones that person thinks are ‘‘good’’)
                  and not bother to write up others (the ones they think aren’t). If you
                  allow the person with the pen to behave in this way, you will find that
                  once people have volunteered two ideas or thoughts that don’t get
                  written up, the room gets pretty quiet pretty quickly. You don’t want
                  quiet—you want noisy. Make it clear to the group that there will be sep-
                  arate times in the workshop to collectively review and edit the outputs.


               Location
               It will be a large room, twice the size you technically need for the num-
               ber of people you have, with plenty of space to record your thinking and
               ideas around you. This room will be away from the office: Besides the
               symbolism of a new beginning, we will need focused attention.
                   Over the course of the two days, the purpose is not just to explore a
               number of different approaches to developing the company, or brand,
               and its business. In the spirit of the ‘‘Garage,’’ it is to create something
               altogether new: a new company, a new idea for the brand, a new place
               to start for the future. (You may wish to leave a version of this room,
               translated back to the office, in existence once the workshop has ended;
               this would remain your garage or war room, in which the core group can
               meet and implement the agreements reached after the initial meeting.)
                   We should note, finally, that these two days are not supposed to be
               either a quick fix or a substitute for a much longer process of marketing
               and cultural change. Put formally, the objectives may be said to be these:

               1. To begin to develop innovative strategic approaches that have the
                  potential to radically transform a company’s business
               2. To create the beginning of a new way of seeing the market and its
                  possibilities for the core marketing, production, and sales team of the
                  company
c13_1   01/06/2009   251




                              Writing the Challenger Program: The Two-Day Off-Site     251



              3. To help generate a new, more aggressive attitude toward business
                 development by and between all those present at the program

                 The workshop is intended, in short, to be a beginning, an accelera-
              tion, the first steps of the journey that a prospective Challenger needs
              to make: starting to get the rocket off the ground.


              THE TWO DAYS
              What follows are some suggested exercises for each stage. You should
              not try to do all of them—I have offered more rather than less, because
              each brand will be in a different stage of development, and one brand will
              need to focus on different kinds of stages from another. Certainly, there is
              too much to do in two days. Decide where you want the center of gravity
              to be in this kind of work, and structure your handful of exercises around it
              across the two days. The conversation and thinking that the exercises cre-
              ate are more important than the exercises themselves—don’t be so pre-
              occupied with getting through more exercises that you compromise on
              the conversation and cross fertilization. But equally, don’t let the group
              confuse conversation with progress—keep them moving forward.


              Stage One: Attitude and Preparation
              At the back end of everything we plan, we will need to drive behavior—
              completion is a major differentiator between companies. Many compa-
              nies dream, and many companies contain people who come up with po-
              tent ideas, but very few companies complete. This is because they never
              get the attitude right. Beginning to get the attitude right, then, is the
              first purpose of the Challenger Program. While this is the stage that peo-
              ple are most inclined to shortchange, it is probably the most important
              stage of all in the process.

              Breaking with the Immediate Past
              Premise
              Everything needs to be reconsidered, every assumption put in play—
              including the currently valued brand and advertising equities and the
              rules of the category.
c13_1   01/06/2009   252




               252    EATING THE BIG FISH



                   There is an important distinction to be made here between recon-
               sideration and rejection; we are not necessarily rejecting at this stage,
               but we are vigorously questioning everything. At the beginning of the
               two days, we are going to break with our immediate past in order to
               clear our minds, to be able to see clearly the real challenges, possibili-
               ties, and assets in front of us. As the two days pass, some of the values
               and assets we originally sink may float to the surface again. Others will
               be replaced. But unless everything is put aside, genuinely, right at the
               beginning, we will never be able to see the possibilities that present
               themselves.
                   At the same time, you will also want to identify a small selection of
               Givens—those two or three things that are not up for debate. These will
               include the name of your company/brand, perhaps, and one or two
               more, such as your defined consumer demographic (the psychographic
               may be one of the things that emerges from this process, in conjunction
               with your Lighthouse Identity). Do not feel compelled to have any of
               these as Givens (we have often done work where there are none at all,
               apart from the initial sense of the consumer); but you might want one or
               two constants, particularly if you are building from some good strategic
               thinking or research that has already taken place.


                 Exercise: ‘‘Grove’’

                 Fire ourselves. Leave the building and offices we have worked in.
                 Come into our new room as an entirely new team coming in. And
                 not just any new team—let us define our cultural set. We are practical
                 but imaginative entrepreneurs: Branson, Bezos, those Google guys.
                 Ambitious and in a hurry.
                    Imagine that we are looking at everything afresh. Instinctively,
                 what is the first thing that each of us would do with the fresh, realistic,
                 and ambitious eyes of our own successor?
                    Like the man who gave this exercise its name, we may wish to
                 divide this into two parts. First, identify the one thing we would stop
                 doing (in Grove’s case, this was staying in the memory business), and
                 then establish what is the one thing we would start doing instead
c13_1   01/06/2009     253




                                Writing the Challenger Program: The Two-Day Off-Site   253



                (e.g., focus on microprocessors). This is the first phase of breaking
               with our immediate past.
                   The second phase is to write the five ‘‘rules of the category’’ on the
               wall in front of us. Get the group to work in small teams to come up
               with a compelling reason why each individual rule is no longer valid.
                   Third, do the same for our brand. What are the five anchor stones
               of our marketing strategy? These will probably comprise:

                    Category definition
                    Target definition
                    The key brand equities
                    Brand promise
                    Valuable advertising equities
                 Again, ask the team put next to each definition at least one reason
               why it is no longer relevant. Write this counterpoint on the wall. Re-
               member, at this stage everything is in play.



              What Is Our Central Issue? Our Big Fish?
              Premise
              We get too involved in the day-to-day details, become snow-blind to
              the bigger issues and opportunities. Enmeshed in the logistics and the
              tactics of how to fight yesterday’s targets, we sometimes lose sight of
              the central issue we have to overcome now, the Big Fish we are up
              against today.



               Exercise: ‘‘Big Fish’’

               This session is about identifying the Big Fish: the challenge that will
               eat us if we don’t eat it first. Some of the potential answers to this will
               already have been thrown up (at least implicitly) in the reasoning be-
               hind the group’s answers during the previous exercise, but this ses-
               sion serves to make the articulation of this challenge more explicit
               and clearly defined.
                                                                              (Continued)
c13_1   01/06/2009       254




               254        EATING THE BIG FISH



                 (continued)
                    Ask the group to work in smaller groups to identify each of:
                 1. The key competitive issue
                 2. The key consumer issue
                 3. The key internal issue

                     And then highlight which of these three is genuinely the most im-
                 portant to our success.
                     Once all three areas have then been discussed in the room, agree
                 on the Big Fish. Write it on a central chart that dominates the room.
                 You may find as you progress through the two days that your
                 collective view of the Big Fish changes, but the group always needs
                 to have a commonly agreed, primary challenge in front of them. And
                 the nature of that challenge always needs to be a dominant and
                 influencing presence on the consequent attitude the team is going to
                 adopt to counter it.

                     
                         In my experience, people tend to start this process by thinking the Big Fish is one
                         of the first two. They tend to end up recognizing the key issue is in fact an internal
                         one.



               Stage Two: Intelligent Naivety
               Having identified our Big Fish, and put everything in play, it is now time
               to open our thinking to some of the possibilities before us. Two of them
               will focus on upending the conventions of the category, the other on
               learning from another category completely. (You won’t have time to do
               all three, so choose two.)

                 Exercise: ‘‘Dyson’’

                 Dyson had a demonstrably superior product, but also then wrapped
                 that product in a beautiful design. Yet if you had been working in the
                 vacuum cleaning category for years people would have told you that
                 no one wanted or would look at a beautiful vacuum design: Vacuum-
                 ing was a low-status, solitary activity. It seems they were wrong.
c13_1   01/06/2009   255




                              Writing the Challenger Program: The Two-Day Off-Site    255



                   So . . . write down two ‘‘truths’’ about the way the category has
               perceived itself and/or presented itself up to now. Then write down
               why they are no longer true.
                   Now write down the two ‘‘truths’’ about the way our brand has
               perceived and presented itself up to now. And then write down why
               these are no longer true. Share and discuss the answers to both
               questions.
                   The purpose of this exercise is not to reach unanimous agreement
               at this stage. It is simply to open up the thinking and liberate the
               group by letting them see and feel that we are opening up the
               thinking.
                   But it will also usually throw out one or more big thoughts and
               possibilities to be played out as you go further through the process.




               Exercise: ‘‘The Positive Negative’’

               Remember Nando’s and the Stones. They deliberately tried to be
               the opposite of everything the Market Leader represented. Create a
               photographic negative, so to speak, and make that into a positive
               and clearly different place to stand.
                   So there are two parts to this exercise. First, take a sheet of paper
               and draw a line down the middle. On the left-hand side, write down
               the 7 to 10 key qualities of the Market Leader: its personality, its style
               of product or service, what it emphasizes, how it positions the
               product role, how it uses media, and so on. On the right-hand side,
               simply write down what it would mean to be the opposite (or at least
               very different) on each of these dimensions for us as a brand.
                   Bear in mind that at this stage we are still exploring where our
               differentiation does and could lie—and the dimensions we could
               push that differentiation into: This is why we are doing this exercise.
               Be clear with the group that at this stage we are not at this stage
               trying to write the blueprint for the brand.
                   Discuss it in the room. In discussing which dimensions does the
               energy of the room rise? Why is that?
                                                                             (Continued)
c13_1   01/06/2009   256




               256   EATING THE BIG FISH



                 (continued )
                     Second, take another sheet of paper, draw a line down the
                 middle, and write down that same list of qualities and dimensions
                 you have identified in the first part of the exercise as being the
                 definers of the Market Leader.
                     Along those 7 to 10 key dimensions, now discuss where you need
                 to be the same as the Market Leader, to compete directly with them,
                 and where you need to be different (or significantly better). In the
                 gaming business, for instance, there were some critical dimensions
                 on which Nintendo had not matched the Market Leader in the past,
                 like choice of games. In launching the Wii, Nintendo didn’t want to
                 be different in this particular dimension—it knew it had to be at least
                 as good in order to really compete. It just wanted to match Play-
                 Station here. The Wii’s key compelling differences as a Challenger
                 would come on other key dimensions—the experience of the
                 gameplay, for example. Being a Challenger is not about changing
                 everything. It lies in knowing where you need to be different, and
                 where you need to be the same.


                 Exercise: ‘‘Schrager—Overlaying the Rules of Another
                 Category onto Your Own’’

                 This exercise is best done in breakout groups, in pairs. First, pick four
                 other Challenger brands that the group admires and that have no im-
                 mediate relationship to your own category. These might be, for
                 instance:

                 Linux in the software market
                 JetBlue in the airline market
                 Umpqua in the financial services market
                 Scion in the car market
                    Approach, then, the developing and marketing of your own brand
                 as if it were in their category. What are the ways that they broke
                 through in their market, and what would it mean to do exactly the
                 same kind of thing in yours? If we look at Linux, for instance, what
                 would open up our brand to that principle of collective co-creation
c13_1   01/06/2009   257




                              Writing the Challenger Program: The Two-Day Off-Site   257



               and, so to speak, put it at the heart of the brand? How would we build
               and nurture that community? Why would we champion this in our
               category? What would be the underlying belief or cause about why it
               is important, one that would unite this community for us and perhaps
               against the Market Leader? And so on.
                   Some may find it easier to think through the eyes of the founder of
               this other brand: How would the founders or marketing directors of
               these brands market our brand, treating it as if it (or some aspect of
               it) were the category they had come from?




              Stage Three: Challenger Strategy
              Building a Lighthouse Identity (Credo 2)
              Premise
              Fundamental to a Challenger’s success is a very clear sense of who you
              are, and the insistent and salient communication of that identity.
                  Furthermore, since a Challenger has fewer resources at its disposal
              than the Brand Leader it is at least indirectly taking on, it needs to make
              sure everything it does is communicating that identity as strongly as pos-
              sible; for a Challenger, everything communicates.



               Exercise: ‘‘The Brand Vault’’

               This is an exercise for an existing brand, to help rediscover what it
               stands for. It will clearly not be necessary for a new brand.
                   The underlying premise here is that the identity of the company
               already exists—that is, there are potentially valuable components of
               the brand’s past stored away in a metaphorical vault—and we just
               need to find the most relevant dimensions of those facts, equities, or
               ideas to the current challenge and amplify them. In this, we are
               attempting to extract (and reapply) value rather than add value.
                   Have someone either prepare a short presentation or an exhibit
               mounted on one of the walls of the room, which reviews:
                                                                            (Continued)
c13_1   01/06/2009   258




               258    EATING THE BIG FISH



                 (continued)
                    Why did the brand begin? Why was it first launched?
                    What were the three key factors in its early success (what it stood
                     for and why that mattered to people who responded to it at the
                     time)?
                    What kinds of people did it most appeal to at the time, and why?
                    What were the key moments in its innovation and communications
                     history that at some level defined the brand? Why were they so
                     powerful at the time? What could a re-expression of them mean
                     now, in a new cultural and social context?
                    What are the equities that have been created over time—either
                     visual equities or equities of any other form? What are ownable
                     brand assets to rebuild this brand from?

                    Identify three possible brand truths from this history that might, if
                 re-expressed in a relevant way, be part of the rock on which to build
                 our Lighthouse.




                 Exercise: ‘‘Product or Service Rock’’

                 Take Robin Wight’s famous invocation to ‘‘Interrogate the product
                 until it confesses its strengths.’’
                    Talk to the technical people, the scientists, the engineers, the
                 service trainers. Get the most interesting one or two of them on film.
                    Get them to tell you facts (what makes us different), underlying
                 philosophies, stories that they think define the culture, and what they
                 are most proud of.
                    What could be the two or three product or service truths we are
                 building from? That are uniquely ours, in fact or philosophy? What
                 could be the identity elements, the unique beliefs, and perspectives
                 on the category and the world, that we could ladder up from one or
                 more of these?
c13_1   01/06/2009     259




                               Writing the Challenger Program: The Two-Day Off-Site      259



               Exercise: ‘‘Defining the Challenge’’

               Having done some of this exploratory thinking, let us start to be clear
               on where is the center of our Challenge to the category or the culture
               going to lie? Which of these kinds of Challenge will it fall into?

                    Challenging some fundamental dimension or driver of our
                     category
                    Challenging some aspect of the way the consumer shops for,
                     experiences, or consumes our product
                    Challenging the culture surrounding the category
                    Challenging some broader aspect of contemporary culture
                    Challenging some dimension or quality of the competition or
                     Market Leader

                  Bearing in mind our discussion of these possible kinds of Chal-
               lenge in Chapter 5, remember that you will need to have a sense of
               two things: (1) which of these your Challenge will lie in and (2) whether
               the Challenge (at least initially) is going to be implicit or explicit in the
               way we express it.




               Exercise: ‘‘Going Binary’’

               This is a way of teasing out some of the outputs of the previous exer-
               cise. If you are already very clear on your challenge, you can simply
               move on.
                   In this exercise you are going to explicitly pair yourself with one
               other brand or one other kind of choice (e.g., a particular behavior) in
               the market. You are going to present the world to the consumer as
               one that comes down to just two choices. Do this in a couple of
               different ways—choices of actions, and choices of brands:
                    Actions. You can do this (and such and such a consequence will
                     happen) or you can do that (and a different consequence will hap-
                     pen).
                                                                               (Continued)
c13_1   01/06/2009   260




               260   EATING THE BIG FISH



                 (continued)
                   Brand choice. You can choose that brand and have that kind of
                    experience, or you can choose our brand and have this kind of
                    experience.

                 Important: The purpose here is as much to create clarity about what
                 the two choices are, as it is to see whether we would actually want
                 to talk about this in communications. The latter is a separate
                 conversation.




                 Exercise: ‘‘Two Kinds of People’’

                 In Chapter 5 we looked at the moment when we productively juxta-
                 posed ice cream people and yogurt people together. In this exercise
                 we do the same within our category and our brand; it will be particu-
                 larly useful for a group who are slightly intimidated by or jealous of
                 the opposition that they face.
                     What are you, as a challenger brand group, most jealous of
                 elsewhere in the category? What is the ‘‘gold standard’’ of the
                 category? The brand or product you all secretly (or openly) envy?
                     Write a piece about two different kinds of people—the people
                 who use your brand and the people who use this other brand or
                 product. Show the people who use your brand to their best
                 advantage (all the things you love about them). Show the people
                 who use this other brand or product at their worst (their smugness
                 and vanity, their pretensions, narrow-mindedness, and idiocies). How
                 would you compare them to one another to make your brand and
                 user group the one that is genuinely aspirational? (Remember our
                 observation, for example, that one of the classic beer strategies in
                 any market reflects a down-to-earth, blue-collar, no-nonsense, tell-it-
                 like-it-is attitude. Could this work in your category, too?)
                     Create two kinds of comparison that would give us an aspirational
                 attitude to wrap around our brand.
c13_1   01/06/2009   261




                             Writing the Challenger Program: The Two-Day Off-Site   261



               Exercise: ‘‘The Lighthouse Point of View’’

               What is our unique point of view about the world, building from some
               or all of the preceding exercises? What makes us different?
                  What is the category orthodoxy, if you like, and what is our unique
               take on it?
                  And why does this point of view really matter? Why would the
               world be the poorer without it?



               Exercise: ‘‘Picasso’’

               Having started to identify who we are, let’s now start to look at the
               degree to which we are and are not projecting that sense of self. This
               first stage is, in effect, an audit of our current projection.
                   Put on the wall every piece of marketing activity from the past two
               years, together with what is proposed for next year, if available.
                   Divide the activity into three groups:

               1. Which activity strongly communicates the identity?
               2. Which activity is consistent with the identity (even if it doesn’t
                  strongly promote it)?
               3. Which activity is not consistent with the identity?

                  Discard anything that falls into categories 2 and 3 (consistency is
               not enough: we should be looking to find a way of projecting strongly
               who we are and what we stand for). How much is left up on the wall?
               Which are the areas and activities from those we have taken down
               into which we should be devoting our creativity and energy in order
               to communicate our Lighthouse Identity?



               Exercise: ‘‘House Media’’

               Imagine your traditional paid-for media are denied you.
                   What you have at your disposal instead is all the media you are
               already producing, but just not seeing as media at the moment.
                                                                           (Continued)
c13_1   01/06/2009   262




               262   EATING THE BIG FISH



                 (continued)
                   Packs, bottle tops, boxes, internal wrapping, price tags, shelf
                 displays, cardboard outers, delivery vehicles, door signs—anything
                 and everything you are already making. How could you brightly
                 project your identity and your message through these as media?
                    It may be of value to add impetus to this exercise through the
                 concept of ‘‘doubling and denying’’: How would you use these kinds
                 of media to double your awareness with your current audience if you
                 were denied your current dominant medium?



               Assuming Thought Leadership of the Category (Credo 3)
               Premise
               In order to achieve rapid growth, a Challenger must develop a new kind
               of relationship with the consumer for the category. This is done through
               the selective breaking of key conventions in the category, such as those
               of representation, medium, and experience.
                   There is a choice of exercises in this section, which offer practical and
               substantive ways of thinking about convention breaking. How many you
               try in the time you have set aside depends on how well they work and
               how much time you have available. If one proves unrewarding for your
               brand or in your situation, then move on.



                 Exercise: ‘‘Schultz’’

                 When Starbucks began, one of the striking things that Howard
                 Schultz succeeded in doing was turning what should have been a
                 bad part of the experience (waiting in line for a cup of coffee) into
                 a very good part of the experience: a moment of education (show-
                 ing us how beans were roasted) and feeling of sophistication (con-
                 templating the language of the menu choices) in an otherwise
                 humdrum day.
                    In this exercise, then, identify the part of the purchase/consump-
                 tion process that consumers currently like least and then look at how
c13_1   01/06/2009     263




                                Writing the Challenger Program: The Two-Day Off-Site   263



                you would turn it into their favorite part of the experience. What
               could you add to that moment that would make it unexpectedly
               positive?
                  Some prompts to consider here might be: What could give our
               target a sense of discernment of reward? A sense of learning, or the
               pleasure of play? What would make them feel special? Individual?
               Flatter them? Increase their sense of self-esteem?




               Exercise: ‘‘Galliano’’

               John Galliano used unusually evocative invitations to heighten his
               audience’s expectations of the show they were about to experience.
               This exercise looks at how we might precondition our consumers be-
               fore they experience our brand or come into contact with us.
                  First we need to identify the following:

                    The expectations the consumer has of us.
                    The gateways they pass through to interacting with us (e.g., land-
                     ing at an airport or checking into a hotel if I am a car rental
                     company).
                  How could we use these gateways to raise the level of expectation
               and favorable predisposition toward our product? (And what would
               we have to be sure we could deliver to ensure those expectations
               were met?)




               Exercise: ‘‘Pinter’’

               Sir Harold Pinter remarked that sometimes speech is just a strategy to
               cover nakedness. This exercise is to push our point of view beyond
               speech (on pack, in the homepage, in an ad, and so on), and to actu-
               ally make it impact what we do. It is after all the way Lighthouse
               brands behave, the actions they take over and above what messages
                                                                              (Continued)
c13_1   01/06/2009   264




               264   EATING THE BIG FISH



                 (continued)
                  they use, that really cement their relationship with the consumer and
                 their place in popular culture. Think of Dove with its Self-Esteem
                 Fund, and programs for schools.
                     So in this exercise you are asked to divide your media budget into
                 two. Half is a ‘‘saying’’ budget, to be used in communication through
                 media as we have always done. The other half is a ‘‘doing’’ budget,
                 to be spent in activities or events that demonstrate the brand is
                 serious about living its chosen Lighthouse Identity.
                     What would you spend your doing budget on, in order to really
                 live out and exemplify your point of view?




                 Exercise: ‘‘Areas of Impact’’

                 Use the map and process described in Chapter 15. Where are you
                 going to use your Lighthouse Identity to create Thought Leadership
                 on this map?
                    Push out toward the edges—think of each area as having a ten-
                 point scale, with 0 at the center and 10 at the outer edge. What
                 would it take to deliver a 10 on your chosen dimension, rather than
                 simply an 8?
                    Distinguish in doing this exercise between acts of Thought
                 Leadership which you would only do for a limited time, and those
                 that might become permanent and signature parts of your
                 experience.




                 Exercise: ‘‘Focus’’

                 Remember the chutzpah of the German magazine launch.
                    Take two symbolic properties or icons associated with the Market
                 Leader and steal them for yourself.
                    Which would they be?
                    And how would you do it in an engaging and highly visible way?
c13_1   01/06/2009     265




                               Writing the Challenger Program: The Two-Day Off-Site   265



              Creating Symbols of Re-evaluation (Credo 4)
              Premise
              You need to force rapid appraisal or reappraisal of your brand, generat-
              ing salience and momentum.


               Exercise: ‘‘Hayek’’

               Phase One

               Agree on the key consumer complacencies that stand between the
               company or brand and rapid growth—or, indeed, success at all.
                 Of all of these, which is the dominant consumer complacency?

               Phase Two

               What single piece of communication about our brand would change,
               puncture, or reverse this complacency? (You may want to make this
               three communication points, as Swatch did with ‘‘Swatch. Swiss.
               60DM’’).
                  In particular, suppose you could put some incarnation of your
               product on the tallest skyscraper in the city for two weeks:

                    What product or idea would it be?
                    In what form would it appear?
                    What three things would you write on it?



               Exercise: ‘‘Radcliffe’’

               We saw Daniel Radcliffe breaking down his transition from lovable
               magical moppet to credibly versatile adult actor into a sequence of
               clear and purposefully staged Symbols of Re-evaluation.
                  What is the journey we need to make to get to our challenger
               future?
                  What are the three steps it would break down into, and what
               would be the clear Symbol of Re-evaluation we would introduce in
               order to take the consumer with us at each stage?
c13_1   01/06/2009     266




               266      EATING THE BIG FISH



               Stage Three: Translating Strategy into Challenger Behavior
               Sacrifice: What Are We Going to Sacrifice? (Credo 5)
               Premise
               One or two marketing actions are going to make 80 percent of the dif-
               ference in the fortunes of the brand next year. The rest must be Sacri-
               ficed in order to make achieving these priorities possible.
                   The question of what those one or two things actually might be,
               when taken in isolation, is obviously much easier to answer in retrospect
               than in advance. There may, then, be value in beginning with the past:
               When reviewing all the marketing activities that took place last year,
               which were the one or two that made 80 percent of the difference? What
               real difference would it have made to the performance of the brand to
               have Sacrificed everything else?
                   Then apply that learning to this year: Does this give us an indication
               of how we can decide what the critical points will be again this year?
                   It may be useful to distinguish between goals and activities:

                    On the wall, write the year’s goals for the brand. If it helps, break
                     these goals down into the marketing areas discussed in the first stage
                     of day one (audience, distribution, media, etc.).
                     Which is the least important?
                     Cut it.
                     The next least important?
                     Cut it.
                     Cut them down one by one, until we are down to two.
                     Stand back. Using last year as a guide, how much have we really lost?
                    Write up all the marketing activities aimed at achieving these two
                     goals.
                     Cut them down to two.
                     If you could commit to only these two activities, on these two goals—
                     but could overcommit on them—how successful would the brand be?

               Overcommit (Credo 6)
               Then, clearly, we need to ensure genuine success for the few critical
               areas that we have agreed Challenger success depends on.
                  We need to aim two feet below the brick.
c13_1   01/06/2009   267




                              Writing the Challenger Program: The Two-Day Off-Site    267



               Exercise: ‘‘innocent’’

               For each core marketing task, name three irrefutable reasons it will
               fail (or be diluted into mediocrity). Then brainstorm the most effective
               way of neutralizing or reversing each of them.
                   What does two feet below the brick look like, then, in overcoming
               that resistance?



              Using Communications and Publicity to Enter
              Social Culture (Credo 7)
              You will have business partners with you who will be developing ideas
              that will give you the profile and visibility you need. Here are three exer-
              cises to help clarify the mind-set you will need.


               Exercise: ‘‘Stance’’

               Review the different kinds of challenger stances in Chapter 12. Which
               of these stances best informs how we will be positioning ourselves in
               that market? How do other challengers we admire use communica-
               tions and publicity in taking that stance? How are they able through
               their use of this stance to accomplish much more than we seem to be
               at the moment? What should be the implications of that for us going
               forward?




               Exercise: ‘‘Ross’’

               Remember the story of the 42BELOW team and the story they
               created about buying the Navy frigate.
                  Give every member of the group one of today’s newspapers. They
               have 20 minutes. Each member of the group has to come up with
               three stories taken from that newspaper which they could use to
               create publicity around your Lighthouse Identity.
                                                                             (Continued)
c13_1   01/06/2009   268




               268   EATING THE BIG FISH



                 (continued)
                    Share the stories, and how they could be used. From a group of
                 12 people, you will now have 36 suggestions.
                    Which are the most overlapping? More important, which one or
                 two gave the group the most energy when it was read out loud?
                 Which one would make an arresting picture? Which could you go out
                 and do later today?



                 Exercise: ‘‘Ryanair’’

                 Ryanair is supposed to have had, at one point, a policy of issuing
                 three press releases a day (although there is always the possibility
                 that this was simply a story in one of its own press releases). Let us
                 take this organizational thought very seriously, though, at this point.
                    How would we need to think about structuring ourselves and our
                 behavior in order to genuinely be able to deliver three interesting
                 press releases a day? Not to brief someone else to do it, but to be
                 able to deliver it ourselves?
                    Identify three key changes you would need to make in the people,
                 the structure, the internal relationships with the rest of the company,
                 or any other aspect of how you currently operate.
                    What is to stop you from doing these tomorrow?



               SUMMARY AND PLAN
               The purpose of the final part of the two days is to pull out the key strands
               of thinking agreed on by everyone, while not yet judging irrevocably the
               thoughts that were thrown up or fixating prematurely on any new con-
               necting tissue that emerged from one exercise to another.
                   Three questions, then, will serve as a summary at the end of the sec-
               ond day:

               1. What is the Big Fish?
               2. Who are we? What is our unique point of view and why does it
                  matter?
c13_1   01/06/2009    269




                               Writing the Challenger Program: The Two-Day Off-Site   269



              3. What are the three ideas in each section that have the most opportu-
                 nity to transform our business?

                 Note that there are no exercises during these two days for the imple-
              mentation of the Eighth Credo. This process will begin at a rather later
              stage of the overall journey.


              What Next?
              Arrange a follow-up day or two to take place four weeks later. Give over
              a third of that time to pulling everything together: Which ideas and con-
              cepts continue to seem to be central to your future as a Challenger?
                  Spend a third of the time examining how well equipped you are as a
              company to making the journey, in terms of the following:
                 Partners
                 Passion
                 Knowledge
                 Ideas
                 Titles and remits
                 Culture

                  Spend the last third of the time preparing an initial plan for the next
              six months, to cover both external (consumer) marketing and the signals
              and briefs that will herald the beginning of adopting a Challenger mind-
              set internally.
                  Then Overcommit to it.
c14_1   01/06/2009   270




                 14
               THE SCOPE OF THE
               LIGHTHOUSE KEEPER
                     The Lamps shall be kept burning bright and clear every night from
                     sunset to sunrise . . .
                                              From Duties of the Light-Keepers, 1847
                           By-laws and Rules and Regulations of the Commissioners of
                                                                Northern Lighthouses




               WHEN IS A BRAND NOT A BRAND?
               It’s hard, frankly, to find a Challenger who just wants to be a brand any-
               more. Method and Scion describe themselves as lifestyles, Red Bull is a
               philosophy, Dove an agent of change, Facebook a movement.
                    There’s a reason for that. Richard Reed of innocent explains his reluc-
               tance to talk about innocent as a brand, because he feels brands are
               inherently contrived and artificial things, and from the bottom of his be-
               ing he doesn’t want innocent to be something contrived. The founder of
               Jones Soda makes a more general observation about the current zeit-
               geist: ‘‘Look at somebody like Jon Stewart. Why is he so funny and so
               in sync with people? Because he’s real. And Coke says it’s real. But say-
               ing it and being it are two different things. So if you say it, you better be
               it.’’1 So this chapter will explore how Lighthouse Identities manifest
               their ‘‘realness’’ (i.e., their real footprint) in the way they develop their

               270
c14_1   01/06/2009   271




                                                The Scope of the Lighthouse Keeper     271



              experience and relationship with the world around them. Which primary
              areas do they need to genuinely impact, and what is the relationship be-
              tween those areas?
                  First, though, let’s review some of the advice the marketing world is
              giving us as Keepers of the Lighthouse, with responsibility to turn this
              sense of our brand into actions and behaviors, and be clear about which
              pieces of that advice we are and are not going to pay attention to. We
              have noted throughout the book that the dynamic emergence of new
              kinds of technologies, and people’s restlessly inventive exploration of
              the possibilities that are created by and within these technologies (the
              connections, cultures, voices, and leverage that they make possible),
              make the world (and therefore the world of brands) a hugely fluid and
              dynamic place in which to live. They make it a hard place in which simply
              to stay where we are, even if we wanted to, and a hugely stimulating
              environment in which to chart our future. And in this environment, all
              around us we hear regularly repeated a number of key precepts for pro-
              gression, such as ‘‘dialogue not monologue,’’ ‘‘the consumer is in con-
              trol,’’ ‘‘the imperative of transparency,’’ and ‘‘everything is social.’’
                  Which of these, and others like them, should we really pay attention
              to? What does this new sociodigital economy mean for us as Lighthouse
              Keepers, so to speak, of our Lighthouse brands? And if the consumer is
              now in control, who is the keeper of the Lighthouse, anyway?


              WHO IS THE LIGHTHOUSE KEEPER, ANYWAY?
              Here’s a very simple question. If you are the Church of Scientology, who
              is the ‘‘Lighthouse Keeper’’ so to speak? Is it the church’s chief? Is it Tom
              Cruise, as its most famous public figure and proponent? Or is it Gawker,
              the website that first posted Cruise’s controversial Scientology video,
              which within months of the posting picked up 2.5 million hits for the vid-
              eo, and has arguably done as much to shape the public perception of
              the ‘‘brand’’ of Scientology in those few months as years of carefully con-
              trolled communication from the church itself?
                  Or, if you are a cognac brand, and a rapper starts singing about you,
              and the song hits number one on the charts and is splashed across every
              music video station, causing it to be seen and heard by more people
              than anything you (as the brand owner) do this year, then who is the
c14_1   01/06/2009     272




               272      EATING THE BIG FISH



               Lighthouse Keeper? If you are a Challenger for the Democratic nomina-
               tion for President in the U.S. elections, and supporters post upbeat vid-
               eos—an attractive woman singing her admiration for you (‘‘Obama
               Girl’’), a selection from key speeches set to music (‘‘Yes We Can’’)—or
               some primary influencers of U.S. culture (Oprah) pitch your case, who is
               the Lighthouse Keeper?
                  Not so simple a question. With reference to Obama, the Boston
               Globe answered it (in part) like this:

                     Oprah Winfrey . . . is now trying to lead the public in the presiden-
                     tial campaign. Whether the public will listen is another, open
                     question; if her candidate of choice, Barack Obama, prevails in the
                     early primaries . . . he might owe as much credit to ‘‘Obama Girl.’’
                     That was the YouTube video sensation that solidified his image as
                     someone hip, handsome and new. And Obama was smart enough
                     not to protest. Like other politicians who came to terms with the
                     Internet this season, he learned that you can’t control the snarks.
                     You can only ride the wave.2

                  The way that many people interpret this kind of profound change is
               to say that now ‘‘the consumer is in control.’’ The Obama Girl video, af-
               ter all was apparently made by ordinary people who were fans of the
               Democrat. But of all the current mantras about modern marketing, the
               notion that the consumer is now ‘‘in control’’ is surely the most confused
               and dangerous.
                  One can understand the temptation to believe it—look at the
               evidence:

                    While most consumers are paying no more attention to the daily
                     bread-and-butter brands around them than they ever were (as we
                     saw in Chapter 2), a handful of vocal consumers, however, are paying
                     much more attention to them, and have much more potential in-
                     fluence, than ever before. The combination of the blogosphere and
                     Web 2.0 gives this smaller group of consumers the ability not simply
                     to post their opinions about your brand and company, and the
                     actions of both, but also gives the ability to determined and vocal
                     individuals to have a disproportionately high influence on the world’s
c14_1   01/06/2009    273




                                                The Scope of the Lighthouse Keeper    273



                  perceptions of your brands. Hilary Clinton calls this the symptom of a
                  ‘‘hyperdemocracy’’—a citizenry of state or marketplace that is
                  informed, plugged in, and able to make their voices heard (from their
                  desks) at a level of noise and influence never previously experienced.
                  So, for instance, when in 2004 a single (though respected) blog post-
                  ed a story that there was going to be a serious delay in two of Apple’s
                  key new launches, the iPhone and the Leopard operating system, Ap-
                  ple shares plummeted in value by $4 billion within half an hour. The
                  story was in fact unfounded—Apple issued a denial, and the stock
                  bounced back—but the unprecedented power of an individual to af-
                  fect a huge business was profoundly demonstrated. It used to be said
                  that if you were satisfied as a customer, you talked to three people; if
                  you were dissatisfied, you talked to 10 to 20 people. Nowadays, if
                  you are dissatisfied and can edit film, you can talk to hundreds of
                  thousands, perhaps millions. Conversely, if you are Will.i.am and can
                  write a song supporting your favored Democratic candidate, and edit
                  it to incorporate one of his speeches, you can create an idea that will
                  be seen by 18 million people. There are 70 million bloggers out there
                  with a point of view, and who want to share that point of view.
                 Should they want it, all of our consumers have more access to infor-
                  mation on brands and products than ever before—either because
                  they themselves can see ‘‘behind the curtain,’’ and inside the
                  company (Starbucks Gossip) or because they have access to user
                  groups (e.g., Amazon reviewers, flickr posters, TripAdvisor) that have
                  passed this way before.
                 Brands are actively inviting consumers to play with them, whether
                  creating their own scenarios in gaming, customizing their cars, or
                  making their advertising (the Doritos Super Bowl spots, written by
                  consumers, lifted sales of a static brand 15 percent).
                 Some consumers are playing with brands within this new public
                  sphere, whether they are invited to or not, from customizing a
                  brand’s products for entirely different uses, to shooting and posting
                  videos that are their creative comments on those brands.
                 Whole new brands and brand movements are being formed in effect
                  by consumers themselves (in reality there is always a founder and
                  center to them but the democratic nature of these brands means that
                  the consumer is one or all of creator, voter, and decision maker. From
c14_1   01/06/2009     274




               274     EATING THE BIG FISH



                     open-source software to clothing companies where all the designs
                     are created and chosen by the community of creators themselves, to
                     information sources, news sites, and financial services.

                   We need, however, to make a critical distinction between recogniz-
               ing the power and ability of creative consumers to impact our brands on
               the one hand (bringing with it the opportunity to co-create with them),
               and the notion of ceding control to them on the other. Real clarity about
               the difference between these two things will be critical to us and the way
               we manage our brand.
                   First, consumers, the vast majority of consumers, are not busy co-
               creating brands, whatever you may read in the blogs. They are getting
               on with their lives. They may be vigilant for BS, and a few of them may
               be posting videos of rats in the Taco Bell restaurant in Greenwich Village
               or of service engineers dozing on their couches, and a much larger group
               may be very happy to watch those videos when they are forwarded to
               them, and may be doing a little benign customization now and again of
               their own on MySpace/Facebook/Bebo, but the vast majority of people
               are not trying to take control of anything in the world of brands. They
               have more important things to do—pay the bills, feed the kids, prepare
               for the meeting, worry about why the weather is changing so much.
                   Second, for the most part they don’t actually want to take control of
               external things like brands. What they really want is for brands to take
               control of themselves—for brands to be real, to have some ethics, to
               actually do what they say, to not disappoint them. And, increasingly,
               they want brands to play a part in making the world a better place while
               they are at it.
                   To frame this as ‘‘the consumer is in control’’ is to think of it the wrong
               way. It is absolutely true that the consumer has an ability to influence us
               as never before and that we are not the only ones controlling the image
               of our brand these days, and that this is a future that we need to lean
               into. And as we said, there clearly are brands over which the consumer is
               very much in control, because that is the brand’s nature/product
               (Wikipedia) or business model (Threadless). And we can also choose, like
               Doritos, to put the consumer at key points in control of certain aspects of
               what our brand does or says. But most of us are not, nor should we be,
               handing over control of the brand to the consumer. They don’t want
c14_1   01/06/2009   275




                                               The Scope of the Lighthouse Keeper    275



              that, and we shouldn’t want it. They want us to actually stand for
              something—to be a Lighthouse rather than an amoeba. This does not
              mean we have to be always in broadcast mode—we can and will, of
              course, have a two-way conversation. But having a Lighthouse Identity
              means we will engage in that two-way conversation always coming
              from a very particular perspective, one all our own.
                  In the same way, let us be careful of the idea one also hears bandied
              about that the consumer wants ‘‘complete transparency.’’ Some con-
              sumers do, in some categories. And most consumers want brands to do
              the right thing, to be what they say they are—and they understandably
              become aggrieved if you take an ethical stance and then your CEO is
              found engaging in unethical activities (Whole Foods). But do they really
              want to know why meat is so cheap? No. Do they really want to know
              how much that $150 pair of sneakers costs to make? No. There are some
              truths they don’t want to see at all. They are, after all, simply human.
                  So let us recognize and embrace the way the world is changing, but
              let us be very clear as Challengers and keepers of our individual Light-
              house brands about what that does and doesn’t mean for us. In sum-
              mary, it is not a conversation about who does or doesn’t have control. In
              many ways, it is more useful to think that ‘‘we now have more kinds of
              communications and content partners.’’ Some we pay, some we don’t.
              Some we brief, some we don’t. Some are strident, some playful. Some
              are selfish, some community-minded. But on all sides they will play,
              essentially one of four roles:

              1. Proposition (‘‘Love this!’’). Target has a number of Facebook groups
                 devoted to loving it.
              2. Opposition (‘‘Hate this!’’). ‘‘Keep Austin Weird’’ is a community rally-
                 ing cry, mostly seen on bumper stickers and T-shirts, resisting the in-
                 creasing commercial homogenization of a proudly idiosyncratic town
                 in southwest Texas.
              3. Play and display (‘‘Look at this!’’). Ikea hackers is an engaging com-
                 munity of people who are innovating with basic IKEA products, then
                 posting and sharing their ideas with like-minded souls (a television
                 base turned into a tortoise tank, for example). They are not advocat-
                 ing that IKEA move into full-time manufacture of tortoise tanks—they
                 are just showing others what they have done.
c14_1   01/06/2009   276




               276   EATING THE BIG FISH



               4. Create/Re-create (‘‘Make this!’’ or sometimes ‘‘Put this right!’’).
                  These center more on product-centric issues: whereas Opposition
                  has to do with a macroissue or brand (people who hate Starbucks, for
                  instance), this has to do with making or improving products within a
                  brand (Dell, for example).

                   The more interesting and important question for us to devote our
               energies to, then, is how to build our ability to feed, trigger, and re-
               spond to each of these sources of consumer energy around our brand.
                   So we still have to keep the Lighthouse. We are going to engage with
               the consumer, but we are not going to simply give over what we stand
               for to them; they don’t want that, and nor should we. We are going to
               recognize the ways in which communities of consumers unite around
               Challengers such as ours, which stand for something in the popular
               imagination, and explore ways to feed the most beneficial forms of this
               kind of energetic community.
                   And we are also as Lighthouse Keepers going to need to have a very
               clear sense of what our scope as a brand is, moving forward, in terms of
               the key agendas our Lighthouse Identity will want or need to impact.


               THE FOUR KEY AGENDAS
               We have noted throughout the book that while Challengers have a cen-
               tral point of view, what matters is what they do that projects that point of
               view: the agenda they use to pursue it.
                   The word agenda comes from the Latin word ago, which means ‘‘I
               do’’ or ‘‘I make happen.’’ If I asked you to talk about any of the Chal-
               lengers we have discussed so far, you would find one of the easiest
               things to talk about is something they did. And if we look at how
               Challengers translate their point of view, we can see that they have
               four different kinds of agendas, the most common areas that seem to
               make up their canvas of implementation, which can be represented
               on a map as shown in Figure 14.1. The map will represent in effect
               both our scope and our brief: Once we have mapped the scope, we
               will look at how we as Challengers need to implement across it, in
               terms of our product development, our social and ethical policies,
               and our experience design.
c14_1   01/06/2009                          277




                                                                                       The Scope of the Lighthouse Keeper                                  277


              FIGURE 14.1 The Four Most Common Agendas.

                                                                 The Convenience Agenda

                                                                                         Ease
                                                                       ence             of Use                  fU
                                                                  veni                                            se
                                                               Con of
                                                                                                          Spe
                                                                        ess                                  ed o
                                                                   Acc




                Social and Ethical Agenda
                                                                                                                                                   nce
                                                                                                                                          rforma
                                                                                                                                 uc  t Pe




                                                                                                                                                         Product Agenda
                                                   Society                                                                   Prod
                                                                                       outhseouIdse
                                                                             LiLg  itghh         net
                                                                                 h     Product
                                                                                        Product       ity
                                                                                                                           Polysensory Engagement
                                                                                         Rock
                                                                                         Roc
                                                  The Planet
                                                                                                                               Des
                                                                                                                                    ign
                                                                                                                                          Aes
                                                                                                                                                thet
                                                                                                                                                    ic
                                                                                ies
                                                                Dee
                                                                    p                                                 n&
                                                               & N Partic                                        atio
                                                                  urtu    ip                                 aliz ation
                                                                       red ation                         son
                                                                          Com                         Per stomiz
                                                                              mun                        Cu
                                                                                  it
                                                                                 Interactivity

                                                                      Participative Agenda


                  The desire in doing it this way is to break away from channel-based
              implementation schematics, which have historically been the character-
              istic of ‘‘360-degree implementation’’ plans. If we had been going to
              pursue that kind of model, then we would put the Lighthouse at the cen-
              ter and all the different kinds of communication and engagement chan-
              nel around the outside, to show that this would be projected in all
              directions and through all media.
                  But we know this already—we don’t need a map to tell us that. This
              instead is a strategic map, rather than a communications map. It looks
              instead at the four most common areas of necessary impact for us as
              Challengers, which our Lighthouse Identity will need to influence, each
              of which can be amplified and promoted through a variety of activation
c14_1   01/06/2009   278




               278   EATING THE BIG FISH



               and media channels. Once we have looked at the shape and nature of
               these four areas of strategic impact, we will then look at how we choose
               from them in our implementation strategy to further our understanding
               of where the key opportunities might lie in the creation of Thought Lead-
               ership, in how we are going to use Symbols of Re-evaluation, and where
               we need to Sacrifice and Overcommit.
                   In looking at Figure 14.1, the agendas should be considered as four
               separate areas, each moving dynamically outward (rather than each
               strand being one of a pair of axes whose ends are polar opposites). The
               further we push out along each of them, the more the way we are using it
               will push what is expected in the category: So the degree in which we
               deliver against each dimension will obviously be as critical as the dimen-
               sion itself. As such, it will help us clarify where we are going to manifest
               our differences as a Challenger—that is, on which of these dimensions
               we are going to be the same (product quality, perhaps) and on which of
               these dimensions we are going to be surprisingly different, either per-
               manently different or temporarily different through in-and-out acts of
               Thought Leadership.
                   At the very center of the map is the meaning of our Challenger
               brand—the product rock or brand truth on which everything we do is
               based, and the Lighthouse Identity we have wrapped around it. The four
               agendas coming from this, then, are the four areas of impact on which
               we see Challengers today most commonly using to spearhead their
               challenge to the market, as forms of expression for their Lighthouse
               Identity, their differentiated offer to the consumer.
                   Let us discuss each of them in turn.3


               The Ease and Convenience Agenda
               The first agenda centers on how convenient it is for the consumer to ac-
               cess us, and how easy we are to use or navigate when they do. Although
               these pragmatic dimensions are often overlooked in brands, we see rap-
               idly growing Challengers profiting from Overcommitting in exactly these
               areas. The convenience of the early Amazon, the reassuring simplicity of
               the early Google (and it is easy to forget now how cluttered some of its
               competitors became), the simple accessibility of ING Direct, the wrap-
               ping of Kodak’s digital camera benefit in the whole concept of
c14_1   01/06/2009   279




                                               The Scope of the Lighthouse Keeper     279



              EasyShare—all of these clearly point to opportunity if we choose genu-
              inely to see this agenda for what it might represent in our category.
                   Just so we are clear about the difference between terms, conve-
              nience has to do with the ease of access we give our consumers (at their
              fingertips, put in their path, don’t have to leave the car to buy it, every-
              thing they need aggregated in one place for them). Ease of use has to
              do with how easy it is to use the service or product when I have accessed
              it (liberatingly easy technology, like the Flip video camera or insurance
              services that make it easy to file claims). And speed of use has to do with
              how little time it takes to access the benefit (Virgin Atlantic’s ‘‘Limo to
              Lounge in 10 minutes,’’ for example).


              The Product Agenda: The Different Dimensions
              of Our Product Experience
              Researching the first edition of this book in the late 1990s, it was voguish
              in marketing circles to talk about the unimportance of product—that all
              products had effectively reached parity in most categories (even ones as
              historically product-led as cars) and the only real connection to be made
              in every category was an emotional one. (You have to bear in mind that
              at that time this was essentially a packaged goods or superbench-
              marked service world, which perhaps accounts for the nod to the zeit-
              geist of ‘‘product superiority is dead; it’s all about emotional branding
              now.’’) In the past 10 years, however, the marketing emphasis has very
              much swung back again to product. Apple and Jonathan Ive have led
              the way in reminding us that products have the ability to fill us with won-
              der again. The digital world has shown us extraordinary functionality in
              Google and Wikipedia (anything we could want to know, and more, in
              0.23 seconds), and we see a more recent generation of Challengers be-
              yond the digital domain also changing the game through the product
              functionality and experience: Dyson, Lush, Wii. So product performance
              is back, though back with a difference. Because in the post-iMac/-iPod/
              iPhone world, the focus on product development is not simply about a
              better functionality (although that is a key dimension), but often about
              being accompanied by a more enticingly polysensory relationship with
              the brand—whether you are talking about malt whisky (Glenmorangie),
              fabric conditioner (Snuggle) or chewing gum (5, from Wrigley).
c14_1   01/06/2009   280




               280   EATING THE BIG FISH



               Sometimes this polysensuality is real, sometimes cued (the sensuality of
               the posters on the walls of American Apparel). And a key part of this
               experiential element lies also in the aesthetic/design appeal of the
               packaging or product form, which is why it has been given its own vector
               here in Figure 14.1. method is just one brand to recognize the opportu-
               nity to market oneself through an exceptional design aesthetic, even at a
               mass market level. One might argue there are now a number of catego-
               ries where the distinction between product and package is in reality now
               an entirely blurred one. And it is no accident that method started its
               mainstream life in Target, which is doing so much to democratize design
               in the United States.
                   So there are three dimensions to the way we can pursue the product
               agenda: product performance, polysensory experience, and design aes-
               thetic. All key, all obviously interrelated. So understanding our Light-
               house Identity as we do, where are we going to simply compete within
               these, and where are we going to surprise? Where are we going to be
               Thought Leaders? Where are we constrained by consumers’ complacen-
               cies about the limits of the category—which, in other words, might re-
               quire Symbols of Re-evaluation to break through?


               The Participative Agenda
               Everything is social: The world is one of increasing interactivity between
               networks of people. It always was—such is the nature of man as a social
               animal—but the combination of technology, Web 2.0, and the change in
               our trusted source of authority (from being public figures, institutions,
               and experts to more of a peer-based authority model) means this inter-
               activity is now able to, and in some areas needs to, enter the brand-
               buyer relationship as well. This will require us to consciously ‘‘Break the
               plane’’ (remembering Chapter 7) and create not just a closer relationship
               with the consumer, but a more deliberately interactive one.
                   There are three dimensions to this agenda. First, we need to distin-
               guish between basic interactivity and deep participation. Basic interac-
               tivity and participation between consumers and brands are now
               becoming key dynamics in every category around us. Even the most his-
               torically quiet and static of experiences—museums, for instance—are
               deliberately moving away from being frozen places of exhibition and
c14_1   01/06/2009   281




                                               The Scope of the Lighthouse Keeper    281



              becoming much more two-way and interactive, not simply in terms of
              online interactivity (the best museums, which post everything from knit-
              ting to video art on the Internet, have 7 to 10 times as many online visi-
              tors as they do in-person visitors), but in the museum experience itself.
              This evolving sense of the social nature of the experience is echoed in
              the world’s leading retailers. Virgin’s Vice President of Marketing for its
              Entertainment Group, which includes the US Virgin Megastores, notes:
              ‘‘I think that even with everything we have online, the most interactive of
              experiences is shopping in the store . . . . Our customers have come to
              expect a really dynamic environment. Retail space is now less about
              inventory management and more of a social experience.’’4 The empha-
              sis here is obviously on social—we all understand the importance of
              experience in itself. This is the vector labeled Basic Interactivity.
                   But there will also be a group of people who will offer the chance of
              much deeper participation here—communities built around the social
              object that the brand represents. Communities who will help do each of
              the four activities we saw earlier: (1) communities that will want to
              engage, (2) communities that will be prepared to co-create, (3) commu-
              nities that will oppose, (4) communities that will look to improve. meth-
              od is, in its own words, ‘‘People against Dirty.’’ And that does not mean
              method is simply a company consisting of ‘‘people working on the
              brand who are against dirty,’’ but that method is deliberately trying to
              create a community of users of the brand, all of whom represent the
              brand in this way. (We note again that if you are trying to create a com-
              munity, it is useful for them to have something to rally against—in this
              case, dirt.).
                   We have been noting throughout the book that this new world we are
              moving into will force us to reexamine some of our basic vocabulary. We
              might extend this now to the phrase heavy user of a brand. Historically,
              the phrase has meant someone who simply bought a lot of our product.
              Now, perhaps, we are seeing a different kind of heavy user—one who par-
              ticipates heavily with us. Traditionally, heavy users in terms of consump-
              tion were small in number, but they accounted for a disproportionately
              large volume of sales; heavy users in this new, secondary sense are also
              small in number, but they carry a disproportionately strong amount of
              influence. Perhaps as we go forward we should be looking at, and track-
              ing, heavy buyers and heavy/deep participators equally seriously.
c14_1   01/06/2009   282




               282   EATING THE BIG FISH



                   And the third dimension on the participative agenda is that of the
               degree to which we make it possible for people to personalize or cus-
               tomize their use of us and our product or service—that is, participate
               and interact not just with the brand, but also with the product. The future
               will be personal, after all, as well as social, and Challengers from Scion to
               Facebook, via Burger King’s ‘‘Have it your way,’’ should be stretching
               our own understanding and imagination for what might be possible on
               our own brand here.


               The Social and Environmental Agenda
               There would be many who would argue that the environmental issue is
               the Big Fish that every brand and every person needs to eat, and there is
               an increased expectation from consumers that brands should play an ac-
               tive part in putting this right. Some brands might lead the way (Whole
               Foods and San Francisco putting a stop to plastic bags, for example),
               but every brand will need to play its part. This broader awareness of
               one’s responsibility is becoming hardwired into many of the newer gen-
               eration of Challengers we see emerging, and it will need to be hard-
               wired into us as well; the more successful those new Challengers in
               other categories are in getting their own narratives heard in this regard,
               the more they will necessarily influence our position as a Challenger
               in ours.
                   The other of the two areas of impact in this quadrant has to do with
               creating a better society. This can clearly take a number of different
               forms. In the United States, for example, we see American Apparel not
               simply making sweatshop-free clothing or basing all its production with-
               in the United States, but actively lobbying consumers on its e-mail data-
               base to vote for particular candidates because of their position on labor
               laws. In Hong Kong, on the other hand, Apple Daily has consistently
               named and shamed local businesspeople and politicians for offenses
               ranging from tax evasion to conflicts of interest. More significantly (given
               the initial government clampdown that forced Jimmy Lai to close his first
               business) Apple Daily in 2003 encouraged the people of Hong Kong to
               take to the streets to protest against the government—and even went so
               far as to give them front pages that they could use as banners and mes-
               sages to hold up and wave on the march. At half a million protestors, it
c14_1   01/06/2009   283




                                                The Scope of the Lighthouse Keeper     283



              became one of the largest demonstrations in the history of the island.
              We can see here again that the word agenda needs to be taken very
              literally: It is what a Challenger does rather than says or intends in this
              area that makes the difference.
                  We should note, however, that for most of our Challengers the role of
              this agenda—across both dimensions—is carefully managed, in that it is
              rare for it to be positioned to the consumer as the dominant reason to
              buy the brand, however deeply the social or ethical cause might be
              championed within the company. Such companies are (in the words of
              one of them) ‘‘deep green on the inside, light green on the outside’’5—
              that is to say that they ensure that their principles, though genuinely and
              deeply held, are not thrust down the consumer’s throat as the para-
              mount reason to buy the brand. Instead, they recognize that the promise
              of superior performance, quality, utility, or desire will be underpinned by
              this agenda rather than replaced by it. The early Body Shop aside, per-
              haps the most celebrated recent case of this recognition is that of Green
              & Black’s, a high-quality organic chocolate brand. Originally marketed
              on an organic platform with a niche position in the UK market, it then
              repositioned the same product as a luxury dark chocolate, underpinned
              by its organic backstory. Sales rose from $8 million to $100 million, and
              international expansion under its new owner, Cadbury, followed. Dave
              Hieatt, of howies, argues articulately that when it comes to the sustain-
              able side of a brand, for instance, one has to consider it not as a sepa-
              rate dynamic to be thought about in and of itself, but as one whose
              success is intimately related to the product appeal and aesthetic—there
              is no point in making a piece of sustainable clothing if it is not attractive
              enough to tempt someone into buying it. That is, in fact, worse than not
              producing a sustainable product at all—for in creating a product that
              you cannot sell, you will simply have created more waste.
                  These four agendas, then, taken together, make up the four agendas
              that one sees Challengers most commonly regarding as the scope of the
              Lighthouse Keeper. Channels, communications, promotion, packaging,
              even price—all these can be used across any of these agendas as a part
              of implementing them. For instance, innocent enlists participation partly
              through the way it uses its packaging copy, while Lush’s lack of packag-
              ing is used to dramatize both its sensory experience and its environmen-
              tal agenda. And we should also note that we are deliberately not
c14_1   01/06/2009   284




               284   EATING THE BIG FISH



               mapping here agendas for trends such as health, taste, premiumization,
               or ethnicity. This is because, as Challengers, our preoccupation with
               delivering a Challenger offer against these trends will not be whether
               we deliver them, but how we can deliver them in a different way from
               everyone else along one of these dimensions. How, for example, can we
               make health much more convenient, or easy, or more sensually deli-
               cious, or less of a lonely road, or something that benefits others at the
               same time as ourselves (to take a roughly clockwise tour of our four
               agendas)? And, of course, as Challengers, we may want to swim against
               some trends and currents in any case (remember Burger King), rather
               than be carried along by them. So let us map these other macrotrends
               on these four agendas to see where the opportunities within them may
               lie for a Challenger, rather than attempt to add them as separate ones
               on their own.
                   So, having carefully separated each dimension of these four agendas,
               let’s put them back together again, and look first at how we are going to
               use the Credos to plan our challenge to the market, and then how they
               might work together to help us in that challenge.


               PUTTING ALL THE AGENDAS TOGETHER
               In starting to use this model as a way of assessing our own brand, and
               how it currently delivers across these agendas, the question for us is
               going to be not simply which dimensions on which agendas we are
               going to play out our Lighthouse Identity, but also the degree to which
               we are really pushing out across one or more of these agendas.
                   As we do so, bear in mind this is a holistic map. Challengers are not
               looking to play in just one or another of these four areas. Some Challeng-
               ers have started with their roots very much in just one (Facebook’s starting
               point was all about community participation, and innocent was all about a
               really delicious product that made it easy to be good to yourself), but as
               they have grown, they have started to strategically expand their footprint
               across some or all of the other three as well (innocent, for example, is
               moving into 100 percent recycled bottles, and has built up a community
               of some 230,000 people annually knitting little woolen hats for the bottles
               on behalf of Age Concern’s ‘‘Fight the Freeze’’ campaign). But be clear
               where you will Sacrifice and where you will Overcommit.
c14_1   01/06/2009   285




                                                 The Scope of the Lighthouse Keeper      285



              PUSHING BEYOND BRILLIANT BASICS: USING THE CREDOS
              ON THIS MAP
              While all brands at some level will need to have a sense of this kind of
              map and this kind of scope for what they do, as Challengers we will need
              to be very clear idea about where we will simply do what everyone else
              is doing and where we will be different or exceptional. Where, in particu-
              lar, are we going to choose to express our core challenge to the market?
              Where are we going to aim to be Thought Leaders? Where on this map
              are the kinds of complacencies that the world has about our category
              and how brands behave in it, and where do we need to break through
              to change it?
                  It is helpful, then, to introduce one more very simple dimension to
              this map: the notion of Brilliant Basics. Brilliant Basics are what, in each
              of these areas of impact, we are going to need to do well, but will not in
              themselves be a point of difference for us. If we overlay this refinement
              on the map, then it is delineated by the circle that lies just beyond the
              Lighthouse Identity at the center (see Figure 14.2). Everything that is
              shaded within that circle is a Brilliant Basic, that is to say, an area in which
              we’ll need to perform to some degree on, simply to be an active part of
              the modern world, but not something that will make us different from
              anyone else in the category around us.
                  So here is the question for us: Where are we going to push be-
              yond just the Brilliant Basics? Where on these agendas is our Chal-
              lenger story, our Lighthouse Identity primarily going to be manifested
              and experienced? We will not be able to do this everywhere, certainly
              initially: We will need to make choices. Lush, for instance, could be
              represented by Figure 14.3. It has Overcommitted on two primary
              ways of engaging us within its overall offer of ‘‘Fresh, Handmade Cos-
              metics.’’ First, it delivers an extraordinary polysensory pleasure. Sec-
              ond, it is an activist for sustainability and animal rights, with a series
              of acts of Thought Leadership and Symbols of Re-evaluation, such as
              sending its staff naked into the streets (well, wearing only an apron) to
              promote awareness that more products should be naked—because
              packaging accounts for 2 percent of greenhouse gases—and at-
              tempting to pile a truck full of manure outside the European Parlia-
              ment to create a stink about animal testing.6
c14_1   01/06/2009                           286




               286                           EATING THE BIG FISH


               FIGURE 14.2 The Four Agendas—pushing beyond the brilliant basics.

                                                                   The Convenience Agenda
                                                                                           Ease
                                                                                          of Use
                                                                       ence                                       U se
                                                                   veni
                                                                Con of                                         d of
                                                                        ess                                 Spe
                                                                    Acc                                         e

                                                                                     liant Basics
                                                                               B r il




                 Social and Ethical Agenda
                                                                                                                                                   nce
                                                                                                                                          rforma
                                                                                                                                 uc  t Pe




                                                                                                                                                         Product Agenda
                                                    Society                                                                  Prod
                                                                                           ouse Ide
                                                                                        th
                                                                              Lig                      ty
                                                                                  h      Product   n ti
                                                                                                                           Polysensory Engagement
                                                                                          Rock

                                                   The Planet
                                                                                                                               Des
                                                                                                                                     ign
                                                                                                                                           Aes
                                                                                                                                                theti
                                                                                                                                                     c
                                                                                 ies
                                                                 Dee
                                                                     p                                                n&
                                                                & N Partic                                       atio
                                                                   urtu    ip                                aliz ation
                                                                        red ation                        son      z
                                                                           Com                        Per stomi
                                                                               mun                       Cu
                                                                                   it
                                                                                  Interactivity

                                                                       Participative Agenda


                   So, it is easy to see, were you a fledgling Lush, where your key areas
               of impact would need to be, the ones you would Overcommit on—and
               also the ones you would deliberately Sacrifice.
                   How would Red Bull fit? It would have little or nothing in the social
               and environmental areas and a great deal in the participative and per-
               formance areas. Dove would have a strong performance in the social
               (though not the environmental) and participative areas, with a little in
               product performance but not pushing beyond Brilliant Basics in design
               aesthetic and polysensory experience. If you were running Dove, then,
               you would be regarding polysensory experience as either Sacrifice, thus
               allowing you to focus on other areas (e.g., deeper participation) or as an
               area to commit innovation against.
c14_1   01/06/2009                         287




                                                                                     The Scope of the Lighthouse Keeper                               287


              FIGURE 14.3 The four agendas—Lush as an example.

                                                               The Convenience Agenda

                                                                                        Ease
                                                                     en ce             of Use                   U se
                                                                 veni
                                                              Con of
                                                                                                           Spe
                                                                      ess                                     ed o
                                                                  Acc                                             f

                                                                                      liant Basics
                                                                             Bril




               Social and Ethical Agenda
                                                                                                                                               nce
                                                                                                                                      rforma
                                                                                                                             uc  t Pe
                                                                                                                         Prod




                                                                                                                                                     Product Agenda
                                                  Society                              o u se I d
                                                                                   tthhouse Ideen
                                                                           Lig
                                                                           L     h                   tyy
                                                                               h      Product
                                                                                      Product   nttiit
                                                                                       Rock
                                                                                                                       Polysensory Engagement
                                                                                       Rock

                                                 The Planet
                                                                                                                           Des
                                                                                                                                ign
                                                                                                                                      Aes
                                                                                                                                            theti
                                                                                                                                                 c
                                                                               ies
                                                               Dee
                                                                  p
                                                              & N Partic                                            n&
                                                                 urtu    ip                                    atio
                                                                      red ation                            aliz ation
                                                                                                       son      z
                                                                                                    Per stomi
                                                                         Com
                                                                             mun
                                                                                 it                    Cu
                                                                               Interactivity

                                                                   Participative Agenda


              USING THE MAP TO PLOT YOUR OUTPUTS
              FROM THE CHALLENGER PROGRAM
              This is not intended to be a map of profound insight; rather, it is
              intended to be a useful tool to help achieve real clarity and simplicity,
              particularly as we pivot between strategy and implementation.
                 As a tool, then, it has four different kinds of value to us:

              1. The first is to generate possibilities. As a mapped aggregate of all
                 categories, it can be overlaid onto a category that normally wouldn’t
                 think in these terms—insurance, for instance. Insurance wouldn’t
                 really figure even in Brilliant Basics on any of these. Were we a Chal-
                 lenger in insurance, then, it would be stimulating to use this map
c14_1   01/06/2009   288




               288   EATING THE BIG FISH



                  to ask ourselves questions about what the potential might be for a
                  Challenger in insurance on these dimensions. What would be the
                  smell of security, for instance? How would you touch it? If you as
                  an insurance company wanted to make people feel safe in their
                  homes, how would you really make them feel it as a polysensory
                  experience? How would you then create acts of Thought Leadership
                  around that? What would you want consumers to reevaluate, and
                  how? What stance would that prompt you to take?
               2. The second, more important use for us here is the way that we have
                  been using it in the chapter so far—as a tool to take our identity, and
                  help us understand where we are going to express that identity; to
                  force us to be very clear as a team on where we are going to Sacrifice
                  and where we need to Overcommit to genuinely break through as
                  the Challenger we need to be. For this, we will collectively use the
                  map to help us all be really honest that in each chosen action we are
                  genuinely delivering more than ‘‘Brilliant Basics with a little dash of
                  lipstick’’—that we are genuinely creating a significant point of dif-
                  ference in our chosen challenge to the market or Market Leader.
               3. The third use of the map is to help us then push our ambition and
                  thinking in those chosen areas. For this use, regard each of these
                  agendas as vectors, each having within them a scale from 1 to 10,
                  with 1 lying at the center and 10 at the outer edge. So, even if we
                  think we have a product, action, or service along one of these agen-
                  das that is indeed beyond Brilliant Basics and is indeed the basis of a
                  Challenger point of difference, what would it mean to push it much
                  further in this same direction? Say you have a good little community,
                  some deep participation. What would you have to do to double the
                  size of that community, or triple it? You have some basic interactivity?
                  What would it mean to turn that into a key part of your relationship—
                  how would you brief packaging, for instance, to help increase that
                  much further? What if you treated packaging as Direct Marketing,
                  and made the brief to your packaging partners to achieve a 15 per-
                  cent response rate in terms of interacting with your community in
                  some way?7 What would that stimulate their creative team to do with
                  the packaging to make that actually happen? And what other kinds of
                  categories could you and they learn from that would help you under-
                  stand how to do that?
c14_1   01/06/2009   289




                                                 The Scope of the Lighthouse Keeper      289



              4. And the fourth use of the map will obviously be to help us think about
                 how we are going to use the channels and marketing tools at our
                 disposal to deliver against the areas we are going to Overcommit on,
                 recognizing that the way we use the channel will always follow the
                 agenda we need to deliver in it. How could we use packaging to de-
                 liver against each of these, for instance? Or what would you have to
                 do in each of these areas to get a headline in the National Newspa-
                 pers the next day?


              USING THIS: A FINAL OBSERVATION
              These agendas are interdependent, and need to be. As we think
              about how to be Thought Leaders in our chosen area in particular, in
              many ways it is the interdynamics between these vectors, in the way
              that Dave Hieatt describes above, that creates a lot of the energy in
              these Challengers. When you wander into Lush, this wonderful poly-
              sensory experience, and see it has a new product called Guantanamo
              Garden (to draw attention to the Guantanamo detainees), which
              smells wonderful yet is bright orange (to represent the jumpsuits),
              and which then dissolves to release hidden photos of a couple of
              those detainees, it is the combination of the sensory experience and
              the ethical stance against the detention center that creates a richer,
              multidimensional relationship between us and the brand, rather than
              just either one or the other on its own. To take another example, a
              perfect instance of a brand using the intersection between design
              aesthetic and deep participation can be seen in the Scion Owners
              Clubs: organized events where owners show each other how they
              have customized their cars and where they share experiences and
              tips. Plotting fertile intersections, then, will be a fifth potential of such
              a map.
                 These intersections can be big ambitions and actions (Dove’s Self-
              Esteem Fund), or they can be little ones. So Kashi (now part of Kel-
              logg’s), the brand that is ‘‘7 whole grains on a mission,’’ is grounded in a
              belief that ‘‘Wellness isn’t a place, it’s a journey . . . and every day is an
              opportunity to live life a little healthier than the day before.’’8 Kashi chal-
              lenges its users to make little changes in their lives, from trying yoga to
              using natural headache remedies to experimenting with ‘‘slow laundry.’’
c14_1   01/06/2009   290




               290   EATING THE BIG FISH



                   And as the agendas are interdependent, so we need one Lighthouse
               team working across all four of them. Within a large company 15 years
               ago, these agendas would have represented four different departments.
               You would have had a CSR department, a product development group,
               a customer feedback team, and a brand team. But now, as Challengers,
               the key is not simply to lean into the emergence and nature of the agen-
               das themselves, but to change the responsibility for those agendas.
               Today they have to be placed holistically under one team—not least
               because they are so necessarily interrelated in the way they will express
               the uniquely different manifestation of our Lighthouse Identity, and use
               of the subsequent Credos.9
c15_1   01/06/2009   291




                           PART     4
                       MIND-SET, CULTURE,
                                 AND RISK
c15_1   01/06/2009   292
c15_1   01/06/2009   293




                15
              CHALLENGER AS A STATE
              OF MIND: STAYING NUMBER
              ONE MEANS THINKING LIKE
              A NUMBER TWO
                     How do you fight like a hungry man, when your refrigerator’s full?
                        Bernard Hopkins, World light heavyweight boxing champion1




              THE BROADER RELEVANCE OF CHALLENGER THINKING
              The premise so far has been that Challengers need their own models of
              strategy and behavior; that we are entirely unlike the Brand Leader in
              position and resource and, consequently, need to find an entirely differ-
              ent set of rules of engagement.
                  It is possible, however, that certain other kinds of brands in certain
              other kinds of situations may also find the Challenger model of value.
              While the focus of this book is naturally on Challengers themselves, this
              chapter briefly dwells on two other applications of Challenger thinking:
              brands facing a kind of ‘‘Big Fish’’ other than a larger competitive player,
              and Brand Leaders themselves.




                                                                                      293
c15_1   01/06/2009   294




               294   EATING THE BIG FISH



               What Is the Big Fish?
               As we have seen throughout the book, while the Establishment brand is
               often a threat, it is not always our Big Fish, the key threat that will eat us
               if we don’t eat it first. As the Eighth Credo started to indicate, the Big
               Fish is in fact more usefully defined as the central issue facing the
               growth, transformation, or survival of any given brand: the one critical
               point of focus that needs to be identified before any useful strategic
               conversation can be had. Insofar as there are six basic marketing chal-
               lenges that marketeers can find themselves up against, a larger compet-
               itive player represents only one of these threats, although it is usually the
               most compelling one for a Challenger brand.
                   The six basic marketing challenges are:

               1. A brand threatened by the superior competitive position or overt ag-
                  gression of a larger, better-placed competitor. Pepsi, for example.
               2. An established brand facing a situation where the social context or
                  popular opinion has moved against it. Examples of a social context
                  moving against it would be whiskey in a white spirits world, high-fat
                  products such as cheese in a low-fat world, or a brand caught up in a
                  bigger social debate such as child labor or human rights in China. An
                  example of a brand that popular opinion has moved against might be
                  Spam, or a utility with negative equity, such as a gas or telephone
                  provider, which the consumer perceives to hold a monopolistic grip
                  on the market.
               3. A brand in a category where the rules of that category are capable of
                  constant and rapid change, or are about to rapidly change. Examples
                  of this kind of challenge might include most high-tech and Web 2.0
                  categories. We might also include brands facing the consumer and
                  business implications of a recession, for instance.
               4. A brand threatened with new kinds of competition. For example, tra-
                  ditional leisure shoe manufacturers coming to terms with the explo-
                  sion of the sport and fashion sneaker, or information and knowledge
                  retailers facing the explosion of wikis and other kinds of accessible
                  information on the net.
               5. A brand faced with a declining retail role for traditional brands,
                  either through category commoditization (i.e., consumer
c15_1   01/06/2009   295




                                                      Challenger as a State of Mind   295



                 indifference) or a dominant stance or aggressive pursuit of private
                 label by the retailer.
              6. A brand whose apparent dominance has caused it to relax (Microsoft,
                 perhaps).

                 These are, strictly speaking, brands with challenges, rather than Chal-
              lenger brands, at a key transitional moment in their lives. As such,
              though, they may need to consider some or all of the thinking and be-
              havior normally associated with Challengers (e.g., assuming Thought
              Leadership, or Creating Symbols of Re-evaluation), for defensive as
              much as for offensive reasons. That is to say, the instant goal may be as
              much about staying in the game and neutralizing the single dominant
              threat as it is about generating rapid growth. In the new marketing era,
              the Challenger brand—and the underlying strategic approach it
              embodies—may in fact prove to be an infinitely more powerful, and
              more far reaching, model than the historical model of the Brand Leader.


              Brand Leaders and the Big Fish
              The confidence, the arrogance, of the Brand Leader, strutting through
              the marketplace as if there were no other, no longer applies. Today, to
              stay Number One you have to think like a Number Two.
                  If we are the Number One brand, the Big Fish that threatens to eat us
              is ourselves—our own success. Our new size makes it difficult to be as
              nimble, as proactive as we once were. As Chinese journalist George
              Zhibin Gu notes, commenting on the changing world order: ‘‘The great
              powers in the past have all been pulled down more by their own weight
              than anything else. Should the future be any different?’’2 The appa-
              rent security and real profitability lent by being Number One in the mar-
              ket makes us loss-averse and protective: We cease to behave in the way
              that made us successful and took our brand to leadership in the first place.
                  Yet the reason Nike has up to now continued to dominate the foot-
              wear market is that it reinvents not just its advertising imagery, but
              the way it communicates with and engages a broad community of
              sports lovers around the world every year in order to stay ahead. It
              always surprises—not just because of its creativity but its restlessness:
              Its internal mantra is, ‘‘Do it once, and move on.’’ Although it is now the
c15_1   01/06/2009     296




               296      EATING THE BIG FISH



               Establishment brand in terms of brand share, and although it is no lon-
               ger subversive in the way it used to be, Nike has until recently continued
               to act like the hungriest and most imaginative brand, setting the pace in
               its category, at least, in engaging the consumer. Nike has aimed to be
               the Thought Leader as well as the Market Leader. Phil Knight has been
               very clear about the reason for this, famously remarking that though
               Nike is the industry Goliath, it will only succeed by thinking and acting
               like the industry David.
                   And there are clearly some good reasons why any ambitious Market
               Leader might want to think like this:

                    To overcome the dangers of complacency
                    To realize the genuine opportunity for further growth if one still thinks
                     and acts like a Challenger
                    To lean into the need for the leader to be the change agent, not the
                     status quo—or risk another player being the change agent to that
                     leader’s disadvantage
                    To keep consumer empathy and identification on their side
                     (‘‘Nobody roots for Goliath’’)
                    To embrace the need to energize and rally their organization/the
                     consumer community against a bigger enemy or goal

                  So while the purpose of this book is not primarily to address the
               needs of Brand Leaders, this chapter does look briefly at how and why a
               number of leading brands, from Nike to Oprah, have redefined what it
               means to be a Brand Leader in directly addressing some of these issues,
               principally because they looked to stay Market Leaders by thinking and
               behaving like the Challengers they used to be.


               SUCCESS IS A VERY DANGEROUS THING
               Warren Buffett recently revealed that when he plays online bridge
               against Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft assumes the nom de guerre
               of ‘‘Challenger X.’’ As we see Microsoft, after years of being a hugely
               successful, product-led Market Leader, having to stir itself to think like a
               Challenger again to face a range of new threats posed by Google,
               Apple, and the gaming giants, it is striking to see how some of the
c15_1   01/06/2009   297




                                                       Challenger as a State of Mind   297



              largest and most significant leaders around us are living up to Phil
              Knight’s belief about Market Leadership, and continuing to think like the
              Challengers they once were. Look at Dell: The company is now 40,000
              strong, with $57 billion in sales, and Michael Dell’s personal fortune cur-
              rently worth $17 billion—it would be natural to assume a maturation of
              his mind-set at the helm of his extraordinary success. One would have
              thought that his refrigerator was full, to echo the quote from Bernard
              Hopkins at the beginning of this chapter. Yet that is not what Michael
              Dell says—quite the opposite. How does he see his brand and com-
              pany? ‘‘I still think of us as a Challenger,’’ he says. ‘‘I still think of us
              attacking.’’ He has still, and wants Dell to have, the big appetite and
              sharp teeth of the hungry entrepreneur he started as in Austin, Texas.
              He is fighting against the complacency that naturally sets in as you
              become Number One.3 And the key, in many ways, is just this—to re-
              member that being a Challenger is primarily a state of mind, not a state
              of market. And to always maintain that state of mind.
                  And we can see that other Market Leaders are very explicitly address-
              ing this within their organizations. Lexus’s market supremacy in the U.S.
              automotive luxury market in 2004, for example, was an extraordinary
              achievement for a still relatively new Japanese brand in a category (i.e.,
              luxury) where convention would have said history and pedigree are
              everything. An achievement of which Lexus was both extraordinarily
              proud—and yet astutely wary at the same time. And which is why, the
              year after they became Market Leader, Lexus organized a three-day
              meeting for all its dealers, with the theme ‘‘To stay Number One, we
              need to think like a Number Two.’’ The premise was a very simple one:
              For Lexus and its dealers to relax now would risk leaving them and the
              brand vulnerable to Mercedes and BMW, whom they had just left in their
              wake. To remain Number One they needed to make Lexus even better,
              even more differentiated. So Mike Wells, then Lexus’s VP of Marketing,
              stimulated the brand team and the dealers to look beyond the automo-
              tive category to find their path to continued superiority and differentia-
              tion. He and his team laid out a ballroom in the Four Seasons in Aviara,
              Southern California, to replicate the experience of visiting an Apple
              Store (then still relatively new to the world), invited the dealers into fur-
              ther narrative and video ‘‘tours’’ of a Virgin Atlantic first-class lounge, a
              Dean and Deluca, and a Nordstrom, and enabled them all to go on a
c15_1   01/06/2009   298




               298   EATING THE BIG FISH



               long and detailed exploration of the Four Seasons Hotel itself, to see
               how every department within this very different kind of service business
               was trained to deliver exceptional service to its customers. Why do this
               now, when Lexus already had a proven model that could get it to
               Number One? Rightly wary of relaxation, of the dangers of complacency
               that going Number One could precipitate, Lexus continued to want to
               think and act like the Challenger it once was.
                   So clearly being a Challenger is primarily about a mind-set. And one
               of the primary signatures of this mind-set as a Market Leader, one of the
               most powerful ways to prevent oneself falling prey to complacency, is to
               continue to lead that market, continue to be the agent of change. In
               2006, Bill Clinton came to address the British Labour Party Conference,
               the party that was still, in effect, the Market Leader in British politics at the
               time, and then still helmed by Tony Blair. There had been a lot of conver-
               sation in the media leading up to the conference about the public’s rest-
               lessness with the Labour Party’s relatively long tenure in government, and
               Clinton spoke to this, referencing a recent poll that indicated 70 percent
               of the British people thought it was now time for change. What should the
               incumbent say in response to this, Clinton asked? ‘‘You should say: Of
               course it is,’’ he said. ‘‘It’s always time for change in a great and dynamic
               nation.’’ They should not allow anyone, he continued, neither the media
               nor another political party to frame future choice as being ‘‘change versus
               more of the same.’’ He concluded: ‘‘You are the change agents in this
               great nation. You have been and you will be.’’4
                   Being an agent of change if you are Market Leader often appears
               counter-intuitive. The natural gravitational pull for a Market Leader (cer-
               tainly a nondigital or nontechnology Market Leader) is in the opposite
               direction: Protect what you have: Preserve the current criteria for choice
               and suppress the upstart change agents. Oh, and, maybe launch a new
               niche brand now and again to occupy some emerging space that it looks
               as if you can’t extend into. Dieter Mateschitz of Red Bull has taken inspi-
               ration from the world of American football to structure his organization,
               at one stage having ‘‘offensive’’ and ‘‘defensive’’ divisions in his market-
               ing department, and his ambition to continue to be the change agent
               obviously delivers both of these ways of thinking about one’s task. It pro-
               tects you against a fresh Challenger becoming, in turn, the change
               agent against you. And it recognizes that there is in reality plenty of
c15_1   01/06/2009   299




                                                      Challenger as a State of Mind   299



              growth and opportunity for most leaders if they are prepared to seek
              what is ahead, rather than simply protect what lies behind. At time of
              writing, it is too early to say whether Google’s push into phones with
              Android or Amazon’s attempt to reinvent the book with the Kindle are
              going to be successful. But it is clear that the considerable investment
              both have made in these new technologies represents a desire to con-
              tinue to be at the leading edge of category change, if not to be the
              change agents themselves—in Google’s case at least for defensive as
              well as offensive reasons.


              CHALLENGING SOMETHING BIGGER THAN ALL OF US
              Historically, then, we have seen Market Leaders who have sought to
              maintain leadership by thinking like the Number Two they once were
              two key dimensions. Like Intel’s Andy Grove, by being ‘‘paranoid’’ and
              in your mind restlessly looking for the next inflection point that will
              threaten the category and your leadership with it. And like Phil Knight,
              by looking to appear to the world ‘‘smaller’’ on the outside than you are
              in reality on the inside. And we see both of these manifested in such
              leaders evidencing a continued determination to be the agent of
              change, rather than simply enforcers of the status quo.
                  But perhaps the digital age is amplifying a new kind of reason why
              Market Leaders need to be very careful not to be seen as Goliaths, and
              indeed throwing up a new way in which we see ‘‘leaders as Challengers’’
              manifested. In the 1960s, the first modern Challenger, Avis, was almost
              strangled at birth: Some of the advertising account team tried to block
              the initial presentation of the ‘‘We Try Harder’’ campaign, because the
              thought of celebrating the idea that one was anything other than a win-
              ner was almost ‘‘un-American’’—something that ran so counter, they
              felt, to American culture that it would inevitably be rejected. Yet 45 years
              later, we see a complete cultural volte face: In a recent interview, John
              Grisham, the most successful storyteller in the world in the 1990s,
              observed with amusement that it was now ‘‘the American way’’ to look
              for the person at the top to fail.5 And this cultural desire to identify and
              topple Goliaths seems to become ever more central to that skeptical
              and combative dimension to our media and social culture that we noted
              in Chapter 6. A recent commentator on what drives social media and
c15_1   01/06/2009        300




               300        EATING THE BIG FISH



               social networking noted that unity against a perceived corporate Goliath
               is a characteristic of a relatively high amount of activity on sites such as
               Digg or Reddit: ‘‘On many sites . . . and in many social media savvy
               communities . . . the key motivating factor is often an ‘us versus them’
               approach, with the users as the underdog battling a giant corporation
               or politician or social structure.’’6 We saw earlier that communities and
               social groups often need to create monsters to rally around, that this will
               be one of the ways that they form that identity and recruit others to it.
               And clearly, in the networked digital world, one practical reason to be
               the best possible corporate citizen is to avoid becoming one of those
               giants that the community unifies itself by rallying against (or indeed
               finding yourself unwittingly attached to the bigger threat that is the
               point of focus).
                   And one could argue that there is a very small group of Challengers-
               turned-Market-Leaders who are teaching us that the best immunity
               against being turned into a monster is to identify or create a monster
               oneself—something that transcends the market or category, something
               that becomes a bigger issue for the community and one we, as champi-
               ons of that community, can stand up to on their behalf. And key among
               that small group of Market Leaders we can learn most from here are suc-
               cessful media personalities. Especially Oprah.
                   Oprah Winfrey was a startlingly successful Challenger—her show’s
               ability to overturn Donahue (and a host of other talk shows also run by
               white males) is a fascinating Challenger study in itself (how she put a




                     
                         A friend recently ran a workshop on branding at an NGO in Switzerland for a group of
                         principled 20- and 30-year-olds. The first exercise was to ask them for first impres-
                         sions of well-known brands. The conversation went like this:
                         Moderator: ‘‘Let’s look at Coke. What’s the first thing that comes to mind?’’
                         The Room: ‘‘Red.’’ ‘‘Evil.’’ ‘‘Ubiquity.’’
                         Moderator: ‘‘Starbucks?’’
                         The Room: ‘‘American imperialism.’’
                         Moderator: ‘‘Nike?’’
                         The Room: ‘‘Sweatshops. Exploiting children.’’
                         Moderator: ‘‘Just curious—did anybody think: ‘‘Shoes?’’
                         For this group there were no global brands any more; only global monsters. And this
                         was one of the key forces that unified the group.7
c15_1   01/06/2009   301




                                                      Challenger as a State of Mind   301



              new emotion, a genuinely warm and personal empathy, into the cate-
              gory, for instance). And it would have been natural for Oprah, as for all
              the other talk show hosts in U.S. media history, to have her hour in the
              sun and then fall in turn to a newer, fresher competitor again. But she
              hasn’t. When briefly threatened by a new Challenger in Jerry Springer,
              whose new agenda for talk shows cheerfully and theatrically plumbed
              the depths of human interactions, prompting a host of rivals to follow
              suit, Oprah could have responded by going the same way—perhaps this
              was simply the way that the American public wanted their talk show
              hosts to behave, these days.
                  But she didn’t: She responded by being the change agent, and in
              fact elevating the ambition and spirituality of her show. Alongside
              this, she introduced new forms of media (a magazine), new applica-
              tions (Dr. Phil), and new ways for her community to participate with
              her (a book club). And she has gone on to become a billionaire, with
              a show that still tops the ratings, by continuing to challenge. Her chal-
              lenges are now not to the other talk show hosts, but to the bigger
              monsters she sees threatening her chosen community (American
              women)—notably domestic violence, child abuse, and weight loss
              and self-esteem issues among women. Oprah is not a Goliath, both
              because she is smaller and visibly vulnerable to these larger monsters
              in the eyes of her community, and also because she uses all her
              strength and size to fight them on her community’s behalf. And her
              community eternally loves her for it.
                  If we need then, more than ever as Market Leaders, to beware of
              finding ourselves positioned or depositioned as Goliaths, then let us
              turn ourselves into Challengers again; perhaps we need to find monsters
              bigger than ourselves to challenge on the community’s behalf. In
              Oprah’s case, her monsters are usually, of course, anything but manufac-
              tured—they are issues that are deeply and genuinely meaningful from
              her own past and present life. We should not be manufacturing our con-
              cern about these monsters, especially if they are social issues or environ-
              mental issues (and at one level the environment is of course the entire
              world’s Big Fish). If we genuinely care about these kinds of macro issues,
              let us by all means lean into them. And if we don’t, there are all sorts of
              everyday monsters worthy of attack, from The DVD Rental Process to
              The Hideous Tyranny of Chardonnay.8
c15_1   01/06/2009   302




               302   EATING THE BIG FISH



               SUMMARY
               Our understanding of what it means to be a dynamic Market Leader has
               been transformed over the past 20 years by a small clutch of brands such
               as Nike, Lexus in North America, and Oprah. We see these brands re-
               taining Market Leadership in three ways. First, by continuing to think like
               the Challengers they once were—recognizing that being a Challenger is
               primarily a mindset, not a state of market. Second, by ingraining that
               restless urge to continually evolve, and continue to be the change agent
               into their broader culture. And third, we see some of them deliberately
               evolving their stance, transcending their category and positioning them-
               selves instead as fighting against something larger and more significant
               as a threat on behalf of their chosen ‘‘community.’’ We discussed in
               Chapter 12 the evolution of Challenger stances as a means of maintain-
               ing appeal and interest with the consumer, both through finding a new
               way to be seen to champion the consumer, and by refreshing consumer
               interest in the narrative ‘‘conflict’’ between the brand and the category
               (or another player in that category); perhaps this last stance, as the slayer
               of monsters rather than just the slayer of larger enemies, is therefore one
               of the most potent Challenger stances of all.
c16_1   01/06/2009   303




                16
              RISK, WILL, AND THE CIRCLE
              OF ROPE
                     Guts! Guts! Life! Life! That is my technique.
                                                                            George Luks




              W       hen Channel 4 launched in the United Kingdom as the fourth net-
                      work channel, it enjoyed some success in showing for the first
              time sports from other countries—American football, cycling from
              France, Australian rules football, and so on. Shortly after launch, the
              channel tentatively added sumo wrestling to this cosmopolitan lineup,
              and (as it had with each of the other sports unfamiliar to the British arm-
              chair sports fan) prefaced the beginning of the sumo season with an
              hour’s introduction to the rules, history, and vocabulary of the spectacle
              in store. Reviewing the great sumo champions of the previous decade,
              the yokozuna (all of whom reveled in popular nicknames like ‘‘The
              Dumptruck’’ and ‘‘The Ox’’), Channel 4 interviewed the aging trainer of
              the then current titleholder (called, I think, ‘‘The Tiger’’), an occupation
              known in sumo parlance as a stable master, and asked him the secret of
              his protégé’s success.
                  The old man was very clear. There were, he said, three things that
              were important to be a great sumo wrestler. The first was physical
              strength—and yet, he observed, while The Tiger was strong, there were
              other fighters who were stronger. And they cut to film of the champion,
              no bantam himself, being towered over by others twice his bulk.


                                                                                      303
c16_1   01/06/2009   304




               304   EATING THE BIG FISH



                   The second important requirement, said the stable master, is excel-
               lent technique; but if The Tiger was strong on technique, he noted, there
               were other yokozuna as good or better. And there followed film of our
               champion gamely holding his own in an intricate barrage of hand slaps
               with an opponent.
                   However, the third requirement, said the stable master, is shin—Jap-
               anese for spirit. It is this that makes The Tiger the champion: He never
               gives up. He never loses the will to win. And they showed an extended
               clip of the champion, seemingly about to be propelled beyond the circle
               of rope that delineates the sumo fighting area, yet always somehow
               recovering, fighting back, and twisting his opponent’s strength to his
               own advantage until he was the one left inside the ring while his adver-
               sary toppled gigantically out of frame.
                   Now there are actually a number of important dimensions to Chal-
               lenger brands that we haven’t touched on at all so far. Chance, for
               instance: Marketing is not a science, not a matter of plot and counter-
               plot, like a game of chess. Being lucky, and being able to exploit that
               luck when it falls one’s way, can be a critical part of a Challenger’s
               ascent. It was only by complete chance, for instance, that Target discov-
               ered Michael Graves had some designs for a line of cookware in a draw-
               er in his filing cabinet, but the way Target responded to that discovery—
               launching what became the first of a series of designer cookware—has
               been at the heart of its recent success. And it may have been lucky to
               discover that 50 Cent liked VitaminWater, but was it not brilliant oppor-
               tunism to ride that fortune by making him both an investor in the brand,
               and a flavor of his own?
                   But the more I interviewed the people behind Challenger brands, the
               more that particular image of the circle of sumo rope came back to me—
               the sense of spirit being the true delineator. While I had set out to write
               a book that would identify how Challengers use a more intelligent tech-
               nique, if you like, to overcome an opponent’s superior strength, I real-
               ized increasingly that I had failed to discuss the real differentiator, which
               was something far harder to define. Shin. Spirit. The emotions of those I
               talked to, the way they expressed themselves, rather than what they
               actually said. The medium, not the apparent message.
                   It is hard, of course, to write about these sorts of emotions without
               opening oneself up to charges of penning the business equivalent of a
c16_1   01/06/2009   305




                                                     Risk, Will, and the Circle of Rope   305



              Hallmark card. The reader may feel that we are veering horribly off
              course from the territory of case study and analysis into the world of self-
              improvement aids: They envisage any moment the onset of soft focus
              shots of eagles or Labrador puppies, and italicized quotes from famous
              Native Americans about the potential that lurks in every human heart.
                  Yet, at the same time, how does one leave unmentioned the extraordi-
              nary moment when the founder of a company, retelling for the thou-
              sandth time the story of his own company’s journey to a complete
              stranger, still finds himself so moved in the storytelling that he literally has
              goose bumps on his arm? (He was as startled as I was. ‘‘Look,’’ he kept
              repeating as he rose to his feet and shook one shaggy forearm repeatedly
              at the PR director and myself, as if we doubted him, ‘‘goose bumps.’’)
                  How does one omit the propensity to embrace risk, the love of un-
              equal competition, the obsession with quality or innovation, the intense
              desire to win, the certainty of superiority, the sense of fun—qualities that
              so strongly color the way these people talked about the business they
              are in? How, in fact, does one leave out talk of all these qualities without
              oneself falling into (God forbid) the fear of emotion, the ‘‘zero-defect’’
              philosophy characteristic of the Establishment brand? It is not just that
              spirit is inspiring; at a more pragmatic level, it is that it seems to be the
              driver in the difference between Challenger intent and Challenger be-
              havior. And we are not interested in intent; we desire a whole new way
              of thinking and behaving. So it might, in principle, be possible to sum-
              marize the strategic approach by listing the Eight Credos and the four-
              stage Challenger process they represent, in Figure 16.1.
                  And we might, for instance, essay a summarizing table of the differ-
              ences in mindset and ambition between the Brand Leader and the Chal-
              lenger brand in table form such as Figure 16.2.
                  Yet these kinds of conclusions, whether the reader finds them valu-
              able or not, are missing something crucial. Herb Kelleher put it well.
              When asked about Southwest’s impending battle in California against
              Shuttle by United, he replied that what would keep them on top was
              their ‘‘hearts and their guts.’’
                  Very little is written about the role of emotion in organizations and
              business. It is as if, now that IBM has defined itself as being about solu-
              tions, it is we humans who have become the International Business Ma-
              chines. Yet emotion is a key variable. Whether it is a positive desire (such
c16_1   01/06/2009    306




               306    EATING THE BIG FISH


               FIGURE 16.1 The Challenger Strategic Approach: A four-stage process.

                                        Stage 1: Attitude & Preparation


                                                                  Clarity on the
                            Intelligent Naivety
                                                                   Challenge



                                          Stage 2: Challenger Strategy



                     Lighthouse                    Thought                   Symbols of
                      Identity                    Leadership                Re-evaluation



                                         Stage 3: Challenger Behaviour



                                                                               Enter
                      Sacrifice               Overcommitment               Popular Culture



                                   Stage 4: Sustaining Challenger Momentum



                            Being Ideas Centred                      Evolving
                             not Consumer Led                  Challenger Narrative




               as the idealism of a method or innocent) or a robust paranoia (such as
               the one that has apparently driven Samsung’s successful innovation cul-
               ture) doesn’t seem to really matter, but you need a healthy dose of one
               or the other.1
                   This goes beyond the old truth of people doing well what they love
               to do. It is about how you develop the personal impetus to fight through
c16_1   01/06/2009   307




                                                   Risk, Will, and the Circle of Rope   307


              FIGURE 16.2 Challengers versus Market Leaders: The difference in mindset
                          and ambition.

              Market Leader                         Challengers

              Dominant share                        Perceived momentum
              Maintain status quo                   Agent of change
              Reinforce behaviour                   Redefine behavior
              Trusted competence                    Admired intent
              Ubiquitous acceptance                 Strong preference
              Innovation functionality              . . . and ideas that inspire
              Addresses many challenges             Overcome central challenge
              Perceived professionalism             Perceived cause
              Consumer-led                          Consumer-intimate, but Lighthouse
                                                    Identity
              Satisfaction                          Advocacy


              the moments when you feel you are about to be thrown out of the circle
              of rope. A story will serve to illustrate this.
                  It is Quebec, a winter’s morning. Four people are sitting in a room
              with a phone bill they can’t pay.
                  The four make up all but one of the executive group of Cirque du
              Soleil, a new circus made up predominantly of ex–stilt walkers, which
              has just finished the first year of its new life. The company is heavily in
              the red, and it is their money. They are discussing hard practicalities—
              not least the bill on the table from the telephone company, which their
              overdraft will not cover. As they talk, the phone rings. Ironically, it is a
              collect call. From Italy.
                  They accept it. At the other end is Guy Laliberté, the fifth member
              and founding partner of the group, and he is in a state of some excite-
              ment. Great news, he tells them—he has just bought a new Big Top from
              a man he has struck up a friendship with in his travels in northern Italy. A
              huge tent, much bigger than the one they have now.
                  The room in Quebec is appalled: This is a disaster. The overdraft,
              they remind him. The bank, the debts. Even the wretched phone bill, for
              God’s sake.
c16_1   01/06/2009   308




               308   EATING THE BIG FISH



                   But the excitement from Italy is undiminished; they are looking at this
               the wrong way around, Laliberté tells them. This has been a year of just
               establishing themselves. Next year they will be better and better known:
               In order to recoup the money they owe, they will need a bigger seating
               capacity at each show. This Big Top is almost double the size of the old
               one: It will seat 1,200 people. It is, in fact, the only sensible way forward.
                   Guy Laliberté is a very persuasive man, and at last the four in the
               room in Quebec allow themselves to be persuaded. They agree to buy
               the Big Top in Italy with money that they do not have. Within a year they
               are back in the black.
                   This pattern repeats itself. Three years later the group argues again
               about expansion—should they move outside Canada, try the U.S. mar-
               ket? Many vote no: They have dabbled just across the border in Niagara
               Falls, and it was at best a mixed success. Laliberté pushes for yes—they
               should go to the United States. They have to keep moving.
                   There is considerable disagreement: After years of financial difficulty,
               many of them now have families, mortgages, pension plans. The found-
               ing partners win the vote, but at a cost—some members of the company
               part ways.
                   They open the Los Angeles festival. By the time the opening night
               comes, they have exhausted all their available funds in preparing for the
               show. If it goes badly, they do not even have enough money to pay for
               the gas to get the trucks back to Canada.
                   It is a success.
                   And so it goes on.
                   What the Cirque du Soleil story illustrates is that being a successful
               Challenger is not simply a question of taking one initial, enormous risk; a
               Challenger will flourish only if it has the courage to continue to take
               risks—even in the face of adversity. Indeed, it needs to foster within it a
               risk-taking culture that will continue to remain bold as it achieves higher
               levels of success, rather than falling back into conservative self-protec-
               tion, forgetting the very reasons for its initial success. Fostering this cul-
               ture is one of the primary responsibilities of a leader in a Challenger
               organization—for the culture as well as vision have to be exemplified at
               the top.
                   Jonathan Warburton, owner-driver of Warburton’s bakery, observes:
               ‘‘One of the great responsibilities of owner-drivers is to stick their necks
c16_1   01/06/2009   309




                                                   Risk, Will, and the Circle of Rope   309



              out and be seen to take risks, because they’re fireproof. What chance is
              there of the hired help taking risks if the guys at the top they are looking
              up to, who are fireproof, won’t stick their necks out?’’ Tourism New Zea-
              land’s CEO echoes this need, as a sponsor of risk, for a Challenger lead-
              er to be prepared for a certain ‘‘carelessness with self.’’
                   And this preparedness to take risks—informed, educated risks—
              throughout the organization is important not simply because it is a vital
              part of an idea culture (where the courage to champion and pursue a
              new idea is as important to its success as the ability to have the idea in
              the first place), but because the old methods of reducing risk and putt-
              ing copper bottoms on marketing decisions are looking ever more un-
              sound. The Hollywood screenwriter William Goldman is given to remark
              that in show business, ‘‘Nobody knows anything,’’ meaning that no one
              can predict what is and isn’t going to work; one could be forgiven for
              thinking that, at the speed at which our markets and marketing world
              are changing, the same could be true for Challenger brands.
                   Now one of the purposes for creating a structure, a sort of systemat-
              ized approach in the way we have been trying to do through the book
              such as we have is precisely because we are not Dieter Mateschitz, or
              Steve Jobs, or James Dyson. As Challenger individuals and teams work-
              ing on second-tier brands, but who are for the most part not the found-
              ers of their own companies, we need entrepreneurialism, but structured
              entrepreneurialism—entrepreneurialism on a set of guiding rails. And
              that all the individual examples we have discussed have been trans-
              posed into a system that is a postrationalization, rather than the path
              that anyone deliberately wrote for him- or herself from the beginning, is
              in fact something that makes us more confident in the approach, be-
              cause it spans the learning from a number of different categories, from
              launches to relaunches, from luxury to mass-market brands. We said at
              the beginning that if the old marketing model was broken, and yet to be
              replaced by a proven new one, we could at least identify some timeless
              Challenger principles to live by, one that we could throw around the
              worlds of physical brands, digital brands, and service brands alike, and
              which would allow us to take any Challenger brand from any of these
              worlds, and create clarity about how to think about building success for
              it in the future. And it is these principles and this approach that we have
              been exploring throughout the book.
c16_1   01/06/2009   310




               310   EATING THE BIG FISH



                   But all the principles and examples and tools in the world do not re-
               place the need for some aspect of shin. Even if we may not possess the
               apparent fearlessness in the face of risk that one sees in the great entre-
               preneurs, at the very least there is the need for will. (I have long been
               fascinated by the power of will: For instance, among the Jewish commu-
               nity in New York, death rates decline before Passover and rise after-
               ward—people have kept themselves alive, through will alone, to attend
               an important event.) This, at least, we must have; behavior will be diffi-
               cult to implement, and it will take time.
                   How much time? It depends on the business you are in, and how
               much of the organization you will take with you—but it will almost always
               be much longer than you think. It took the two leaders of the Unilever
               team on Dove four years to realize what became Dove’s ‘‘Campaign for
               Real Beauty’’: a year to develop the strategy and put an internal stake in
               the ground, a year to get to the right creative idea that would genuinely
               deliver that strategy, a year to find a country that would run the work and
               prove it to the doubters elsewhere, and a year to roll the initial advertis-
               ing out and then develop the more concrete ideas and behaviors that
               would become the all-important proof points, such as the Self-Esteem
               Fund. Clearly Dove is a story of powerful thinking, and brilliant internal
               engagement, but also, at heart, it is a story of an enormous act of will,
               and tenacity over time. The Marketing Director of one brand we worked
               with led his team to develop the Lighthouse Identity, and then pre-
               sented the resulting red-blooded communications idea to his Chairman.
               The Chairman was appalled—he told his Marketing Director that it
               would go into research ‘‘over his dead body.’’ The Marketing Director
               took the ‘‘refusal’’ as a request for further information. After a number of
               further conversations, the idea did indeed find itself in research. Con-
               sumers loved it, and the idea ran. Sales tripled. Another act of will.2
                   And the demands on this personal and emotional side of ourselves is
               not something that ever finishes, for once you have started being a Chal-
               lenger, you cannot stop. Once you have started to create momentum
               within the eyes of your own company, let alone in the eyes of the con-
               sumer, to stop moving suggests death: better to have never started
               moving at all. All of which is why, if we are looking to become genuinely
               idea-centered and to genuinely maintain momentum, we will need to
               practice regularly a kind of analysis entirely different from the kind we
c16_1   01/06/2009   311




                                                      Risk, Will, and the Circle of Rope   311



              do now. At the moment, our tendency is to look regularly inward: We
              seek strategic direction every year from competitive analysis within our
              own category.
                 But what the examples contained in this book suggest, if nothing
              else, is that while such analysis of our own category is obviously an im-
              portant prerequisite for thinking about how to defend our business, if
              we wish to gain a genuine competitive advantage we should be looking
              outward. What we should, in fact, be doing is the systematic and fre-
              quent analysis of:

                 Number Two brands
                 Outside our category
                 Demonstrating rapid growth

                  This analysis will look for three things. The first is, of course, individual
              ideas that we can simply appropriate and transpose into our own
              category. (Who says using entertaining narrative techniques taken from
              comics, as Apple Daily used, couldn’t make a whole group of other
              areas of written matter something people were interested in reading—
              such as how an Index Tracker works, or how to productively use the
              other 80 percent of your mobile phone’s functionality?) The second
              thing such analysis will look for is insights into how brands have achieved
              breakthroughs in an individual category, and then attempt to translate
              the results into implications for our own category by using the kinds of
              exercises presented in Chapter 13. So, for instance, when we discover
              there is an outdoor clothing retailer that offers a shower room in which
              consumers are able to test rainproof clothing, two thoughts immediately
              begin to occur: How can we make the retail experience match the plea-
              sure of the usage experience? And then, how can we turn trial, and the
              experience it offers, at our point of purchase into a source of differentia-
              tion? If we read that in the past six months, half of the best-selling novels
              in Japan were originally released as page-per-day serials sent to mobile
              phones, the question is not, ‘‘What are the opportunities for the U.S.
              phone manufacturers in that?’’ but ‘‘How could we, in an entirely differ-
              ent category, turn some element of our brand relationship into a com-
              pelling daily story that people would want to follow on their way into
              work every day?’’ And clearly the intersection between the digital world
c16_1   01/06/2009   312




               312   EATING THE BIG FISH



               and the real world will be a hugely stimulating one to participate in for a
               Challenger in any category over the next 10 years—though it is striking,
               of course, how much this rapidly changing new digital domain is itself
               being built around meeting very old and enduring human concepts,
               such as community, societal sharing, the importance of storytelling, and
               simply being able to see where all our friends are all the time. I showed
               an eminent anthropologist, Bob Deutsch, around a (then) bleeding edge
               ‘‘virtual’’ office I worked in a few years ago in Los Angeles (no assigned
               desks, latest wireless technology, playful common space, dramatic
               meeting rooms) and asked him his reaction. ‘‘Fascinating,’’ he said, ‘‘it
               reminds me of my work among primitive tribes.’’ Startled, I asked him
               why. He found my astonishment odd—he thought it was very obvious:
               no individually owned space, an emphasis on common meeting areas,
               all of the group constantly aware of where everyone else was, the most
               important conversations happening at common points of need, such as
               where the water (or latte) was drawn and the food prepared. What made
               the future work was a deep understanding of the past, and in particular
               the fundamental frameworks that bring us as humans together or drive
               us apart.
                   So in looking across categories in this way, we will defy those who tell
               us that the learning is all in one direction, that it is what the new genera-
               tion of digital Challenger brands can teach physical brands that is the
               future; instead, we will look at very new concepts such as how brands
               build communities, and ask ourselves what we can learn not just from
               the new generation of community-based brands, but also from brands
               that have built their entire businesses around successful communities for
               years—such as local newspapers, or radio stations (What would be the
               equivalent of a DJ within our digital community, for instance? How
               would they behave differently from just a ‘‘community manager’’?).
                   And in looking outward, we don’t just mean outside our category.
               We mean outside our culture, in all the meanings of that concept. It
               doesn’t matter where these brands come from—Bangalore, Tokyo,
               Boulder, Tel Aviv, Helsinki, Shanghai—we must create the time and
               space to immerse ourselves in, and look all over the physical and digital
               worlds for, inspiration, for the inspiration to ideas and inspiration that
               can help us change gear within our own category. Eat the Big Fish. Ali-
               baba’s Jack Ma says, ‘‘China is a place where miracles are made.’’ Why?
c16_1   01/06/2009   313




                                                    Risk, Will, and the Circle of Rope   313



              And what can we learn from that if we wish to create miracles of our own
              in Minneapolis or Munich?3
                  And critical to all of this searching, too, this expansion of our periph-
              eral vision, will be retaining and rooting it in our sense of self, our own
              Lighthouse Identity. Being inspired by what we find, but not a slave to it,
              and finding in that inspiration a way to selectively re-express what we
              stand for and why we stand for it in a way that is ever more relevant and
              engaging to our consumers and our communities of interest.
                  Which leads us back to Apple again. Looking beyond our category, a
              will that refuses to give up, the continual possibility of change—all these
              bring us back to the brand that made being number two an icon again
              for today’s generation of managers. Things famously went adrift at Ap-
              ple for a while after 1984: Losing the hunger and single-mindedness that
              had made them the successful iconoclasts, they also lost sight of their
              core values and who they were. By 1997, analysts said they were way
              outside the circle of rope.
                  But Steve Jobs knew better. The launch of the iMac, in particular, fa-
              mously marked a return not just to innovation, but to the kind of revolu-
              tionary user experience that had given Apple its initial following. At its
              launch, both founder and inventor commented on it in vocabulary
              entirely new to the computer industry—because that vocabulary came
              from two entirely different categories altogether. Jonathan Ive, the
              senior director of Apple’s Industrial Design group, noted in an interview
              that the language people were using to describe the translucent iMac
              was not the language of high-tech industry, but the language of food.
              And Steve Jobs himself unveiled the iMac in May 1998 with the words
              ‘‘Today we brought romance and innovation back into the industry.’’
              Romance? Food? In the computer industry? At last Apple was thinking
              and behaving like a Challenger again.
                  However, the first piece of mass communication that appeared from
              Apple when Jobs returned, a 60-second television commercial, was not
              an advertisement about product, or speed, or design at all. It was about
              something far more fundamental—a restatement to the world and to
              itself of Apple’s identity and purpose. This decision was a risk—with time
              to turn the company around slipping away, many commentators felt Ap-
              ple should have been spending its limited advertising resources on
              more direct, pragmatic product communication—but the emotional
c16_1   01/06/2009     314




               314      EATING THE BIG FISH



               declaration of the brand’s identity set the foundation among Apple
               users and staff alike for everything that was to follow. Over a black-and-
               white montage of people who famously broke the mold in their indivi-
               dual fields, from the arts (Martha Graham, John Lennon, Maria Callas) to
               business (Henry Ford, Ted Turner) to science and sport (Albert Einstein,
               Muhammad Ali), a voice celebrates their greatness, in terms of their abil-
               ity to see things differently, the scale of their ambition, and their abso-
               lute self-belief:

                     Here’s to the crazy ones. The misfits. The rebels. The trouble-
                     makers. The round pegs in the square holes.
                        The ones who see things differently.
                        They’re not fond of rules. And they have no respect for status
                     quo.
                        You can quote them, disagree with them, glorify, or vilify them.
                     About the only thing you can’t do is ignore them.
                        Because they change things. They push the human race
                     forward.
                        And while some may see them as the crazy ones, we see
                     genius. Because the people who are crazy enough to think they
                     can change the world, are the ones who do.

                   It ended very simply, with the Apple logo above the two words
               ‘‘Think Different.’’
                   And although in this piece of communication Apple was speaking
               single-mindedly for and about itself, its spirit epitomized, just as in
               1984, that of Challengers all around the world. As we look at
               the questions and issues we will have to face in the future as citizens
               of the world and not simply as brand owners, whether they are how to
               reverse our environmental impact or how to feed the world, one can
               only believe this spirit will be more necessary than ever before.
Sources_1   01/07/2009    315




               References and Sources


               Preface
               1. www.thinkexist.com.


               Chapter 1:          The Law of Increasing Returns
               1. This is one part (Figure 1.2) of a greater body of unpublished work into this area by Udo
                  van de Sandt, whose thinking this is.
               2. I owe this observation—and graph—to Cindy Scott.
               3. A.S.C. Ehrenberg and M.D. Uncles, ‘‘Dirichlet-type Markets: A Position Paper,’’ 1998.
                  I am grateful to Professor Ehrenberg for allowing me to reproduce this from the publi-
                  cations of the R&D Initiative.
               4. Kurt Badenhausen, ‘‘Blind Faith,’’ Financial World, July 8th, 1996.


               Chapter 2:          The Consumer Isn’t
               1. Donald J Trump and Meredith Mclver, How to Get Rich (New York: Ballantine Books,
                  2004).
               2. Constance M. Lewallen and Steve Seid, Ant Farm 1968-1978 (Berkeley: University of
                  California Press, 2004).
               3. My thanks to David Weisfelner and OMD for allowing me to print this study, and the
                  other materials of theirs used in the book.
               4. Emily Bryson York, ‘‘We Want to Be Pepsi to Subway’s Coke—Steve Provost Aims to
                  Boost Sales by Wooing Women,’’ www.adage.com, January 29, 2008.
               5. I owe much of this line of thinking to original observations by Marty Cooke and Sally
                  Reinman, and some of the substance to subsequent work by Anne Truscott and Fred
                  Sattler.
               6. My thanks to Christy Liu and Simon Sylvester of Y&R for allowing me to reprint these
                  data.
               7. Virginia Valentine and Malcolm Evans, ‘‘The Dark Side of the Onion: Rethinking the
                  Meanings of Rational and Emotional Responses,’’ JMRS 35.2 (1993).
               8. http://blog.highlandbusinessresearch.com/2007/10/01/how-social-media-like-flickr-
                  and-you-tube-has-become-an-influence-on-destination-selection/.



                                                                                                      315
Sources_1   01/07/2009     316




               316       REFERENCES AND SOURCES



               Chapter 4:          The First Credo: Intelligent Naivety
               1. Twyla Tharp, The Creative Habit (New York: Simon and Schuster, 2003).
               2. Susan Casey, ‘‘Blueprint for Green Business,’’ Fortune, May 29, 2007.
               3. Interview with Mark Simon, COO, Next Media Interactive/Apple Daily Newspapers.
               4. Lovefoxxx by Jessica Brinton, The Sunday Times, November 18, 2007; http://women
                  .timesonline.co.uk/tol/life_and_style/women/celebrity/article2851270.ece.
               5. Viv Groslop, ‘‘Shocking Pink,’’ The Guardian, June 2, 2008.
               6. Keith Naughton, ‘‘Out of the Box Thinking,’’ Newsweek, May 12, 2003.
               7. Julie Treumann, ‘‘A Brand-New Brew,’’ Time, January 9, 2007.
               8. ‘‘About Mii,’’ www.brandweek.com, October 8, 2007.
               9. Twyla Tharp, The Creative Habit (New York: Simon and Schuster, 2003).


               Chapter 5:          Monsters and Other Challengers: Gaining
                                   Clarity on the Center
               1. Perez Hilton, The Piers Morgan Interview, GQ, June 2008.
               2. Sheena S. Iyengar and Mark R. Lepper, ‘‘When Choice is Demotivating: Can One Desire
                  Too Much of a Good Thing?’’ Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 79, 995–
                  1006 (2000).
               3. Stephen Armstrong, ‘‘Kind of Blue,’’ High Life, June 2007.
               4. Jeffrey M. O’Brien, ‘‘Wii Will Rock You,’’ Fortune, June 11 2007.
               5. www.lesserevil.com.
               6. Joel Stein, ‘‘Two Buck Chuck Takes a Bite out of Napa,’’ Business 2.0, September 7,
                  2007.
               7. Christopher Booker, The Seven Basic Plots: Why We Tell Stories (London: Continuum
                  International Publishing Group, 2006).
               8. ‘‘The Practical Joker Who Turned Business Green,’’ Anita Roddick obituary, The Week,
                  September 15, 2007.
               9. My thanks to Sarah Newman for the original question that provoked this chapter.


               Chapter 6:          The Second Credo: Build a Lighthouse
                                   Identity
                 1. Tom Patty influenced much of my thinking about identity. Kate Edwards helped
                    develop the concept of Lighthouse Brands.
                 2. ‘‘From Heroes to Losers,’’ by Professor David Marc, speech to the APG conference
                    1996, Los Angeles.
                 3. Marianne Macdonald, ‘‘The Most Powerful Woman in Television—That You’ve Never
                    Seen,’’ Observer Woman, June 2007.
                 4. ‘‘The Best in Your Bag,’’ Sky Magazine, August 2000.
                 5. Sholto Byrnes, ‘‘Raging Bull,’’ Independent Review, January 6, 2005.
                 6. Barry Mansfield, ‘‘Web Slinger,’’ CNBC European Business, April 2008.
Sources_1   01/07/2009     317




                                                                      References and Sources          317



               7. Jemima Kiss, ‘‘Twitter of Success,’’ The Guardian, October 8, 2008.
               8. Jack Schofield, ‘‘Wrangling the Web into an Open Future,’’ The Guardian, February
                  28, 2008.
               9. Susan Casey, ‘‘Blueprint for Green Business,’’ Fortune, May 29, 2007.
              10. Much of this section came from an interview with Robin Wight, and his own thinking
                  on Icon Brands.


              Chapter 7: The Third Credo: Take Thought
                         Leadership of the Category
              1. http://middlestage.blogspot.com/2005_10_01_archive.html.
              2. The whole concept of Thought Leadership came from Matt Shattock.
              3. Lucas Hollweg, ‘‘He’s Cooking,’’ Sunday Times, July 3, 2005.
              4. Gavanndra Hodge, ‘‘Kissy Kissy,’’ Girl About Town, September 23, 2002.


              Chapter 8: The Fourth Credo: Create Symbols of
                         Reevaluation
              1. http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m3092/is_1999_Feb_8/ai_53904922.
              2. David Smith, ‘‘YouTube Goes Live to Take on TV,’’ Observer, March 2, 2008.
              3. Alice Park, ‘‘Top-Flite Gets Macho,’’ Time, September 10, 2007.
              4. ‘‘About Mii,’’ www.brandweek.com, October 8, 2007.
              5. www.capital.com.au/html/events02.htm.
              6. ‘‘Message and Muscle: An Interview with Swatch Titan Nicholas Hayek,’’ Harvard
                 Business Review, March/April 1993.
              7. Dan Glaister, ‘‘Nice Sweater. Here’s One Just Like It. Only £4.40,’’ The Guardian,
                 January 21, 2006.
              8. Ibid.


              Chapter 9: The Fifth Credo: Sacrifice
              1. Ryan Underwood, ‘‘Jonesing for Soda,’’ Fast Company, March 2005;
                 www.fastcompany.com.
              2. Susan Casey, ‘‘Blueprint for Green Business,’’ Fortune, May 29, 2007.
              3. My thanks to Dawn Ahmed for her insights into the Scion case history.
              4. Betsy Morris, ‘‘What Makes Apple Golden?’’ Fortune, March 17, 2008.


              Chapter 10:           The Sixth Credo: Overcommitment
              1. Ernest Rutherford: ‘‘We don’t have the money, so we will have to think.’’
              2. Edward J. Noha, CNA Insurance, address to Professional Insurance Agents of
                 Connecticut, 1990. I am grateful to Bob Ceurworst for drawing my attention
                 to this.
Sources_1   01/07/2009     318




               318       REFERENCES AND SOURCES



               Chapter 11:            The Seventh Credo: Using
                                      Communications and Publicity to
                                      Enter Social Culture
                 1. Rachel Cooke, ‘‘Be My Guest, Please,’’ Condé Nast Traveler, December 2007.
                 2. Elizabeth Bumiller, ‘‘Counterculture shock,’’ New York Times, February 13, 1997.
                 3. My thanks to Thomas Falck for his help in this study.
                 4. Conversations with John Stuart and Megan Kent were a considerable influence on this
                    section.
                 5. From an interview with Emily Liu of Cadbury Adams.
                 6. Mireya Navarro, ‘‘His Way Meets a Highway Called Court,’’ New York Times, July 10,
                    2005.
                 7. ‘‘Show Biz News,’’ Costa Calida Informer, issue 113.
                 8. Barbara Kiviat, ‘‘How One Man on a Harley Reinvented Banking,’’ Time, July 16, 2007.
                 9. Ryszard Kapuscinski, Travels with Herodotus (New York: Knopf, 2007), p. 51.
                10. Les Binet and Peter Field, ‘‘Marketing in the Era of Accountability,’’ IPA dataMINE.


               Chapter 12:            The Eighth Credo: Become Idea-
                                      Centered, Not Consumer-Centered
               1. www.notcot.com.
               2. Interview with Geoff Ross.
               3. Interview with Dawn Ahmed.
               4. This section was prompted by an initial question from—and subsequent conversation
                  with—Donna Neal of SAB Miller.


               Chapter 14:            The Scope of the Lighthouse Keeper
               1. www.fastcompany.com.
               2. Joanna Weiss, ‘‘In a Year of Fragmentation, No Easy Fix,’’ Boston Globe, December
                  30, 2007.
               3. Conversations with Antonio Lucio inspired and influenced much of this section and
                  chapter.
               4. ‘‘Born Again Virgin,’’ The Hub, January/February 2008.
               5. The company is method.
               6. Jonathan Guthrie, ‘‘Bath Bomber Makes a Splash,’’ Financial Times, October 24, 2007.
               7. A brilliant idea of Ron Coughlin’s.
               8. www.kashi.com.
               9. I am grateful to Russell Davies for his thoughts and builds on this chapter.
Sources_1   01/07/2009     319




                                                                       References and Sources      319



              Chapter 15:            Challenger as a State of Mind: Staying
                                     Number One Means Thinking Like a
                                     Number Two
              1. Richard Williams, ‘‘Battle to Be the Greatest of Them All,’’ the Guardian, December 8,
                 2007.
              2. www.portland.indymedia.org.
              3. BusinessWeek, Strategy Powerplays (New York: McGraw-Hill, 2006);
                 www.expresspharmaonline.com.
              4. www.newsbbc.co.uk. The link with ‘‘Challenger leaders’’ was by Ian Leslie.
              5. ‘‘10 Questions,’’ Time, February 25, 2008.
              6. www.danzarella.com.
              7. Interview with Marie McNeely.
              8. My thanks to Chris Riley for helping develop this line of thinking.


              Chapter 16:            Risk, Will, and the Circle of Rope
              1. Peter Lewis, ‘‘A Perpetual Crisis Machine,’’ Fortune, September 19, 2005.
              2. The Marketing Director was Graeme Lindsay
              3. Robin Kwong and Tom Mitchell, ‘‘Alibaba Shares Soar on First Day of Trading,’’
                 Financial Times, November 7, 2007.
Sources_1   01/07/2009   320
Acknowledgments_1   01/06/2009    321




              Acknowledgments for the
              Second Edition

              T     his book has had three lives to date: the original process of writing it, the use
                    I and others have put it to in working with it, and the researching and writing
              of the second edition. In each of those lives, my debt to others has been
              considerable.
                   In the first of its lives, it benefitted from hugely from four main influences. The
              first and most important debt was to Kate Marber. It was Kate who came up with
              the initial concept of Challenger Brands, and who was instrumental in develop-
              ing the early research and thinking that gave the whole idea impetus and life.
              Alasdair Ritchie supported and championed the idea when many around him
              didn’t, and nurtured me personally through the emotional roller-coaster that
              inevitably accompanies the creation of something new. Key figures in two agen-
              cies I worked in, Chiat/Day Los Angeles and TBWA Europe, opened my eyes to
              what it meant to really be a challenger, and the potent pleasures of Piracy. I can-
              not overstate the influence they have had on my thinking and attitude to busi-
              ness. And a great group of planners and information experts in both agencies
              (later to become one) profoundly shaped the thinking and views expressed in
              the book.
                   From 1999 onwards, the book has been a part of a small company astride the
              Atlantic (and now beyond), and the underlying thinking has been a cornerstone
              of our approach to the strategic work we do with clients. In a small company,
              everybody challenges, and everybody adds—that is the pleasure of working with
              people you like, admire, and trust. In eatbigfish that pleasure and challenge has
              come from the people we are, and have been, namely Teresa Murphy, Mark Bar-
              den, Hugh Derrick, Chad Dick, Peter Field, Jude Jarvis, Olivia Knight, Kate
              Smith, Bella Acton, Helen Redstone, Toby Brown, Jude Bliss, Katy Clift, Helen
              Murphy Rob Poynton, Pam Scott, Diane Simpson, Robin Hafitz, Eve Noiret Ryan
              and Lily Double. And the group of us have, over the last nine years, had the
              pleasure of working with some extraordinary clients on some wonderful brands:
              it would be invidious to single out some over others, but I for one have learnt
              more from those clients and brands in the last few years of my working life than I
              have in the previous 20. Quite apart from their contributions here, the second
              and third books in particular have been largely inspired by them. It has been a
              privilege. And it also gives me huge pleasure that the book has had a working
              life outside the company, for those who have applied the working principles to


                                                                                                 321
Acknowledgments_1   01/06/2009    322




              322    ACKNOWLEDGMENTS FOR THE SECOND EDITION



              their own brands, from Colombia to the Ukraine. My thanks to all who have
              written and shared their stories and results.
                  Now the book finishes the end of the third stage of its life: the researching
              and writing of the second edition. I hope it will be clear from the text itself the
              debt I owe to all the interviewees, but my thanks in particular to Eric Ryan, Rich-
              ard Reed, Dan Germain, Pierre Schaeffer, George Hickton, Tom Birk, Mike Wells,
              Geoff Ross, Dawn Ahmed, Emily Liu, Lynne Vanderveer, Doğan Kaşikçi, Jim Hyt-
              ner, Dave Hieatt, Graeme Lindsay, Kevin George, Russell Taylor, Mark Boot, Keir
              Cooper, Mark Simon, Rory Sutherland, Alessandro Manfredi, Silvia Lagnado,
              Thomas Falck, Peter Eckhardt, Thomas Aakjær Jensen, Greg Nugent, Rich Field,
              Renzo Rosso, Robin Wight, Jean-Laurent Ingles, Paul English, Peter Field, Donna
              Neal, Ray Davis and Lani Hayward. David Weisfelner and OMD were generous in
              sharing their data and arranging one of the interviews on my behalf, and our
              colleagues at angriffslust—Thomas Holt, Jens Vogt and Dorothea Meyer—
              hugely helpful in the insights into the German cases. Jackie Cooper and her col-
              leagues at Edelman shared their thinking on the new media world with me, and
              Russell Davies gently but brilliantly pointed out two of the more glaring over-
              sights in an earlier version of one of the chapters. Antonio Lucio has been a con-
              tinual and invigorating impetus to push the thinking further when I have been
              tempted to let up and rest a little; he remains the youngest and freshest thinker
              one can share a breakfast table with. My thanks to him for the foreword to
              this book.
                  For John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Richard Narramore commissioned the second
              edition, and has adroitly combined a firm hand between the shoulder blades
              when it was necessary, with a sympathetic ear when I needed it.
                  Mark and Liv from eatbigfish shared the interviews with me, and Jude, Helen
              and Toby filmed and edited them; it is embarrassing to admit how excited a
              good interview still gets me. Mark and Peter also read key chapters at critical
              stages, when I was least certain of them.
                  And of course there are always the wild cards—the people in one’s profes-
              sional life that just make it much more interesting. Richard, Ofer and Gal, Nikolaj
              and Rasmus, here’s to you.
                  Throughout these three lives of the book, there have been key friends who
              have seen it through from first to last—chief amongst them Matt Shattock and
              Graham Wells. Thank you, both.
                  Finally, it is funny how in acknowledgements one always leaves one’s family
              to last; perhaps it is because throughout the writing process it seems all too
              often that one is, indeed, leaving them till last. The dedication at the front of this
              book to my wife Ruth, for her own sacrifice in letting me write a third. The dedi-
              cation is at once only two words and at the same time an absurd amount more.
              Finally, my thanks to my two 13-year-old boys, who have just moved onto the
              next stage of my education. Social networking, content creation, digital broad-
              casting—there is so much I have to learn.
                  Book’s over, boys; let’s get started.
Photo_1   01/07/2009   323




             Photo Credits


             Illustration        Page   Company          Credits
             Avis ad.            xii    Avis             Avis Rent A Car
             method’s range      42     method           With permission
             of products.                                of method.
             Bionade bottle.     53     Bionade GmbH     With permission
                                                         of Bionade.
             Blue Man’s          64     Blue Man         Courtesy of Blue
             funeral for the            Productions      Man Productions,
             1980s.                                      Inc.
             Surf packaging.     66     Surf Packaging   With permission
                                                         of Surf.
             method text.        95     method           With permission
                                                         of method.
             howies’ long        106    howies           howies
             label.
             Bang & Olufsen’s    121    Bang & Olufsen   Courtesy of Bang
             BeoLab 5 speakers                           & Olufsen Media
             with BeoSound
             9000.
             Swatch launches     148    Swatch           Swatch Ltd.
             large.
             Customized          174    Scion            Courtesy of Scion,
             Scion xB.                                   a division of
                                                         Toyota Motor
                                                         Sales, USA, Inc.
             Umpqua store.       224    Umpqua Bank      Basil Childers




                                                                          323
Photo_1   01/07/2009   324
index_1   01/07/2009   325




              Index


              Actual momentum, 218                 Avaaz.org, 196
                failure to sustain, 220            Avis, 25, 78, 299
              Advertising:                         Axe, 44, 201
                attention to, 17
                word of mouth as, 31               Banana phone, 178
              Agenda, 276–278                      Banana Republic, 76
              Agenda interdependence, 290          Bang & Olufsen, 120–122
              Alchemy and eternal life, 238–239    Banking as community center, 225
              Alexander the Great, 181             Banking culture, 129
              Altoids, 46, 55, 92                  Bank store, 223
              Amazon, 299                          Barclays Bank, 151
              Ambition, 288                        Bare Essentials, 195
              American Apparel, 45, 85, 91, 196,   Barrett, Carol, 57
                   280, 282                        Barrier anticipation, 177
              Analysis requirements, 311           Basic interactivity vs. deep
              Android, 299                              participation, 280
              Ant Farm, 13                         The Beatles, 73
              Apple, 78, 97, 237, 279, 313–214     Beefing, 209–212
                vs. Yahoo, 167–168                 Behavior:
              Apple ‘‘1984’’ commercial, 77          convention breaking, 110–112
              Apple Daily, 43, 51, 79, 282           differentiating, 107
              Apple Store, 297                       intentions into, 186
              Art of beef, 210                       and Thought Leadership,
              Aspirational indentification, 196         132–133
              Assembly, 284                        Belief system, 107
              Attitude and preparation, 251        BeoLab 5 speakers, 120
              Audi, 65, 140–141                    BeoSound 9000 (CD Player), 120
              Audiences, 13                        Bezos, Jeff, 35

                                                                               325
index_1   01/07/2009   326




               326     INDEX



               Big fish:                            Branson, Richard, 36, 85, 146, 196,
                 and Brand Leaders, 295                   202, 211
                 identification of, 294             Bratz, 46
               Binary approach, 211                 Breaking the plane, 128–130
               Binary worlds, 209–212               Breaking with immediate past,
               Bionade, 35, 51–53                         54–56, 251–252
               Blair, Tony, 298                     Brilliant Basics, 285
               Blogs, 272–274                       British Airways, 25, 78, 132
               Bloomberg, Michael, 127, 128         Broad vs. fuzzy, 65
               Blue Man Group, 63–64                Brown, John, 149
               Blumenthal, Heston, 47, 113, 127,    Buffett, Warren, 296
                    128                             Burger King, 98–99, 200
               Bolivia, 154–155                     Burj Al Arab, 126
               Bonnange, Claude, 230                Butterfield, Leslie, 97
               Boundary pushing, 201
               Bracketing, 211                      Cadbury Adams, 199
               Bragging rights, 195                 Cadillac Ranch, 13
               Brand identity, 86–87                Camper, 86, 87, 201
               Brand involvement, 40                ‘‘Carelessness with self,’’ 309
               Brand Leaders, 3                     Categories, 19–22
                 and big fish, 294                     challenges to, 74
                 kinds of, 109                         interpretation of, 20
               Brand leadership, 282                   new emotion into, 45
               Brand model characteristics, 29      Category conventions, 111
               Brands:                              Celebrities, 46
                 affiliation with, 90               Center clarity, 61
                 customer desires of, 274           Central identity sources, 97
                 discoverable, 233                  Central issue, 252
                 as form of navigation, 83          CEO pay, 10
                 freeze-drying of, 220              Challenger as mind-set, 243
                 meaning of, 231                    Challenger Brands, 24–25
                 of opposition vs proposition, 79      criteria for, 26
                 trust in, 19                          types of, 27, 28
               Brand salience, 200                  Challenger program
               Brand satisfaction, 136                    development, 243–269
               Brand talk, 111                         assuming Thought Leadership,
               Brand truth, 91                            262
index_1   01/07/2009   327




                                                                         Index   327



                attitude and preparation, 251      Chappell, Tom, 85, 101
                breaking with immediate past,      Charles Shaw range wines, 69
                   251–252                         Charney, Dov, 85, 101, 200
                central issue, 253                 Chiat, Jay, 197
                Challenger strategy, 257           Chinotto, 203
                collective thinking, 249–250       Choices:
                communication and publicity to        concept of, 167
                   enter social culture, 267          limitation of, 67
                consumer starting point,           Chosen community, 299
                   246–247                         Chouinard, Yvon, 38, 107
                creating Symbols of                Circuit City, 158
                   Re-evaluation, 265              Cirque de Soleil, 54, 101, 180,
                intelligent naivety, 254                 306–308
                off-site preparation,              ‘‘Claim inflation,’’ 182
                   245–246                         Clausewitz, Carl von, 179
                plan, 268–269                      Clements, Denny, 104
                preparation, 247–251               Clinton, Bill, 298
                translating strategy into          Clinton Hilary, 273
                   consumer behavior, 266          Clow, Lee, 244
                workshop location, 250             Club admission, 171–172
              Challenger stances, 234–237          Club Med, 71
              Challenger status, 297               CNN, 144
              Challenger strategy, 258             Co-creation, 230
              Challenger thinking relevance, 293   Cola wars, 210
              Challenges:                          Cole, Kenneth, 86
                to category, 74–78                 Collective review, 249
                to contemporary culture, 70–72     Collective thinking, 249–250
                implicit vs. explicit, 76–77       Commerzbank, 176
                to Market Leader, 72–74            Communication and publicity to
                types of, 62                             enter social culture, 267
              Champagne packaging, 222             Communication idea, 191
              Champas, 155                         Communications, 22, 216
              Change:                              Communities reinvention, 295
                need for, 239                      Community role, 224
                symbols of, 138                    Complacencies, 138
              Change agents, 298                   Complete transparency, 275
              Channel 4, 303                       Concentration, 156
index_1   01/07/2009   328




               328     INDEX



               Confidence and measurement,        Credo usage, 285
                    212                           Critical momentum, 147
               Consumer awareness, 5–7            Crocs, 220
               Consumer behavior, 266             Cultural change, 239
               Consumer choice, 61–62             Current TV, 196
               Consumer experience change,        Customer communication,
                    219                                165–166
               Consumer habits, 65                Customer roles, 275–276
               Consumer intimate, idea lead
                    companies, 229–230            Daffy’s, 65
               Consumer perception, 139,          Davies, Russell, 229
                    143–144                       Dealers, 172
               Consumers:                         Decisive points, 179–180
                 open-minded, 18                  Deep participation vs. basic
                 willing, 18                           interactivity, 280
               Consumer starting point, 246–247   Definition, trading depth for,
               Contemporary culture challenge,         165–166
                    70–72                         Dell, Michael, 36, 297
               Conventions:                       Dell Computers, 36, 297
                 kinds of, 111–112                Der Spiegel, 147
                 of medium, 115–119               Desires vs. needs, 39
                 misconceptions about breaking,   Deutsch, Bob, 311
                    130–132                       Diesel (jeans), 86, 107, 108, 165,
                 of product and service                201, 220
                    experience, 122–127           Digital natives, 14
                 of product performance,          Disruption (Dru), 112
                    119–122                       Distribution, 115–119
                 of relationships, 128–130          ubiquity in, 165
                 of representation, 112–115       Dominant complacency, piercing,
               Core group:                             138–139
                 establishment of, 247            Dominant consumer complacency,
                 programming of, 246                   139–140, 143–144, 145–146
               Core identity, 219                 Double jeopardy, 8
               Costco, 48                         Dove, 69, 77, 86, 88, 98, 185, 198,
               Creative consumers, 274                 270, 310
               Creative fingerprint, 196          Dru, Jean-Marie, 112–115
               Credos, 32                         Dubai, 126
index_1   01/07/2009   329




                                                                          Index   329



              Dunkin’ Donuts, 204                 Facebook, 122, 270
              Dyson, 201, 279                     Fame Strategies, 213
              Dyson, James, 36, 46                The Fat Duck, 47, 113
                                                  Field and Binet, 213, 216
              Ease and convenience agenda,        50 Cent, 210, 304
                    278–279                          vs. Kanye West, 210
              Eastman, George, 158                Fils-Aimé, Reggie, 55, 211
              EasyShare, 158                      flickr, 180, 221
              Education, three-dimensional,       Flip (video camera), 167
                    119                           ‘‘Fluent in Finance’’ course, 151
              Effectiveness, 188                  Focus, 146–147
              eHarmony, 47                        Focus, 156
              Elitism, 65                         Folklore vs. equity, 198–200
              Ellison, Larry, 38                  Ford, Henry, 92
              Emotion:                            Ford, Tom, 42, 44
                 and imagination, 221             42BELOW (vodka), 171–172,
                 role of, 304                           204–205, 222
              Emotion and intensity, 89–91        Foundations, 85, 91
              Emotion and speed, 138              Four P’s (positioning, product,
              Enemies, 77                               promotion and price),
              Engagement, 23                            30, 244
                 depth of, 215                    Four Seasons Hotel, 21,
              Enrico, Roger, 210, 211                   296–297
              Erickson Retirement Communities,    Frank, Robert, 38
                    144                           Franzia, Fred, 69
              Establishment brands, 26, 145–146   Fuzzy vs. broad, 65
                 advantages of, 191
                 and long-term growth, 238–239    Galliano, John, 118
                 myth of supremacy of, 142        Gandhi, 149
              Eurostar, 60, 122, 126–127          Gates, Bill, 296
              Everything projects, 103–105        Gawker, 178
              Evolution, 196                      Genesis Project, 175
              Evolution of Dance, 201             Giant killers, 58
              Exergaming, 124                     Giordano, 166–167
              Expectations, 21                    Glenmorangie, 279
              Experimentation, climate of,        Goizueta, Roberto, 10
                    228–229                       Goldman, William, 309
index_1   01/07/2009   330




               330     INDEX



               Google, 28, 233, 234, 279             Hybrid technology cars, 119
                 characteristics of, 29–32           Hytner, Jim, 151–152
                 don’t be evil theme, 87             Ice cream philosophy, 75–76
               Google (neologism), 32                Icons, 149
               Gore, Al, 144                         Ideas, 23
               Green & Black’s, 283                     vs. innovations, 221
               Grisham, John, 299                       strategic primacy of, 197–198
               Grove (neologism), 59                    value of, 190
               Grove, Andy, 59, 299                  Identification as realness, 270
               Groves, Michael, 304                  Identity:
               Gu, George Zhibin, 295                   sources of, 96–97
               Gucci, 42                                stimulation by, 219
               Guggenheim Museum, 49                    tools to determine, 288
                                                        trading numbers for, 164–165
               Hacking, 229                          IKEA, 49–50, 71
               Handshake marketing, 225              iMac, 313
               Hanks, Tom, 153                       Imagination and emotion, 221
               Hard core, defined, 99                Implicit vs. explicit challenges,
               Hard-core users, relationship with,         76–77
                    98–100                           Impossibilities vs. possibilities,
               Harding, Matt, 199, 201                     56–58
               Harrison, George, 55                  Increasing returns, 4
               Have It Your Way campaign, 99         Indifference, 156, 161, 186
               Havaianas, 46                         Inexperience, vitality of, 35
               Hayek, Nicholas, 91, 149              ING Direct, 49, 167, 179, 204
               Hayward, Lani, 227                    innocent (brand), 27, 47, 57, 103,
               Hendrick’s, 124                             178, 179
               Herzl, Theodor, 88                    innocent (neologism), 187
               Hickton, George, 36, 57, 207          Innovation Lab, 226
               Hieatt, Dave, 283, 289                Innovations vs. ideas, 221
               Hobgoblin, 67–68                      Intel, 59
               Hockney, David, 38                    Intelligent naivety, 35, 38, 254
               Homer Simpson, 163                       purposes of, 60
               Hopkins, Bernard, 296                    values of, 44
               House of Media, 213                   Intensity, 84
                  howies, 105–06                     Intentions into behavior, 186
               ‘‘How to Rob,’’ 210                   iPod, 168
index_1   01/07/2009   331




                                                                        Index   331



              IRI, 41                            Leaders as Challengers, 299
              Itsu, 202–203                      Leadership, 285
              Ive, Jonathan, 279, 313            Leica, 127
              Iwata, Satoru, 67                  Leisure vs. recuperation, 15
              Iwo Jima image, 149                Leopold, Dieter, 51–52
                                                 LesserEvil, 68
              Jannard (neologism), 187           Levi, 165
              JetBlue, 88, 91, 177               Lexus, 86, 129, 132, 162, 192–193,
              Jobs, Steve, 97, 168, 313               198, 297
              Job title change, 248                as Thought Leader, 125
              John, Elton, 115                   Lighthouse brands, 82
              Joint Overcommitment, 182            elements of, 84
              Jones, John Philip, 4              Lighthouse Identity, 82
              Jones Soda, 196, 270                 construction of, 257
              Just enough philosophy, 92           defined, 84
                                                   vs. lighthouse image, 94–96
              Kaitiakitanga concept, 98          Lighthouse Keeper identification,
              Kamprad, Ingvar, 49                     271–276
              Karim Rashid Loveseat, 222         Limits, lack of, 56
              Kashi, 88, 201, 289                Line extension, 233
              Kelleher, Herb, 305                Line renewal strategy, 233–234
              Kennedy, Ted, 204                  Longfellow, William, 149
              KFC, 73                            Looking outward, 312
              Kindle, 299                        L’Oreal, 69
              Knight, Phil, 297, 299             Lowry, Adam, 40
                symbols of, 137                  Loyalty, 163
              Kodak, 97, 157–160, 161            Lucio, Antonio, 107
              Kraft, 55                          Lucretius, 219
              Kuhlman, Arkadi, 49, 204           Lush (cosmetics), 50, 118, 279,
                                                      285, 286
              Lai, Jimmy, 36, 79, 166–167, 282
              Laliberté, Guy, 308               Ma, Jack, 312
              Land Rover, 93, 195                Mac (computer), 97
              lang, k.d., 115                    MAC (cosmetics), 92, 113–114, 162
              Las Vegas, 233, 234                Magners, 123
              Law of Increasing Returns, 4       Mao Zedung, 245
                response to, 11                  Maori songs, 206
index_1   01/07/2009   332




               332     INDEX



               Marc, David, 82                   Monsters, 77–78, 300
               Marketing behavior, 244           Moon rocket and acceleration, 147
               Marketing challenges, 294         Moore, Gordon, 59
               Marketing tool use, 289           Morales, Evo, 154–155
               Marketing triad, 244              Mountain Dew, 91, 93
               Market Leaders, 109               MoveOn.org, 127–128
                advantages of, 3                 Mozilla, 88
                challenge to, 72–74              MTV, 63
               Mateschitz, Dieter, 86, 298       Mythology, 198
               McDonald’s, 99
               Measurement and confidence, 212   Naming conventions, 112
               Mechanical advantage, 11–12       Nando’s, 73
               Media, 212                        Needs vs. desires, 39
               Media Burn, 14                    Negroponte, Nicholas, 313
               Medium:                           New Growth Theory, 230
                conventions of, 115–119          New media, 105–106
                selection of, 116, 118           News value, 196
               Melville, Herman, 149             New Zealand, 86
               Men’s market, 158                 Nextel, 71
               Message location, 118             Nielsen Media Research, 215–216
               method (cleaning supplies), 27,   Nike, 294
                   41, 45, 103, 116, 164–165,    Nintendo Wii, 55, 67, 86, 123, 132,
                   270, 280, 281                     144, 211, 279
               Michael Graves range, 140         Nixon, Richard, 150
               Mini, 70                          Nugent, Greg, 60, 126, 153–154
                motoring with, 87–88
               Models, 24                        Oakley, 183–184
               Mohammed bin Rashid               Obama, Barack, 271
                   al-Maktoum, 127               Off-site preparation, 245–246
               Momentum, 220                     Oldham, Andrew Loog, 73
                and critical mass, 138           Oliver, James, 144
                kinds of, 218–220                One, two, many concept, 230–231
               Momentum maintenance, 218,        Open-minded consumers, 18
                   220, 220–228                  Opportunity, quality of, 206
                identity/experience paths,       Other surface, 210
                   231–232                       Overcommitment, 266
               Monster creation, 300               and Sacrifice, 187–188, 216
index_1   01/07/2009   333




                                                                            Index     333



              Overcommitment behavior,             Preparation, 247–251
                 172–176, 247                      Presley. Elvis, 132
              Overlay concept, 53                  Prioritization vs. Sacrifice, 168–170
              Overperformance, 93, 94              Prius, 119
                                                   pro-age, 113
              Packaging, 103, 158                  Product agenda, 279–280
              Packaging and distribution,          Product enthusiasm, 195–196
                    unusual, 116                   Product innovations, 111, 221
              Packaging structure and              Product truth, 92
                    communication, 216             Product updating, 221
              Palm Casino, 202                     Profitability, 9–12
              Palm Jumeirah, 126                   Programming of core group, 246
              Panasonic, 127                       Projected meaning, 105
              Pareto effect, 179                   Provocative Ads, 200
              Parnell, Scott, 184                  Public fights, 208
              Participative agenda, 280–282        Puma, 46, 117
              Patagonia, 108, 160–161              Purchase and loyalty, 8
              ‘‘Peanut Butter Manifesto,’’ 168     ‘‘Pure Price,’’ 173
              People Against Dirty, 94, 164, 281   Pushing the limits, 93
              Pepperface, 46
              Pepsi Challenge, 142                 Quality:
              Perceived momentum, 218–219,          defined, 131–132
                    220                             of opportunity, 206
              Personalization, 95–96                of trust, 213
              PETA, 144                             of viewer attention, 163
              Peter Pan strategy, 232              Quiksilver example, 192–193
              Phillips, Sam, 133
              Philps Norelco Bodygroom, 215        R8 (car), 140–141
              Picasso, Pablo, 169–170              Radcliffe, Daniel, 143
              Ping putter, 122                     Rate of success, 26
              Pinter, Harold, 111                  Realness, identification as, 270
              Plan, 268–269                        Real Simple, 164
              Point of view, 84, 85–89             Recuperation, 16
              Pop, Iggy, 129                         vs. leisure, 15
              Positive challenge, 248              Red Bull, 212, 270, 286
              Possibilities vs. impossibilities,   Reebok, 89
                    56–58                          Reed, Richard, 270
index_1   01/07/2009   334




               334     INDEX



               Re-evaluation:                         in reach, frequency and
                 projects of, 152–154                    distribution, 164–165
                 symbol of, 141                       selection of, 266
                 symbols of, 137, 285                 strategic purpose of, 168–170
               Reframing issues, 135                  and strong preference, 160–161
               Reinterpreted past, 97–98              in target, 161–164
               Reinvention of communities, 295      Sales events, 104
               Reinvention strategy, 232            Salience, 5, 85, 91, 190
               Rejection, 161                       Samsonite, 21
               Relationship with hard-core users,   Samsung, 46
                    98–100                          Schaeffer, Pierre, 157–158
               Repeated risk taking, 308            Scion, 86, 95–96, 161–164, 173–
               Rip Curl, 196                             174, 177, 228, 229–230, 270
               Ripples and risk, 200–204            Scion Owners Group, 289
               Risks, 312                           Second Life, 25
               Road deaths, 136                     Second-rank brands, 89
               Roddick, Anita, 77                   Selective listening, 156
               Role models, 83                      Self-expression, 95–96
               The Rolling Stones, 73               Semper aliquid novi (always
               Romer, Paul, 230                          something new), 219
               ROQ (return on quality), 227         Service ethic, 224
               Rosenthal, Joseph, 150               7Up, 203
               Ross, Geoff, 204–205                 Seven-star hotel, 126
               Ross, Nick, 134                      Share of market vs. share of voice,
               Royal Society of Chemistry, 127           4
               RuPaul, 115                          Share of spend, 4
               Ryan, Eric, 39, 45                   Share of voice, 23
               Ryanair, 208                           vs. share of market, 4
                                                    Shin (spirit), 304, 310
               Sacrifice:                           Shopping, 7–8
                 in message, 165–166                Sinegal, Jim, 48
                 and Overcommitment, 187–           Snail Porridge, 113
                    188, 216                        Snuggle, 100, 279
                 vs. prioritization, 168–170        Social and environmental agenda,
                 in product range and line               282–284
                    extensions, 166–167             Social culture, 267
                 purpose of, 169                    Social networking, 83
index_1   01/07/2009   335




                                                                          Index   335



              Social transaction, human need       Target, 41, 48, 140, 280, 304
                   for, 195                        Tata Nano, 190
              Software society, 245                Tautou, Audrey, 153
              Sony PlayStation, 18                 T-box, 116, 223
              SOS service, 125                     Television, 15
              Southwest Airlines, 57, 131, 237     Television programming:
              Speed and hunger culture, 222           current, 83
              Spontaneous awareness, 5–6              older, 82
              Sports packaging, 117                Texting, 17
              Springer, Jerry, 301                 That’s Why advertising, 80–81
              Stances, development of, 234–237     The Americans, 38
              Starbucks, 204                       ‘‘The Biggest Epidemic in Our
              Startling usefulness, 30                   Times,’’ 135
              State of market, 26                  The Da Vinci Code, 153
              State of mind, 26                    ‘‘The Judgement of Paris,’’ 142
              Stoneyfield Farms, 88                ‘‘The Warrior’s Rest,’’ 231
              Strategic purpose of Sacrifice,      ‘‘Think Different,’’ 314
                   168–170                         Thought Leaders, 109, 125
              Strategic stealing, 146              Thought Leadership, 111, 285
              Strategy into consumer behavior,        assuming, 262
                   266                                and behavior, 132–133
              Stride (gum), 199–200                Threats, 77
              Strong preference:                   Time vs. activity, 14
                as currency, 157–160               Tinley, Scott, 184
                and Sacrifice, 160–161             Top-Flite, 87, 141
              Structural packaging, 116            Top-of-mind awareness, 5
              Structure, 207–209                   Torvalds, Linus, 87
              Super Bowl advertisements,           Tourism New Zealand, 88, 98,
                   164                                   104–105, 162, 165–166, 206,
              Surf detergent, 65                         309
              Sutherland, Rory, 214                Toyota, 119, 162, 175
              Swatch, 148–149, 176, 180            Trading depth for definition,
              Symbolism, 149                             165–166
              Symbols:                             Traffic flow, 49–50
                of change, 138                     Trust:
                of Re-evaluation, 137, 141, 265,      in brands, 19
                   285                                quality of, 213
index_1   01/07/2009   336




               336     INDEX



               Turnover speed, 232                  Viva Glam, 113, 115
               Twitter, 87                          Volkswagen, 146
               Two feet below the brick (focus),
                   176–179                          Want vs. ought, 103
                 definition of objectives,          War, 77–78
                   180–183                          Warburton, Jonathan, 308
                 outside resistance, 183–184        Web 2.0, 280
                 resistance anticipation, 185–187   Wells, Mike, 297
               Two horse race, 209                  West, Kanye vs. 50 Cent, 210
                                                    ‘‘We Try Harder’’ campaign, 299
               Ubiquity in distribution, 165        Whitney Museum, 140
               Uchida, Kunihiro, 130–131            Wight, Robin, 92–93
               Ulrich, Bob, 86                      Wii. See Nintendo Wii
               Umpqua, 185, 223, 224, 226,          Wikipedia, 94, 279
                    227                             Will, power of, 310
               Underdog sympathy, 300               Willing consumers, 18
               Unilever, 99–100                     Wine menus, 115
               Upstream questions, 39, 44           Winfrey, Oprah, 107, 272, 300
               Urban Outfitters, 76                 Wink, Chris, 63
               User experience, 123                 Women’s market, 158
               U.S. Marine Corps, 150–151           Word of mouth, 31, 196, 213
                                                    Workshop location, 250
               Van de Sandt, Udo, 6                 The World, 126
               Veuve Clicquot, 117, 221, 222
               Viewer attention quality, 163        Xbox, 132
               Viewership, 163
               Virgin America, 46, 202              Yahoo vs. Apple, 167–168
               Virgin Atlantic, 25, 46, 78, 132,    Yokozuna, 303
                    237                             YouTube, 140, 201
               Virginia Tech massacre, 144
               Virgin Mobile, 125–126, 146          Zara, 232
               VitaminWater, 46, 103, 303           Zipcar, 70
     (CONTINUED FROM FRONT FLAP)                                                                                                                                   MORGAN                                R E V I S E D   &   E X P A N D E D
                                                                                        Praise for      E ATING THE BIG FISH                                                                                                                                               $29.95 USA/$32.95 CAN
perspective to market, building a prominent and                                                                                                                                                             S E C O N D      E D I T I O N




                                                                                                                                                                     EATING THE
emotionally appealing identity, implementing a                         “Eating the Big Fish is on fire with ideas. Best in the marketplace.”


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      O
                                                                       —STEVE HAYDEN, Vice Chairman, Ogilvy Worldwide                                                                                                                                             nce upon a time, spirited David
pervasive communication strategy, and focusing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  challenged the towering Goliath.
intently on ideas rather than consumers.
                                                                       “Adam Morgan’s brand advice is among the most practical and useful there is. My                                                                                                            Forty years ago, rental car company
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Avis challenged Hertz—the big fish in its
This new edition explores what needs to change
and what needs to stay the same for Challenger
                                                                       team is responsible for helping drive the success of brands like Axe and Degree
                                                                       deodorant in the United States, and Eating the Big Fish has shaped our thinking, driven
                                                                       our teams to adopt ‘Challenger’ behavior, and helped us dramatically grow
                                                                                                                                                                                                        E AT I N G                   T H E            industry—and won a larger, more profitable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      share of the market by “trying harder.” Today,
brands in the shifting communications landscape




                                                                                                                                                                                                        BIG FISH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Challengers such as method, JetBlue, Nintendo
of media, technology, and the Web. Most                                our market share.”
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Wii, and Linux successfully compete with much
important, it affirms that Challenger brands are                       —KEVIN GEORGE, Vice President and General Manager, Unilever United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      bigger brands in their markets by redefining in
alive, well, and hungry. If you want to increase




                                                                                                                                                                  BIG FISH
                                                                       “My bedtime reading when we were setting up innocent.”                                                                                                                         their favor the criteria consumers use to make
the profile and the profitability of your brand
                                                                       —RICHARD REED, cofounder, innocent                                                                                                                                             choices. The leaders in any market are never
against bigger competitors, this book puts the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in reality invulnerable; they just seem that way
big fish on your menu.
                                                                       “I devoured Adam’s book and used his thinking to create method as a Challenger                                                                                                 before a smart, focused, Challenger brand takes
                               z                                       brand to take on the giants of the soap industry. To say we live his principles daily is                                               How Challenger Brands Can               them on.
ADAM MORGAN is a partner in eatbigfish
(www.eatbigfish.com), an international brand and
                                                                       an understatement. This book will give you the framework to run through the legs of
                                                                       Goliath—and create relentless growth.”                                                                                               Compete Against Brand Leaders             Updated and revised with additional chapters
                                                                       —ERIC RYAN, cofounder, method                                                                                                                                                  and thirty new examples of Challenger brands
marketing consultancy specializing in Challenger
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in action, the Second Edition of Eating the Big Fish
brand strategy, behavior, and culture. Previously
                                                                       “ ‘Challenger’ isn’t a state of market, it’s a state of mind. This way of thinking is as                                                                                       reflects recent developments in the marketplace
an executive with TBWA\Chiat\Day, one of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and media since the publication of the bestselling




                                                                                                                                                                   How Challenger Brands Can
                                                                       important and powerful for a hugely successful brand as it is for a start-up, and this
world’s largest advertising agencies, he has worked
                                                                       book will show you why.”                                                                                                                                                       and influential first edition. Author Adam
with clients like IKEA, Unilever, Virgin, and Apple.
                                                                       —ANDY BERNDT, Managing Director,                                                                                                                                               Morgan—who, with his company, has researched
He and his partners together run The Challenger                                                                                                                                                                                                       and worked with Challengers over the last
                                                                        Google Creative Lab
Project, the evolving research into how Challenger                                                                                                                                                                                                    decade—presents and analyzes the effective
brands think and behave, on which their thinking,                                                                                                                                                                                                     marketing tactics Challenger brands use to raise
writing, and speaking is based.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       their profiles and take market share.




                                                                                                                                                                        Compete Against Brand Leaders
                               z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Morgan provides practical advice and plentiful,
          J AC K E T D E S I G N : PAU L M c C A RT H Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      easy-to-follow examples to show how a Chal-
J AC K E T I M AG E S : C O M P O S I T E o f © G E T T Y I M AG E S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      lenger brand can get noticed and steal customers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      from competitors with much bigger advertising
                                                                                                                                                                   SECOND                                                                             and marketing budgets. He presents eight
                                                                                                                                                                   EDITION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Challenger credos that stress bringing a fresh
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ADAM MORGAN                   AdweekMedia          (CONTINUED ON BACK FLAP)
