Alexander the Great
and the Logistics of
the Macedonian Army

Alexander the Great
and the Logistics of
the Macedonian Army
Donald W. Engels

University of California Press
anULXY

•

LOS ANGELES

•

LONDON

University of California Press
Berkeley and Los Angeles, California
University of California Press, Ltd.
London, England
Copyright © 1978 by
The Regents of the University of California
First Paperback Printing 1980
ISBN 978-0-520-04272-8
Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 76-52025

12 11 10
15 14

For Carolyn

Contents
List ofTables and Maps

ix

Acknowledgments

xi

Frequently Abbreviated Works

xiii

Introduction

1

Chapter /.

The Macedonian Army and Its Logistic System

x1

Chapter 2.

Greece and Turkey

26

Chapter j .

Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt, and Iraq

54

Chapter 4.

Iran and Afghanistan

71

Chapter 5.

Uzbekistan, Tadzhikistan, Turkmenistan,
Pakistan, and Southern Iran

99

Chapter 6.

Conclusion

119

Appendix 1.

Rations

123

Appendix 2.

The Site of the Pinarus

131

Appendix 3.

Approximate Chronology of the Gedrosian
Campaign

135

Appendix 4.

Alexander's Route in the Gedrosian Desert

137

Appendix 5.

Statistical Tables

144

Note on the Maps

159

Maps

160

Bibliography

177

Index

190

Tables and Maps
TABLES
1. The Army's Grain Requirement for One Day

144

s. The Army's Grain and Forage Requirement for One Day

145

3. The Army's Grain, Forage, and Water Requirement
for One Day

145

4. Approximate Troop Numbers in Alexander's Army:
Hellespont to Gaugamela

146

5. Approximate Troop Numbers in Alexander's Army:
Gaugamela to India

148

6. Approximate Troop Numbers in Alexander's Army:
India

igo

Alexander's March Rates

153

8. The Bematists' Measurements

157

MAPS
Northwestern Anatolia

160

Southwestern Anatolia

161

Central Anatolia

16s

Cilicia

163

Battlefield of Issus

164

x / Tables and Maps

Syria and Palestine

165

Egypt

166

Mesopotamia

167

Western Iran

168

Media and Hyrcania

169

Eastern Iran

170

Afghanistan

171

Soviet Central Asia

17s

India

173

The Gedrosian Desert

174

Southern Iran

175

Acknowledgments
Of the many individuals who have given me help and encouragement during the preparation of this study, I owe special thanks to
the members of the Graduate Group in Ancient History at the University of Pennsylvania, and particularly to Dr. Michael Jameson,
for their support and guidance. I would also like to express my
gratitude to Professor Donald Lateiner, whose suggestions and advice have greatly improved the clarity and precision of the final
draft. Thanks are also due to Professor J . D. Muhly for guidance in
the geography of the Near East. I gratefully acknowledge the many
suggestions of Dr. Robin Lane Fox and the kind encouragement of
Dr. Eugene N. Borza. I would also like to express my gratitude to
Dr. Ernst Badian for encouragement at a time when it was especially
appreciated. But above all, I am indebted to Dr. Peter Green, who
originally suggested this topic to me in his seminar on Alexander
the Great in the fall of 1971 at the University of Texas. Since then,
by frequent encouragement and infectious enthusiasm, he has become in large measure responsible for seeing it finally completed.
I would also like to thank Miss Alexandria Juskiw for help with
the proofs and Mr. Richard Bates for drawing the maps. Special
thanks are due to Mr. August Frugé and the editorial staff of the
University of California Press.
Although my research would have been difficult indeed without
the aid and encouragement of these individuals, the conclusions of
this work are entirely my own responsibility, as are any errors.

Frequently
Abbreviated Works
AAAG
A.

Annals of the Association of American
Geographers
Arrian, Anabasis

Archaeologische Mitteilungen aus Iran
Army Veterinary Department, Great Britain,
Animal Management (London 1908)
Quin tus Curtius, History of Alexander the
Great
Clark and Haswell Colin Clark and Margaret Haswell, The Economics of Subsistence Agriculture (London
1970)
D.
Diodorus Siculus, Library of History, Book 17
EW
East and West
Geo. Journ.
Geographical Journal
Geo. Rev.
Geographical Review
GGM
Karl Muller, Geographi Graeci Minores (Paris
1855)
Green
Peter Green, Alexander of Macedon
(Harmondsworth 1974)
Justin, Epitome
JJournal of the Royal Asiatic Society
JRA S
Journal of the Royal Geographical Society
JRGS
F. Maurice, "The Size of the Army of Xerxes
Maurice
in the Invasion of Greece 480 B . C . , " JHS 50
(1930) s 10-235
Arch. Mitt. Iran
Army Veterinary
Dept.
C.

xiv / Frequently Abbreviated

MDAFA
P.
Pett. Mitt.
PRGS

Works

Mémoires de la Délégation Archéologique
Français en Afghanistan
Plutarch, Life of Alexander
Pettermanns Geographische Mitteilungen
Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society

Introduction

Although it has long been recognized that supply was the basis of
Alexander's strategy and tactics,1 a systematic study of the Macedonian araiy's logistics has never been undertaken. T h i s neglect
has been unfortunate since it has caused some erroneous assumptions about Alexander's generalship, especially in the Gedrosian
campaign. Indeed, Tarn devoted only a fragment of a sentence to
the problem: "as for commissariat, supplies were collected in each
district as conquered and used for the next advance." 2 In fact, we
hope to show that generally the opposite was the case. Because of
the restricted capabilities of the methods of land transportation
available to Alexander, only a limited amount of supplies could
be carried from one district to the next. Hence, Alexander would
have to arrange the collection of provisions in advance, and this
was done with the local officials, who regularly surrendered to him
before the army marched into their territory.8 Tarn's simplistic
view is not surprising, however, for the picture that emerges from
the ancient authorities is that Alexander never needed any logistic
planning at all, but secured his provisions as he went in some mysterious, automatic sequence. Burn denied that Darius attempted
to cut Alexander's communications in Lydia because "Alexander's
army was not, like a large modern force, to be paralyzed in a few
1. J. F. C. Fuller, The Generalship of Alexander the Great (London, 1958) 51-532. W. W. Tarn, Alexander the Great, Vol. 1 (Cambridge, 1948) 13.
3. See below, p. 41.

8 /

Introduction

weeks for lack of food and motor-fuel."* However, it will also become apparent that while Alexander did make full use of local resources, sometimes it was necessary to import food and water by
sea—often from great distances—to support his men and animals.
Berve" devoted a short section of his important work to logistics.
Unfortunately, since he did not treat the topic systematically, his
observations are of little value. He believed that the passages in
Curtius and Diodorus 8 referring to the supplies Alexander ordered
to be brought to him in Carmania from Parthia, Areia, and Zarangaea record an actual event and indicate an extensive logistic organization that was also employed in Sogdia and Bactria. However, it
was physically impossible for pack animals to have carried supplies
from those regions to Carmania, since they would have consumed
all the supplies they were carrying long before reaching Alexander
(see below, Chapter 1), and hence the passages are of no value in
reconstructing Alexander's logistic system.
Fuller 7 understood that supply is the basis of strategy and tactics
and thai the Macedonian army could seldom have been supplied
by foraging alone. Nor could Alexander have achieved his many
rapid marches or traversed desert areas without a highly efficient
logistic organization. Although Fuller deserves credit for recognizing the problem, he did not attempt to find any solutions.
Unlike some of his historians, Alexander himself was deeply
aware of the importance of military intelligence and securing adequate provisions for his army. Even as a child Alexander seems to
have displayed a precocious interest in the length of Persian roads
and the nature of the journey into the interior of Asia. 8 A n incident
preserved by Vitruvius illustrates Alexander's understanding of the
difficulties of provisioning cities (or armies which are moving cities)
when remote from cultivable land. T h e relevant passage is worth
quoting:
4. A. R. Burn, "Notes on Alexander's Campaigns 532-33° B.C.," JUS 72 (195*) 8s.
5. H. Berve, Das Alexanderreich
auf prosopographischer Grundtage, Vol. 1
(Munich, 1926) 191-ig*.
6. C. 9. 10. 17; D. 105. 7.
7. Fuller, op. cit., 5*.
8. P. 5. j; Plut. de Fort, aut Virt. Alex. S42C; Polyb. 12. 22. It was a commonplace
among historians in antiquity that Alexander studied military strategy and the
gathering of intelligence as a child, and given who his father was and the type of
environment in which he grew up, this is not remarkable. Cf. J. R. Hamilton, "Alexander's Early Life," C R 12 (1965) 123; Green, 37f.

Introduction

/ 3

Alexander, delighted with this type of plan, inquired at once, if there
were fields in the vicinity, which could supply that city with provisions
of grain. When he found this could not be done except by sea-transport,
he said: "Dinocrates, I see the unusual form of your plan and I am
pleased with it, but I perceive that if anyone leads a colony to that place,
nis judgement will be criticized. For, just as when a child is born, if it
lacks the nurse's milk, cannot be fed or led up the courses of growing
life, so a city without fields and their produce abounding within its walls
cannot grow, nor become populous without an abundance of food, nor
maintain its people without provisions."9
T h e success of Alexander's expedition, the longest military campaign ever undertaken, was in no small part due to his meticulous
attention to the provisioning of his army. This becomes all the more
apparent when pne remembers the ease with which the Macedonians traversed terrain such as the Anatolian Plateau and Palestine in summer, the Sinai in early autumn, the Dasht-i-Kavir, and
the Zagros Mountains. Other armies following the same routes
often lost a large portion of their men from starvation and dehydration alone. T h e Macedonians' successful passage of such regions
contributes just as much to Alexander's achievement as his strategy
at Issus, Gaugamela, or the Jhelum.
T h e purpose of this study is to attempt to solve two problems:
How did Alexander secure provisions for his army throughout
Asia? And how did the availability, acquisition, distribution, consumption rates, and transport of provisions affect Alexander's strategy, tactics, and the timing and direction of his army's marches? T h e
following method will be used to answer these problems. T h e first
step will be to reconstruct the Macedonians' logistic system to discover its capabilities and limitations. T o begin, the army's consumption rates of food and water will be calculated, based on the
known nutritional requirements of men, horses, mules, and camels.
Of course, the army's gross consumption will vary with the numbers
of troops, followers, cavalry, and baggage animals, and these aspects
will receive special attention. But their precise numbers do not
affect the army's consumption rate (the weight of food and water
consumed per individual per day), which remains constant no mat9. x. Preface 1-4.

4 /

Introduction

ter how many personnel and animals are with the expedition. T h e
minimum weight of the noncomestible supplies carried by the army
(for example, tents, military gear) will also be calculated. Next,
the efficiency of the various methods of transport used by Alexander
will be measured in terms of the weight they can carry, their consumption rate of food, and the rate of speed they can achieve. Last,
the relationship between the maximum weight of supplies capable
of being transported by the army and the army's consumption rate
of provisions under varying conditions of replacement will be expressed mathematically. This last procedure will produce a model
of the Macedonians' logistic system, adjustable for different terrain,
numbers of personnel, and animals.
T h e second task will be to apply this model to the human and
physical geography and the climatic conditions of Alexander's
route as they existed in his day. Far from being a mere line drawn
on a map, each of the routes followed by the Macedonians is the
result of a conscious decision by Alexander to best fulfill his army's
strategic and logistic objectives. I hope to reconstruct Alexander's
routes in eastern Iran, Afghanistan, and Turkestan with more accuracy than has been done previously and, more importantly, to
discover the logistic and strategic reasons for Alexander's choice of
these routes. T o construct the routes I will use the geographical information provided by recent archeological, geographical, and
paleoecological research as well as the ancient sources of Alexander's career and the bematists' measurements preserved in Pliny
and Strabo. Occasionally, comparative information provided by
other early armies that were supplied by the same methods as Alexander's and that traveled in the same areas can be used to help restore the Macedonian route.
Fortunately, all the countries through which the Macedonians
traveled have received extensive, detailed geographical studies.
First, each route followed by the Macedonians has received accurate, detailed descriptions by the nineteenth- or early twentiethcentury travelers gathering military intelligence, which in those
times consisted of the same type of intelligence needed by Alexander: climatic conditions, how long the mountain passes remain
blocked in winter, harvest dates (which depend on climate), the
easiest roads, which routes are the best provided with water and
forage, the location of large areas of cultivable land, and the logistic

Introduction / 5

problems of an army moving through the region. These travelers
present a striking contrast with their modem counterparts speeding
along all-weather highways in air-conditioned and heated vehicles,
over routes which bear little or no relation to those taken by the
Macedonians. The observational skills of these early travelers are
unsurpassed, and they are still considered to be essential sources of
information by modem geographers.10 I have tried to obtain at
least two independent travelers' reports for each section of Alexander's route, especially in critical areas such as Central Anatolia,
Palestine, the Sinai, and the Gedrosia. I have never found the observations of any of these geographical sources to be inconsistent
or contradictory to any other source, and they fully merit the confidence that modem geographers place in them.
In addition to travelers' reports there are the magnificent modem
geographical handbooks for each Near Eastern country, notably
the excellent British Naval Intelligence series, and the works of
Humulum, Olufsen, and Spate. These works utilize the data scientifically compiled for decades, and sometimes for even a century, by
teams of trained geographers, soil scientists, botanists, zoologists,
geologists, ecologists, climatologists, economists, regional scientists,
and epidemiologists.
Moreover, intensive surveys are now being conducted by archaeologists to reconstruct the ancient human geography of many regions along Alexander's route. These sources are especially important because of the direct relationship between human settlement,
agricultural production, and the location of military routes capable
of supporting large numbers of men and animals. Indeed, few travelers observing the desolate salt-encrusted moonscape of the central
Tigris-Euphrates Valley today realize that this was an intensively
urbanized and agriculturally productive region in Alexander's era.
Such a reconstruction is only possible after years of intensive surveys, excavations, and detailed analyses conducted by soil scientists,
paleobotanists, and trained archaeologists.
The combined use of these three groups of modem sources for
10. Naval Intelligence Division, (?reat Britain, Persia (1945) 601-60*. These early
travelers have journeyed through, and described, virtually every route passable by
man in each region traversed by the Macedonian army. In trying to determine which
routes were followed by Alexander, I compared the merits of the different routes in
each region as described by these travelers and analyzed the other sources discussed
below.

6 /

Introduction

each section of the Macedonians' route provides a firm geographical
basis for interpreting the ancient sources of Alexander's expedition.
T h e major extant ancient sources for the life of Alexander are
Arrian, Curtius, Diodorus Siculus, Plutarch, and Justin. Strabo
occasionally supplies valuable geographical information. None
wrote less than three hundred years after Alexander's death. 11 Arrian probably wrote during the reign of Hadrian or Antoninus Pius,
and he attained the governorship of Cappadocia under the former
emperor. Arrian's two major sources were Ptolemy, son of Lagus,
and Aristobulus. T h e latter, a contemporary of Alexander, was well
known as an apologist even in antiquity, and he presented a highly
flattering account of the king, glossing over many incidents that
portrayed him in an unfavorable light. Ptolemy also wrote a highly
favorable account of the king in the early years of his reign to help
secure his rule in Egypt as Alexander's only legitimate satrap and
successor. Ptolemy probably used for his sources only his memory
and personal notes, and perhaps the partially published work of
Callisthenes (Alexander's court historian who was killed in Bactria
or shortly after). On a superficial level, Ptolemy appears to have
been a dry, military historian who never distorted his account. It is
now recognized, however, that he does indeed distort the record,
especially when he was personally involved. Arrian's account is
generally devoid of geographical and chronological errors and inconsistencies, and his concise narrative is the basis for the geographical reconstruction of Alexander's expedition. H e is, however, occasionally terse to the point of obscurity, and at such times Curtius
is often of assistance in giving a fuller description from which a
coherent reconstruction of events is possible.
Curtius, Diodorus, and Justin (who abridged Pompeius Trogus)
contain many similarities, and it is generally acknowledged that
they often follow the same source or tradition, which is commonly
called the Vulgate. Unfortunately, the identity of this common
source remains unknown; nor, given the limitations of our evidence, is it ever likely to be discovered. Occasionally, some primary
11. This account of the sources is based on Ernst Badian, "Alexander the Great,
1948-1967," CW 65 (1975) 37-56, 77-83; Eugene N. Borza, "Cleitarchus and Diodorus'
Account of Alexander," Proc. Afr. Class. Assoc. 8 (1968) 15-45; L. Pearson, The Lost
Histories of Alexander the Great (New York, i960).

Introduction / 7

sources for the Vulgate tradition can be dimly discerned in Curtius
and Diodorus. Those recognized include Cleitarchus, Aristobulus,
Callisthenes, and both Nearchus and Onesicritus for geography.
At one time, indeed, it was thought that this tradition was based on
Cleitarchus, but it is now apparent that there is insufficient evidence to prove such an identification. Diodorus, the earliest extant
source, wrote under Caesar and Augustus; and Curtius, in the first
century A.D„ perhaps wrote under Claudius or Vespasian. Pompeius
Tragus wrote in the Augustan era, and Justin made an epitome of
his Historiae Philippicae perhaps in the third century A.D.
Curtius often provides extremely valuable geographical material
whose impressive accuracy has been confirmed by modern geographical research. Not only is his geography accurate and consistent (his few mistakes are also shared by Diodorus, indicating that
their source was at fault), but his descriptions of the difficulties encountered in marching through specific regions of the expedition
are identical to those described by modern travelers.12 One cannot
expect detailed geographical material from Diodorus' briefer account, yet he too sometimes provides valuable information lacking
in the other authors. His account of the expedition to Ammon is
the most detailed and coherent of all the sources.
Plutarch used a wide variety of sources for his account—he mentions the names of twenty-four authors altogether—including Onesicritus, Aristobulus, and perhaps Cleitarchus, Callisthenes, and
Chares.18 Like Arrian, his account is generally apologetic toward
Alexander. As he informs us in the beginning of his life of Alexander, Plutarch had no intention of writing history, but rather planned
to delineate character and depict models for behavior consistent
with the moral values, beliefs, and attitudes of his own society. We
are not surprised, therefore, when he mistakes Bactria for India,14
nor are we annoyed at his almost complete lack of geographical
consistency in the latter part of his biography. T o give accurate
geographical descriptions was not his intention.
At one time it was thought that Arrian was our best source and
it. See below, pp. 84, 101.
13. For the best account of Plutarch's sources, aims, and methods, see J. R. Hamilton, Plutarch Alexander: A Commentary (Oxford, 1968) 11 f. Plutarch wrote in the
late first or early second century aj>.
14. See Chap. 4, n. 76.

8 /

Introduction

that Curtius and Diodorus were less reliable. T h i s was because
Arrian presented generally favorable information about Alexander (since his account was based on apologetic and favorably biased
sources such as Ptolemy, Aristobulus, and Nearchus), while Curtius
and Diodorus included unfavorable incidents. It is now recognized,
however, that these source evaluations were based on the subjective
views of modern interpreters (such as T a r n ) w h o wished to idealize
Alexander and that they do not, therefore, reflect the intrinsic
merits of our sources. In fact, there is worthless information in our
"best" source (for example, Ptolemy's talking snakes during Alexander's return from the Oracle of Amnion) and valid information
in so-called disreputable sources. Green observes: 15
Yet the uncomfortable fact remains that the Alexander-romance provides us, on occasion, with apparently genuine material found nowhere
else, while our better-authenticated sources, per contra, are all too often
riddled with bias, propaganda, rhetorical special pleading, or patent
falsification and suppression of the evidence
T h e truth of the matter
is that there has never been a "good" or "bad" source-tradition concerning Alexander, simply testimonia contaminated to a greater or lesser
degree, which invariably need evaluating, wherever possible, by external
criteria of probability. This applies to all the early fragmentary evidence quoted in extant accounts as well as, a fortiori, to the authors of
those accounts themselves.
Before we discuss the Macedonian army's logistics, a word must
be said concerning the difference between modern and ancient
crop yields and fertility along the route. Few studies exist specifically concerning the agricultural productivity and paleoecology of
the regions along Alexander's route in the late fourth century B.C.
It is significant, however, that in two areas that have been intensively studied, the Negev Desert and the Tigris-Euphrates Valley,
the respective yield rate was five times and twenty times higher than
today, and the extent of cultivated area was about ten times greater.
A similar situation existed in the Lower Helmand Valley, the Lake
Seistan region, and the Indus V a l l e y . " Frequently, where n o studies
15. Green, 479.
16. For the Negev see Michael Evenari, The Negev: Challenge of a Desert (Cambridge, Man., 1971). For the Tigris-Euphrates Valley see Thorkild Jacobsen and
Robert McC. Adams, "Salt and Silt in Ancient Mesopotamian Agriculture," Science
118 (1958) 1x51-1158; Robert McC Adams and Hans J. Nissen, The Uruk Country-

Introduction / g

on paleoecology exist, the relative agricultural productivity of a
region along Alexander's route can be determined by the existence
of cities and extensive irrigation complexes dating to his era, often
in areas that are now desert or wasteland. The superior techniques
of ancient formers in arid regions should never be underestimated:
their amazing abilities to produce abundant yields by using sophisticated complexes of cisterns, canals (often placed underground),
catchment basins, and barrages are just recently becoming appreciated (and imitated) by modern farmers. Geographical and historical
sources are unanimous in stating that the climate throughout all
areas of the Near East has not changed from Alexander's day to our
own.17
I hope to show the problems Alexander encountered in the marshaling, transportation, and distribution of provisions—often in
deserts and barren terrain—did not have simple solutions, and prodigious long- and short-range planning and preparation were necessary before the army could advance stage by stage. These preparations included the forming of alliances, often combined with the
installing of garrisons or the surrender of hostages, to insure the
establishment of magazines of provisions in desolate regions, the
provisioning of the army by the fleet that sailed beside it in barren
terrain, the division of the army into several units when supplies
would be difficult to obtain, forced-marching to conserve supplies,
and the synchronizing of the march with the harvest dates throughout the conquered regions. Not only were considerations of supply
side (Chicago, 197») 55f.; Franklin Ruatel, " T h e Road to Ur," Horizon 14 (197«)
90-103. T h e progressive salinization and alkalization of the once fertile areas of
Mesopotamia, owing to the evaporation of irrigation water and the consequent precipitation of salts and alkalies, is perhaps the greatest disaster in Near Eastern history.
For the Lake Seistan and Lower Helmand Valley, see below, p. 91 f. For the Indus
Valley, see below, p. 107.
17. L. I. Hlopina, "Southern Turkmenia in the Late Bronze Age," EW ax (197«)
113; John Gray, Archaeology and the Old Testament World (New York, ig6s) 4;
Martin A. Beek, Atlas of Mesopotamia (London, 1961) 9; David Oates, Studies in the
Ancient History of Northern Iraq (London, ig68); Louis Dillemann, Haute Mésopotamie orientate et pays adjacents (Paris, 196a) 67; K. W. Butzer, Quaternary Stratigraphy and Climate of the Near East (Bonn, 1958); W. B. Fisher, The Near East, A
Physical, Social, and Regional Geography (London, 1961) 6 3 ! One will note various
spellings for Asian placenames in works cited in this study. I have used those spellings
most common to English writers in this text. Since geographical sources are not consistent in their use of diacritical notations for place names, they will not be used here.

io / Introduction

important to the Macedonians, but also the climate and geography
of their route. Often, the army's movements were determined not
so much by political or military events as by the severity of the
winter, amount of snowfall (in Persis), or rainfall (in the Gedrosia),
or other geographical factors. T o a large extent these conditions
dictated when the army would delay, when it would march rapidly,
which route it would take, and, hence, the very nations Alexander
would conquer.
Of course, not all of Alexander's tactical and strategic decisions
were based solely on logistic considerations, but it is only the possible relationships between his movements and the army's provisioning problems that will be considered in subsequent chapters.
Furthermore, this study is offered only as a beginning for the analysis of these relationships, not as a final answer.

The Macedonian Army
and Its Logistic System

In analyzing the logistic organization of the Macedonian army, the
first problem is to estimate the numbers of troops, followers, and
animals with the expedition. Although the numbers of infantry
and cavalry can be reasonably estimated from the references in the
sources (see tables 4, 5, and 6), difficulties arise in computing the
followers and pack animals. Traveling with the Macedonians were
bodyguards, older Macedonians exempt from combat duty, hostages, servants, seers, physicians, sophists, poets, a historian, a tutor,
secretaries, surveyors, the transport guard, Egyptian and Babylonian soothsayers, Phoenician traders, courtesans, a harpist, a siege
train, engineers, and as the expedition advanced further into Asia,
women and children. In addition, by the time the expedition
reached India, there were enough Egyptian, Cyprian, Carian, and
Phoenician sailors to take charge of a 2,000-vessel fleet.1 Neverthe1. Bodyguards: D. 65. 1; A. 1. 6. 5; C. 5. 1. 4*; older Macedonian*: D. »7. 1;
hostages: D. 76. 8; C. 9. 1. 22; C. 6. 5. si; A. 1. «7. 4; servant«: D. 77. 4; P. 35. j ;
P. 40.1; P. 46.1; P. 48.1; P. 54.1; the seers Aristander: P. 14.5; A. 4.4. 3; Demophon:
C 9. 4. «8; and Cleomantis: P. 50. 3; the physicians Philip: P. 19. *; C. 3. 6. 1; A.
*. 4. 8; and Critobulus (or Critodemus): C. 9. 5.15; A. 6. 11. 1. Doubtless there were
many doctors with the expedition. The sophist Anaxarchus: P. 28. a; A. 4. 9. 7; the
poets Agis, Choerilus, and Cleo: A. 4. 9. 9; C. 8. 5. 7-8; Callisthenes the historian:
P. 33.1; A. 4.10.1; the tutor Lysimachus: P. «4.6; engineer»: Str. 15. t. 30; A. 1. 26. a;
secretaries: C. 8. 11. 5; A. 3. 5. 3; surveyors: Pliny NH 6. 61; the transport guard:
A. 3. 19. 3; Egyptian and Babylonian soothsayers: P. 57. 3; C. 4. 10. 4; Phoenician
traders: A. 6. 22. 4; courtesans: C. 5. 7. a; P. 38. 1-2; the harpist Aristonicus: A.
4. 16. 6; the siege train: D. 85. 7; D. 98. 4; women and children: J. la. 4; D. 94. 4;
A. 6. «3. 5; sailors: A. 6. 1. 6; A. 6. a. 4.

is / The Macedonian

Army

less, despite the m a n y different types of followers, A l e x a n d e r attempted to l i m i t their numbers wherever possible.
T h e army inherited by A l e x a n d e r had been transformed by
P h i l i p into the most effective fighting force in Europe or Asia, and
A l e x a n d e r not only retained many of Philip's veterans b u t also the
disciplinary measures and logistic organization he imposed on the
army. 4 P h i l i p had forbidden wagons to be used by the army and
had limited servants to one for every ten foot soldiers and one for
every cavalryman to carry hand mills (for g r i n d i n g grain) and
other gear. 3 W i t h an infantry-cavalry ratio of a b o u t six to one (see
tables 4, 5, and 6), this w o u l d indicate an overall ratio of one servant for every four combatants. B o t h Philip's and

Alexander's

troops carried their arms, armor, utensils, and some provisions
while marching and did not use servants or carts to carry these
items, as was the practice of contemporary Greek and Persian armies. 4 Furthermore, P h i l i p apparently forbade wives and w o m e n
to accompany the army, a practice continued b y A l e x a n d e r until
the army turned inland away from the Mediterranean toward Mesopotamia. 5 A t this time, it became apparent to the m e n that it w o u l d
2. Not only were many of Alexander's officers, such as Parmenio and Coenus,
veterans of Philip's army, but many of the common soldiers as well: D. 16. 9; Front
Strat. 4. 2. 4; J. 12. 5; D. 9. 5; C. 8. 1. 23-17. These veterans retained Philip's discipline.
Front. Strat. 4. 2. 4; J. 12. 5, as did Alexander himself.
3. Front. Strat. 4. 1. 6.
4. Alexander maintained Philip's practice of having the soldiers carry their anns,
armor: P. 60. 4; C. 4. 9. 20; C. 8. 4. 15; C. 4. 9. 17; C. 8. 4. 5; C. 9. 10. 15; A. 3. 21. 3; A.
3. 21. 7; C. 7. 5. 16; D. 55. 4; Str. 15. 2. 6; Polyaen. Strat. 4. 2. 10; rations: A. 3. 2. 1;
A. 3. 21. 3; C. 8. 4. 20; back packs with personal possessions: C. 4. 9. 19-21; and
utensils: A. 3. 2. 1; A. 6. 6. 2. Because so many supplies were carried by soldiers and
their attendants, generally only a light baggage train was required: C. 3. g. 27.
In contrast, each Greek hoplite regularly had a personal attendant: Hdt. 7. 22g;
Thuc. 3. 17. 4; cf. Thuc. 7. 75. 5; 4. 16. 1; Theophrast Char. 25. 4; and the SpaTtiate
often had seven helot attendants; Hdt. 9. 10; g. 29. One should also note Jardé's
estimate of 15,360 combatants and followers in Xenophon's force of 8,140 troops,
based on a three-day ration of grain given to them at Heraclea Pontica (Anab. 6. 2.
3. - 6. 4. 16), A. Jardi, Les céréales dans l'antiquité Grecque (Paris, 192$) 131, n. 4.
The Persian army was burdened by an enormous baggage train (C. 3. 3. 8-25) of
followers, equipment, and ox carts (Xen. Cyrop. 6. 2. 30-39; Anab. 1. 10. 18; 1. 7. 20;
2. 1. 6). In general, see William Kendrick Pritchett, Ancient Greek Military Practices,
Part i, University of California Publications: Classical Studies, Vol. 7 (Berkeley,
1971) 49-51; Berve, op. cit., 170-4.
5. Philip did not take women with him on campaign according to Athen. 557b,
and Alexander continued this practice in the beginning of his campaign, since in
Caria he sent the recently married troops back to Macedonia to rejoin their families

The Macedonian Army / 13

be a considerable time, if ever, before they saw their wives and
families again, and hence the numbers of women traveling with
the army would have gradually increased. Later in Hyrcania, Alexander allowed his men to marry whichever captive women they
wanted so that they would be less desirous of returning home.8
Even if only one soldier out of four took a wife, this would add
many thousands of followers; and, of course, children would soon
follow these unions, if they had not already. Philip's policy of allowing the men to return home frequently, adopted when the
Macedonian army's campaigns were restricted to neighboring countries, could not be continued by Alexander.
Yet, even when the number of followers increased, Alexander
attempted to limit them as much as possible. At Sousia, before
marching through the Kara Kum Desert on his aborted Bactrian
campaign of 330, he ordered all wagons and excess baggage to be
burned, beginning with his own.7 Xenophon followed a similar
procedure before entering the mountains of Kurdistan in winter
and noted that the consequent reduction of followers, drivers, and
animals would save half the army's rations.* The fast march rates
achieved by the Macedonian army (see table 7) as well as the speed
and tactical genius Alexander displayed in all his campaigns is inconsistent with a large, unwieldy train of followers.
Any estimate of the numbers of followers in the Macedonian
army can only be an approximation. We will use the ratio of one
follower for every three combatants until Gaugamela, and one follower for every two combatants thereafter when the numbers of
women and children increased. It will be seen that their precise
numbers are not the major factor in determining the capabilities
(A. 1. «4. 1). However, important commanders such as Philotas may have been permitted to take a woman before the rest of the troops were allowed to do so in Hyrcania
(P. 48. 4-5).
6. J. is. j ; is. 4.
7. C. 6.6. 14-17; cf. Polyaen. Strut. 4. j . 10; P. 57. l-a; and below p. 88.
8. Xen. Anab. 4 . 1 . K - 1 3 . Bonaparte followed the same procedure when retreating
from Moscow. Cf. Gen. J. £. B. Stuart's leaving behind his wagon train for his
lightning advance into Pennsylvania in June 1863- In the Gedrosian Desert, the army
encamped by a dry river bed—this in the rainy season—and a torrent of water swept
away most of the women, children, and pack animals, but no soldier* (A. 6. 15. 5).
It is difficult to understand Alexander's decision to encamp here, but the possibility
that it was done deliberately cannot be eliminated. There was a serious shortage of
provisions in the desert, and Alexander may have been forced to decide who would
survive, the women and children or his soldiers.

14 / The Macedonian Army

and limitations of the Macedonian logistic system. Of much greater
significance is the ratio between the system's carrying capability
and its consumption rate of provisions, which remains nearly constant no matter how many personnel are with the expedition (see
discussion later in this chapter).*
T h e animals with the expedition included cavalry and baggage
animals. T h e numbers of the former can be reasonably estimated
(see tables 4, 5, and 6), but the numbers of baggage animals varied
with the amount of supplies carried (more supplies would have to
be carried in arid regions than in fertile terrain), the number of
personnel and the amount of supplies they carried, the availability
of suitable animals, and the proportion of different types of animals
used. For example, a camel can carry more than a horse, and therefore a baggage train consisting largely of camels would be smaller
than one of horses and mules carrying the equivalent weight.
The transport capabilities of the baggage train would depend on
the types of animals used and the number of wagons employed by
the army. Mules, horses, and, later, camels were the motive power
for the Macedonian baggage train.10 Donkeys, oxen, and ox carts
were not used. A horse or mule can carry about 200 lb. and a camel
300 lb. for extended distances.11 At first, only horses and mules were
used; camels may have been first introduced in Egypt (where they
9. In any case, it ia not the purpose of this study to argue the numbers of followers
in Alexander's army. I have told the reader what figures I will use, if he disagrees,
he may adjust the calculations based on these figures accordingly.
10. Most references to the Macedonian baggage train in the sources use the terms
foroffryia : D. »8. 1; A. i. 5. 9; A. 1. 5. 10; A. 3. 17. 5; A. 3. 19. 3; A. 6. Si. 4; A. 6. »3. 4;
A. 6.14. 4; A. 6. 25. 1; A. 6. «5. x; A. 6. 15. 4; A. 6. «5. 5; <nc«io<£6pa: A. 1. 13. 1; A.
3. 9. 1; A. 3. 14. 5; A. 3. 14. 6; A. 3. 15. 4; A. 3. 16. x; A. 3. 18. 1; A. 3. «3. x; A. 3. »3. 6;
or iumenta: C. 3. 13. 16; C. 5. 6, 9; C. 7. 4. <5; C. 8. 4. 19; C. 9. 10. IX; C. 9. 10. i s .
faroft-yia may not necessarily mean draught animal since it is a generic term for
any beast of burden. In only one case, A. 6. £5. x, does the term almost certainly refer
to draught animals. It appears that camels were not included in the terms rnn^lpa
or iumenta: A. 3.15. 4; C. 5.6. 9; C. 8.4.19; mule«: P. 37. x; P. 39. x; P. 41. 4; A. 6.14.
5; A. 6.25.1; horses used as baggage animals: A. 6.14.5; A. 6.15. 1; camels: C. 4.7. ix;
P. 37. x; C. 5.6.9; C. 5. x. 10; C. 8.4.19; A. 6. »7.6. If donkeys or oxen were used, there
is no reason why they would not also have been mentioned.
11. Clark and Haswell, X04; W. B. Tegetmeir, Horses, Asses, Mules, and Mule
Breeding (Washington, 1897) 1x9; H. Riley, The Mule (New York, 1867) 49. The
size of the average horse has not increased significantly since the early first millenium
B.C. see below, Appendix 1. The average camel can carry 300 lb. for extended periods,
Maurice, XX3; Maj. Arthur Glyn Leonard, The Camel (London 1894) 187-106; William

The Macedonian

Army

/ 15

arc first mentioned as being used by the Macedonians) or perhaps
after the battle of Issus where Darius' baggage train, which contained camels, was captured. 12 Camels never entirely replaced mules
and horses as pack animals, since after Egypt all three are noted
throughout the march. For the sake of convenience, w e will estimate that the average pack animal in the Macedonian baggage
train could carry 250 lb.
Philip forbade the use of carts by the Macedonian army and
Alexander seems to have maintained this general policy until he
reached Iran, where the first use of carts is mentioned. 13 However,
Alexander soon returned to Philip's practice: in Areia it became
apparent that the carts restricted the army's speed and mobility, and
Alexander ordered all carts and their superfluous contents burned,
beginning with his own. Nevertheless, a few carts carrying essential
items such as siege machinery and the ambulance always remained
with the army. 14 O x carts were never used by Alexander since oxen
can only achieve a speed of 2 mph and their hooves are unsuitable
for traveling long distances. T h e i r endurance is also less than that
of a horse or mule: they can only work for five hours per day as
opposed to eight for a horse or mule. 15 Hence, ox carts could not
Torry, "Life in the Camel's Shadow," Natural History (May J 9 7 4 ) 6 4 . These figures
are net weights and exclude the weight of the pack saddle itself, which weighed about
50 lb., K. R. Veenhof, Aspects of Old Assyrian Trade and Its Terminology (Leiden
•97») 45; cf - Army Veterinary Dept., 197, *gjf. All three animals can carry heavier
loads for shoTt distances.
1*. C. 4. 7. i>; C. 3. 3. «4. The camels may have been captured in Darius' baggage
at Issus, C. 3. 11. so, or at Damascus, C. 3. 13. 4.
13. For Philip's practice: Front. Strat. 4. 1. 6. In Alexander's campaigns, almost
all references to carts (vehiculae, i/xa(ai) occur when the army is in Iran: P. 57.
i - i ; A. 3. »3. a; A. 3. »3.6; C. 6. s. 16; C. 6. 6. 15. One reference occurs in Afghanistan
(C. 6. 11. 3) in a speech referring to carts belonging to Philotas and used as an
example of his excessive luxury, and another in the Gedrosian Desert, where they
were used as ambulances (A. 6. »5. a). It is surely no coincidence that shortly after
wagons began to proliferate, they were ordered to be burned (C. 6. 6. 15), and scarcely
appear thereafter. Wagons were not included in the term OKcvo$6pa A. 3. S3, a; A. 3.
*3- 6.
14. Siege machinery was transported by the army (D. 85. 7; 98. 4), probably on
wagons as in the Roman army, I. A. Richmond, "Trajan's Army on Trajan's Column,"
BSR 1 3 ( 1 9 3 5 ) 11-is. Wagons were also used as ambulances (A. 6 . 15. s).
15. Lynn White, Medieval Technology and Social Change (Oxford, 1963) 38;
Clark and Haswell, 105; Leonard, op. cit., <83 f. Although the average two-oxen cart
can pull 1,000 to 1,200 lb., it will only move less than half as far per day (at a mph.
working 5 hr.) as a horse (at 4 mph. working 8 hr.), and the team will require 100
lb. of food per day. Army Veterinary Dept., 299. Besides being slow and lacking

16 / The Macedonian Army

achieve the speed necessary to keep up with the army's daily march
rates, which average some fifteen miles per day (see table 7).
Another reason for the restricted use of carts by Philip and
Alexander was the inefficient throat and girth harness used for
horses and mules in antiquity; the throat harness was placed directly over the animal's windpipe, and the harder he pulled, the
more it choked him, so that much less weight could be pulled than
with a modern rigid shoulder harness.16 Carts were also liable to
break down, and their movement would be impeded in rough and
hilly country since the animals would have to pull harder—and
hence choke more. They were also slower and often required special routes since they were not always capable of traveling the same
paths as the pack animals.17 For these reasons there was a general
belief among ancient commanders that the use of carts would impede an army's speed and mobility and encourage the possession
of excessive baggage by the common soldiers.18 Because so many
supplies were carried by the troops and their attendants, the Macedonian baggage train would contain a limited number of pack
animals and very few carts.
Some pack and draught animals would be needed to carry the
army's noncomestible supplies, such as tents, hammocks, medical
supplies, the ambulance, siege machinery, firewood, booty, and
endurance, oxen are often unpredictable and frequently dangerous; they may refuae
to work for no apparent reason, and if goaded, they may attack their driven. While
donkeys are patient and enduring, they do not make good army transport animals
since they are slow and can only carry light loads, Leonard, op. ciL, s8gf.; Army
Veterinary Dept., »74-875. Hence, the carts in Alexander's army were probably
drawn by horses or mules.
16. Lefebvre des Noettes, L'attelage: le cheval de selle i trovers les dges (Paris,
1951) i*-i6, 68-71, 161-164;
J- Forbes, Studies in Ancient Technology, Vol. *
(Leiden, 1965) 84-87. Because of the inefficiency of carts and wagons, human porters
and pack animals were regularly employed for long distance transport instead of
wagons in preindustrial societies, Clark and Haswell, 204; Femand Braudel, The
Mediterranean and the Mediterranean World in the Age of Philip II, Vol. 1 (New
York, 197*) »8af.; James Morier, A Second Journey through Persia in the Years 1810
and 1816 (London, 1818) 197. See below, Appendix 1.
17. A. 3. S3, a; A. 6. 25. a; Clark and Haswell, «04.
18. When Scipio Afrlcanua the Younger was given the command at Numantia, he
expelled all superfluous followers, fbTbade excess baggage to be carried by the soldiers, and ordered all wagons and their useless contents to be sold (Applan Iber. 14.
85). Metellus Numidicus (Sallust. Jug. 44.) and Marius (Front. Strat. 4. 1. 7; Plut.
Mar. 13. 1) made similar reforms. Cf. James A. Huston, The Sinews of War: Army
Logistics 1775-1953 (Washington, 1966) sifr-si7.

The Macedonian

Army

/ 17

perhaps some of the women and children.1* In the Roman imperial
army, one pack animal carried the tent, hand mills, kettles, and
tool kits for each eight-man contubernium.30
Additional animals
transported the catapult carried by each legion and the effects of
the military tribunes, legate, and centurions." About 800 pack animals were required by each legion to carry its noncomestible supplies, or about one animal per seven combatants. In the Macedonian army, many items were carried by servants rather than pack
animals, and hence the ratio of pack animals carrying noncomestible supplies to combatants was lower than in the Roman army.
It should be remembered that because of the inefficient throat and
girth harness, manpower was as effective as horsepower in antiquity.
For although the former could carry only one-third the weight of
the latter (about 80 lb. for extended distances),22 a man only needs
one-third the amount of grain provisions of a horse. Nevertheless,
bulky items such as tents, hammocks, and the ambulance were
probably carried by animals in the Macedonian army. A Roman
eight-man tent weighed about 40 lb.,28 and therefore a single pack
ig. T h e Macedonians carried tents: A. 1. 3. 6; A. 3. 19. 4; C- 6. a. 16; hammocks:
D. go. 7; the ambulance: A. 6. 25. a: siege machinery: D. 85. 7; D. 98. 4; the royal
treasury: D. 71. a; cf. C. 3. 3.14; and fuel: A. 1. 19. 9; C. 5. 4. 14; all or most of which
were probably carried by pack animals or carts. Booty: P. so. 0; P. <4. < l - s : D. 7 a
«-3! C. j . 11. to; medical supplies: D. 95. 4; road building tools (picks, shovels, and
axes): C. 5. 6. 14; cf. A. 1.16. 1; C. 6. 5. «0; C. 6. 6.18; C. 8. a. »4; C. 9. 5. 19; other
tools: the engineering corps would have tools for the construction of siege machines
and towers: A. a. 26. 1; A. a. 19. 6; A. a. 18. 6; and for the repair and manufacture
of arms and armor, and tent pegs: A. 4. 19. 1 could have been carried by the troops
or their attendants. T h e Macedonian army, like their Roman successors, apparently
also carried stakes for palisades to fortify their camps. The Macedonian camp was
regularly fortified with a ditch and palisade: A. 1. 6. 9; A. 3. 9. 1; A. 4. 59. a; cf. D.
95. i-a; C. 4. îa. a; C. 4. 1a. 17; C. 4. 1a. 84: C. 4. 13. a6; C. 5. 5. 1; C. 5. 5. 8-9; C. 9.
3. 19. Before Gaugamela, Alexander fortified his camp with a ditch and palisade (A.
3. 9. 1.), in a treeless region (C. 4. 9. 10) where it would be impossible to cut stakes,
indicating that they were earned by the army. Palisade stakes would not be carried
unless they were frequently used. T h e Roman practice of fortifying camp with a
ditch and palisade was apparently borrowed from the Macedonian practice (Front.
Strat. 4. 1. 14).
20. J. Harmand, L'armée et le soldat à Rome (Paris, 1967) 156; Richmond, op. dt.,
11-ia: Hyginus, De Munitionibus Castrorum 1.
a i . Richmond, op. cit., 11.
aa. Clark and Haswell, aoa-aog. Like the pack animals, men can carry heavier
weights for shorter periods.
as- Harmand, op. cit., 156; cf. James Mclntyre and I. A. Richmond, "Tents of the
Roman Army and Leather from Birdoswald," Transactions of the Cumberland and
Westmoreland Antiquarian and Archaeological Society 34 (1934) 61-90.

18 / The Macedonian Army

animal could carry about six of them or enough to cover 50 men.
We will use the ratio of one pack animal carrying noncomestible
supplies for every 50 personnel in the Macedonian army, although
this is a minimum estimate.
Now, a minimum ration for each adult male on the expedition
would be 3 lb. of grain per day or its nutritional equivalent and at
least s qt. of water per day.24 This would be the minimum amount
of water necessary for men marching through hot terrain with
grain products as a major staple of their diets. T o be fed adequately, the horses and mules would need in addition to their usual
forage (10 lb. of straw or chaff), a ration of 10 lb. of grain per day,
and each working animal would require 8 gal. of water per day.25
The requirements are higher for camels, which need about 10 gal.
of water per day—although if the animal has gone three or four
days without water, he might require go gal. at one time.24 For the
sake of convenience, we will estimate that the average pack animal's ration will be that of a horse. Of course, rations for both men
and animals could be reduced for short periods depending upon
the terrain and climate, but to reduce them for an extended period
would invite the effects of malnutrition and starvation. This is
not the way to maintain an army's fighting trim, and like all competent generals, Alexander took great pains to assure adequate provisions for his army at all times. From the foregoing information,
we can determine how the Macedonians' logistic system functioned
under actual marching conditions.
After crossing the Hellespont, there were about 48,100 soldiers
in Alexander's army and about 6,100 cavalry horses (see table 4). If
there was one follower for every three combatants, they would
number over 16,000, for a total of about 65,000 personnel. If one
animal were needed to carry the noncomestible supplies (that is,
tents, hammocks, blankets, fuel, personal possessions) for every 50
individuals, 1,300 baggage animals would be required. Thus, if
the army at the Hellespont traveled through terrain in which there
was abundant water and forage (chaff or straw) for the horses so
that only grain needed to be carried, the number of pack animals
needed to carry one day's supply of grain would be calculated as
«4. See Appendix 1.

15. See Appendix 1.

16. See Appendix 1.

The Macedonian Army / 19

follows: 369,000 lb. (the total weight of the grain requirement of
the personnel, cavalry hor|es, and baggage animals for one day)
divided by «40 lb. (the 250-lb. carrying capacity of the animal
minus his grain ration for one day). Hence, the number of pack
animals necessary to carry one day's supply of grain would be 1,181.
If a two-day supply of grain needed to be carried, we would divide
538,000 lb. (the weight of the two-day grain requirement for the
personnel, cavalry horses, and pack animals carrying noncomestible supplies) by 230 lb. (850 lb. minus 20 lb.). This gives a total of
2,340 pack animals, and so on (see table 1).
It would be theoretically possible for the army to carry all its
own grain provisions for 25 days since by that time the pack animals will have eaten all the supplies they carried at a consumption
rate of 10 lb. per day. In actual practice, however, the army could
only carry about a 10-day grain ration since the numbers of pack
animals required to carry a larger amount would be phenomenal:
40,350 to carry a 15-day ration and 107,600 for 20 days. It is doubtful whether this many suitable animals existed in the whole of
Greece. A horse, mule, or even a donkey was expensive for the
ancient farmer to maintain since he normally existed on a subsistence basis and had little agricultural surplus to spare.27 Hence,
the availability of pack animals for the Macedonians was always
limited. Another difficulty would be the acquisition and distribution of provisions for so many animals by the primitive methods of
transport available to the army. A day's supply of grain for 40,350
horses would weigh over 200 tons, and unless this could be transported by water, there would be little possibility of it reaching
the animals overland since it would have to be carried by other
pack animals who would be consuming the supplies they were carrying. Few regions on earth in the fourth century B.C.—or even
today—could generate a sufficient surplus to feed so many animals
for any length of time. But the greatest problem would be the
sheer size of the baggage train itself if many animals were used: if
there were 107,600 animals and they traveled in single file, their
line would extend for 306 miles.28 Even if the animals traveled 10
abreast, the line would extend 31 miles, an interesting logistic
»7. Clark and Haswell, 14, sis. If the personnel could cany 30 lb. of supplies
apiece, the army could cany a 14-day grain supply; see below, Chapter 1, nn. 31,35.
<8. Five yards per animal is the common interval in marching order, Maurice, 823.

so / The Macedonian Army

problem in itself since the fastest march rate recorded (or the entire Macedonian army was 19.5 miles per day (see table 7). For
these reasons it is highly improbable that the Macedonians ever
employed more than so,000 pack animals anywhere along their
route.*®
Now, suppose the army at the Hellespont were to march through
terrain where there was abundant water but neither forage for the
animals nor any grain. T o find the number of animals necessary
here, we divide 343,000 lb. (the weight of the grain requirement
for the men and animals plus the latter's requirement of fodder
for one day) by 830 lb. (250 lb. minus 20 lb.) Thus 1,492 animals
would be needed to carry the army's requirement of grain and
fodder for one day (see table 2). Once again, it would be theoretically possible for the army to carry a 1 2 ^ days' supply of grain and
fodder since by this time the pack animals would have consumed
all the supplies they were carrying. But in actual practice, no more
than a seven-day supply could be carried because the number of
animals would have been prohibitive.10
If the army were marching through desert (such as the Sinai),
where neither grain, fodder, nor water would be found and all
had to be carried, the number of pack animals needed to carry a
day's supply is calculated by dividing 1,260,000 lb. (the weight of
the army's grain, forage, and water requirement for one day: 1 gal.
of water weighs 10 lb.) by 150 (the 250-lb. carrying capacity of the
animal minus 80 lb. for its water and 20 lb. for its grain and fodder
requirement for one day), which equals 8,400 animals (see table 3).
These last figures are significant, for there were indeed areas
through which the army passed that were devoid of water, grain,
and forage (and these will be discussed at the appropriate times),
but we see that if rations were not reduced, it would be impossible
for the army to carry more than a 21^-day supply of provisions
with them. The number of pack animals would be 2,520,000 divided by zero or infinity: in other words, the pack animals would
19. Although other commanders are reported to have earned 30 days' provisions
(eg., Agesilaus for his invasion of Asia Minor, Xen. Hel. 3. 4. 3), a closer analysis
will show that these provisions were either carried by ship or do not refer to grain
rations but to money for food. Cf. Pritchett, op. ciL, 3gf.
30. If the personnel could carry 30 lb. of supplies apiece, the army could carry a
nine-day ration of grain and forage.

The Macedonian Army / si

have eaten up all the supplies they carried on the third day. If
rations were reduced by half, an extremely dangerous procedure
in a desert, 8,400 animals could carry a two-day supply. On the
third day, however, 18,900 animals would be necessary (1,890,000
divided by 100), and on the fourth day 50,400 animals were needed
(2,520,000 divided by 50). It would be impossible to carry a fiveday ration since by that time the pack animals will have consumed
all the provisions they were carrying, leaving none for the rest of
the army.
Even if each man, woman, and child on the expedition carried,
in addition to everything else,81 30 lb. of supplies apiece, it would
still be impossible to carry five days' provisions even at half rations,
no matter how many pack animals were with the army. It works
out thus: for a three-day expedition, the personnel could actually
carry all the requirements of the army. 32 For a four-day expedition, however, 11,400 pack animals would be necessary,88 and it
would be impossible to carry provisions for 5 days.84 Again, the
pack animals and personnel will have consumed all their provisions by the fifth day, even at half rations. This ratio between
the army's consumption rate and its carrying capability remains
constant no matter how many personnel or pack animals are used
to carry supplies. Nor would it help if the cavalry horses carried
gi. Each soldier on Alexander's campaigns carried his helmet, shield, leather
breastplate, greaves, spear or sarissa, and utensils (Polyaen. Strat. 4. x. 10; above n.
4), and the heavily armored troops carried in addition a cuirass and wore a kilt of
leather strips covered with bronze. They also carried personal possessions in back
packs (C. 4. 9. 19-si), swords, and perhaps some road-building tools, blankets, medical
supplies, and tent pegs. T h e soldiers' attendants were weighted down with hand
mills and ropes (Front. Strat. 4. 1. 6), and probably some of the gear recorded in n.
19. An estimate of 50 lb. carried by each soldier and attendant does not seem unrealistic when one remembers that the weight of a metal breastplate alone is 50 lb.,
A. M. Snodgrass, The Arms and Armor of the Greeks (Ithaca, 1967) 122-183; 3°
of provisions would bring the total weight carried to 80 lb.—the maximum an individual can carry for extended periods without injuring his health, Clark and
Haswell, 202-803.
3a. The army's total requirements for three days at half rations would weigh
1,890,000 lb., while the personnel could carry 1,950,000 lb. (65,000 X 30).
33. T h e army's total requirement will weigh 2,510,000 lb., while the personnel
will only be able to carry 1,950,000 lb.; 11400 pack animals (570,000 divided by 50)
will be necessary to carry the remaining 1 570,000 lb. of supplies.
34. T h e army's total requirement will weigh 3,150,000 lb., while the personnel
will be able to carry 1,950,000 lb. Infinity animals (1,too,000 divided by o) will be
necessary to carry the remaining 1,«00,000 lb. of supplies.

t i / The Macedonian Army

supplies: after the fourth day, they would only be so much meat
on the hoof."
From these computations we can formulate a general principle
that is valid for large and small expeditions alike: an army whose
supplies are carried by animals and men cannot advance through
desert where neither grain, fodder, or water is available for more
than four days. If the army were fed full rations, it could not
advance for more than two full days without incurring heavy
casualties.
However, Alexander did indeed traverse deserts where little or
no provisions were obtainable for over four days without casualties. Thus for each location he must have found a unique solution
for the provisioning problem depending on the human and physical geography of the region. One of the purposes of this study is to
discover what these solutions were.
In analyzing the Macedonians' logistic system it becomes apparent that Philip and Alexander created a new type of army,
fundamentally different from those in contemporary Greece and
Persia. In Greek armies, the number of followers often approached
the number of combatants, and, as we have seen, arms and armor
were carried by servants or baggage animals and not by the soldiers
themselves. Philip trained his soldiers to carry their full panoply
as well as some provisions on the march and forbade carts and
women to accompany the army. Much equipment was carried by
servants and not by pack animals or carts. This army organization
35. These relationships can be expressed by the following formula:
N = d(a 4- b + c) — (yz + a00 *)
«50 — d(e + f + g)
where N = the number of pack animals; a = the army's total ration of grain in lb.;
b = the army's total ration of fodder in lb.; c -- the army's total requirement of
water in lb.; d = the number of days the provisions needed to be carried; e = a
pack animal's ration of grain; / = a pack animal's ration of fodder; and g = a pack
animal's ration of water. If the personnel could carry supplies, then y ~ the number
of personnel; z = the average weight a person could carry. If the cavalry horses could
carry supplies, then x = the number of horses. When the personnel and cavalry
horses can carry supplies, if the resulting number above the division bar is negative,
the carrying capacity of the personnel and cavalry horses will be greater than the
amount of supplies needed to be carried, and therefore no pack animals will be required. It is doubtful, however, that cavalry horses were regularly used as pack
animals since nothing will break their spirit faster than to be used in this way.

The Macedonian Army / «3

was developed by Philip in response to his campaigns in the mountainous regions of Thrace, Paeonia, and IllyTia, where the use of
carts would be impractical if not impossible over mountain paths,
and where large numbers of followers would not only slow the
army down (see table 7) but also make the army especially vulnerable while crossing mountain passes (see Appendix s). Macedonia was a poor country; the phalanx was composed of peasants
who could not afford expensive hoplite armor.84 Few Macedonian
peasants possessed expensive oxen, horses, or mules, and those that
did could not afford to see their work animals requisitioned for an
army expedition. The consequence of Philip's reforms was to make
the Macedonian army the fastest, lightest, and most mobile force
in existence, capable of making lightning strikes against opponents "before anyone had time to fear the event."
This organization was retained by Alexander, as far as possible
throughout his campaigns, and was largely responsible for his
army's astonishing speed and mobility which so terrified his adversaries.87 Even when the size of his army increased, Alexander
took great pains to retain its lightness and mobility by destroying
wagons and excess baggage and by eliminating followers. Only
horses, mules, and camels were used in Alexander's baggage train
because they have greater speed and endurance than oxen or donkeys. Philip's and Alexander's troops were much like "Marius'
Mules," heavily encumbered with arms, armor, rations, and per36. Snodgrass, op. dt., 114-115.
37. D. 4. 5: So much the rapid moves and energetic action of the young man shook
the confidence of those who opposed him [entering Boeotia]; P. 26. 7: And the high
spirit which he carried into his undertakings rendered his ambition finally invincible,
so that it subdued not only enemies, but even timet and places; A. 1. 4. g: T h e Getae
did not sustain even the first charge of the cavalry; for Alexander's bold stroke came
as a great shock to them, in that he so easily crossed the Ister, the greatest of rivers,
in one night without so much as bridging the stream; A. 1. 7. 5: T h e Thebans did not
learn of his passage of the Gates until his arrival with all his force at Onchestus; A.
3. 17. 4: They (the Uxians), however, astounded at Alexander's swiftness, and overmastered at the very position in which they had chiefly put their trust, fled without
so much as coming to close quarters; A. 3. 25. 7: Satibarzanes, for his part, learning
of Alexander's proximity and astounded at the swiftness of his approach, fled with
a few Areian horsemen; A. 7. 28. 3: And all that had to be done in uncertainty he did
with the utmost daring; he was the most skilled in swift anticipation and gripping of
his enemy before anyone had time to fear the event; G 5. 7. 1: That intrepidity
in encountering dangers, his promptness in forming and carrying out plans; C. 7. 4.
1: But Bessus [was] greatly terrified by Alexander's speed. . . .

»4 / The Macedonian Army

sonal possessions but marching with a light baggage train.8* Other
contemporary armies spared their soldiers from carrying heavy
burdens but paid for this amenity with a large, unwieldy baggage
train of carts, pack animals, and followers which sharply reduced
their speed and mobility. Because many supplies were carried by
the troops and a restricted number of servants, the Macedonian
army would need far fewer pack animals than another contemporary force carrying an equivalent weight of baggage, and hence the
problems of acquiring sufficient numbers of animals and feeding
them were also reduced.8* T h e restricted use of carts would not
only increase the army's mobility in rough terrain but also reduce
the number of drivers and the need to carry or acquire replacement parts and lumber for repairs—an important consideration
in the treeless areas of eastern Iran, Afghanistan, and Turkestan.40
In short, the logistic organization of Alexander's army was brilliantly adapted for campaigning in Asia, where the acquisition
of pack animals and provisions would often be difficult in barren
terrain and where speed and mobility were frequently important
tactical advantages.
Only the geographical and logistic problems Alexander encountered will be considered in subsequent chapters: areas where no
problems occurred (in the Nile Valley, Tigris-Euphrates Valley,
and the Indus Valley) will receive little attention. Conversely,
regions where climate, geography, or lack of provisions may have
38. Marltu reduced the number* of pack animal» by having the soldiers carry
their own cooking utensil» and provisions, and hence they were called Marius' Mules
(Front Strat. 4. 1.7; PluL Mar. 13.1). Both Marius and Philip made these reforms for
similar reasons: to increase their armies' speed and mobility and to reduce the
numbers of padt animals in regions where animals were difficult to acquire.
39. For example, if the Macedonians carried their arms and armor on pack animals, and if the average weight of the soldier's panoply was j o lb. and there were
50,000 troops in the army, their combined panoply would weigh 1,500,000 lb. T h i s
would require 6,000 animals to carry it and 140 additional animals to cany their grain
ration for one day. All these additional animals or their equivalent in carts were not
required by Alexander.
40. According to Xenophon (Cyrop. 6. a. J*-J9), carts would not only require
drivers but a quantity of lumber for replacement parts, skilled carpenters and tools
for repairing diem, and a shovel and mattock per cart, probably for road building.
Only a limited quantity of these men and materials would be needed by Alexander's
force.

The Macedonian Army / s5

been significant factors in influencing Alexander's strategic decisions will be studied in depth.
Much in this reconstruction of the Macedonian logistic system
is hypothetical for there are many unknown variables that cannot
be calculated. Nevertheless, if the solutions to the Macedonian
army's logistic problems are ever to have a scientific basis, it is first
necessary that hypotheses be advanced which explain the recorded
events, however inaccurate they may later prove to be.

2.
Greece and Turkey

Our sources do not indicate from what location Alexander and the
Macedonian army left for their expedition. When Arrian begins
his account of the army's march into Asia, the Macedonians are
marching east past Lake Cercinitis to Amphipolis and the mouth
of the Strymon.1 The army may have started from Therma, the next
large town west of Lake Cercinitis and Amphipolis. There are several reasons why Therma would make an excellent point of departure. It was on or near major routes of communication from Thessaly, Epirus, Thrace, and Northern Macedonia via the Axios Valley.
It is near abundant supplies of water from the Axios and the springs
and streams from Mount Khortiatis, which were sufficient to supply
Xerxes' army.2 Most significant, it was a port, and foodstuffs could
easily be shipped to the army while it marshaled in the town. Sea
and river transport were always much more efficient than land
transport in antiquity since a large merchant ship could carry about
400 tons, while a pack horse or mule could only carry 200 lb. and
would consume 20 lb. of foodstuffs daily while traveling.® This is
why large armies could not remain stationary for extended periods
1. A. 1. 11. g.
s. Hdt. 7. « 7 . Naval Intelligence Division, Great Britain, Greece, Vol. j (>945)
j. The largest merchant ships of the fifth century B.C. could transport 10,000
talents (about 400 tons), Thuc. 7. »5. 6. See Chapter 1 for the capabilities of the
methods of overland transport available to Alexander.

Greece and Turkey / 87

when remote from sea or river transport: they would rapidly deplete the surpluses of the immediately surrounding territory, and
it would become increasingly difficult to transport supplies overland as the distance from the army increased.4 Xerxes was no doubt
attracted to the site of Therma for these reasons, since he halted his
army here for a considerable period.8
T h e Macedonians left in early spring of 334 and carried a 30-day
supply of provisions with them.6 These provisions probably only
consisted of grain and not water or forage, since in early spring the
rivers of this region are in flood and its rich, fertile land would
possess abundant fodder and pasture lands.7 Taking a 30-day supply
of grain at the beginning of the march makes excellent logistic
sense for two reasons. First, it was always standard practice in antiquity for an army to live off the territory of the enemy and not
off one's friends and allies.8 Second, since it was early spring (either
the last week of March or April) and the harvest would not begin
until June, the towns along the Thracian coast would be on short
rations themselves and could ill afford to provision the Macedonian
army. The months before harvest were particularly agonizing for
the ancient farmer when "things grow but a man cannot eat his
fill."9 The phenomenon of preharvest hunger is widespread among
populations engaged in subsistence agriculture. Before harvest
time, the individual's caloric intake drops below the quantity
needed for physical maintenance, and the average body weight also
declines sharply.10 Populations living under these conditions seldom have enough surplus available at such times to feed themselves,
let alone to supply an army, even if compelled to do so. T h e synchronization between the march and the harvest date is evident
here. If the army left in late March or April, 30 days' provisions
would last them to May, when the crop, although only "milk-ripe,"
4. This is why Alexander never spent the winter, or even more than a few weeks,
with his entire army in a region remote from a seaport or navigable river; see below
p. 61.
5. Hdt. 7. 1*7-130.
6. P. 15. 1, following Duris of Samos.
7. Naval Intelligence Division, Greece, Vol. j , 116-154.
8. Onasander 6. i j ; cf. Xen. Hel. %. 1. l-a; Amm. Marc. «4. 4. 9; J. K. Anderson,
Military Theory and Practice in the Age of Xenophon (Berkeley, 1970) 51.
9. Alcman Frag. 56.
10. Clark and Haswell, gsf.

s 8 / Greece

and

Turkey

could be harvested a n d eaten. 1 1 T h e relationship between the timi n g a n d direction of A l e x a n d e r ' s marches a n d the harvest dates a n d
agricultural calendars of the various regions he conquered is of
fundamental importance.
W e have already seen that it w o u l d have been impossible for the
Macedonian a r m y to have carried m o r e than a 14-day supply of
grain overland, n o matter h o w many pack animals were with the
a r m y . 1 4 Hence, the provisions will have been carried b y ship, a n d
this is w h y the army's itinerary included the coastal towns of A m phipolis, A b d e r a , Maroneia, probably Aenos, and Sestos. 13 T h a n k s
to the information provided by A r r i a n , the approximate chronology
of the army's itinerary through T h r a c e can be reasonably restored.
A t T h e r m a , the a r m y could take a three days' ration to A m p h i polis, some 5 7 miles away. 1 4 T h e envisioned march rate here—19
miles per day—would not be difficult over flat terrain in the spring. , s
N e x t , the expedition could march directly to A b d e r a (about 7 1
miles f r o m Aimphipolis) in f o u r days, or it could make the march
in two stages: first halting at Neapolis (38 miles from A m p h i p o l i s )
11. "Wheat," Encyclopaedia Britannica «3 (194s) 558f. The grain is milk-ripe 4
to 5 weeks after fertilization occurs and is fully ripe 8 to 9 weeks after. Xerxes also
synchronized his march into Greece with the harvest date (Hdt 7. 50), as did Lee
for the advance of the Confederate Army into Pennsylvania in late June 1863.
1*. See Chapter 1, n. «7.
i j . A. 1. n . 3-5.
14. Wherever possible, I have used the distances scientifically measured by those
actually traversing the route. However, such measurements are rare, for few people
now travel between Abdera and Maroneia, or from Prophthasia to the City of the
Arachosians. But when these measurements are available and have been used, they
will be noted. Where precise measurements are not available, the following method
of measurement has been used. First, the most accurate map of the area is obtained.
Next, an engineering measuring caliper is placed on the map's scale at a ten-mile
interval. The caliper is then walked along the route shown on the map, which
enables virtually all the curves and angles of the route to be measured. 5% is then
added to the measured distance to compensate for vertical motion (e.g., movement
up and down in mountainous areas) and curves not depicted on the map or not
measured by the caliper. This technique is accurate within about x% when checked
against the actual traveling distance and is more accurate than using a hank of string
or other primitive methods. Care must be taken to have the initial measurement
accurate. It may be checked by walking the caliper along the scale. Where there is a
problem as to the route Alexander took, it will be disnissird In the appropriate place.
When measurements derived from this method are used, they will not be noted.
15. Naval Intelligence Division, Greece, Vol. 3, 1x7-133. The entire Macedonian
army achieved a march rate of 19.5 miles p a day from Gaza to Pelusium; see table 7.

Greece and Turkey / sg

and then in Abdera (another 33 miles). From Abdera to Maroneia
is only 36 miles—a two day march—and after revictualing from the
latter town, the Macedonians could carry a three days' supply of
provisions to the Hebrus (probably near Aenos), a journey of 55
miles. From Aenos to the Melas River is also about 55 miles, and
perhaps the fleet provisioned the army at Leuce Acte at the mouth
of the Melas, the same location at which Xerxes' army was revictualed by the Persian fleet some 150 years before. 16 It probably took
the army three days to travel over the rocky, broken terrain from
the Melas to Sestos, a distance of 47 miles.17 In addition to the time
spent marching, the army would have to halt for at least one day in
seven. These halts are necessary because cavalry horses and pack
animals cannot withstand the pressure of loads on their backs for
more than seven consecutive days without rest.18 They are also
necessary to give the animals time to graze on grasses or greenery,
an opportunity they seldom have while the army is marching, since
horses, mules, and camels will only eat during the day. Hence, in
addition to the 18 days spent marching from Therma, at least two
additional days were needed for halts: bringing the total march
time to 20 days.19
When the army crossed the Hellespont, it would still possess a
ten-day supply of grain, no doubt stowed aboard the many cargo
vessels remaining with the expedition.40 This was excellent logistic
and strategic planning, since the additional ten-day supply would
not only allow the grain in the fields further time to ripen but would
also give the Macedonians time to secure a bridgehead and defeat
any Persian advance force sent to stop them before they had to begin requisitioning grain from the cities under Persian control.
Once the Persian advance force was defeated, the Anatolian towns
would not offer much resistance to the conqueror and would give
him any supplies he needed.
T h e Macedonians might have been provisioned from the fleet at
Arisbe, Percote, and again near Lampsakos, where the army began
16. Hdt 7. 15; Maurice, gig.
17. Maurice, 213.
18. Clark and Haswell, «04; Leonard, op. tit., 165,193,194; Army Veterinary Dept.
157. See alio table 7.
19. The march time it given in A. 1. 11. 5.
10. A. 1. 11. 6.

go / Greece and Turkey

to turn inland. 81 After passing the latter city, the 30 days' provisions
would be about used up, and hereafter the army would have to rely
on foraging and requisitions to continue. Hence, Memnon's strategy of laying waste all the territory through which the Macedonians
would have to pass would have been extremely effective if carried
out.88 Since he would have ravaged the territory before the crops
were harvested, he would not only have deprived Alexander's foraging parties but would have also prevented the towns from replenishing their own limited reserves, from which the Macedonians
would also acquire provisions. Persian control of the sea would
have effectively blocked supplies from Greece reaching the army
by ship.
After the victory at the Granicus, the first topological problem
concerning Alexander's route occurs. Most maps illustrating Alexander's route take him due south in almost a straight line from
Dascylion to Sardis, oblivious of rugged mountains, steep canyons,
and barren scrub land.83 This path seems to be a distortion of the
route of the Roman road that proceeded from Dascylion down the
Macestus Valley to Pergamon and hence to Sardis via Thyatira.
However, there are good reasons for Alexander to have taken a
different route.
First, there is no evidence that Alexander was ever in Dascylion.
Arrian 84 wrote that Alexander sent Parmenio to take the town, and
it is unlikely that he would bother sending Parmenio when he himself would follow immediately. But even if Alexander was in Dascylion, he would not have chosen the route from there via Pergamon
and Thyatira to Sardis. T h e Macedonian army could not follow
any arbitrarily chosen trail: it was strictly limited to terrain where
supplies would be sufficient and its baggage train could travel. T h e
upland region between Dascylion and Sardis consists of uninhabited
«1. For the Macedonian route here see Walter Leaf, Strabo on the Troad (Cambridge, i g s j ) 101. Robin Lane Fox, Alexander the Great (New York, 1974) 515, would
amend par" akten (along the coast) (or the River Praktios in A. 1. 12. 6. However, the
passage would then read: "On the next day, he passed Lampsakos and encamped
along the coast, which flows from Mount Ida and runs into the sea that is between
the Hellespont and the Euxine Sea." This scarcely seems possible. See Green, i6g.
23. A. 1. is. g.
ag. E.g., those based on CAH.l Vol. 6, 357. Others, e.g., Fritz Schachermeyr,
Alexander der Grosse (Vienna, 1971), 167, go direct from Zeleia to Sardis.
«4. A. 1. 17. 1.

Greece and Turkey / 31

waste land with rugged, barren, crystalline mountains forming
acidic soils only capable of supporting scrub vegetation.88 Communications between northern and southern regions are extremely
difficult except along the Aegean coast, since the entire area is
broken up by precipitous gorges and mountains.26
Alexander, then, was unlikely to have traveled from Dascylion
to Sardis directly, and in all probability, he chose the same coastal
route followed by all armies traveling north to south in the Troad.
Xerxes, Xenophon, Scipio Africanus the Elder, the Arab commander Maslama, the Second Crusade led by Louis VII, and early
modern Turkish armies have all traveled along the coastal route
past Ilium to Antandrus and Adramyttium.27 Alexander probably
chose the coastal route for the same reasons as these other experienced commanders: large areas of productive land under cultivation in the Scamander Valley and the coastal plains from Antandrus
to Adramyttium; abundant water supplies from the Scamander,
Euenos, and other smaller streams; the presence of the large towns
of Sigeum, Thymbra, Neandria, Assus, Antandrus, Astyra, Killa,
Thebe, and Adramyttium on or near his route; and a relatively
smooth track, passable for his primitive carts and pack animals.
Ancient towns were centers of consumption and foci of food collection and transport networks,28 and hence the army's problems of
acquiring food would be reduced when their route passed through
towns wherever possible rather than uninhabited country. Also,
towns possess transport facilities such as harbors, ships, pack animals, and roads that would be readily available to import more food
if it were needed. Furthermore, because of the limitations of overland transport in antiquity, almost all agricultural production oc«5. Leaf, op. cit., xvii-xxiv; J . C. Dewdney, Turkey, an Introductory
Geography
(New York, 1971) 164; Naval Staff, Intelligence Department, A Handbook of Asia
Minor, Vol. 1 (London, 1919) 163, 180, 197, 206: "Plenty of water and wood but no
land under cultivation." 274: "Supplies are scarce." 322: "Country [from Bigadich to
Kyrkaghach] is generally bare, covered largely with rocks and scrub and supplies
are scanty."
26. Naval Staff, Asia Minor, Vol. 2, 162; Leaf, op. cit., xxii; Dewdney, op. cit,
163-165.

«7. Xerxes: Hdt. 7. 42; Xenophon: Xen. Anab. 7. 8. 7-8; Scipio Africanus: Liv.
37- 37- S-4; Maslama (717 A.D.): Maj. George Oakey, Military Routes of Communication in Asia Minor (M.A. Thesis, University of Pennsylvania, 1958) 50; Louis VII in
1148: Steven Runciman, A History of the Crusades, Vol. « (Cambridge, 1952) <70;
early modem Turkish armies: Maurice, 212.
28. M. I. Finley, The Ancient Economy (Berkeley, 197$) 125.

38 / Greece and Turkey

curred within a small radius of human settlements.1* There was no
cultivation where there were no settlements, and since go percent
of ancient populations were engaged in agriculture, settlements
necessarily imply agricultural production.*0
South of Adramyttium, the Macedonians could have turned inland at Pergamon or further south at Myrina, past Magnesia to
Sardis—an ancient, well-traveled road.31 Both routes are abundantly
supplied with water, and the alluvial land of the coastal region is
the most valuable farmland in Turkey and was always densely settled.31 Alexander's following the coastal route would also be consistent with his policy of capturing the ports to prevent the Persians
from establishing naval bases. Although this practice first receives
attention from the sources at Miletus,33 there is little doubt that
Alexander knew from the beginning that the Persian fleet would
soon enter the Aegean and had formulated this policy early, as his
alliances with Tenedos (surely made when Alexander was in the
vicinity of Troy), Dascylion, and Mytilene indicate.** The Persian
fleet, like Alexander, probably synchronized the beginning of its
operations with the harvest date. With 200 men per vessel and 400
vessels, the Persian fleet would consume 120 tons of grain alone per
day. Hence, one of the reasons for Alexander's early start (which
he was able to achieve because he collected 30 days' provisions to
xg. Michael Chisholm, Rural Settlement and Land the, an Essay in Location
(London, 1968). This is true today for modern agricultural villages and towns, and
it was a fortiori true in antiquity, when the more primitive methods of transport were
a greater constraint.
go. In the first modern censuses taken, that of Sweden in 1750 and the United
States in 1790, 85-90% of the population lived on farms and were engaged in
agriculture. Thus, in the fourth century B.C., with a much less developed commercial
or industrial structure than in Europe or the United States in the late eighteenth
century, an even larger percentage of the population would be engaged in agriculture.
The percentage of the population engaged in cultivation in regions such as Mesopotamia, the Nile Valley, the Lower Helmand Valley, and the Indus Valley may have
been somewhat less, since the greater surpluses there could potentially support larger
nonagTicultural populations. However, agricultural economies based on hydraulic
engineering require much higher labor inputs per acre than dry farming. Important
commercial centers such as Tyre may have also had a smaller percentage.
51. W. M. Ramsay, Historical Geography of Asia Minor (London, 1890) map
facing 105.
3a. Dewdney, op. cit, i63f.
S3- A. 1. to. i .
34. Tenedos: A. a. a. a; Mytilene: A. 1. 1. 4. Dascylion was not on the coast but
its port, Myrlea, was. The town was captured by Paimenio after the battle of
Granicus, A. 1.17. a.

Greece and Turkey / 33

last to the harvest) was to anticipate the Persian fleet, which could
not be provisioned adequately before June.
There is yet another indication that Alexander followed the
coastal route. Tarn was probably correct in stating that Alexander
intended to found the town of Alexandria Troas after the battle
of the Granicus.88 Alexander personally examined each site where
he founded a city,36 and there is no reason to doubt that he did so
here. There are two occasions when he could have examined the
site of Alexandria Troas. The first may have been after he visited
Ilium, about 15 miles north of the site. However, this would entail
a two-day excursion and waste valuable time when the army was
in the precarious position of establishing a base on the Asian coast
of the Hellespont. Indeed, Arrian wrote that Alexander proceeded
directly from Ilium to Arisbe to rejoin his army.47 It is more likely
that Alexander visited the site after his victory, when his position
in north western Anatolia was secure.
After receiving the city of Sardis in surrender and confiscating
its badly needed treasury, Alexander advanced to Ephesos, covering
the 60-mile distance in four days.88 The army probably took the
Persian Royal Road connecting the two cities which crosses the
spur of Mount Tmolus at Kara Bel and proceeds hence down the
Cayster Valley.8* No water or supply problems would be encountered in this rich, productive region, especially now during the
harvest.
After settling the affairs of Ephesos and receiving the towns of
Magnesia on Maeander and Tralles in surrender, Alexander
35. W. W. Tam, Alexander the Great, Vol. s (London, 1948), 140.
j6. The Alexandria« that Alexander personally surveyed and that are recorded by
the sources on his life are: Alexandropolis in Thrace (P. 9. 1); Alexandria in Egypt
(A. 3. 1. 5); Alexandria of the Caucasus (A. 3. 28. 4); Alexandria Margiana (C. 7. 10.
15); Alexandria on the Jaxartes (A. 4. 1. 3); Alexandria Bucephala (C. 9. 1. 6; C. 9. 3>3; A. 5. 19. 4); Alexandria Nicaea (C. 9. 1. 6; C. 9. 3. 13; A. 5. 19. 4); Alexandria of
the Oreitans (A. 6. xa. 5). Other Alexandria! that Alexander is recorded to have
founded but that the sources on his life do not mention his having visited are:
Alexandria Troas; Alexandria Areion; Alexandria by Issus; Alexandria- Bactra; Alexandria-Prophthasia; Alexandria of the Arachosians; Alexandria on the Oxus (Termez); Alexandria on the Tigris; Alexandria by Babylon; Tarn, op. cit.. Vol. a, *s*f.
All of these towns were directly astride his route, as given by the sources on his life
or the bematists, and it would have been difficult for him not to have seen them.
37. A. 1 . i * . 6.
38. A. 1. 17. 10.
jg. Ramsay, op. d t , 30,4a, 167; Hdt 5.100.

34 / Greece and Turkey

marched south to besiege Miletus, perched on the end of steep,
craggy Mount Latmus. Here, the Persian fleet sent to relieve the
city encountered its own supply problems when it anchored by
Mycale. T h e Persians had to obtain water from the mouth of the
Maeander, but when a small force was sent to prevent their disembarkation, they found themselves virtually besieged in their ships
and had to reprovision at Samos.40 T h e Macedonians were likely to
have had supply problems here too, for the promontory of Mount
Latmus possesses neither fields nor rivers and the city of Miletus
always obtained its provisions from the Maeander Valley. This
may have been one of the reasons Alexander only took a small division to besiege the city.41 Grain and water would have to be collected from considerable distances in the interior, and once when
the sailors from the Macedonian fleet were detailed for gathering
fuel and provisions and for convoying stores, they were surprised
by a Persian sneak attack.42 T h e fleet probably played a major role
in transporting supplies here as it did later at Halicamassos.43 After
the city was captured, the fleet sailing with the army was dismissed
except for 20 war ships and several cargo vessels used to transport
siege machinery and to supply the army with grain.44 T h e fleet was
too expensive to maintain in its entirety, and Alexander decided
that he could conquer the Persian fleet by capturing their naval
bases.45
By autumn, the Macedonians reached Halicamassos via Iassus
and undertook a siege lasting about two weeks.48 This location
would give the king his first real test in logistic planning and organization, for the Bodrum Peninsula is a desolate area. Most of it
consists of barren hills covered with scrub and small clumps of
stunted pines. Fresh water is virtually unobtainable except within
the confines of the city itself, and the tiny rivulets would provide
40. A. 1. 19. 7-8.
41. A. 1. 18. 1-3.
4«. A. 1. 19. 9.
45. D. 24. 1.
44. D. 22. 5; 24. 1. Of course, Alexander still kept his Hellespont squadrons
intact, for they saw action six months later under Amphoterus and Hegelochus (C.
J. i. 19).
45. A . 1. 18. g; A. 1. so. 1.
46. Green, 194, nn. 13, 24. For Alexander's route here see Freya Stark, "Alexander's
March from Miletus to Phrygia," ]HS 78 (1958) 102-120; "Alexander's Minor Campaigns in T u r k e y , " Geo. Journ. 122 (1956) 294-305; Alexander's Path from Caria to
Cilicia (London, ig58). She is incorrect, however, in stating that his route from Miletus
to Halicarnassos was via Alabanda and Lagina, as the evidence from Iassus shows.

Greece and Turkey / 35

only a trickle in autumn.47 Alexander established camp 5 stades
(about 1,000 yards) from the city, opposite the Mylasia Gate.48 This
would place it at Yokusbasi near Torba Bay, the terminus for all
routes leading to the city from the east.49 A camp here would not
only cut off land communications with the city and serve as a terminus for Alexander's own communications but also the nearby bay
would be a convenient harbor for the reception of supply vessels.
Although Diodorus only mentions the transport of grain,50 it is obvious that water and forage would also have to be transported by
the fleet: the cargo vessels remaining with the army were being put
to good use.
After he captured Halicarnassos, Alexander left a force of 3,000
Greek mercenary infantry and 200 cavalry to garrison Caria and
divided the rest of the army. Parmenio received a squadron of the
companion cavalry, the magnificent Thessalian cavalry, the allied
troops, and the baggage train to conduct a winter campaign against
the tribes of Phrygia, while Alexander himself marched into Lycia
and Pamphylia to capture the coastal towns.41
Parmenio, in addition to his other duties, may have been Alexander's transport officer, who was given general supervision of the
baggage train.'2 He would be responsible for its protection, proper
marching order, care of the animals, and the correct packing and
balance of the saddle bags. He is in charge of the baggage train here
and later in Persis and is responsible for the supervision of the captured Persian baggage trains after Issus and Gaugamela. Later, he
was given the extraordinary responsibility of transporting the 7,290
tons of treasure stored at Persepolis, Susa, and Pasargadae to Ecbatana on 20,000 mules and 5,000 camels—a task which implies considerable skill, experience, and knowledge of logistic organization.58
47. C. T . Newton, Discoveries at. Halicarnassos, Cnidus, and Branchidae (London,
1863) 573-601; Naval Intelligence Division, Great Britain, Turkey, Vol. s (1943) 136,
141.
48. A. 1. so. s: A. 1. so. 4.
49. G. E. Bean and J. M. Cook, "The Halicarnassos Peninsula," BSA 50 (1955)
13150. D. 24. 1.
51. A. 1. »4. 3.
5s. For the importance of this officer see Army Veterinary Dept. 135!. Cf. Xen.
Cyrop. 6. 2. 35.
53. Parmenio has the supervision of the baggage train in Lycia, A. 1. 14. 3; in
Persis, A. 3. 18. 1; C. 5. 6. 11; and he was given the task of transporting the treasure.

36 / Greece and Turkey

When Parmenio was no longer with the army, his position may have
been taken by Craterus or perhaps Erigyius.®*
The king also dismissed the recently married soldiers for a leave
of absence to visit their families, which implies that there were no
wives or children with the army as yet. Since it was now winter, one
of the reasons Alexander may have divided his army was to conserve
provisions in the mountainous regions of Lycia. It was standard
procedure for Alexander to divide his army in smaller units in areas
where the acquisition of supplies was difficult.8* Another reason for
dividing his army here was to increase its maneuverability in the
narrow valleys and mountain passes of Lycia.
Alexander's divisions now entered the rich but narrow valleys of
Lycia and Pamphylia, whose towns would have ample stores for
the army's reduced numbers.5* The Macedonians would never be
more than ten miles from an important source of drinkable water
since both regions are abundantly supplied with rivers and freshwater lakes. After subduing Aspendus and conducting operations
against the Termessians and Sagalassians, the king marched north
through the valleys of Pisidia, all of it productive farmland containing copious supplies of water.®7 At Celaenae, Alexander left
one of his most able commanders, Antigonus Monophthalmus,
with 1,500 troops to garrison the citadel,8* a major site of great strategic importance, guarding the routes south to Pamphylia, west to
A. 3. 19. 7; D. 71. 1-*; P. 37. a; Str. 15. 3. 9. He was in charge of the enemy's captured trains after the battle of Issus, A. a. >1. 10; C. 3. i t . »7; and Gaugamela, A.
3- '5-454. Craterus: A. 4. x8.7; A. 5. ai. 4; C. 5.6.11; Erigyius: A. 3. a3. a; C. 6.4.3.
55. Other examples of Alexander dividing his army where supplies would be
insufficient for the whole force were: Miletus: A. 1. 18. 1-3; during the expedition to
the Oracle of Ammon: C. 4. 7. 6; before entering Persis, "a sparse land and rugged":
C. 5.3. 3; Hdt. 9. is:; during the minor campaign into the interior of Penis: C. 5. 6.
1a; before entering the Dasht-i-Kavir Desert in pursuit of Darius: A. 3. ao. 1; before
attacking the mountain strongholds of Sogdia: A. 4. 17. 3; before reentering Persis:
A. 6. ag. 1.
56. For the nature of the land see Stark, "Minor Campaigns," «96-30*; Dewdney,
op. cit., 175-180; Xavier de Planhol, De la Plaine Pamphytienne aux Lacs Pisidiens
(Paris, 1958). Parmenio took one squadron of Companion cavalry, the Thessalian
cavalry, and the allies, or about one-fourth of the army. The number of recently
married soldiers is, of course, unknown. Thus Alexander seems to have had somewhat less than three-quarters of his army for his Lyrian expedition, or less than
34 w o troops.
57. Stark, "Minor Campaigns," 119.
58. A. 1. *9- 3.

Greece and Turkey f 37

the Henmu and Maeander valleys, and north to Gordion.4* This
fortress was an important link in Alexander's communications,
and, later, Antigonus used it as a base to fight three hard battles
against the Persians.40 From Celaenae, the Macedonians probably
followed the old military route through Amorium, Pessinus, and
Germa to Gordion.41 Since only part of the army wintered with
Alexander at Gordion, they would not make an intensive demand
upon the agricultural resources of the surrounding territory.
When did Alexander begin his march from Gordion across the
Anatolian Plateau, a place "abounding in villages rather than
cities?" (C. 3.1.11). Most of Phrygia and Cappadocia is steppe, suitable only for grazing, except for thin strips of intensive cultivation
near the valleys of the Sangarius, Halys, and Cappadox (Delice
Irmak).4* Since the harvest begins here in late July or August,48 it
is unlikely that the king left Gordion much before late July for the
reasons noted above.44 Another reason for delaying the march until
the harvest was to simplify the army's problem of acquisition, since
after that date the crops would have already been collected in the
villages or towns, saving the army the arduous task of harvesting it
themselves. The passage of the Macedonian army placed a severe
burden on the slender agricultural resources of the Plateau, and
Curtius noted that it would have been impossible for the army to
retreat over the same route by which they advanced since they had
eaten all the crops along the way.** The army was in a real sense a
moving city, larger than almost any in the ancient world, except
for the extraordinary urban conglomerations of Mesopotamia, and
its requirements of food and water were correspondingly high. If
the Macedonians took a month to subdue Phrygia and Cappadocia
and to march the 417 miles from Gordion to Tarsus, they would
require 4,000 tons of grain alone,44 at a consumption rate of 130
59. Green, togi.
60. C. 4. 1. 35.
61. Ramsay, op. d t , ag-30, 49; Frederick S. Starr, "Mapping Ancient Roads in
Anatolia," Archaeology 16 (1963) 163.
ба. Naval Intelligence Division, Turkey, Vol.
136; Dewdney, op. cit., 195.
63. Naval Intelligence Division, Turkey, Vol. a, 135; William J. Hamilton, Researches in Asia Minor, Pontus, and Armenia, Vol. a (London, 184a) ass.
64. See p. 17.
65. C. 5. 6.
бб. 63,000 personnel X 3 lb. X 31 da. = 5,859,000 lb. of grain. 6,380 cavalry
horses X >0 lb. X 31 da. = 1,946,800 lb. of grain. 1,300 baggage animals X 10

38 / Greece and

Turkey

tons per day. T h i s figure becomes more m e a n i n g f u l w h e n it is compared with the average gross yield rates of antiquity. W i t h a twofield system, the average annual yield per acre of wheat w o u l d be
.35 tons at most, or 160 tons per square mile.' 7 Hence, the Macedonians on their march w o u l d consume the total crop production
of 25 square miles, and they had a very restricted area u p o n which
they could draw because of the limited area of cultivated land and
because none of the rivers of the region were navigable.
T h e r e is n o indication in our sources of w h i c h route A l e x a n d e r
took from A n c y r a in Phrygia to the Cilician Gates, which he w o u l d
have to cross to capture Cilicia and its important harbors, b u t there
were essentially two routes he could have followed. T h e first is the
southern route following the south bank of the Halys, later to become famous as the Pilgrims' R o u t e ; the second was the Persian
military route of the R o y a l R o a d followed b y Xerxes, which proceeded east from Ancyra, crossed the Halys slightly north of Elmadag, thence to T a v i u m and d o w n the Delice Irmak Valley, and
crossed the Halys once again north of Caesarea-Mazaca. 68 It is more
probable that A l e x a n d e r chose the latter since it was the major military route in Anatolia d u r i n g the Persian E m p i r e and since the
southern route does n o t appear in history u n t i l the R o m a n period. 89
lb. X gi da. = 403,000 lb. of grain. 5,859,000
1,946,800 - f 403,000 =: 8,208,000
= 4,104 tons of grain. This excludes the rations for any pack animals carrying foodstuffs. If the army marched at 15 miles per day and halted for one day in seven (see
table 7), they would cover the 417-mile distance in gi or 32 days.
67. Clark and Haswell, 152; Jardi, op. cit., 3if. This corresponds to a gross yield
rate of 20 bushels per acre. In modem Persia, however, farmers using modern agricultural techniques consider a yield of 8 to 11 bushels per acre high. And arable land
is often left in fallow for three and even four years before producing a crop, Naval
Intelligence Division, Great Britain, Persia (1944) 439. Yield rates in Mesopotamia,
the Nile Valley, and the Indus Valley were higher.
68. Starr, op. cit., 163; John Garstang, "Hittite Military Roads in Asia Minor,"
A]A 47 (1943) 40f.; John Garstang and O. R. Gurney, The Geography of the Hittite
Empire (London, 1959) 2-31; J. G. C. Anderson, "Explorations in Asia Minor During
1898," BSA 4 (1897-98) 72-78; J. G. C. Anderson, "The Road System of Eastern
Asia Minor with the Evidence of Byzantine Campaigns," JHS 17 (1897) 22-30; Ramsay, op. cit., 254f.; D. H. French, "A Study of Roman Roads in Anatolia," Anatolian
Studies 24 (1974) 143-149; Rodney S. Voung, "Gordion of the Royal Road," Proc.
Amer. Philosoph. Soc. 107 (1963),348-364; Victor W. Von Hagen, "The Horror of the
Tomissa Crossing," Geographical Magazine 48 (1976) 278-281; Hdt. 5. 52. This route
was the most important communications route from the Hittite period to the Persian
Empire.
69. Ramsay, op. cit., 256.

Greece and Turkey

/ 39

It must be stressed again that a military route is not a mere line
drawn on a map but a narrow corridor with sufficient agricultural
and water resources in the immediate vicinity with which large
numbers of men and animals can be supported. T h e Delice Irmak
Valley is wide and fertile, while the Halys often flows through narrow gorges with precipitous banks. Spring flooding in the latter
makes cultivation hazardous, and because of the steep banks, irrigation of the surrounding plain was impossible until the construction of modern dams.70
Whichever route Alexander chose, he would somehow have to
reach the Cilician Gates from the lower bend of the Halys River
sometime in August, the driest time of year in the most arid and
desolate region of Anatolia. 71 In terms of water and agricultural
resources, the most feasible route for Alexander to have chosen
went from Caesarea-Mazaca via Moustilia to Tyana, a journey of
82 miles.72 A route further west would take the Macedonians near
the Salt Lake (Tuz Golu) where fresh water is unobtainable in
summer since the region is virtually true desert.78 Except for small
pockets of cultivation at Incesu and Yefilhisar, the whole route
from Mazaca to Tyana in August was, as Hamilton attests, "barren
and uncultivated and the burnt up pasture scarcely afforded food
to a few flocks of sheep." 74 Although we are not told how long the
army took to march the distance (and often when the army was
short of supplies, Alexander forced it to march rapidly), judging
from the difficulty of the terrain and the hot climate, it would probably take a minimum of five to six days.
70. Dewdney, op. cit., 35, 50-53, 219-235; V. Flottwell, "Aus dem Stromgebiet
des Qyzyl-Yrmaq (Halys)," Pett. Mitt. ErgSnzungsheft 24 (1894-95) 114; John Macdonald Kinneir, Journey Through Asia Minor, Armenia, and Kordistan (London,
1818) 78-105; Maj. Robert Whitney Imbrie, "Crossing Asia Minor, the Country of the
New Turkish Republic," Natl. Geo. Magazine 46 (1924) 464. Naval Intelligence Division, Turkey, Vol. 1, 165!
71. Dewdney, op. cit, 35, 50-53, i95f.; Hamilton, op. cit., «13-304; Naval Staff,
Asia Minor, Vol. 4, pt. 2, 263-272; Sirri Erinc, "Climatic Types and the Variation of
Moisture Regions in Turkey," Geo. Rev. 40 (1950) 225; Naval Intelligence Division,
Turkey, Vol. 1, 164!; J. H. M. Cornwall, "A Journey in Anatolia," Geo. Journ. 64
(1924) 218. Hamilton's account is especially valuable since he traveled the route at
about the same time as Alexander, in August.
72. For the distance: Naval Staff, Asia Minor, Vol. 4, pt. 2, 270.
73. Hamilton, op. cit., 213-304; Dewdney, op. cit., i95f.; Naval Intelligence Division, Turkey, Vol. 1, i64f.
74. Hamilton, op. cit., 294.

40 / Greece and Turkey

T h e worst problem would have been water: the small stream
running through Yefilhisar would have been entirely inadequate
in August to supply the almost 100,000 gallons of water the Macedonians consumed each day.TS It is worth noting that only one-third
of the available supply of water from a river could be utilized since
it is flowing away while being drawn upon. 78 If Alexander fed his
troops full rations after leaving Mazaca, their rations would run
out in two and a half days in the vicinity of Yefilhisar. Few supplies
could be obtained for the remaining three or four days' journey to
the vicinity of Tyana, which would have caused a heavy loss of life
among the pack animals and personnel from exhaustion and dehydration. If the army were fed half rations from Mazaca, a dangerous procedure under such conditions, the food and water would
run out in four days when the army reached Misli; still a two-day
journey to Tyana.
T o resolve this shortage of supplies, Alexander certainly had
magazines of provisions established along his intended line of
march. Advance depots are necessary for even small expeditions
traveling through regions where neither grain nor water would be
available along the route. 77 In this location, food and water could
be carried by camel from Mazaca to Incesu and north from Tyana
to Misli. Water depots could be created by damming up small
streams or by filling their empty beds with water brought from
elsewhere.78 For magazines to be established, however, Alexander
must first secure the alliance of the peoples along the intended
route since they would be responsible for supplying the depots and
for maintaining security along the route. If advance depots were
not established in terrain such as this, or if they were destroyed by
marauders, first the pack animals and then the followers and men
would die, desert, or refuse to march further, thus placing the entire
expedition in peril.
7 5 . Ibid., S84, «94, for the state of the river in late July; 63,000 personnel would
require 3 1 , 5 0 0 gal. of water per day; 7 , 5 8 0 cavalry horses and baggage animals would

r e q u i r e 60,640 g a l . of water p e r d a y a t 8 gal. p e r day. 31,500 4 - 60,640 — 91,140 g a l .

76. Maurice, xgi.
77. L t Arthur Conolly, Journey to the North of India Overland from England,
Vol. 1 (London, 1838) 188, 349; James Morier, A Journey Through Persia, Armenia,
and Asia Minor to Constantinople in the Years 1808 and 1809 (London, 1811) 147; C.
8.10.13.

78. As in the Caza-Beersheba campaign of 1917. Water could be brought south
from the Halys and Kara Su and north from the springs near Tyana.

Greece and Turkey / 41

However, it was not sufficient for Alexander to merely secure an
alliance with the peoples along the route where magazines would
be established. The taking of hostages or the establishment of garrisons was also required to insure that the new allies' responsibilities were fulfilled properly in regions such as this where supplies
would be difficult to obtain.79 Thus, the Cappadocians surrendered
lands on the far side of the Halys and probably gave hostages as well
before Alexander entered their country.80 We have already noted
the limited ability of the Macedonian baggage train to transport
supplies overland for long distances. Therefore, since only a restricted amount of supplies could be carried from one district to
the next, Alexander would have to arrange the collection of provisions for the army in advance all through his campaigns; and
doubtless this was done with the local officials, who regularly surrendered to Alexander before he entered their territory.81 Supplies
would be acquired by gifts, requisition, or by purchase by the troops
at markets.82 Not to have surrendered to Alexander before he entered a district was considered a hostile action,88 and special operations were required to assure the army's food supply in such cases.84
79. The Macedonian army would experience supply difficulties and would probably need advance depots of provisions in the following locations: (1) between the
lower bend of the Halys to Tyana; (s) from the Nahr el Kebir to the Nahr el Arash
In Syria; (3) from Tyre to Gaza; (4) in the Sinai; (5) from the mouths of the Nile to
Paraetonium; (6) from Hamah to Aleppo; (7) from Persepolis to Isfahan; (8) in the
Kara Kum Desert for Alexander's attempted campaign into Bactria in 330; (9) for
the Gedrosian Desert; (10) for Hephaistion's expedition along the Iranian coast of
the Persian Gulf.
Of these, locations 3, 4, 5, and 10 were probably established by the fleet. For 1,
2, 3, 7, and 8, alliances were made with the peoples occupying the territory through
which the Macedonians would march, and for location 1, hostages were taken by
the Macedonians (C. 3. 1. 13); for 2, a temporary garrison was established (A. 2.
13. 7); for 7, a garrison was established (A. 3. 25. 2); while for 8, Alexander won over
the towns by his fair dealing before the main force marched through (D. 73. 1). Since
6 was already in Macedonian hands by the time the army marched through, no
alliance would need to be made. Location 9 represents a special case which is given
its own separate study in Chapter 5.
80. A. 1. 4. a; C. 3. 1. «3.
81. Surrenders before the Macedonians' advance into a territory: C. 4. 7. 1-4; C. 9.
7. 18-13; C. 9. 8. 7; C. 8. 10. 1-2; C. 8. 13. 1; A. 1. (3. 8; A. 1. «4. 5; A. 1. 26. 2; A. 1 .
28. 1; A. 1. 17. 3; A. 1. 24. 4; A. 3. 1. 2; A. 5. xi. 6; A. 5. 3. 5; A. 3. 25. 1; A. 6. 17. «-3;
A. 3.23.4; A. 4. 22. 6. One could add many other examples.
82. Purchases'. A. 6 . 2 3 . 1 ; A. 6.23.6; cf. Xen. Anab. 1 . 5 . 1 0 ; 2.3.24; 2.4. 5. Requisitions: C. 9.10.5. Gifts: C. 4 . 2 . 2 ; C. 8 . 1 2 . 6 ; A. 5 . 3 . 5 .
83. D. 76. 3; C. 6. 5. 1 1 ; A. 3. 17. 1-3; A. 6. 15. 5-6; A. 6. 21. 3.
84. See p. 72.

4« / Greece and Turkey

T h e march through Cappadocia passed without incident and
after encamping at the Camp of Cyrus (Pozanti),85 they passed
through the Cilician Gates after they had been abandoned by the
feckless Arsames. Considering the immense difficulties armies experience in crossing mountain passes (see Appendix 2), Alexander
considered the Persian abandonment of the Cilician Gates one of
the greatest strokes of luck of his career." Arsames, belatedly following the example of Memnon of Rhodes, began devastating the
land around Tarsus, 87 an action which did not affect the Macedonians' logistic situation since it was quickly halted by Alexander's rapid approach. Alexander entered Tarsus, the most malarial
location in Anatolia, 88 on about the first week of September 333,89
a little over a month after leaving Gordion.
Immediately after entering the city, the king was apparently infected by pernicious malaria,90 which incapacitated him for almost
two months. Darius, meanwhile, had been marshaling his forces
at Babylon, and when he heard of the death of Memnon by the first
week of September, he left Babylon on the 577-mile journey up
the Euphrates to Sochoi (Darab Sak on the Amuq Plain), a march
which probably took about 48 days, including the necessary halts
and the five days it took to cross the river.91 When Alexander had
85. W. M. Ramsay, "Cillcia, Tarsus, and the Great Tarsus Pass," Geo. Journ. sa
(1903) ;8sf. See also Schachermeyr, op. cit., 663-671, on the Cilician Gates.
86. C. 3. 4. 11.
87. C. 3. 4. 3.
88. Naval Staff, Asia Minor, Vol. 4, pt. s, 34. It is also the hottest; average summer
temperatures are 113° F. in the shade and 152° F. in the sun while moderating to
104° F. at night.
8g. A . R . ' B e l l i n g e r , Essays on the Coinage

of Alexander

the Great,

Numismatic

Studies, 11 (New York, 1963) 10-11; Marcel Dleulafoy, "La bataille d'lssus, analyse
critique d'un travail manuscrit d u Commandant Bourgeois," Mem. Inst. Nat. France
Acad. Inscr. et Belles-Lettres
V e i t h , Antike Schlachtfelder

39 (1914) 56-57; G r e e n , a s o ; J u d e i c h , i n K r o m a y e r a n d
4 ( B e r l i n , 19119) 355.

90. I have written an analysis of Alexander's illness which will appear in Classical
Philology. It should be noted that the First Crusade deliberately avoided entering
Cilicia in early September because of the deadly malarial conditions there at that
time of year, Runciman, op. cit.. Vol. 1, 190.
91. Darius began his march from Babylon shortly after he received word of
Memnon's death (C. 3. x. 1; D. 30-31. 1). Alexander received word of Memnon's
death shortly before his own illnes9, about the first week of September (D. 31. 4);
hence, sometime in the fourth week of August or eaTly in the first week of September. Curtius (3. 3-4. 1) describes the death of Memnon and Darius' march just
before Alexander entered Cilicia. Now, if Alexander received intelligence of Mem-

Greece and Turkey / 43

almost recovered from his illness, he received intelligence that the
Persians were within a five days' march of Cilicia.** Five days later,
perhaps in the fourth week of October, the king had fully recovered,*8 and he sent Parmenio with the allied infantry, the Greek
mercenaries, the Thracians, and the Thessalian cavalry—at most
one-fourth of the army94—to picket the passes leading into Cilicia
from the surrounding mountains."5 Parmenio also occupied the
Kara Kapu Pass, which connects the Adana Plain with the Plain of
non'i death at this time, Darius, by the splendid Persian postal service (Xen. Cyrop.
8. 6. 17-18), would also receive the message at about the same time or a little later.
He is already on the march by the time he receives word of Alexander's illness (C.
3. 7. 1). The terminus post quem for Memnon's death is given by Curtius (C. 3. i. si)
and Plutarch (18. 3). Curtius wrote that Alexander was still unaware of Memnon's
death while he was at Gordion, which, we have seen, he probably left no earlier
than late July, and Plutarch wrote that he heard of Memnon's death after leaving
Gordion in late July. Hence, Memnon's death probably occurred in mid-August
with the message reaching Alexander and Darius in the last week of August or the
first week of September.
It is 677 miles from Babylon to Sochoi by the Euphrates route which Darius apparently took (C. 3. 7. 1; C. 3. 3. 7). It would take Darius 48 days to achieve this
distance at 15 miles per day including 5 halts and the 5 days it took to cross the
Euphrates (C. 3. 7. 1). Sochoi is to be located at Darab Sale on the upper Kara Su;
René Dussaud, Topographie historique de la Syrie antique et médiévale (Paris,
•9»7) 445Tarn, op. cit., Vol. i, s6, misled once again by Curtius' rhetoric, believed that
Darius' force was smaller than Alexander's or about the same size. However, the
passages he cites do not say that Darius' force was small, but only that because of
the restricted nature of the battle field, the full numbers of the Persian army could
not be used with effect. Arrian (s. 8. 5-7) lists 130,000 infantry and 30,000 cavalry in
Darius' force, and Curtius (3. g. 1-6) lists 119,000 infantry plus cavalry. Curtius,
4.9. 3 and 4. is. 13 also give a total of about 160,000 for the Persian army at the battle
of Issus. Arrian (a. 8. 8) wrote that some said that Darius' force numbered 600,000, but
this is apparently not what he believed.
9*. C. 3. 5. 10; cf. C. 3. 5. 6; D. 3*. 2; D. 31. 6.
93. C. 3. 6. 8; C. 3. 6. 16.
94. At the Hellespont, Alexander has <4,800 Macedonians, 12,600 Greeks, goo
Thracians and Paeonians, 8,000 other Balkan troops, and 1,800 Thessalians (D. 17.
3-5, table 4). He loses 12g at the Granicus J . 11. 6. 12), all the Argives at Sardis (A.
1. 17. 8), picks up 300 Greeks at Miletus (A. 1. 19. 6), leaves 3,200 Greeks behind at
Halicarnassos as a garrison for Caria (A. 1. 23. 6), and loses 56 unidentified troops at
the city during the siege (A. 1. 20. 10-1. 22. 7), loses another 21 troops at Sagalassus
(A. 1. 28. 8), leaves a garrison of 1,500 unidentified troops at Celaenae (A. 1. 2g. 3),
receives 3,300 Macedonians, 150 Greeks, and 200 Thessalians at Gordion (A. 1. 29. 4),
and some Agrianians before Issus; see table 4. Even if no Greek, Thessalian, or
Thracian died at the Granicus, Halicarnassos, Sagalassus, or was left in the garrison
at Celaenae—which is extremely improbable—all these contingents together would
still only amount to 27% of the whole army.
95. A. «. 5. 1; D. 32. 2.

44 / Greece and Turkey
Issus, and captured the latter town (Kara Huyuk).*4 By this time,
the Persians had encamped at Sochoi, and Parmenio had to drive
out the Persian pickets already occupying the Syrian Gates.*7 Darius
had chosen his location with care, since the Amuq Plain offered
unrestricted maneuverability for his large force and, at first, abundant supplies. It was also strategically located between the Beilan
Pass and the Amanic Gates, an excellent vantage point from which
to check the Macedonians as their column slowly and with difficulty
trickled down from either pass.
Alexander himself, although he knew of their presence, did not
march against the Persians but instead went into western Cilicia
where he first subdued Soli and in a week-long campaign overcame
the mountain tribes of the region.*" After completing this operation, which was probably intended in part to secure his rear in the
impending battle against Darius, the king returned to Soli, where
he conducted sacrifices to Asclepius, held a review of his army, a
relay race with torches, and athletic and literary competitions
to show "with what great confidence he scorned the Persians."9*
Then, marching east again, he reached Tarsus and Magarsus (Dort
Direkli near Karataj),100 where he sacrificed to Athena, and hence
g6. C. 3. 7. 6-7. After exhaustive and diligent surveys of the Cilician Plain, Kara
Huyuk emerges as the only conceivable candidate for the town of Issus, M. V. SetonWilliams, "Cilician Survey," Anatolian Studies 4 (1954) 159. It is also very near to
where the literary sources place the town: C. L. Murison, "Darius III and the Battle
of Issus," Historia zi (1971) 406-407, nn. «1, <;, conveniently sums up the literary
evidence.
97. D. g«. «; C. 3. 7. 7. It was impossible for Alexander, with his excellent intelligence and communications systems (Eugene N. Bona, "Alexander's Communications,"
Proceedings of the Second International Symposium on Ancient Macedonia (1973);
Green, 404t.; see below p. 71) not to have known the location of the Persian army
at Sochoi when it encamped toward the end of October. It was impossible to keep
the location of the Persian king and his army of perhaps 160,000 men a secret. It was
impossible for the barbarians occupying the Pillar» of Jonah and Beilan Passes,
whom Parmenio drove out, to have no knowledge of the Persian army encamped just
over the passes on the Amuq Plain. It was impossible for Parmenio, who later
occupied these passes, or for any sentient human being, not to see the Persian army
on the Amuq Plain. To have Alexander ignorant of Darius' location until he reached
Malliu flatly contradicts C. 3. 5. 10; C. 3. 5. 6; D. 3«. t., and common sense, and it
would be a situation unparalleled in the annals of military history.
98. A. ». 5. 6.
99- C. 3. 7. 3.
100. L. Robert, "Contributions à la topographie des villes de l'Asie Mineure
méridionale," CRAI (1951) <57; Seton-Williams, op. cit., 154; Helmut Th. Bossert,
Journ. of the Turk. Hist. Soc. 14 (1950) 66«.

Greece and Turkey / 45

to Mallus (near Kiziltahta),101 where he conducted more sacrifices.
Alexander, after recovering and learning of Darius' whereabouts,
so far from immediately advancing to meet the Persians, pursued a
policy of deliberate delay, flaunting his unconcern for the huge
Persian army encamped just a short distance away by holding dress
reviews, games, and literary competitions. This policy was undertaken deliberately to provoke Darius into entering the narrow
regions of Cilicia, restricted by mountains and swamps, where he
would lose his important tactical advantage of open space. Little
wonder that the Persian command's fighting blood ran hot after
learning of the displays at Soli.108 Yet, there is another reason why
Alexander knew that Darius would advance into Cilicia, one that
can be determined by a comparison with another army in a similar
situation, although far removed in time.
Consider the position of the Confederate Army at Gettysburg on
July 1-3, 1863. The army of 75,000 troops, almost all of which were
infantry under the command of Robert £. Lee, advanced into
southern Pennsylvania in late June, the harvest date for the winter
wheat that was grown extensively in the region, and secured an area
of over 300 square miles surrounding Gettysburg. Southern Pennsylvania is among the most productive agricultural regions in the
United States. Far from being engaged in subsistence agriculture,
developments in the science and technology of crop production as
well as the spread of efficient means of transport such as the railroad
and efficiently harnessed horse-drawn wagons had enabled the region to become a breadbasket for Washington, Baltimore, and Harrisburg. The Confederate Army had a well-organized commissariat
of wagons drawn by efficiently harnessed mules and horses.
Nevertheless, despite all these advantages, in two days after the
army had concentrated at Gettysburg, the food began to run low.
This is because when any army remains stationary and is remote
from river or sea transport, it will quickly exhaust the supplies of
the surrounding territory, no matter how productive that territory
is and no matter how great the capability of the animal-drawn trans101. FA 5 (1950) 1x0; FA 6 (1951) Js6o; Robert, op. cit., »67; Seton-Williams,
op. cit, 161; Bossert, op cit., 661-466.
10s. C. 3. 8. 10-11; A. *. 6. $-5; P. 19. 1. The south coast of Cilicia is marshy
for 10 to 15 kilometers inland from Tarsus to Kanataj, today as it was in antiquity,
Seton-Williams, op. d L , 111, i»8.

46 / Greece and

Turkey

port system. L e e understood that because of the shortage of supplies, he could n o t conduct a lengthy defensive operation against
the Federal troops in their strong positions and hence was forced
to launch the disastrous attacks of July 2 and 3.108
Darius was also remote from the Euphrates and the sea, and the
logistic capabilities of his commissariat were far less than were the
Confederate A r m y ' s of 1863, n o matter what type of wagons or
draught animals he used. 104 Alexander, however, was able to delay in
Cilicia without supply problems since he had access to the sea transport facilities at the ports of Tarsus, Soli, and Magarsus. It is likely,
then, that the Persians were rapidly exhausting the resources of
the A m u q Plain since they had remained there for at least t w o
weeks, , w and, as A l e x a n d e r well knew, Darius was compelled either
to attack or to order a demoralizing and h u m i l i a t i n g retreat. 108 Supp l y was the basis of Lee's strategy as it probably was for Darius.
A t Mallus, A l e x a n d e r received intelligence that Darius still remained at Sochoi, and the Macedonian k i n g began to advance eastward. T h e site of Mallus was discovered over 25 years ago and
should n o longer need discussion. 107 A problem arises here con103. For the battle of Gettysburg see Douglas Southall Freeman, Lee's Lieutenants: A Study in Command, Vol. 3 (New York, 1944) 20-189. Lee himself wrote,
"We were unable to await an attack, as the country was unfavorable for collecting
supplies in the presence of the enemy who could restrain our foraging parties by
holding the mountain passes [10 miles west of Gettysburg]," Compare Gen. J. Early's
attack at Cedar Creek on October 17, 1864; he wrote, "I was now compelled to move
back for want of provisions and forage, or attack the enemy in his position with the
hope of driving him from it, and I determined to attack." (Freeman, 597). Darius
faced the same decision (C. 3. 8. 7-9) and met the challenge the same way as these
other brave and experienced commanders.
104. For the limitations of ancient transport see above, Chapter 1.
105. This is the minimum length of time it would have taken to march from
Tarsus to Soli, conduct a week-long campaign against the mountaineers, and march
back to Mallus. It may indeed have taken longer; Judeich, op. cit., 358, n. z, estimated
three to four weeks.
106. Darius would not be able to utilize sea transport from the Syrian coast:
the Orontes River is not navigable (Naval Intelligence Division, Naval Staff, Great
Britain, Handbook of Syria [London, n.d.] 40s), and Sochoi—60 miles from the
coast—is too far to be effectively supplied from vessels at the coast. At this time the
Phoenician fleet was in the Aegean (D. xg. 2) and so could not convoy stores. Unprotected merchant ships would be attacked by elements of Alexander's own small
fleet (A. s. 7. a; D. as. 5; D. 24. 1) if they tried to provision Darius. For the 60-mile
radius for effective transport of provisions overland, see below p. 56. Alexander could
afford to wait; Darius could not.
107. See n. 101.

Greece and Turkey

/ 47

cerning the Macedonians' march rate from Mallus to Myriandrus
(Ada Tepe?),10® a distance of 87 miles.109 Some, following Arrian
(s. 6. 2), assert that the distance was covered by the army in two
days,110 while others maintain that this rate of speed was impossible
and that the march took from three to six days.111 T h e fastest average march rate ever recorded for the entire Macedonian army with
all its baggage, cumbersome wagons, and followers was 19.5 miles
per day. It was physically impossible for Alexander, with the forces
he had at Mallus and those divisions that later joined him at Issus,
to have marched from Mallus to Myriandrus in two days, and those
who compare this rate with Alexander's march rate from the Caspian Gates to Hecatompylos, or with the return from the Kalat-iNadiri to Artacoana, or with his march to Maracanda, 112 make a
serious error. One does not compare the march rate achieved by
500 mounted infantry in hot pursuit over open country with the
rate of an entire army with all its baggage, wagons, and followers
traversing rough terrain and two mountain passes. Yet, it appears
that many are unaware that such distinctions even exist. It is far
worse to compare the march rates of a Macedonian army of the
fourth century B.C. with fast, lightly equipped units of the eighteenth or nineteenth centuries A.D. under completely different geographical conditions, methods of transport and harnessing techniques, and with only a small fraction of the number of combatants.
Yet such comparisons have been made, much to the detriment of
historical accuracy.118 Since the Macedonian army could not have
108. Seton-Williams, op. cit., 127. See Murison, op. cit., 407, n. 23, f o r the literary
evidence. A l t h o u g h no pre-Hellenistic remains have yet been found at A d a T e p e
in the surveys conducted there, surveys, of course, can only establish the presence of
time periods, not their absence. A d a T e p e seems to be the only conceivable candidate for Myriandrus, and its location there is supported by the literary evidence.
log. N a v a l Staff, Asia Minor, Vol. 4, p t . s, routes 10, 50, p p . 209-110, 312-314. A d a
T e p e is 10 km. south of Alexandretta, Seton-Williams, op. cit., 127.
110. Murison, op. cit., 4og; Franz Miltner, "Alexanders Strategic b e i Issos," Oest.
Jh. 28 (1933) 73-74; Dieulafoy, op. cit., 58-59.
111. A . Bauer, " D i e Schlacht bei Issos," Ost. Jh. 2 (i8gg) 123: five to six days;
W . D i t t b e m e r , Issos, ein Beitrag zur Geschichte Alexanders
des Grossen (Berlin,
1908) 79: three days.
112. E.g., Miltner, o p . cit., 73-74. See table 7.
113. E.g., C . N e u m a n n , " A Note on Alexander's March Rates," Historia 20 (1971)
196-198. T h e accumulation of examples is of no value unless o n e understands the
general principles governing a large army's movement. F o r the p r o b l e m of A l e x ander's inarch rates, see table 7.

48 / Greece and Turkey
traversed 87 miles in two days, as Bauer saw long ago,114 what did
happen?
First, it is not at all certain that Arrian wrote that the Macedonian army traveled from Mallus to Myriandrus in two days. His
sequence of events (2. 6. I-S) is as follows: First, Alexander at Mallus hears a report that Darius is still encamped by the Assyrian
Gates. Then Alexander assembles a council of war (we are not told
where), and his commanders urge him to march against the enemy.
The next day, he marches against the Persians, and in two days (we
are not told from where) he passes the Gates (we are not told which)
and encamps near Myriandrus.11®
Quintus Curtius supplies the flesh and blood to the skeleton
Arrian has provided (see map, p. 163). He wrote (3. 7. 5-10) that
first Alexander advanced from Mallus to Castabalum in two days
to contact Parmenio, who had earlier captured Issus. The distance
between Mallus and Castabalum (Bodrum)116 is about 53 miles,
and Alexander probably took only a cavalry escort and/or a company of light armed troops. Alexander and Parmenio with the
forces given to him returned to the main army via the pass of Kalekoy and marched into Issus. At Issus, a council of war was held to
plan the strategy against the Persians. From the town, the army
passed the Pillars of Jonah (note the correct spelling) Pass and advanced to Myriandrus, about 38 miles away.117 Thus, if we accept
Curtius' statement (3. 7. 8) that the strategic council occurred at
Issus, Arrian's two-day march for the whole army would have been
from Issus to Myriandrus (38 miles) instead of from Mallus to
Myriandrus (87 miles). From these sources as well as the geography
114. Bauer, op. cit., u g . He assumed it was so obvious that a large army could not
cross two passes and march 87 miles in 48 hours that he did not give any explanation.
Unfortunately, his assumption was incorrect.
115. The phrase "Erfa Ji) auvayayàn rois tratpovs . . . is of no chronological value
since Ma Hi means 'then/ 'thereupon,' or 'hereupon': cf., e.g., H d t 1. 159; Xen. Hel.
s. 4. 39; Aesch. Pers. 490; Plato Prot. 314A.
116. E. L. Hicks and J . Theodore Bent, "Recent Discoveries in Eastern Cilicia,"
JHS 11 (i8go) <34; Seton-Williams, op. cit., 150; A. Dupont-Summer, "Une inscription
araméenne inédite de Bahadirli (Cilicie)," Jahrbuch fuer Kleinasiatiache
Forshung,
1, In Memoriam Helmuth Theodor Bossert (Istanbul, 1965) 100-109. Although the
site was securely located over 85 years ago from epigraphical evidence giving the
name of the town and its patron deity, it is still misplaced on some maps of the
battle.
117. Naval Staff, Asia Minor, Vol. 4, pt. a, JI6-J»S.

Greece and Turkey

/ 49

and topography of the region, w e can restore the following movements of A l e x a n d e r before the battle of Issus:
D a y 1 (the second week of November). A l e x a n d e r left Mallus in
the m o r n i n g with some light armed troops for Castabalum, located
strategically at the entrances of the Bah^e and Hasanbeyli passes,
to confer with Parmenio, w h o would possess the latest intelligence
concerning Darius' force. T h e main army at Mallus, consisting of
at least three-quarters of the entire army, also left in the m o r n i n g
for Issus. T h e main army took the major route of communication
between the Plain of A d a n a and the Plain of Issus. First, they went
northeast from Mallus along the Pyramus R i v e r to the ford at
Mopsuestia (Misis), 118 the same site at which X e n o p h o n had crossed
the Pyramus with Cyrus some 70 years earlier. 119 F r o m there they
traveled east-southeast through the strategic Kara K a p u Pass. It is
certain that the army went through this pass since it is the only pass
between the A d a n a Plain and the Plain of Issus, and C u r t i u s specifically stated (3. 7. 6 - 7 ) that Parmenio had occupied the pass
through which the army w o u l d travel to reach Issus." 0 T h e army
d i d not take the coastal route past the flank of Misis D a g (which is
83 miles from Mallus to Myriandrus) 1 2 1 because this route does n o t
g o through the Kara K a p u Pass. 122 T h e coastal route is also wretched,
118 Ramsay, Asia Minor, 385; Ramsay, "Cilida," 365; Seton-Willlama, op. cit.,
164.
119. Xen. Anab. 1. 4. 1-4. This site is indicated by Xenophon's statement that it
was 15 parasangs from Tarsus to the Pyramus where he crossed it. At approximately
3 miles per parasang, this would give 45 miles. The actual distance between Tarsus
and the Pyramus east of Misis is 47 miles (Naval Staff, Asia Minor, Vol. 4, pt. a,
routes 7, 44; Kinneir, op. cit., 129-133). The location is proven by Xenophon's statement that the Pyramus was one stade, about 600 feet wide, where the army crossed
it. At only one point is the Jihan (Pyramus) 600 feet wide; directly east of Misis
(Naval Staff, Asia Minor, Vol. 4, pt. a, 718). At all other locations, upstream and
downstream, the river varies from 80 to 100 yards wide or less. Although the river
is widest at Misis, it is also the only ford of the river south of Yarsuat, many miles
upstream, because while wider it is also shallower and has a slower current It will
be noted that the Macedonians deliberately avoided the Adana Plain.
120. Kinneir, op. dt., 135; John Williams, Two Essays on the Geography of
Ancient Asia (London, 1829) 112; Ramsay, "Cilida," 365; Naval Staff, Asia Minor,
Vol. 4, pL «, 312-314; 209-210; Murison, op. cit., 420; A. Janice, "Die Schlacht bei
Issos," Klio 10 (1910) 139. Likewise, the army must have passed through the vicinity
of Mopsuestia to reach the pass since it lies at the entrance of the valley leading to
the Kara Kapu defile.
121. Naval Staff, Asia Minor, Vol. 4, p t 2, routes 50, 21, 11, 15A, 13.
122. Ibid., p. 235.

50 / Greece and Turkey

narrow, and completely lacking water or cultivable land,14* while
the Pyramus route is well supplied with both.184 By the evening of
the first day, the main army would have reached Mopsuestia, about
17 miles from Mallus.
Day a. By the evening of this day, the main army would have
reached the vicinity of the KaTa Kapu Pass, some 20 miles from
Mopsuestia, and Alexander would have reached Castabalum to
confer with Parmenio and his reconnaissance squads.
Day 3. In the morning Alexander would leave Castabalum with
Parmenio and the forces given to him and rejoin the army that was
marching through the Kara Kapu Pass. Alexander and Parmenio
need not have gone through this pass to rejoin the main army on
the road to Issus since they could go directly to the town via the
Kalekoy Pass. It would have taken the main army at least is hours
to have crossed the Kara Kapu Pass m before they marched the remaining 1 g miles to Issus. That evening, Alexander conferred with
Parmenio and his other commanders. Parmenio suggested that the
Macedonians continue to delay in Cilicia to draw the Persians into
the narrow passes where they would be at a disadvantage. No doubt
he also pointed out the difficulty the Macedonians would have in
deploying against the Persians if they were forced through the narrow passes of Beilan, Bah^e, or Hasanbeyli. However, the consensus
was that the Macedonians had delayed long enough and it was now
time to march against Darius.126 It will be noted that Cyrus the
Younger's force also took two days to march from Mopsuestia to
Issus.127 Also on the morning of this day, just after Parmenio's last
reconnaissance, the Persian army began marching north for the 40123. Ibid.
124. Ibid., p. 19; Seton-Williams, op. clt., 139.
115. It took the Macedonians nine hours to cross the Pillars of Jonah Pass
(Appendix i) before the battle of Issus. But here they crossed without their baggage
and followers. Although the army at Mallus only had three-quarters of all the troops,
they also had baggage animals and followers to make the crossing, and if they marched
at the standard marching rate for infantry, x.5 mph (see n. 135) it would have taken
them at least 12 hours to cross. From the description in Kinneir (op. cit., 135), it is
clear that the Kara Kapu is just as narrow as the Pillars of Jonah, if not more so.
The same "funnel effect" would be encountered if the army went through the narrow
coastal route past the flank of Misis Dag.
116. A. s. 6. 1; C. j . 7. 8-9.
117. Xen. Anab. 1. 4. 1.

Greece

and Turkey

/

51

m i l e j o u r n e y to the H a s a n b e y l i or Bah9e Pass (the army m a y have
used b o t h ) . " 8
D a y 4. B y m o r n i n g , A l e x a n d e r a n d his w h o l e force l e f t Issus for
Myriandrus, 38 miles away, a n d b y evening, they reached the Pillars
of J o n a h : the same time it h a d taken Cyrus' force to reach the Pillars
f r o m Issus 70 years before. 1 1 9 O n this day also, t h e Persians b e g a n
crossing the A m a n i c Gates.
D a y 5. A t d a w n , the army began crossing the Pillars of J o n a h ,
w h i c h w o u l d h a v e taken t h e m another is> hours, a n d at n i g h t , the
a r m y e n c a m p e d b y Myriandrus: again, the same l e n g t h of t i m e i t
h a d taken C y r u s ' force to travel f r o m the Pillars to Myriandrus. 1 8 0
O n this day also, the Persian c o l u m n h a d entered Issus a n d slew
a n d m u t i l a t e d the M a c e d o n i a n invalids w h o were l e f t there to
recover. 1 3 1
D a y 6. A l e x a n d e r received intelligence that D a r i u s was at Issus
a n d was n o w m a r c h i n g toward the Pinarus (Payas) River. 1 8 2 A l e x ander picketed the Pillars of J o n a h and m a r c h e d the a r m y n o r t h to
the base of the pass.
D a y 7 (third w e e k of November). 1 8 8 A t d a w n , the M a c e d o n i a n s
is8. Alexander's intelligence here resembles that of Gen. Longstreet on the morning of July 2 at Gettysburg. Shortly before dawn, this Confederate officer sent scouts
to Little Round T o p to see if it were occupied by a Union force. The scouts reported
that it was not. However, shortly after the scouts left—perhaps only minutes later—
the position was occupied by a powerful Union brigade. Longstreet's intelligence
cannot be "blamed" here, nor can Alexander's.
129. Xen. Anab. i. 4. 4.
130. Ibid., 1. 4. 6.
131. This incident implies that Alexander had removed all his pickets from the
Amanic Gates, since Alexander did not receive intelligence of Darius' advance. He
left his invalids at Issus, thinking it was a place of safety in his rear, which also
implies that he was advancing toward Darius via the Beilan Pass. Leaving invalids
in a place of safety is common military procedure, since it spares them a cruel journey
in a horse drawn wagon over rough terrain. Cf. the carrying of the mortally wounded
J. E. B. Stuart to Richmond (Freeman, op. cit., 427).
Three days would be a fast march rate for the entire Persian army to achieve the
65 mile distance from Sochoi to Issus, although this speed could easily have been
achieved by light, advance units of the Persian army (see table 7). An alternative
reconstruction of the chronology before Issus would have the Macedonians make a
day-long halt at Issus on day four in which to conduct their strategic council, and
then begin marching to Myriandrus on day five. This would give the Persians four
days to reach Issus from the Amuq Plain instead of three.
132. For the location of the Pinarus, see Appendix 2.
133. T h e battle occurred in November, A. 2 . 1 1 . 1 0 .

58 / Greece and Turkey

began crossing the Pillars once again and by a mighty effort reached
the Pinarus by 4:30 P.M. At that time, a general engagement occurred in the narrow plains of the Pinarus, and the Macedonians
were victorious; pursuit, however, was cut short by nightfall. Just
as he had planned and prayed, Alexander's tactics of delay had been
successful.184
Thus, it took the Macedonians at least five days to march the 87
miles from Mallus to Myriandrus. It had taken Cyrus' force four
marching days to travel from Mopsuestia to Myriandrus, and it took
the Macedonians the same amount of time. We have noted that it
would have taken the Macedonians at least 24 hours to have crossed
both the Kara Kapu and the Pillars of Jonah Pass. Now, if the
Macedonians took 48 hours to march from Mallus to Myriandrus,
the time spent on crossing the narrowest parts of the two passes
would leave only 24 hours remaining in which to accomplish a
march of 86 miles. However, the average marching rate for infantry
is 2.5 mph, ise and the Macedonians could scarcely have done better
over the rough terrain they had to march through (the Pillars of
Jonah alone are almost a mile high);138 further, there would be no
time to halt for food, water, or even a brief rest (see table 7)—and
all this before a major battle. But, at 2.5 mph, the army could only
achieve 60 miles in 24 hours. Therefore it was impossible for the
Macedonians to have marched from Mallus to Myriandrus in 48
hours, no matter which route they took.137
154.

c. $. 8. 19; c f . A . s . 7. 3; P . 20. 3.

135. D i e u l a f o y , o p . cit., 64; N e u m a n n , o p . cit.,

197-198.

136. R o m a n O b e r h u m m e r a n d H e i n r i c h Z i m m e r e r , Durch

Syrien

und

Kleinasien

( B e r l i n , 1899) 104.
1 3 7 . A r r i a n ' s t r e a t m e n t o f t h e e v e n t s b e f o r e t h e b a t t l e of Issus ( a n d , p r e s u m a b l y ,
t h a t o f h i s s o u r c e s , P t o l e m y i n p a r t i c u l a r ) is d e l i b e r a t e l y v a g u e s i n c e t h e s e q u e n c e o f
e v e n t s s h o w s A l e x a n d e r n o t as b o l d a n d d a s h i n g , b u t c a l c u l a t i n g , c a u t i o u s , a n d p e r h a p s even f e a r f u l . N o r s h o u l d this p i c t u r e detract f r o m h i s g e n e r a l s h i p , since
thoughts and

emotions are c o m m o n

to m a n y

brave

b e f o r e a m a j o r battle. A l e x a n d e r ' s strategy m a y

these

commanders

also i n d i c a t e t h e h i g h p o s i t i o n

P a r m e n i o in t h e k i n g ' s councils, since h e s u p p o r t e d
perhaps even planned

and experienced

of

these t a c t i c s ( C . 3. 7* ®~9)»

them himself. Significantly, the Macedonian

strategy at

the

G r a n i c u s w a s , a l b e i t b e l a t e d l y , b a s e d o n P a r m e n i o ' s p l a n n i n g , G r e e n , 494f. T h e t a c t i c s
in C i l i c i a are characteristic of a m a t u r e a n d n o t a y o u n g c o m m a n d e r (Freeman, o p .
c i t . , 5<xf.).
A l t h o u g h A l e x a n d e r d e l a y e d i n C i l i c i a f o r e x c e l l e n t s t r a t e g i c reasons, m a n y o f t h e
c o n t e m p o r a r i e s f o r w h o m P t o l e m y a n d A r i s t o b u l u s w r o t e t h o u g h t o t h e r w i s e (cf., e.g..

Greece and Turkey / 53

Aeschines Against Ctesiphon 164). They believed that Alexander was "penned in"
by Darius, afraid of meeting him on even ground where he would be trampled by the
Persian cavalry. It was to counter these beliefs that Ptolemy was deliberately vague
about the length of Alexander's delay in Cilicia and about his knowledge of the
Persian camp at Sochoi. Then, too, according to Ptolemy, none of Alexander's strategic decisions were determined by his logistic considerations (let alone those of the
Persian king), a view we are attempting to refute.
Murison, op. cit., 420-422, in his useful article on Darius' strategy before Issui,
believed that the Persian king attempted to split Alexander's army in half by entering
Cilicia via the Amanic Gates. However, consider the position of the Persian army
under such circumstances. As the Persian column slowly trickled through (see Appendix 2 for this metaphor) the Bahfe and Hasanbeyli passes, right under the eyes
of the Macedonian pickets and Parmenio and his powerful force at Castabalum,
they would find Parmenio and his force on their right, Alexander the Great with his
force on the left, the sea in front, and the mountains in back. Even if Parmenio
allowed the Persian column through the passes—which is extremely improbable—
this is scarcely an enviable position: it is a trap.

3,
Syria, Lebanon,
Israel, Egypt, and Iraq

After the battle of Issus in November, Alexander continued his
policy of securing the coasts from the Persian fleet by marching
through the Beilan Pass and then south through the Amuq Plain
to subdue the Phoenicians. Parmenio and Memnon were sent to
Coele Syria to protect Alexander's left flank as he proceeded down
the coast.1 A t Damascus, Parmenio captured 7,000 Persian pack
animals, some of which were camels.2 Like the Macedonians, the
Persians also used men as well as animals to carry supplies.8 We
have already noted that manpower was just as effective as horsepower in antiquity because although the former can only carry
one-third the weight of the latter (about 80 lb. for extended distances), a man only consumes one-third as much grain as a horse.
T h e Syrian coast receives abundant rainfall from October to
April and possesses much valuable farmland. However, for a distance of 70 miles between the Nahr el-Kebir, near Latakia, and
the Nahr el-Abrash, north of Tripoli, there are no perennial
streams, and although rainfall is abundant, springs are scarce.4 It
is probable that the Macedonians would need depots of water along
this section of their route, and no doubt Straton, the prince of the
1. For Alexander's route in northern Syria see M. Abel, "Alexandre le Grand en
Syrie et en Palestine," Revue Biblique 43 (1934) 528-545.
2. C. 3.13.16; C. 3. 3. 24.
3. C. 3. 13. 16.
4. Naval Intelligence Division, Great Britain, Syria (1943) 44-59; Naval Intelligence Division, Naval Staff, Great Britain, A Handbook oj Syria (London, n.d.) 421.

Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt, and Iraq J 55

Aradians who governed the territory between Latakia and Amrit,*
was made responsible for supplying them when he surrendered to
Alexander before the Macedonians marched into his territory.*
Alexander also garrisoned Syria temporarily with the allied cavalry
before entering the country.7 From the Nahr el-Abrash to Tyre,
there are many small rivers and wells which would have been sufficient to supply the army with water. However, along the 50-mile
section of the coast between Tripoli and Beirut, there are but a few
narrow pockets of cultivable land since the coastal range plunges
precipitously into the sea. Because the army would find little grain
or fodder for the horses, either a three days' supply was carried
by the army or they obtained supplies from the large cities in the
region (Tripolis, Berytus, Byblus), which would possess ample
stores themselves and contain sea-transport facilities to import
grain from other areas.
At Tyre, which the Macedonians besieged from January to July
of 332 B.C., provisions would have to be brought from great distances. The river Litani, five miles north of the city, was adequate
for the water requirements of the army,8 but grain would have to
be imported from the Anti-Lebanon, Syria, Palestine, and beyond.
The Macedonian combatants, followers, and cavalry horses would
need 28,172 tons of grain for the seven-month siege.9 The requirements for the crews of the allied navy of 200 vessels that joined the
Macedonians during the siege would raise the total even higher.
The coastal plain of Tyre, however, is only 13 square miles and
hence its gross annual grain production would only be about 2,080
tons.10 The city of Tyre itself imported much of its food from
Palestine.11 The logistic situation of the army would be exacerbated
5. Abel, op cit., 539-540; Dussaud, op. cit., 97, 149.
6. A. 2. 13. 7-8.
7. A. 2. i j . 7.
8. The minimum volume of the Litani is 50,000,000 gal. per day, Naval Staff,
Syria, 404.
9. A seven-month supply of grain for the army would weigh: 69,000 personnel X
$ lb. X c. 210 da. = 43470,000 lb.; 6,130 cavalry horses X 10 lb. X c. 210 da. =
12,873,000 lb.; 43,470,000 lb. + 12,873,000 lb. = 56,343,000 lb. = 28,172 tons of grain.
10. Naval Staff, Syria, 533; see above, p. 38 for the yield rates.
n . John Gray, Archaeology of the Old Testament World (New York, 1962)
7-8; G. A. Cook, A Textbook of North Semitic Inscriptions (New York, 1903) not.
5, 1 1 , 19; Acts of the Apostles 12. 20.

56 / Syria, Lebanon,

Israel, Egypt,

and

Iraq

because the harvests in this region do not begin until June, and
hence the army would have to requisition grain from the granaries
in nearby towns, which would be depleted in the months just before harvest." In this context, the letter Alexander wrote to the
high priest at Jerusalem, demanding provisions and an alliance
while he was besieging Tyre, is certainly authentic.1' Arrian also
stated that Palestine made an alliance with the Macedonians during the siege of Tyre. 14 The raid into the Anti-Lebanon region,
led by Alexander himself to secure supplies of timber,15 may also
have had for its objective the opening up of supply lines to that
fertile region.
Because of the law of diminishing returns, however, it would be
impractical to import grain overland for more than a four-day
journey (or about 60 miles) using the methods of transport available to Alexander.18 While the productive Plain of Jezreel in Palestine (with a total cultivable area of fifteen square miles)17 and part
of the Anti-Lebanon region are within a 60-mile radius of Tyre,
they do not possess a sufficient cultivable area to produce 28,17s
tons of grain. Hence, the allied navy probably had a hand in supplying the army at Tyre as it did at Halicarnassos. Naval con-

l i . See above, p. »7. For the harvest date: Naval Staff, Syria, «57, May or June.
13. Josephus, Jewish Antiquities 11. 317-319.
14. A. a. 25. 4. Palestine had r/xxr«<xu;»j«frra Ifa before Alexander marched
through.
15. A. a. so. 4; C 4. 3. 1.
16. If a pack animal were to be driven on a five-day journey with a load of
grain weighing zoo lb., the animal would consume 100 lb. of grain during the trip
and on the return journey. Hence, the driver would receive payment fbT the delivery of 100 lb. of grain, which would be just enough to cover the expense of feeding
the animal on the trip. This assumes that sufficient fodder and water for the animal
could be found on the journey and excludes the cost of the driver's own maintenance.
Cf. Finley, op. cit., 33-34. Compulsion may be used, but it would be ineffective. T o
supply the army for 10 days with grain by overland transport from a radius of 75
miles or a five-day journey (typical caravan speed; cf. table 7) would require over
a8,ooo pack animals, who would devour as much food as the entire army combined.
Their numbers would be: 69,000 personnel X 3 lb. X 10 da. = 1,070,000 lb.; 6,130
cavalry horses X 10 lb. X 10 da. rr 613,000 lb.; 1,380 baggage animals X 10 lb.
X 10 da. = 138,000 lb.; 8,070,000 -f- 138,000
613,000 — 2,8s 1,000 lb.; which would
require 1,811,000 divided by 100 lb. = 98,210 pack animals. See Chapter 1 for the
method. Cf. Huston, op. cit., 18, for the 70-mile radius for the effective procurement
of supplies by Washington's army at Valley Forge.
17. Joint Palestine Survey Commission, Agricultural Colonization of Palestine
(Boiton 1928) sa.

Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt, and Iraq / 57

tingents from Sidon, Byblos, Rhodes, Soli, Lycia, and Cyprus arrived at intervals,18 and they surely carried or convoyed supplies.
Alexander's march through Palestine is not even mentioned by
the sources, but it must have provided him with a formidable
problem in logistics. Not that the grain supply would present difficulties: the siege of Tyre ended in July, 19 and the army undoubtedly made the 160-mile march from Tyre to Gaza in that month
or perhaps in early August—just after harvest time. Athough the
coasts of Palestine are generally sandy and marshy, the productive
farmlands of the Philistine Plain, Galilee, and the valleys of Esdraelon and Jezreel are within easy access of the coast and would
have been more than sufficient to supply the 1,600 tons of grain
needed by the army for an 11-day march.20
But it was the water supply that would have presented an insurmountable obstacle. T h e few perennial streams along the route
would be little more than stagnant pools from July to August, 81
and the intermittent wadis would be dry. T h e wells and springs
supplying the coastal towns of Accho, Dor, Joppa, and Ascalon
depend on the rains and thus would contain little water during
the summer months.22 T h e supplies contained in rainwater cisterns in the towns would also be depleted during the months just
before the return of the rains in October. T h e major problem the
Macedonians faced, however, was the distribution of well water to
the army during its march.
For example, if some soldiers lowered a four-gallon capacity
bucket into a well, filled it with water, raised the bucket, and placed
the water in a receptacle once every 15 seconds, in 24 hours they
would only remove 23,040 gal. of water (assuming that the well
did not give out), while the army's water requirement at this stage
would be almost 100,000 gal. per day.23 This is why rivers are so
important to the army; they reduce these distribution problems
18. A. g. so. 1-3.
19. A. i . 84. 6.
so. Survey Commission, op. dt., ss. The coastal plain from Haifa to Beersheba
contains 794 square miles of cultivable land. See table 7 for Alexander's march rates.
si. Naval Intelligence Division, Great Britain, Palestine and Tram-Jordan (1943)

ss. Naval Intelligence Division, Syria, 59; Naval Staff, Syria, 485.
S3- 71,000 personnel X i/ t gal. = 35.500 gal.; 6,130 cavalry horses X 8 gal. =
49,040 gal.; 1,4*0 b a g g a g e a n i m a l s X 8 gal. =
= 95,900 gal.

11,360 gal.; 35,500 - f 49,040 + 11,360

58 / Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt, and Iraq

by allowing a great many individuals to draw water simultaneously.
In the 100-mile coastal section of Palestine between Haifa and Gaza,
there are only 35 water sources total, many of which have very low
yield rates of from one to two cubic meters per hour.84 Of course,
yields would be lower in summer. Since the army only marched
about 15 miles per day, it is unlikely that more than a few major
wells would be accessible to them along their daily march. Hence,
it does not seem possible that the army could procure and distribute the 1,100,000 gal. of water required for an 11-day march
through Palestine, since the region did not possess the facilities
necessary to water large numbers of men and animals.25 For these
reasons, in addition to water depots being established where possible by local inhabitants, it is probable that the fleet provided
much of the army's water along the Palestine shore, for it coasted
alongside the army during its march.24 T h e fleet was commanded
by Hephaistion, who was often in charge of the Macedonians' commissariat.27 Abundant quantities of water could have been collected at the Litani or the other perennial rivers of Syria and transported easily down the coast.
T h e two-month siege of Gaza28 presented the most difficult logistic problem Alexander had faced so far. While there were wells in
the city, these would not be accessible to the besiegers, nor would
the few wells in the vicinity of the town be adequate to supply
the 6,000,000 gal. of water necessary to sustain the army for two
months.28 Other wells were located at Beersheba, 31 miles from
24. Joint Palestine Surrey Commission, op. dt., 414-413; Naval Intelligence Division, Palestine, »48.
25. T h e water of the Jordan River is unsuitable for drinking: it is both salty
and muddy. Naval Intelligence Division, Palestine, «9. T h e water of the Sea of
Galilee is drinkable once filtered, but here one encounters the logistic problems of
bringing water to the coast, 38 miles away on animals which needed to drink the
water they carried. Since it would take about four days round trip from the Sea
of Galilee to the coast, not more than one depot of Galilee water could have been
established on the coast—and this assumes that the camels bringing the water were
all trained to go without water for four days.
16. A. 3. 1. 1; C. 4. 5. 10. A merchant ship of the largest type could carry 53,360
gal. of water including the weight of the amphorae. Cf. A n . Ind. 40. 11, where Alexander's fleet collected and transported a five-day water supply in the Persian Gulf,
which would be in the vicinity of 50,000 gal.
27. A. 6. 28. 7; C. 8. 2. 13.
28. D. 48. 7.
29- T h e daily requirement would be about the same as in n. 23. 100,000 X c. 60
da. = 6,000,000 gal.

Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt, and Iraq / 59

Gaza, but without modem compression pumps, they could scarcely
provide water at an adequate rate to supply the army. The Ghazza
Wadi provides only a trickle of water from September to October.80 It is likely that the army would need to import its entire
requirement of grain also, for although it was just after harvest
time, the grain in the vicinity of the city would have been taken
from the fields and stored behind its massive fortifications. Again,
the fleet seems to have been instrumental in supplying the Macedonians. Siege engines were brought from Tyre by the fleet,31 and
undoubtedly provisions were brought also.
"Alexander now set out for Egypt—his original goal—and marching from Gaza, he arrived at Pelusium on the seventh day." 32 Thus
Arrian, in so many words, describes the most arduous march undertaken by the Macedonian army until the Gedrosian Desert. Earlier
and later armies alike have experienced great difficulties in crossing the Sinai Peninsula and have required massive preparations
before their advance. For the invasion of Egypt by Cambyses in
585, the establishment of advance depots of water and, apparently,
the use of a primitive pipeline were required. Artaxerxes Ochus
lost part of his army in the quicksand crossing the Sabkhet elBardawil because of a failure to obtain advance intelligence during
his invasion of Egypt in 350. Later, in 306, Antigonus carried part
of his army's supplies by a fleet which was partially wrecked in a
storm while crossing the coast of the peninsula at about the same
time of year as did Alexander. The difficulties Bonaparte experienced in his crossing are well known. Immense and difficult must
have been the preparations before the Macedonian army crossed
in late September or October, yet, as usual, not a single Word of
these preparations appears in our sources.38
In analyzing how the army crossed the desert, it is first necessary
to establish approximately when the march was made. Tyre was
go. Naval Intelligence Division, Palestine, 25, 27.
Si. A. 2. 27. 3.
32. A. 3. 1. 1.
33. Cambyses: Hdt. 3. 5-8; Artaxerxes: Diod. 16.46. 5; Antigonus: Diod. so. 73-74.
Bonaparte crossed the Sinai with 13,000 troops in February and again in May only
after depots of water and provisions were established, J. Christopher Herald, Bonaparte in Egypt (New York, 196«) 267^ Ancient Greek historians seldom display any
interest in the supply problems of armies, A. W. Gomme, A Historical Commentary
on Thucydides, Vol. 1 (Oxford, 1945) 16, and this is especially true of Alexander'«
campaigns.

6o / Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt, and Iraq

taken in July,84 and it would be generous to allow a month for
Alexander to settle the administrative affairs of the city and to
make the 160-mile journey from there to Gaza. T h e siege of Gaza
lasted two months, probably from sometime in August to sometime in October. There is no reason for the Macedonians to have
lingered in the city after it was captured, and no source indicates
that they did. Thus, the army will have journeyed from Gaza to
Pelusium sometime in October, if not earlier. Of all the months
of the year, September and October are absolutely the worst to
travel in the Sinai. Rains do not begin here until November, and
the few wells along the coast, which are often too brackish to drink
in any case, would be dry or virtually dry just before the onset of
the rains.38 T h e coast of Sinai from Gaza to Pelusium is entirely
covered with sand dunes, and the army would have to march along
the shore wet by the ocean lest the horses and wagons sink in the
sand.38 There is nc vegetation along the coast from Raphia to the
Bitter Lakes. Even if supplies were collected at Gaza, the rations
would not last more than four days.87 T h e fleet sailed alongside
the army by the coast,88 and they undoubtedly set up magazines of
provisions before sailing on to Pelusium. Notably, the march passed
without incident, and Alexander covered the 137 miles in only
seven days—undoubtedly to conserve provisions.39
34. A. 2. 24. 6.

35. D. G. Hogarth, "The GeogTaphy of the "War Theatre in the Near East,"
Geo. Journ. 45 (1915) 464; P . G . E l g o o d , Egypt and the Army ( L o n d o n , 19*4) 267;

G. W. Murray, "The Land of Sinai," Geo. Journ. 119 (1953) 142-143. T h e fresh water
in wells and pools along the coast is often only a foot deep and floats on salt water.
36. Murray, op. cit., 142-143; Naval Staff, Syria, 462-463; Maj. C. S. Jarvis, Yesterday and Today in Sinai (Boston, 1932) facing p. 26; Topographical Section, General
Staff, Great Britain, Sinai Peninsula, 1: 250,000, Sheets 17 E-I, 17 D-K.
37. See above p. 21.
38. A. 3. 1. 1. ' 0 Si vavrutit arparin rapiirX« a&np ix 4oiy{m)s ¿it br' Klyvnov.
39. Marching rapidly to conserve provisions is standard practice. Cf. Xen. Anab.
1. 5. 7; Lieut. Col. J. A. Grant, "Route, March, with Camels, from Berber to Korosko
in 1863," PRGS 6 (1884) 326-334. Alexander knew of this procedure and used it
during his expedition into Bactria from Sousia: C. 6. 6. 19, "the. scarcity of supplies
caused him (Alexander) to hasten." This probably describes the terrain between
the Kalat-i-Nadiri to Sousia. Other locations where Alexander force-marched his
troops where supplies would be scarce were: in the Dasht-i-Kavir: A. 3. 20. 1-4; the
return from the Kalat-i-Nadiri to intercept Satibarzanes: A. 3. 25. 6; in the Gedrosian
Desert: A. 6. 25. 3; C. 9. 10. 14. Alexander may have had many reasons for forcemarching his troops at any given moment, but only possible relationships between
hi* movements and his provisioning problems are considered in this study.

Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt, and Iraq / 61

Once the Nile Valley was reached, the army would not encounter any supply problems, so no time will be spent on their movements here. It is significant, however, that wherever Alexander
winters with his army, he will choose a location with abundant
cultivable land in the vicinity and with a close proximity to a
navigable river or ocean harbor.40 Where these criteria could not
be fulfilled (for example, in Gordion, Persis, and Sogdiana), he
will divide his army into smaller units which would winter in
separate locations.41 Even Tarsus and Babylon, where Alexander
did not spend the entire winter but halted for a considerable period for other reasons, were equipped with river- and sea-transport
facilities.42 Once again, the reason for this was the limited capabilities of overland transport and the low crop yields of antiquity: the
army would soon starve if it remained stationary when concentrated in a region remote from a navigable river or port.
T h e Siwah expedition represents a significant logistic problem
since it is a test case for the principles developed in Chapter 1, For
his journey to the oracle of Ammon, Alexander needed an armed
escort to protect him from marauding Bedouins in the 340-mile
journey into the wilds of the unsubdued Libyan Desert.48 However, the expedition's precise numbers are not important since the
conclusions derived from the expedition remain true for any number. It took the force eight days to travel from Paraetonium (Mersa
Matruh) to Siwah, where the oracle was located,44 a distance of
some 160 miles. Judging by the speed it made, the expedition probably consisted of light armed infantry; and a baggage train of
40. Winter of 333/331: T y r e : 333/331: Egypt; 331/530: the majority of the army
wintered in Susa near the navigable Karun; 330/3(9: Zarangaea; 319/318: Bactia
near the navigable O x us.
41. Gordion: A. 1. «4. 3; Persis: C. 5. 3. 3, and below, p. "jit In the winter of
318/327 Alexander divided his forces between Maracanda, Bactra, and Nautaca:
A . 4. 17. 3; A . 4. 18. 1; C. 8. i . 13.
41. Tarsus: Naval Staff, Asia Minor, 717; Babylon: Hdt. 1. 194.
43. C. B. Welles, " T h e Discovery of Sarapis and the Foundation of Alexandria,"
Historic 11 (1961) 179, estimates that Alexander may have h a d as many as 5,000
troops accompany him on the expedition on the basis of A . 3. 1. 4. However, this
large number would tax the limited water resources and would cause the distribution problems noted above p. 57, at the five wells along the 160-mile journey. Curtius
4. 7. 6 says paucis went, and this is reasonable.
44. D. 49. 3-5.

6s / Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt, and Iraq

camels was used.45 This is the first mention of the use of camels by
any of the sources.
T h e regiment set out from the mouths of the Nile and marched
along the coast about 178 miles to Paraetonium. Very little of this
area can now be cultivated, and the large cisterns one now sees
along the route are Roman.46 It is possible that a detachment of
the fleet supplied the expedition with water and grain as it traveled
along the coast. A t Paraetonium, Alexander and his caravan were
supplied with grain and water for the march into the interior, 47
probably once again from the fleet. It would not be necessary to
carry forage since the small oases along the route contain sufficient
fodder for small expeditions even in July.48 On the way to the
oracle, however, the Macedonians encountered a violent Khamsin,
a severe windstorm which often afflicts Egypt during the last week
of March and April. During these storms, which are caused by the
differential heating of the Libyan Desert in contrast to the rest of
the Near East in spring, south wind velocities often reach gale
force, temperatures rise 300 to 400 F. in a matter of minutes, and
the humidity quickly falls to 10 percent or less—wilting or killing
all vegetation. T h e storms are accompanied by severe electrical
disturbances and, in the desert, violent sand storms.49 T h e storm
obliterated all traces of the route, and the guides, instead of leading the party to the next spring, completely lost their way. On the
fourth day, the water ran out, the day the camels' abundant requirements had to be met. Fortunately, and by divine intervention,
so our sources believed, a sudden rain storm enabled them to replenish their water with another four-day supply at this critical
moment. Aristobulus wrote that two crows flying ahead of the
army acted as guides for the rest of the journey to the oracle, and
it is not without significance for the continuity of traditions in the
region that today a flight of two crows—not one crow nor more than
two—is regarded as a lucky omen by natives about to embark for
Siwah.50 For the return trip, the caravan undoubtedly followed
45. c. 4. 7. 1*.
46. C. D. Belgrave, Siwa: The Oasis of Jupiter Amman (London, 191)) 6, 44.
47. D. 49. 3; cf. A. 3. 3. 3.
48. Belgrave, op. cit., 44, 47, 49.
49. W. B. Fisher, The Middle East, A Physical, Social, and Regional Geography
(London, 1961) 44-46 for a description of the storm. Str. 17. 1. 43; A. 3. 3. 4.
jo. Crows: Belgrave, op. cit., 43; Aristobulus: A. 3. 3. 6. Water ran out: D. 49. 3;
C. 4. 7. is. Rain: D. 49. 3-5.

Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt, and Iraq / 63

the correct route back to the Mediterranean, where there are
springs within a three-day march of each other along the track. A
journey from Siwah 330 miles overland directly to Memphis is
difficult without trucks or automobiles since there is a 120-mile
waterless interval. Travelers' reports of this route make it clear
that the water and agricultural resources are inadequate to support
even a small military patrol.61
In the Siwah expedition, we see the principles developed in the
first chapter taking effect under actual conditions where neither
water nor grain were available for a four-day march. If the expedition loaded up with an eight-day grain supply and water for the
men only, expecting to replace the water from the springs along
the route, our logistic model predicts that water will not last more
than four days,82 which is precisely what happened. Indeed, I have
not been able to find a single account of a caravan that proceeded
more than four days without replenishing its water in terrain where
no water or grain was obtainable. 53 This expedition also shows that
a baggage train consisting entirely of camels is in no better logistic
condition than one of horses and mules for a journey of four days
or longer; for while camels can carry more, in four days they will
also need to consume more food and water to stay alive.
Alexander left Memphis perhaps by mid-April of 331 for his
journey to Tyre. 54 Between Memphis and the 136 miles to Pelu51. Wilfred Jennings-Bramly, "A Journey to Siwah in September and October,
1896," Geo. Journ. 10 (1897) 597-608, barely made it with three men and three
camels. Cf. Welle», op. cit., 278-579; Eugene N. Bona, "Alexander and the Return
from Siwah," Historia 16 (1967) 369.
5s. Even if the expedition took the maximum amount of water they were capable
of carrying, the water would still run out in four days, no matter how many personnel or pack animals were on the journey. The men would carry 3 lb. of grain
for 8 da. = 14 lb. -f 6 lb. — .6 gal. of water. The camels would carry 10 lb. of grain
for 8 da. = 80 lb. -f- 220 lb. of water = 22 gal. In four days, however, the men
would require so lb. of water and the camels, 200 lb. See Appendix 1. Hence, when
the water rations were distributed on the fourth day to the men, to the camels carrying food and water, and to the camels carrying baggage, no water would be left.
This excludes rations needed for any horses on the expedition.
53. Cf. Grant, op. cit., 326-334; Belgrave, op. cit., 47-58, note the suffering of
the camels on their third day without water. G. A. Hoskins, Visit to the Great Oasis
of the Libyan Desert (London, 1837) 47.
54. A. 3. 6. i.'AXifavSpoj Si ipa rtp fpt brofabmri be Mip^tot fet M
Qmvhait....
Alexandria was founded on April 8, or very near tha.t date» C. B. Welles, op. cit«»
284; P. M. Fraser, Ptolemaic Alexandria, Vol. 1 (Oxford, 197s) 4, n. 9, and it would

64 / Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt, and Iraq

sium, the army had to cross bridges over the Nile and all the
canals along the way. 58 Since it takes a great deal of time for large
masses of soldiers to move through restricted spaces like bridges
and mountain passes,®8 the Macedonians probably would not reach
Pelusium until mid-May; which is also the date of the harvests in
Egypt and southern Palestine. 57 Once again, preparations must
have been made for crossing the Sinai, and it is probable that the
fleet, which also traveled from Egypt to Tyre, 58 supplied the army
in this area. Water would not have been a problem in Palestine
during spring when the streams would be in spate and the wells
and rainwater cisterns full. It was important for Alexander to have
left during the present year's harvest, not only for the reasons already noted 59 but also since the army undoubtedly had placed a
severe burden on the last year's harvest during the sieges of Tyre
and Gaza.
Alexander probably reached T y r e by mid-June, and he stayed
there for a considerable time, occupied with important military
and administrative concerns. 90 Perhaps he left the city for Thapsacus (Carchemish) 41 on the Euphrates by the first week of July and
take some time for Alexander to sail up river to Memphis and organize the journey.
Welles is probably correct in stating that the city was founded after Alexander's
return from Siwah on about April 8, because if it were before, there would not be
enough time for Alexander to march the 680 miles there and back, visit the oracle,
and return to Memphis before early spring. Cf. Borza, op. cit.
55. A. 3. 6. 1.
56. It took Darius' army five days to cross the Euphrates, C. j. 7. 1, and also the
Lycus, C. 4. 9. 9. It took the army of Xerxes seven days and seven nights to cross
the two Hellespont bridges, Hdt. 7. 56. Later, it took Alexander's light armed force
five days to cross the Oxus, C. 7. 5. 1; C. 7. 5. 18, and about 16 days for his whole
army to cross the Hindu Kush, D. 83. 1; C. 7. 3. 21. See Appendix g.
57. Fisher, op. cit., 489; Naval Intelligence Division, Palestine. »48; Naval Staff,
Syria, 257.
58. A. 3. 6. 1.
59. See above, p. 27.
60. C. 4. 8. 11-16; A. 3. 6. 1-3. Alexander also made an expedition into Samaria
(C. 4. 8. 10) before arriving at Tyre. It is about 300 miles from Pelusium to Tyre.
61. Carchemish is indicated as the site of Thapsacus by Xenophon's account
(Anab. 1. 4. 11-1. 7. 1), the measurement of Eratosthenes of the distance between
Thapsacus and Babylon down the Euphrates (Str. x. 1. 36), and Alexander's own
crossing (A. 3. 7. 3). According to Xenophon, it was 50 parasangs, or about 150
miles, from Thapsacus to the Araxes River and 35 parasangs, or about 105 miles, from
the Araxes to the Mascas River where it joins the Euphrates. The Euphrates was 4
stades, or 800 yards, wide at Thapsacus. Now the Balikh River, where it joins the
Euphrates, is 150 miles from Carchemish via Harran, the route followed by Julian

Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt, and Iraq / 65

arrived there by the first week of August.62 There were essentially
two routes the Macedonians could have followed to the Euphrates:
through Coele Syria via Damascus, Homs, Hamah, and Aleppo,
a region which was much more agriculturally productive in antiquity than at present;68 or up the Phoenician coast to Seleucia,
the port of Antioch, and inland by the route essentially followed
by Cyrus the Younger, Crassus, Trajan, and Julian through the
Amuq Plain to the Euphrates.64 The latter route would, of course,
simplify the army's logistic organization by utilizing sea transport.
After reaching Thapsacus, Alexander may have stayed there for a
(Amm. Marc. 23. j. 1-83. 6. 6) and apparently by Xenophon himself (W. J. Farrell,
"A Revised Itinerary of the Route Followed by Cyrus the Younger through Syria,"
JHS 81 [1961] 153), for easier acquisition of supplies. It is about 137 miles down the
Euphrates Valley to the Balikh from Carchemish. It is about 100 miles between the
Balikh and the Khabur where it meets the Euphrates down the Euphrates Valley.
The Euphrates bed is about 800 yards wide at Carchemish (D. G. Hogarth and C. L.
Wooley, Carchemish, Vol. 1 [London 1914] 37), but only 300 yards wide at Meskene,
another suggested site for Thapsacus (Farrell, 153). Xenophon mentions two rivers
flowing into the Euphrates between Thapsacus and Cunaxa, the Araxes and the
Mascas. There are two and only two rivers between Jerablus and Babylon: the Balikh
and the Khabur. Either the Araxes is the Balikh and the Mascas is the Khabur or
Xenophon is wrong. The Syrian name for the Khabur was Maskas (W. Wright, Catalogue of Syriac Manuscripts in the British Museum, Vol. 3 [London, 1872] 1130). If
the Mascas were where R. D. Barnett put it (JHS 83 [1963] 5), south of Abu Kemal,
then Cunaxa, which was 102 parasangs or about 306 miles south of the Mascas, would
be about 40 miles south of Babylon. There is nothing remotely resembling a loo-footwide river at the site of Abu Kemal. Eratosthenes, an exacting geographer, measured
4,800 stades, or 552 miles, between Thapsacus and Babylon down the Euphrates route.
T h e actual distance is about 558 miles between Carchemish and Babylon. Alexander
kept the Euphrates and the Armenian mountains on his left after crossing the river,
which suits a crossing at Thapsacus. Carchemish is above the io-inch isohyet, so there
would be fodder for the horses in the neighborhood. Eratosthenes again gives 2,400
stades between Thapsacus and the shortest route to the Tigris (Str. 2. 1- 38), or 276
miles, which is about the correct distance between Carchemish and the Tigris by
the shortest possible route, see below, p. 69.
62. A. 3. 7 . ) . Alexander arrived at Thapsacus in Hecatombaeon, when Aristophanes
was archon at Athens, that is, between July 10 and August 8, W. B. Dinsmoor, Archons
of Athens (Cambridge, 1931) 359, 429. A time near the latter date is indicated by the
preceding chronology and subsequent events.
63. Howard Crosby Butler, "Desert Syria, the Land of a Lost Civilization," Geo.
Rev. g (1920) 77-108; cf. R. Mouterde and A. Poidebard, Le Limes de Chalcis (Paris,
1945). Water depots may have been needed between Hamah and Aleppo if this route
was followed. T h e First Crusade avoided the inland route from Antioch to Jerusalem
via Damascus because of the lack of water along the way, the difficult terrain, and the
easier access to sea transport along the coastal road, Runciman, op. cit., 268, 275.
64. Cyrus: Xen. Anab. 1. 4. 9-19; Crassus: Plut. Crassus 19. g (Antioch to Zeugma);
Trajan: Dio Cass. 68. 26. 1 (Antioch to the Tigris); Julian: Amm. Marc. 23. 2. 6.

66 / Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt, and Iraq

time planning strategy against Darius. T h e army may have taken
five days in crossing the river by the two bridges constructed over
the Euphrates.85 Hence, it would have been the second or third
week of August before the entire army had crossed over.
During the Macedonians' journey inland, Alexander removed
Arimmas, the viceroy of Syria, because, according to Arrian, he
had failed to collect sufficient supplies for the projected conquest
of the interior."® This is the only reference in any of the sources
to advance logistic planning by Alexander, and it shows that he
had planned the conquest of Mesopotamia a considerable time
earlier. It also raises an interesting question about Alexander's
logistic planning and his original strategy for the conquest of
Mesopotamia. What sort of supplies could a viceroy of Syria provide? What kind of supplies would the army need for a conquest
of Mesopotamia? Food and perhaps pack animals seem to be the
only answer. Military equipment could just as easily be obtained
in Phoenicia or from Greece and Macedonia by ship—as it was
later.87 If Arimmas was to have provided a substantial quantity of
provisions (and we can assume he was not dismissed for a trifle),
this raises the problem of how they were to be transported. T h e
impossibility of transporting large quantities of food overland for
long distances has been repeatedly noted in this study, and thus it
seems that Arimmas' supplies were to be transported by boat down
the Euphrates to Mesopotamia with the army marching alongside,
just as the armies of Crassus, Trajan, and Julian were later supplied.68 That this operation was feasible in Alexander's day is
proven by the fact that he later had a fleet built in Phoenicia, disassembled and transported overland to Thapsacus, and then sailed
down the Euphrates to Babylon. 89
65. This is the time it took Darius to cross the Euphrates before the battle of Issus
and later to cross the Lycus, see above n. 56; C. 4. 9. 1s wrote that Alexander reached
the Euphrates on "the eleventh day." If this is reckoned from Seleucia, about 15s
miles from the Euphrates at Carchemish, an 11-day march is indicated. If it was
reckoned from Coele Syria, an 11-day march to Thapsacus would originate somewhere between Homs and Hama.
66. A. 3. 6. 8.
67. Military equipment arrived from Greece, even when Alexander was in India
(D- 95- 4).
68. Crassus: Plut. Crassus so. 2 for the initial stage of his campaign. Trajan had
ships constructed at Nisibis to carry supplies down the Tigris: Dio Cass. 68. :6. 1;
Julian: Amm. Marc. «4. 1. 4-24. 1. 15.
69. P. 68. 1; C. 10. 1. 19; Str. 16. 1. 11.

Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt, and Iraq / 67

Thus deprived of supplies, Alexander was presented with the
choice of marching down the Euphrates Valley to Babylon or
marching eastward along the old military highway along the hilly
flanks of the Taurus and Zagros mountains, where provisions and
fodder were more plentiful and the heat not as intense.70 T o understand the basis of Alexander's strategic decisions before the battle
of Gaugamela, the salient facts of fourth-century Mesopotamia's
ecology and human geography must be reviewed.
The climate of Mesopotamia changes a great deal between the
upper valley and mid to lower valley. Most important for our considerations, the 10-inch (250 mm) isohyet, below which no perennial grasses can grow, crosses east to west below Carchemish, Harran on the Balikh River, Resaina and the upper Khabur, Mosul,
and Kirkuk (see map p. 167).71 Above this line, dry farming can
be profitably conducted, and perennial grasses can survive the
summer drought. Below this isohyet, however, agriculture can only
be conducted by irrigation, and those areas not irrigated remain
desert. The average daily high temperature in the mid to lower
valley in summer is 120° F.78 The harvests in the upper, mid, and
lower valley take place, then and now, in June. 78 The most significant feature of the human geography of the Euphrates Valley was
its cities. In the 558 miles between Thapsacus and Babylon, there
were no fewer than eight urban sites in existence in Alexander's
day,74 as well as numerous towns and villages. Although the Euphrates Valley is narrow it is also long, and it has been reliably
estimated that the valley between the Khabur and Hit contains
over 8 , 0 0 0 square miles of potentially cultivable land. The agricultural resources of the valley between Thapsacus and Hit were
adequate to support the armies of Darius on his way to Issus and
that of Cyrus the Younger, with its slow, cumbersome, and inef70. A. 3. 7. j .
71. Louis Dlllemann, Haute Mésopotamie orientale et pays adjacents (Paris, 196s)
64; David Oates, Studies in the Ancient History of Northern Iraq (London, 1968) 8-5;
Fisher, op. cit., 37if.
7». Martin A. Beek, Atlas of Mesopotamia (London, 196») 16.
73. J . P. N. Galloway, "A Kurdish Village of North East Iraq," Geo. Journ. 124
(1958) 36a; Russell, op. cit.
74. Beek, op. cit., 47; Directorate General of Antiquities. Iraq, Map of Ancient
Sites of Iraq (Baghdad, 1954), lists Circesium, Dura, Anat, Thilabus, Is, and Palukat
as major urban sites of Iraq occupied in the Achaemenid and Seleucid era. In addition.
Sura and Nicephorion were Hellenistic sites in Syria.

68 / Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt, and Iraq

ficient logistic system, with the loss of but a few pack animals.75 If
the region supported Darius' and Cyrus' armies, it could also support Alexander's. In contrast, the northern Tigris-Euphrates Valley was a land of open agricultural villages and towns (Nineveh
was either deserted or a small village in Alexander's era).78
Thus, when Alexander entered the region in the first week of
August, he was faced with the following situation. In the south
and middle valley, the harvested grain and straw would be stored
in the temple and municipal granaries of the cities on the approach of an enemy, and only stubble would remain in the cultivated fields.77 Those areas not under cultivation in the middle and
southern valley would remain desert, and hence no fodder would
be available for the horses. In addition, if he wished to obtain provisions, it would be necessary to conduct sieges of the formidable
walled cities in the region, as Julian did, an impossibility given
the present military situation. There is no evidence from any
source that the Euphrates Valley was devastated by Persian troops.
Indeed, after the harvest, it is difficult to see what would have been
left to devastate. In the north, however, the harvested grain would
be easily obtainable from the unwalled towns and villages, and
those areas not under cultivation would remain grassy. With these
considerations in mind, it is not difficult to understand Alexander's
decision to march east instead of south.
Instead of marching through the Euphrates Valley, then, as Darius expected, Alexander drove due east. Fortunately, a bematist's
measurement preserves the distance of Alexander's route between
Thapsacus and the Tigris where the Macedonians crossed: 2,400
stadia or 276 miles.78 These bematists' measurements are extremely
75. Sir William Willcocks, "Mesopotamia: Past, Present, and Future," Geo. Journ.
35 (1910) i-i8. For the route o! Darius' army: C. 3. 3. 7; C. 3. 7. 1.
76. A. Leo Oppenheim, Mesopotamia: Portrait of a Dead Civilization (Chicago,
1964) 86; Galloway, op. cit., Dillemann, op. cit., 68-126.
77. Darius, unlike Artaxerxes II, had almost two years to prepare for Alexander's
approach and to make arrangements for the cities along the Euphrates to resist by
having all material that would be of use to the enemy removed from the fields. At
harvest time, both the kernels and stalks of grain are removed from the fields. Straw
was of vital importance for the Mesopotamian economy, not only for feeding stock,
but, more importantly, it was a principal element in the manufacture of mud brick,
of which there was always an enormous demand. This was because the cities of the
region were under constant Tepair since their mud brick structures only had a life
span of about 12 years.
78. Str. s. 1. 38.

Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt, and Iraq / 69

accurate and provide valuable information on Alexander's routes.7*
The distance indicates that Alexander chose the ancient military
route to the Tigris via Harran, Resaina (Ras al-Ain), and Thilapsum (Tell Chagar Bazar), some 276 miles from Thapsacus, since
all other routes are longer. Strabo specifically stated Alexander
chose the short route between the two locations, which is exactly
what one would expect for a forced march.*0 This military highway first receives mention in the Old Babylonian period, and it remained in use until the Roman era. The region through which
it passed was, and is, highly fertile and productive, thickly settled
with agricultural villages and towns, and the highway crosses the
upper Balikh and the Khabur Rivers with their tributaries.81
Hence, neither water nor grain supplies would present a problem.
T h e Macedonians marched due east to Harran (Carrhae), and
perhaps it was here that Alexander halted the army for a few days
to prepare the soldiers physically and mentally for the forced
march ahead.82 It should be noted that even at Harran, the Macedonians were not yet committed to the eastern route: Julian and
perhaps Cyrus the Younger both marched to Harran for reasons
of supply before turning south down the Balikh and the Euphrates
Valley.83 Darius, then, even at this stage, would not know which
direction Alexander would take. From Harran, Alexander ordered
a forced march 2 1 5 miles to the Tigris, which the Macedonians
apparently covered in 14 days.84 Alexander ordered this march to
arrive at the Tigris before any Persian force could stop his cross79. See table 8.
80. Alexander force-marched hi« army along this route: A. 3. 7. 5; C. 4. 9. 13.
81. Dillemann, op. cit., 17J; M. E. L. Mallowan, "The Excavations at Tall ChagaT
Bazar and an Archaeological Survey of the Habur Region, 1954-85," Iraq 3 (1936)
2-3; Albrecht Goetze, "An Old Babylonian Itinerary," JCS 7 (1953) 51-7«; A. Poidebard. La trace de Rome dans le désert de Syrie (Pari», 1934) 163t.; Julius Lewy, "Studies
in the Historic Geography of the Ancient Near East," Orientalia si (195*) l - i a , 265»9*. S93"4*58s. C. 4. 9. 13. Harran is the next large city east of the Euphrates. It would have
taken four days to march the 60-mile distance from Thapsacus to Harran, and with
a three-day rest, they would not leave that city until the third or fourth week of
August. It is possible that thé army halted on the left bank of the Euphrates for
a few days instead of Harran. However, it is more likely that it halted near a large city
to ease its supply problems for the reasons noted above.
83. Julian: Amm. Marc. «3. 3. 1-7; Cyrus: Xen. Anab. 1. 4. 19; Farrell, op cit., 153.
84. C. 4. 9. 14, following the emendation of Kinch. It would have been impossible
for any nonmechanized army to march the distance in four days.

7o / Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt, and Iraq

ing, which, he learned f r o m captured Persian scouts, was Darius'
new strategy.*" Armies are extremely vulnerable w h i l e crossing
rivers. B y the time word could have reached h i m at B a b y l o n of the
Macedonians' eastward advance, Darius w o u l d have n o

oppor-

tunity to march the 367 miles to the T i g r i s ford at A b u W i j a m to
prevent their crossing. 84 However, Persian morale a n d honor demanded that he make the attempt. Even Mazaeus' l i g h t cavalry
did n o t h a v e enough time to lay waste completely the east side of
the T i g r i s before the Macedonians had already crossed, 87 a strategy
which w o u l d have been eminently successful had there been opportunity to implement it thoroughly.® 8 A s it was, the b u r n i n g of
the village granaries was not complete and was halted b y the Macedonians on the third day after the T i g r i s was crossed. 89 Alexander's
speed and surprise tactics had won an important tactical victory.
A f t e r the victory at G a u g a m e l a on a b o u t September 30, A l e x ander marched the 287 miles from A r b e l a to Babylon, a three-week
journey with the necessary halts. T h e army remained at Babylon
for 34 days, w h i c h they were able to d o because the city was supplied b y river transport. 90 A f t e r this point, n o supply problems
will have been encountered b y the army until the march

into

Persis in the b e g i n n i n g of February, 330 B.C.
85. A. 5. 7.4.
86. This reconstruction of the events before the battle of Gaugamela differs somewhat from that in E. W. Marsden, The Campaign of Gaugamela (Liverpool, 1964)
11-23, which remains basic for any intelligent discussion of the battle. However, all
his distances are too long. He gives an example on p. 23 to check his method of measuring, the distance from Baghdad to Kirkuk, which the Iraq Directory (Baghdad, 1936)
41, gives as 301 miles. However, as the map on p. 35 of the Directory shows, the distance measured by the Directory goes from Baghdad to Kifri and hence to Kirkuk,
while Marsden's map measures the distance from Baghdad to Tuz Khurmatu and
hence to Kirkuk, a distance of only <85 miles. This Tigris ford is suggested by Aurel
Stein, "Notes on Alexander's Crossing of the Tigris and the Battle of Arbela," Geo.
Journ. 100 (194«) 157, who, however, has apparently put the site of the battlefield
in the wrong location. See Marsden, op. cit., 20-21; Streck, HE 7 (1910) 86if. It may
have taken the Macedonians a considerable time to cross the Tigris, see above, n. 56.
Alexander did not even hear of the approach of Darius' army until seven days after the
Macedonians had completely crossed the Tigris, A. 3. 7. 6-7; C. 4. 9. 25-4. 10. 15.
87. C. 4. 9. 14-15; D. 55. 1-2.
88. As Alexander himself admitted, C. 4. 13. 23.
89. C. 4. 10. 1-15.
90. Hdt. 1. 194. The fertility of Mesopotamia was legendary in antiquity, Hdt. 1.
193; C. 5. 1. 12; above. Introduction, n.16.

4.
Iran and Afghanistan

After a stay of 34 days, the Macedonians left Babylon for a 20-day
journey to Susa.1 When he left the latter city, about the fourth
week of December, Alexander approached the Persian heartland
of the Niriz Basin. From this point, Alexander can no longer pose
as a liberator from Persian rule, and as a consequence, the nature
of the opposition he encounters changes. This change is also reflected in the different arrangements for acquiring supplies that
he must now use throughout the remainder of his campaign. Up
to this point, the Macedonians were generally able to count on
local populations to supply them when they surrendered to Alexander before the army marched into their district.4 Now, however,
more often than not, few will voluntarily surrender to him since
the local populations are antagonistic toward their new rulers.
Under these circumstances, Alexander considered it essential to
obtain advance intelligence of the roads, resources, terrain, and
climate of the territory he was about to enter.' Indeed, he generally
1. A. j . 16. 7. T h e army arrived in Babylon about October si (see above, p. 70)
and stayed there for 34 days (C. 5. 1. 39). Hence, they would leave for Susa about November 25 and anive in Susa »0 days later at about December 15. T h e army stayed
there for some time (A. 3.16. 7-11) and perhaps left by the fourth week of December.
2. See above p. 41.
3. In Comisene: A. 3. s i . 7; A. 3. so. 4; C. 5. 13. 3; in Mesopotamia: A. 3. 7. 3-4;
in Cilicia: C. 3. 5. 10; C. 3. g. 6; D. 3s. s; before Gaugamela: A. 3. 9. 1; C. 4. 9. 11;
before the Uxians' territory: A. 3. 17. s; C. 5. 3. 5-6: before Persis: D. 68. 4-5; in
Media: A. 3. 19. 1-5; in Parthia: A. 3.15. 3; before Sogdiana: A. 3. sg. 6; for Scythia:
A. 4. 1. s; for Chorasmia: A. 4. 15. 4; in India: A. 5. <5. 1; C. g. 8. 30; C. g. g. 5; C. 8.
10. s; in general: Str. s. 1.6. One could add many other examples.

7« / Iran and Afghanistan

received advance intelligence throughout his campaigns on enemy
movements and resources of the country. 4 T h i s is one reason why
his campaigns were successful and his army able to successfully
cross the same regions in which other armies lost many troops
through starvation and dehydration alone. Under these circumstances, however, advance intelligence was more vital than ever
before. Alexander would not commit his entire force for a march
into a region whose population had not surrendered to him in advance. Instead, the army would be divided into two or more units
so that the diminished requirements of each unit could be more
easily procured from the countryside. Either the different detachments would take separate routes through the country or the main
army would be left at a base well provided with supplies while
Alexander advanced alone with light, swift units to subdue the
region. 5 In hostile territory, the army would no longer be supplied
by gifts, requisitions, or markets but by the pillaging of towns or
villages or by foraging teams led by Alexander's most capable lieutenants, such as Philotas, Ptolemy (son of Lagus), Coenus, Hephaistion, or Craterus. 8
For these reasons, Alexander took only about 17,000 troops
with him for the journey into Persis, "a sparse land and rugged,"
while the main army remained in Susa near the navigable Pasitigris (Karun) River, where supplies were plentiful. 7 T h e Uxians,
through whose territory the Macedonians had to march to reach
Persis, did not surrender to Alexander at his approach, but demanded the same tribute they used to receive from the Persian
4 . Str. x. 1 . 6 , Chapter 2 , n. 9 7 . I hope to publish an article on Alexander's intelligence system soon.
5 . Separate routes: in Persis: A. 3 . 1 8 . 1; in the Oreitans' territory: A. 6 . s i . 3 - 4 ;
C. 9. 10. 6 - 7 ; in India: A. 4 . <3. 1. Alexander advancing alone with part of his force:
before the Uxians and into Penis: below, n. 9; into the interior of Persis in late March
or early April, 3 3 0 : C. 5 . 6 . IX; before Comisene: A. 3 . so. 1; before entering Sogdia:
C. 7 . 5 . 1. Before entering Persis, both procedures were used.
6 . Pillaging: A. 3 . 1 7 . 3 ; C. 4 . 9 . 8; C. 9 . 8. X9; foraging in hostile territory: A. 1.5.
9; A. 3 . 30. 1 0 ; A. 4. X4. 8; C. 9 . 9 . 8 ; Philotas: A. 1 . 5 . 9; Ptolemy: A. 4 . 1 4 . 8 ; Coenus:
A. 5 . s i . 4 ; Hephaistion: C. 8. x. 1 3 ; Craterus: A. 5 . 2 1 . 4 . Neither pillaging nor foraging occurs in regions known to have surrendered in advance to Alexander.
7 . T h e PasitigTis is navigable to Susa: Arr. Ind. 4 1 . 4 - 8 ; supplies were plentiful:
D. 6 5 . x; C. 5 . x. 1. T h e troops' numbers are given in C. 5 . 3. 3 . as 1 3 , 0 0 0 plus 1,000
AgTianians (C. 5 . 3 . 6), archers, 1,000 mounted bowmen (C. g. 4 . 1 4 ) , and units of the
Companions' cavalry and Thessalian cavalry (A. 3 . 1 8 . I - S ) . All these probably
amounted to about 1 7 , 0 0 0 . Persia is sparse and rugged: H d t 9 . IXX. See map p. 1 6 8 .

Iran and Afghanistan

/ 73

k i n g before they let h i m through their m o u n t a i n passes.8 A l e x ander first obtained advance intelligence of the region, then attacked their mountain strongholds and pillaged their towns.' A f t e r
their surrender, 30,000 sheep and 500 pack animals were levied
from them since they were pastoralists. 10 A n o t h e r reason for taking
only part of the army into Persis was the slender agricultural resources of the region d u r i n g the Achaemenid era. A f t e r an exhaustive and diligent survey, it was f o u n d that a total of only 84 tiny
villages (average area 2.4 hectares), clustered around Persepolis,
were inhabited in the 3,000-square-mile N i r i z Basin. 1 1 It was not
possible for these villages to have produced the 22,000 tons of grain
necessary to have supported the entire Macedonian army, its followers, and cavalry and pack animals 1 2 d u r i n g the four-month stay
at Persepolis, especially in the months before the harvest in June.1®
A f t e r defeating Ariobarzanes' forces, w h o were b l o c k i n g

the

Persian Gates (Tang-i Khas), the Macedonians reached Persepolis
about the first week of February, 330 and stayed there until the
end of M a y or the b e g i n n i n g of June. 1 4 T h o s e who wonder w h y
A l e x a n d e r remained so l o n g at Persepolis have ignored two im8. A. 3. 17. 1.
9. A. 3.17.3; A. 3.17. s; C. 5. 3.5-«.
10. A. 3. 17.5.
11. William M. Sumner, Cultural Development in the Kur River Basin, Iran, an
Archaeological Analysis of Settlement Patterns (Ph.D. Dissertation, University of
Pennsylvania, 197s) «65.
11. The Macedonians stayed in Persepolis for four (lunar) months, P. 37. 3. At this
time, the army had approximately 87,000 troops, 8,680 cavalry horses (see table 5),
and 1,740 baggage animals. Their requirements would be: 87,000 X 3 lb. X c. 120
da. = 31,380,000 lb. — 15,660 tons; 8,680 X 10 lb. X c. 120 da. = 10,416,000 lb. =
5,208 tons; 1,740 X 10 lb. X c. 120 da. — 1,044 tons. 15,660
5,208
1,044 = 21,912
tons. Sumner, op. cit., 190, 265^, estimates that the total population of the Niriz Basin
was about 23,000 in the Achaemenid period at most. It would be impossible, then, for
the agricultural resources of the basin to have supported 87,000 personnel and 10420
animals for four months when it was only adequate to support 23,000 permanent
residents. This was especially true in the months before harvest when the residents
themselves would be on short rations. Those residents of the area not slain by the
Macedonians would also have to be fed for the length of the army's stay.
13. See above p. 27.
14. The Macedonians may have left Susa by the fourth week of December (above,
n. 1) and it probably took them 30 days to march the 388 miles between there and
Persepolis including the necessary halts. The battle for the Persian Gates also took
several days (C. 5. 4. 1-32). Hence, they may have arrived the last week of January or
the first week of February. For Alexander's operations against the Persian Gates, see
Sir Aurel Stein, "An Archaeological Journey in Western Iran," Geo. Journ. 92 (1938)
ji6f.; John Haniman, "Elamitei, Achaemenians, and Anshan," Iran 10 (1972) 110.

74 / Iran and Afghanistan

portant geographical conditions of the Zagros Mountains in winter.»
First there is the ice and snow. T h e only route leading from
Persepolis to Media and Ecbatana proceeds through the Deh Bid
Pass (8,000 feet) which is often blocked with ice and snowdrifts
for many miles until April. 18 It was through this pass that Alexander forced his way in late March or early April for his expedition
into the interior of Persis.17 Curtius describes the severe hardships
of the men confronted with the task of forcing the pass by breaking the ice with mattocks:18
He had come to a pass blocked with perpetual snows, which the violence
of the cold had bound with ice, and the desolation of the landscape and
pathless solitudes terrified the exhausted soldiers, who believed that
they were beholding the end of the habitable world. In amazement they
saw that everything was deserted and without a trace of human cultivation, and they demanded that they should return before even the daylight and the sky should fail them.
This description is no exaggeration, for modern travelers have
expressed similar opinions about Deh Bid, and it must have
seemed especially ominous to a Mediterranean traveler.19 If the
pass excited such dread at the end of March, a fortiori, conditions
would have been much worse earlier in the winter. Although
Alexander did force the pass—by flinging himself from his horse
and attacking the ice himself with a mattock as an example for his
soldiers to follow—he had only 1,000 cavalry and a few light infantry with him. It would have been difficult, indeed, for the rest
of the forces at Persepolis to hazard such a journey.
15. There have been many theories analyzing why Alexander remained so long at
Persepolis, the most recent by Eugene N. Borza in an extremely useful article, "Fire
from Heaven, Alexander at Persepolis," Classical Philology 67 (1972) 233-245.
16. Alexander led his expedition over the pass in the fourth week of March, or
perhaps a little later (Bona, op. cit., 237), and found it completely blocked by ice and
snow (C. 5. 6. 12-14)' These upland routes can remain blocked until May or even
June, J. V. Harrison, "Some Routes in Southern Iran," Geo. Journ. 99 (1941) 117.
17. Borza, op. cit.; for the date, see below, p. 76 for the location.
18. C. 5. 6. 12-14.
19. After a blizzard, the pass can be snowed-in for as long as 40 days, James Morier,
A Journey Through Persia, Armenia, and Asia Minor in the Years 1808 and 1809
(London, 1812) 147. Early travelers, such as Morier, provide the most valuable geographical and climatic information on Alexander's routes available.

Iran and Afghanistan / 75

But the Deh Bid Pass was nothing compared to the solid fortress
of ice and snow, over 200 miles thick from Isfahan to Ecbatana in
"frozen, rocky Media." This region has the most severe winters in
any part of Persia and as late as March, snow covers the entire area,
often to a depth of three or four feet.20 Stories are told here about
the winter wind—as cold as death itself—which can instantly freeze
a horse and rider to death. Mountain passes are particularly treacherous since they are often blocked by snow drifts to a depth of ten
feet or more and one can easily lose the track and vanish. Until
relatively recently, the entire area was isolated from Isfahan from
November to March.21 Obviously, it would be impossible for a
large army with followers, including women and children, and
clumsy wagons to cross such terrain in winter. Indeed, Antiochus
Sidetes' army was trapped at Ecbatana for the winter of 130/129,
a delay that caused the destruction of his entire force.22 Darius was
likewise immobilized at Ecbatana: he had every reason to put as
much mileage between himself and Alexander as possible, to advance beyond Parthia into Bactria, laying waste to the land as he
went to prevent Alexander from following, as was his original intention.2® But if he was immobilized, he was also protected, for no
one could penetrate the icy ramparts of Media in winter.
Climate, however, was only part of the reason the army delayed
at Persepolis until May or June. A much more serious problem was
the lack of supplies available in Persis for the 514-mile journey to
Ecbatana. Persis, as Herodotus notes, was "a sparse land and rugged," and although it contained "cities," such as Pasargadae and
Persepolis, which might lead to the mistaken conclusion that the
*o. Conolly, op. cit., 194; Naval Intelligence Division, Great Britain, Persia (1945)
>57- '85-186; Special Operations Research Office, U. S. Army, Area Handbook: Iran
(Washington, 1963) 55; Harrison, op. cit., 117; W. B. Fisher, ed., Cambridge History of
Iran. Vol. 1 (Cambridge, 1968) »1-223; Gen. A. Houtum-Schindler, Eastern Persian
Irak (London, i8g6) 22.
21. Sir Robert Ker Porter, Travels in Georgia, Persia, Armenia, Ancient Babylonia, Vol. 2 (London, 1822) 7gf.
22. J. 38. 10. 8; E. R. Bevan, The House of Seleucus, Vol. 2 (London, 1902) 243!.
T h e severity of the winter, the lack of provisions, and the consequent problems of
distribution (see above, p. 61) caused Antiochus' army to scatter in winter quarters
throughout the Median Plain. By early spring, his forces were demoralized, weakened,
and unorganized, and fell easy prey to Phraates and the Parthian army. T h e fate of
Antiochus Sidetes, a brave and able commander, shows the foresight of Alexander in
leaving the bulk of his forces at Susa where supplies were adequate.
»3. A. 3. 19. 1; C. 5. 8. 1.

76 / Iran and Afghanistan

region was capable of supporting a large population, one must remember that except for their garrisons these sites were uninhabited for the greater part of the year.24 T h e reason for this, as we
have seen, was the limited area of cultivation in the Niriz Basin
which was inadequate to support a large population all year long.
Moreover, because of the limitations of overland transport in antiquity, supplies were only obtainable within a 60 to 80-mile radius
from the center of consumption.25 T h e region between Persepolis
and Deh Bid is particularly desolate:
He [the Khan of the region] had himself often experienced the severities
of the country, and he, better than anyone, knew the distress which the
detention of two or three hundred men in a spot so destitute and insulated [the Deh Bid Pass] would occasion. He had provided sustenance
for ourselves and our cattle for one night only, and this he had transported with great trouble from Mourgh-aub [near Pasargadae] and
other villages. Indeed, through the whole of our march great and early
were the preparations made by the chiefs of the country for our reception. If these were the difficulties of our passage, the march of an army
could not be easily conducted. The country in its present state could
not complete magazines of provisions, even when required by its own
government. It must however always be recollected, that this is the least
Fertile province of the kingdom.84
Clearly, the Macedonian forces at Persepolis, like Morier's expedition, needed magazines of supplies along the route if they were
to proceed north to Ecbatana, and to make arrangements for these
magazines was undoubtedly one of the reasons Alexander launched
his minor campaign along this route in late March, "capturing
some of the towns by storm and winning over others by his own
fair dealing." 27 By the process of elimination it can be determined
that Alexander's campaign was indeed directed against the towns
along the route the Macedonians would follow to the Median capital in late May or early June. Since the Niriz Basin, except for the
cluster of villages around Persepolis, was uninhabited in Alexander's era, no campaign would be conducted here. As was noted
above, there is only one route out of the Persepolis-Pasargadae
»4. Hansman, op. cit., 110; Arthur Upham Pope, "Per«epolis as a Ritual City,"
Archaeology 10 (1957) 123-130.
25. See above p. 56.
»6. Morier, op. cit, 148.
«7. D. 73. 1.

Iran and Afghanistan

/ 77

region to the rest of Persis and beyond, and this passes eastward
through Deh Bid. Once past Deh Bid, Alexander would have the
choice of either proceeding south, where the land is only suitable
for upland (summer) pasture, or north along the Royal Road to
Ecbatana, where there were several towns surrounded by arable
land.28 Both Diodorus and Curtius spoke of towns and cultivation, 28
and hence it is certain that Alexander's expedition was indeed directed against the towns along the Royal Road. Once again, it
should be remembered that even if sufficient supplies could have
been collected from the Persepolis region, the expedition could
only carry a 14-day ration of grain with them at most, for by that
day the pack animals and personnel will have consumed all the
provisions they were carrying.30 If the inhabitants of the villages
along the Royal Road to the Median capital (514 miles from Persepolis) fired their fields and granaries and dispersed their flocks before the approach of the Macedonians, it would have been fatal to
the progress of the army.
Why could not Alexander march through the lands of the
Uxians to Susa and hence to Ecbatana? North of Susa, the ice and
snow would be just as much a problem; also, the Uxians were
severely handled by the Macedonians as they proceeded to Persis,
and many of their villages were pillaged and the inhabitants slain."
It is most unlikely that their villages would still contain many
sheep or grain from the previous year's harvest, and the present
year's harvest would not begin until June or July.32
28. For the region south of the Deh Bid Pass see. Sir Aurel Stein, "An Archaeological Tour in the Ancient Persis," Geo. Journ. 86 (1935) 496; Morier, op. cit., isof. No
remains of qanats (underground irrigation tunnels) or ancient settlements have been
found here, and there is only a limited amount of cultivable land and water resources. In the region north of Deh Bid, remains of fire temples have been found at
Yezd-i-Khast, Naisar, and a large, important temple complex near Isfahan, Arch. Mitt,
auslran 6 (1973), map opposite p. 66; Iranica Antiqua g (1965) 39-81. T h e latter town
was the Achaemenid Gabae, J. Marquart, "Untersuchung zur Geschichte von Eran,"
Philologus Suppl. 10 (1907) j»; Klio 8 (1908) 13-20; A. V. William Jackson, Persia: Past
and Present (New York, 1966) »64; Hans Treidler, RE Suppl. 10 (1965) s.v. Paraetacene,
478-482. There is also an Achaemenid site at Tepe Nush-i Jan, Iran 7 (1969) 19.
There are traditions of Achaemenid settlements at Isfahan, Gulpaigan, and Vaneshan,
(Jackson, 248-264). All these sites are on or near the natural route of communication
from Persis to Ecbatana.
29. D. 73. 1; C. 5. 6. 15.
30. See above. Chapter 1, n. 27.
31. A. 3. 17. 3.
32. Sir Arnold T . Wilson, Persia (London, 1932) 54; Porter, op. cit., Vol. 1, 456.

78 / Iran and Afghanistan

This brings us to the reason for the timing of Alexander's departure in late May or early June. T h e towns of Persis would be
on short rations just before the harvest,3* and undoubtedly much
of their surplus from the previous year's harvest was used to provision Ariobarzanes and his 25,000 troops. Since the harvests occur
here in late June or early July, the earliest date the Macedonians
could utilize the milkripe ears of grain was in late May or early
June.3* Thus, far from dallying at Persepolis for four months,
Alexander left at the earliest possible moment. Darius also left
Ecbatana shortly after Alexander's departure, 85 doubtless for the
same reasons, but Alexander's swiftness caught him unprepared.
N o matter where Alexander spent the winter of 331/330, the fact
remains that no army could march across the Zagros Mountains in
winter.
Now there occurs an extraordinary series of marches. Alexander
and the forces with him marched a total of about 950 miles from
Persepolis to Hecatompylos in Parthia from early June to July of
330. It must be remembered that at no time did Alexander march
with his entire army from Persepolis to Parthia, but only with its
lightest, swiftest units. T h e entire Macedonian army did not reassemble again for marching until Alexander reached Sousia in
Areia. 38
When Alexander left Persepolis with his 17,000 troops for the
Royal Road into Media, the army would find small areas of cultivable land at Surmaq; Abadeh, 16 miles distant; Yezd-i-Khast, an33. See above, p. ij. Although Arrian (3. 19. 1) wrote that Alexander left for
Media (for he had heard that Darius was there), surely, this does not mean that he
waited at Persepolis for four months until he learned where Darius was located.
Alexander knew where Darius was headed after Gaugamela (A. 3.16. I-S), and, at any
rate, ignorance of Darius' whereabouts would not be a sufficient reason for his delay
at Persepolis for four months. Alexander would not have pined away at Persepolis
indefinitely waiting to hear about Darius, but would strike out as soon as possible in
the direction he knew DaTius was headed after Gaugamela. T h e very least Alexander
knew was that Darius was not in Babylon, Egypt, Syria, Anatolia, Susa, or Persis,
and there was only one place he could have been: northern Persia. Arrian's statement gives the reason for the direction of Alexander's march and not the reason for
the delay at Persepolis.
34. See above, p. 27.
35. A. 3. 19. 5.
36. A. 3. «5. 4. 'AXitarSpot Si ifioO 45» lx«w n)p raaay Ura/up at Sousia, Except for
the troops with Parmenio, guarding the treasure, who returned in Aiachosia (C. 7.

8-4)-

Iran and Afghanistan / 79

other 36 miles; Shah Riza, 43 miles away; and Isfahan (Gabae), 45
miles away.87 Water could also be obtained at each of these locations. Except for Isfahan, the cultivable areas are not extensive,
but they could probably produce sufficient grain for Alexander's
sm^ll force. T h e extensive tract of cultivable land surrounding
Isfahan is extremely productive, and no doubt the force carried
supplies obtained here for the 262-mile journey across the Zagros
Plateau to Ecbatana. Perhaps the army followed the route past
Gulpaigan, Kumain, and Sultanabad, where their supplies could
be supplemented before reaching the extensive plains surrounding the Median capital. It was perhaps near Gabae that Alexander
heard of Darius' decision to retreat to Parthia and Bactria.88 There
is no evidence that the rest of the Macedonian army joined the
king at any point along the march from Persepolis to Ecbatana.
Indeed, it would make no sense for them to have done so considering the scarcity of supplies along the route and the need for
haste. T h e whole army seems to have regrouped once again at the
Median capital after the forces at Susa marched directly to Ecbatana, some 263 miles away. After he learned that Darius was in retreat toward Parthia, Hyrcania, and Bactria, laying waste to the
land as he went, Alexander set off in pursuit from Ecbatana, taking only the Companion cavalry, the mounted scouts, the mercenary
horse, the part of the phalanx not detailed to guard the treasure
at Ecbatana, the Agrianians, and the archers.39
Parmenio was ordered to transport the 7,290 tons of gold and
silver stored at Persepolis, Susa, and Pasargadae to Ecbatana with
20,000 mules and 5,000 camels, an extraordinary problem in logistics.40 When he had finished this task, he was ordered to take the
mercenaries, Thracians, and all the cavalry except the Companions and subdue the Cadusians, who dwelt between the Amardus
(Safid Rud) and Cyrus (Kura) rivers, and to march into Hyrcania. 41
37. Morier, op. cit., igof.
38. A. 3. 19. 4; C. 5. 13. x. Alexander apparently reached the town in 12 days from
Persepolis with a inarch rate of s i miles per day. Curtius mistakenly calls the town
Tabae.
39. A. 3. 19. 1; A. 3. xo. 1. T h e phalanx was among the lightest equipped of Alexander's troops, wearing only greaves, a helmet, leather breastplate, and a light shield
as armor; hence their use in hot pursuits, Snodgrass, op. cit., 117.
40. D. 71. i-»; P. 37. s; Str. 15. 3. 9. T h e weight is only approximate, based on the
weight of a silver talent.
41. A. 3. 19. 7.

8o / Iran and Afghanistan

The reason for this order was not only to subdue the Cadusians
but also to alleviate the army's supply problems in Parthia. T h e
entire army could not, and did not, follow Alexander to Rhagae
through the Southern Caspian Gates to Hecatompylos because of
the insufficient supply of water along the route in July and because the area's slender agricultural resources had already been
taxed to the limit by the passage of two armies.42 When Alexander
reached Hyrcania, there were only 20,000 infantrymen and 7,000
cavalry with him,48 that is, only the forces he took from Ecbatana.
The rest of the army left the Median capital and marched north,
probably via the Qazvin Plain and the Safid Rud to the vicinity of
Resht and hence through HyTcania and into Areia where they regrouped at Sousia.44 Parmenio himself remained behind at Ecbatana as the governor of Media, and he was initially in charge of the
treasure of 180,000 talents stored there.48 As was already noted,
Parmenio's achievements are constantly underrated or ignored by
the sources, and the reporting of this expedition is yet another
example. 4 ' No doubt, too, the old general did not have time to
write his memoirs before he was killed a few months later.
Alexander, meanwhile, ordered a forced march from the Median capital to Rhagae in pursuit of Darius, and the army covered
the distance in 11 days.47 There were essentially two routes the
Macedonians could have taken. The first runs northeast via Qazvin and hence southeast to Rhagae, a distance of 240 miles; the
second, southeast from Ecbatana via Arak and hence northeast to
Qum or Zarand, a distance of about 257 miles.48 The first route is
4:. A. 3. so. 4; A. F. von Stahl, "Notes on the March of Alexander the Great from
Ecbatana to Hyrcania," Geo, Journ. 64 (1914) 3*0-315, for the terrain.

43- P. 47- »•

44. A. 3. »5. 4.
45. D. 80. 3; C. 6. 8. 18.
46. Parmenio was responsible for Alexander's successful strategy at the Granicus
(Green, 495-508) and perhaps at Issus (above. Chapter », n. 137), yet scarcely a trace of
this achievement appears in the sources.
47. A. 3. so. s.
48. The second route is suggested by von Stahl, op. cit, 319-320. T h e first route is
suggested by G. Radet, "La dernière campagne d'Alexandre contre Darius," Mélanges
Gustave Glotz, Vol. a (Paris, 193») 765-778. The caravan route between the two towns,
810 miles via Nowbaran and Zarand, does not contain adequate resources for a military
route (C. 5. 8. 5) and would be too short a distance for a forced march of 11 days. It
would give an average march Tate of only 19 miles per day, which is slow for the few
fast, light units with Alexander, as is shown by their subsequent performance.

Iran and Afghanistan

/ 81

somewhat shorter and thus is the more likely one for an army in a
hurry; it is also better supplied with fresh water and cultivable
land. The second route traverses a section of the Great Salt Desert
between Qum (or Saveh) and Rhagae, and the small streams here
are saturated with salt even during the rainy season, which had
now passed.49 The first route was also thickly settled in antiquity,
although the precise dates of the settlements have not yet been
established.50 It is difficult to determine to what extent the route
was laid waste by Darius, since the speed of the Macedonians' pursuit may have prevented the Persians from doing the job thoroughly. Although many soldiers were left behind and many horses
died along the route, this was because of exhaustion and because
the speed of the march prevented the horses from grazing, not
from lack of supplies.81 At Rhagae, Alexander received intelligence that Darius had passed through the area a considerable
time earlier, and believing that he could no longer catch him by hot
pursuit, he gave his troops a much-needed rest for five days before proceeding to the Southern Caspian Gates—the Tang-i Sar
Darrah.82
There has been some discussion of Alexander's march rates
here,M but there is no real problem. Arrian stated that the Caspian
49. For the terrain of the first route, see Porter, op. cit., Vol. 1, sg6f.; Morier, op.
cit., «49-253. For the second route: Porter, op. cit.. Vol. 1, 370-373; Morier, 180-183;
A. H. Mounsey, A Journey through the Caucasus and the Interior of Persia (London,
1872) 172. See now the map in Von Hagen, op. cit., 279. Significantly, one of the more
desolate valleys of the second route is called the Malek-el-Moat-dareh, the Valley of
the Angel of Death.
50. Arch. Mitt, aus Iran 6 (1973), maps opposite pp. 7, 38. Cf. Morier, op cit., 251252; Porter, op. cit., 296.
51. A. 3. 20. 1. T h e region surrounding Rhagae is a major producer of Iran's wheat
and barley, and it was equally productive in antiquity, Naval Intelligence Division,
Persia, 451; Fisher, Iran, 292; Special Operations Research Office, op. cit., 430; Str. 11.
13. 6.

5«. A. 3. 20. 3. For the identification of the Gates, see A. V. Williams Jackson,
Constantinople to the Home of Omar Khyyam: Travels in Transcaucasia and Northern
Persia for Historic and Literary Research (New York, 1911) 127-128; John Hansman,
" T h e Problems of QQmis," JRAS 100 (1968) 111-139. There are two Caspian Gates, the
southern one followed here by Alexander in his pursuit of Darius, and the northern
Gates piercing the Elburz Mountains past Mt. Demavend by the Imamzadeh Pass,
which were described by Strabo (11. 13. 6-7) as being 500 stadia north of Rhagae.
53. By R. D. Milns, "Alexander's Pursuit of Darius through Iran," Historia 15
(1966) 296; and C. Neumann, "A Note on Alexander's March Rates," Historia so
(1971) 196-198. Neither understands that an army's march rate is inversely proportional to the number of troops; see table 7.

8s / Iran and Afghanistan

Gates were one day's march from Rhagae, 42 miles away, "for anyone marching as Alexander did." 5 4 T h e r e are two questions presented by this passage. T h e first is hypothetical: Could Alexander's
divisions have reached the Caspian Gates from Rhagae in one day,
marching as they did? How did they march? T h e fast, light units
marched all night long until noon of the next day, that is, in 16hour stretches,88 a common procedure in desert marches. Although
the terrain here is desolate, it is flat and smooth and would offer
no obstacle for an average march rate of s.6 mph, even with the
necessary halts. T h e second question is: How far did Alexander
actually march the first day from Rhagae, when he encamped "by
the Gaspian Gates"? 59 One does not conclude from this statement
that Alexander encamped on the very spot where the Caspian
Gates began; like any competent general, he will have encamped
where strategic and logistic requirements could be best fulfilled.
His camp was certainly at Airan Kief, 34 miles from Rhagae and 8
miles from the Gates. 57 This location possesses the only source of
water until the village of Aradan, 24 miles further away. Considering the enormous water requirements of an army and its horses,58
Alexander would have been foolish to have encamped anywhere
else. He was about to skirt one of the most inhospitable regions of
the world, the Dasht-i-Kavir—the Desert of Salt—and water supply
would have been of paramount importance.
O n the second day, the divisions probably encamped near Aradan where there are springs and some cultivation. Here, Alexander
learned through advance intelligence that the country beyond was
desert, and he sent Coenus, one of his most trusted lieutenants, to
collect supplies for the journey ahead. 59 However, on learning of
54. A. 3. 10. 2.
55. A. 3. 11. 3-9.
56. A . 3. 20. 4, K a i r§ fih irpirrQ rpis ratf Kurtrlut * i X e « hrrpaTbrtSaxre.
57. Jackson, Constantinople,
123; von Stahl, op. cit., 319.
58. See A p p e n d i x 1.
59. A. 3. so. 4. W e follow the reconstruction of von Stahl, op. cit., 319-320, with
the final capture occurring near Damghan, rather than Radet, op. cit., 772-776, who
has the capture near Shahrud. T h e latter distance, about 267 miles, is far too long
for a force consisting mainly of infantry (A. 3. 20. 1) to cover in six days. T h e average
march rate would be 45 mpd, while he only covered 34 miles the first day (above, n. 57)
and only covered 46 miles with a force consisting entirely of cavalry, led at full speed,
on the last day (A. 3. 21. 7-9).

Iran and Afghanistan / 83

Darius' arrest by Bessus and Barsaentes, Alexander did not even
wait for Coenus to return with supplies but immediately set out
in pursuit, taking only the Companions, the mounted scouts, the
lightest infantry, and two days' rations. After marching all night
till noon the next day, the brigades rested and then at twilight
traveled again all night till dawn when they reached the abandoned Persian camp, probably southwest of Samnan. Marching
the next night to the following noon, the Macedonians reached
the village where Darius' captors had encamped the night before,
near the Rion River. Advance intelligence informed the king that
the Persians had abandoned their tradition of not making night
marches and had pressed onward. He also learned that there was a
shorter route than the one the fugitives had followed, which, however, was devoid of water. The route was shorter because, unlike
the main road, it did not proceed through the mountain pass that
separates Samnan and Ahuvan. Alexander now dismounted the cavalry and ordered 500 infantrymen to mount the horses. Starting at
dusk, the brigade traveled 42 miles over the desert through the
night, reaching the Persians at dawn near Damghan. The Macedonians had achieved a march of almost goo miles over difficult terrain in six days with an average daily march of 33 miles.
At Hecatompylos the army rested, and the stragglers left behind
in the pursuit were given time to regroup. Supplies were also
brought in from the surrounding territory.40 The site of Hecatompylos was located long ago at Sahr-i Qumis, 32 km. southwest
of Damghan, just south of the village of Qusheh. The site is a twoday march from the border of Hyrcania and is about 125 miles
from the Caspian Gates.61
After regrouping at Hecatompylos, the Macedonians crossed the
Shemshir-cur Pass and marched into Hyrcania, whose fertility was
60. C. 6. s. 15; D. 75. 1.
61. The site was first identified by A. Houtum-Schindler, "Notes on some Antiquities Found in a Mound Near Damghan," JRAS 9 (1877) 4x5-4(7; later by Jackson,
Constantinople, 162-176; and most recently by Hansman, "QOmis," 111-139. Hansman
is incorrect, however, in stating that Strabo's measurement from the Caspian Gates
to Rhagae was measured to the Tang-i Sar Darrah. Strabo's Caspian Gates are the
northern Gates, 500 stadia north of Rhagae, Str. 11. 9. 1; 11. 13. 6. Fortunately for
Hansman, the distance between the two passes is similar. For an analysis of the bematist's measurements given in Pliny 6. 6i-6a and the distances in Str. 11. 8. 9, see
table 8.

84 / Iran and Afghanistan

legendary.82 A t the Macedonians' first camp near Gurgan (Astarabad) Bay, Phrataphernes, the satrap of Hyrcania and Parthia,
through whose territory the army would proceed, made his submission to Alexander." From here, Alexander advanced westward
along the coast for an expedition against the Mardians and halted
at Zadracarta, which is certainly to be identified with the modern
Sari.64 Almost every step of the Macedonians' route in Hyrcania
can be reconstructed, thanks to the abundant and accurate geographical information provided by Curtius. One may be tempted
to dismiss Curtius' description of Hyrcania as a fairyland, but
every detail of his account had been verified by geographical and
botanical studies of the country.65 Even the honey dripping from
the trees is accurate. T h e honey—called gaz by the Persians—is
collected from the Caspian Honey Locust in the region and is
used to make candy. Indeed, the product has given its name to
Bandar-i-Gaz (the modern Bandar-i-Shah). Curtius' description of
the famous Hyrcanian forests with their junglelike tangle of vines
and branches is also accurate and must have made a striking impression on an observer used to the light, coniferous forests of the
Mediterranean. T h e region is "so abundantly clothed with trees
of the forest, that often a pathway can scarcely be forced through
the intricate jungle, so riotous in colour that the traveller can almost awake with the belief that he has been transported in sleep
to some tropical clime." 66 It is difficult not to be impressed by Curtius' remarkable geographical knowledge of Alexander's route.67
6s. For the route: von Stahl, op. d t „ 324-326; P. PMech, "Deux campagnes d'Antiochus III chez Polybe," REA 60 (1958) 75-76; from the accurate description in C.
6. 4. 3-7. For the fertility of the region: D. 75. 4-7; C. 6. 4. 20-22; Naval Intelligence
Division, Persia,
63. A. 3. 23. 4. For the logistic significance of these surrenders, see above, p. 41.
64. T h e site has sometimes been identified with Astarabad, but since this town was
founded about 720 A.D. by the Arab commander Yazid b. Muhllab, the deputy of the
seventh Umayyad caliph Sulayman, this identification can hardly be correct, Lord
George N. Curzon, Persia and the Persian Question, Vol. 1 (London, 1966) 356. While
traditions concerning Astarabad do not antedate 720 A.D., there are traditions of an
Achaemenid settlement at Sari. Sari fits perfectly the geographical information in
Curtius, ArTian, and Diodorus, and there can be no doubt about its identity, von
Stahl, op. cit., 328. Its ancient name would seem to be preserved in its present name,
Zeid-Karta or Sari-Karta, which means chief town. The site has not yet been excavated.
65. Von Stahl, op. cit., 325-328; Naval Intelligence Division, Persia, 35L
66. Naval Intelligence Division, Persia, 35.
67. The sources' description of the Caspian Honey Locust is not a "misunderstanding," as it was described by Truesdell S. Brown, Onesicritus: A Study in Hellenis-

Iran and Afghanistan

/ 85

After Alexander received the submission of several Persian dignitaries at Zadracarta and conducted a campaign against the Mardians, the army marched eastward through Parthia to Sousia
(Tus)M on the border of Areia, where the satrap Satibarzanes made
his submission. T h e route the Macedonians followed from Hyrcania across Parthia to Sousia was in all probability the ancient
Silk Route, which proceeded from Shahrud to Maiameh, Abbasabad, Sebzewar, and Nishapur. This route is indicated once again
by a bematist's measurement of 4,530 stadia (521 miles) or 565
Roman miles (520 miles) from Hecatompylos (Sahr-i Qumis) to
Alexandria Areion (Herat).69 The accuracy of these measurements
is established in table 8, and they provide valuable information
on Alexander's routes. Since Alexander's bematists' measurements
are accurate between the Caspian Gates and Hecatompylos, between Alexandria Areion and Alexandria ad Caucasum, between
the latter city and Peucolatis, between Peucolatis and Taxila, and
between Taxila and the Jhelum, in all probability they accurately
measure the distance of Alexander's route here also. By the process
of elimination, the only route which corresponds to the bematists'
measurement is the ancient Silk Route, since all other possible
routes are longer.70 This corridor of land has adequate water and
tic Historiography (Berkeley, 1949) 89, but an accurate description of the tree. Curtius'
geographical accuracy has been verified by others, e.g., Sir Aurel Stein, On Alexander's
Track to the Indus (London, igsg) ij7f.; von Stahl, op. cit., 315-398; PMech, op. cit.,
75-76. His descriptions are arranged in a series of vignettes, occurring whenever
something unusual or remarkable attracts his attention, and are found in no other
author except on three occasions in Diodorus (concerning the Oasis of Siwah, D. 50,
C. 4. 7. 10-12; Hyrcania, C. 6. 4. 16-5. 31, D. 75; and the Parapanisadae, C. 7. 3.
6-18; D. 82). Onesicritus is the ultimate origin for many of his descriptions. Brown,
91, 115, especially in India. Arrian did not think well of Onesicritus as a source (A.
6. 2. 3), which may explain why almost none of the information preserved in Curtius
from this source is repeated in Arrian.
68. There are traditions of an Achaemenid settlement at Tus (or Tos), and although
no excavations have yet been undertaken here, its present name seems to have been
derived from *Tausa, and ultimately from *Tausia. E. Herzfeld, "Sakastan," Arch.
Mitt, aus Iran 4 (1932) 38; Arch. Mitt, aus Iran 1 (1929-30) 106; Jackson, Constantinople, 278; Marquart, op. cit., 65.
69. For the bematists' measurements, see table 8. For the generally accepted identification of Alexandria Areion with Herat, see H. H. Wilson, Ariana Antiqua (London,
1841) 151; V. Tscherikower, "Die hellenistischen Stidtgrundtlngen von Alexander
dem Grossen bis auf die Rfimeneit," Philologus Suppl. 19.1 (1927) 102.
70. Most maps of Alexander's route following Marquart, op. cit., 65, have him go
through the Atrek Valley, a distance 'of some 660 miles from Sahr-i Qumis to Herat.
T h e route of the modem railroad is about 546 miles.

86 / Iran and Afghanistan

agricultural resources to support a large army, and strong Zoroastrian traditions indicate that it was the most densely populated
region of Khorasan in the Achaemenid era.71 Doubtless, a thorough
archeological survey of the region would also support this conclusion and there are numerous pre-Islamic remains along the route. 73
Such a survey, however, has never been undertaken in Khorasan.
One urgently needs to be conducted and would no doubt more
than repay the effort by increasing our understanding of this vital
area of ancient Persia.
At Sousia, certain Persians reported to Alexander that Bessus
was wearing his cap in royal fashion, donning imperial robes, and
calling himself Artaxerxes the king of Asia.73 Alexander made immediate preparations for a campaign into Bactria against Bessus.
Since the initial stage of his route was to pass through an uncultivated and sparsely settled region, 74 one of Alexander's first orders
was that all excess baggage, wagons, and personal possessions were
to be burned, beginning with his own.75 Xenophon followed a
similar procedure before making a winter march into eastern
Anatolia and noted that it saved half the army's supplies.76 Although the section of Turkmenistan through which Alexander
71. During the 1830s when the route was thoroughly ruined and devastated by
Turkomen raids, it still supported 60,000 pilgrims per year on the journey from
Shahrud to Meshed from the months of April to November, Conolly, op. cit., 188.
Wheeled vehicles were not used in Persia even until the nineteenth century because of
its ragged topography, James Morier, A Second Journey through Persia in the Years
1810 and 1816 (London, 1818) 197, but all goods were transported by pack animals,
as in Alexander's day. When continuous historical traditions of the region begin in
the eighth century A.D., the Silk Route is the most important in Khorasan, Brian
Spooner, "ArghiySn: the Area of JSrjam in Western KhuriaSn," Iran 3 (1965) 100. For
the Achaemenid traditions see Jackson, Constantinople, 204-248.
72. Jackson, Constantinople, 204-248.
73. A. 3. 25. 3.
74. See below, p. 89.
75. C. 6. 6. 15-16.
76. Xen. Anab, 4. 1. 12-13. Bonaparte, retreating from Russia, followed the same
procedure fox the same reasons. J. R. Hamilton, Plutarch Alexander: A Commentary
(London, 1969) 157, doubts this Curtius passage on the basis of P. 57. 1-2, who placed
the incident before the entry into India. It makes better sense for Alexander to have
burned his wagons before entering the Kara Kum than before entering rich, fertile
India. Moreover, Curtius' geography is accurate until Sogdia, whereas Plutarch becomes confused after Ecbatana. One would not expect Curtius to mistake Bactria for
India, whereas such confusion is natural for Plutarch. Indeed, Plutarch discusses
events in Bactria and Sogdia after this "Imjia" passage.

Iran and Afghanistan

/ 87

was to proceed was intensively settled and agriculturally productive in Alexander's era,77 supplies were scarce along the initial part
of the route from Sousia across the Kuh-i-Hazar Masjed range. N o
doubt Satibarzanes, who surrendered to Alexander at Sousia, was
to oversee the establishment of magazines along the route. A small
garrison was established in Areia to prevent the Macedonians
from unwarranted pillaging 7 * and perhaps to insure that Satibarzanes would fulfill his obligations to Alexander.
O n his way into Bactria, Alexander received news that Satibarzanes had revolted, massacring the garrison. Alexander left Craterus in command of the rest of the army, while he himself turned
back; and taking only the Companions, mounted javelin men, the
archers, Agrianians, and the brigades of Amyntas and Coenus, he
advanced 600 stadia (69 miles) from where he left Craterus to Artacoana. 79 Where did Alexander leave Craterus and the rest of the
army? Curtius provides the answer:80 it was near a large flat-topped
mountain, extremely steep on its western side but sloping more
gently toward the east. O n its summit there was an extensive grasscovered plain with a spring of abundant water. T h e Areians ordered those not fit for war to seek refuge there, and the natural
fortress was manned by 13,000 troops. Alexander left virtually the
entire army to besiege the place, and although the western end of
the fortress was steeper, the Macedonians attacked from this direction. They were able to climb part of the way up the cliffs but were
stopped by impassible precipices. T h e mountain stronghold was
so formidable that for die first and only time in his career, Alexander was at a loss how to capture his objective. Finally, the army
built a ramp of felled trees up the west end. This accidentally
caught fire, and the blaze, fanned by a powerful west wind, spread
to the entire mountain, killing almost all the Areians inside the
stronghold.
T h e site of this mountain stronghold has not been previously
identified, but it is beyond all question the famous Kalat-i-Nadiri:
" O n e of the most extraordinary natural phenomena in the world,
and famous even in this land of mountain fastness and impregna77. See n. 85.
78. A. 3. «5. t.

79. A. g. Ï 5 . 6.
80. C. 6. 6. 15; 6. 6. s j - s s .

88 / Iran and

Afghanistan

ble defiles for its inaccessibility and amazing natural strength."* 1
T h i s stupendous natural fortress is a b o u t 44 miles north of Sousia
and has walls 1,500 feet high on the south precipice and 2,000 feet
high on the west, while the eastern walls are lower. A l t h o u g h the
western end is steeper, it is also less inaccessible than the other
sides—hence the Macedonian assault from this end. In its interior,
there is a grassy plain some f o u r or five miles in circumference,
with a large pool fed b y perennial springs. From here one can see
the natural walls of the perimeter towering 500 feet over the plain.
O n the exterior, the first half of the walled perimeter has a moderate slope and can be climbed, b u t the higher half rises in a sheer
vertical cliff. T h e walls crest in a basaltic wedge so narrow that it
is impossible to walk along it. A fierce west w i n d blows here from
J u n e to September and is called, appropriately, the W i n d of O n e
H u n d r e d and T w e n t y Days (Bad-i-Sad-o-bist roz). T h i s fortress
has served as a place of refuge throughout Persian history from
nomad invaders from the steppe. It is indeed the most famous
stronghold in the N e a r East, the " G i b r a l t a r " of Persia, and the
81. Curzon, op. cit.. Vol. 1, 113. For the Kalat-i-Nadiri, see P. M. Sykes, "A Fifth
Journey In Persia," Geo. Journ. 28 (1906) 569!; Capt. G. Napier, "Extracts from a
Diary of a Tour in Khorassan and Notes on the Eastern Alburz Tract," JRGS 46
(1876) 74-79. who also gives the topography of the route between Sousia and the fort.
Sykes' description is the most accurate and detailed, and we follow him in our account.
Curtius (6. 6. 23) gave the perimeter of the fortress as 32 stadia, or about four miles.
Presumably, this is the perimeter of the interior plain, which another traveler to
the Kalat, a Greek named Basil Batatzes, gave as 40 to 50 stadia, Ch. Schaefer, Nouveaux Melanges Orientaux (Publications de l'Ecole des Langues Orientales Vivantes,
Paris 1886). I have not been able to find a subsequent measurement for the interior
perimeter since Basil's in 17x8. My identification has been accepted by Green, 337.
It is possible that local legends have preserved a memory of Alexander's siege. In
Firdusi's tenth-century epic Shah Noma (Arthur George Warner and Edmond Warner,
trans., The Shahnama of Firdausi, Vol. 3 [London, 1908] j8ff.; Sykes, 570-571), the
semilegendary king of Persia, Kei Khusru, sent his commander Tus to invade Turan,
or central Asia, giving him specific instructions to avoid passing Kalat, which was held
by his half-brother Farud. Tus, however, on finding that all other routes into central
Asia led through deserts, marched toward the fortress. Farud, seeing the approach of a
mighty host, sallied from the fort with its garrison, and Tus, ignoring the fact that
Farud was the king's brother, engaged in battle. After a heroic struggle in which many
Persian champions perished, Farud received a mortal wound and with difficulty returned to the stronghold, where he was received by his mother who set fire to the whole
fortress and hamstrung the horses. The women committed suicide by hurling themselves from the precipices, and Farud and the remaining soldiers killed themselves.
The whole incident, with a king invading central Asia via the Kalat because the alternative routes passed through desert, and especially the end of the siege, resembles
the account in C. 6. 6. 13-32.

Iran and Afghanistan / 89

only fortress that successfully withstood a siege by Tamerlane.
There is no other geological formation in this area, or indeed the
entire Near East, that corresponds to Curtius' detailed description,
and there can be no doubt about its identity.
T h e location of this fortress provides a great deal of information
concerning Alexander's planned route into Bactria and the location of Artacoana, a section of Alexander's route that has heretofore been blank.
First, the route into Bactria. It is obvious that the initial stage
of Alexander's Bactrian campaign followed the route from Sousia
north to the Kalat and not eastward, as Marquart thought.82 T h e
language of Curtius and Arrian is clear on this point.83 Alexander
left Craterus and the army to besiege Kalat, while he himself
marched on Artacoana. Now, if Alexander's route were eastward
from Sousia, he would not leave the army behind to besiege the
stronghold, but would rather order the army northwest to besiege it.
T h e initial stage of the march shows that Alexander attempted
to enter Bactria by the traditional invasion route (used by Genghis
Khan, Tamerlane, Tus, the Sacae) from northeastern Persia to
the Tejend Valley past the Merv Oasis to the Royal Road from
Merv to Bactra,84 or to another destination he thought suitable.
Today, this route would impose great difficulties for an army traveling as the Macedonians did without modern methods of transport
since it is only sparsely inhabited. However, once again we find
that the ancient region was densely settled and crisscrossed with
numerous irrigation canals (one barrage, incidentally is named after
Alexander), whereas in modern times, until recent Soviet irrigation projects, the area was a deserted wasteland. Ruined sites and
abandoned irrigation works are densely clustered from Dushak
8a. Marquart, op. cit., 67. Besides other difficulties with his route, it proceeds
some 84 miles through unbroken desert from Pole-Khatun to Bala Murghab.
8j. C. 6. 6. »5, relicto; A. 3. «5. 6, itaraX<mb>.
84. This Royal Road (Shah-Rah or military road) was always important as a trade
and communications route, K. DeB. Cordington, "A Geographical Introduction to

the History of Central Asia," Geo. Joum. 104 (1944) 73-74. It was followed by Isidore
of Charax, GGM j, S5S-S53. Cf. R. Ghirshman, Iran (Baltimore, 1954) «49; Bibl. Geog.
Arab. 1, «70-871; 3, »98, 347; Charles Marvin, Colonel Grodelcoff's Ride from Samarcand to Herat through the Uzbek States of Afghan Turkestan (London, 1880); C.
Sykes, "Some Notes on a Recent Journey in Afghanistan," Geo. Journ. 84 (1934) 3 2 7 336.

go / Iran and Afghanistan

across the Tejend Oasis to the Merv Oasis. Until their destruction by Turkomen raids (from the seventeenth to nineteenth centuries), a system of irrigation canals linked the Tejend and the
Murghab, thus facilitating travel.** Alexander, then, planned to
invade Bactria by a flank attack from Merv (Margiana, a district
of Bactria). His later Bactrian campaign was also directed from
the flank, this time from the Eastern Hindu Kush. Alexander deliberately avoided entering the center of the country from the
main road through Bamian for strategic reasons.1* His first strategy, attacking from Margiana, was probably intended to sweep
the opposition eastward against the Hindu Kush and the Pamirs
so that he would only have to fight on one front. His second strategy, attacking from the Hindu Kush, was intended to drive Bessus
and his allies into the deserts of Chorasmia, where they would have
to make a stand and fight. If he invaded Bactria from the center,
from Bamian, Alexander would have to fight on two fronts, both
east and west. We may also see in this strategy an example of Alexander keeping his enemy off balance by doing the unexpected.
Now for the location of Artacoana. T h e sequence of events for
Alexander's return into Areia is clearly given by Arrian.*7 When
he heard of Satibarzanes' tergiversation, the king took a light
armed force, and leaving Craterus at Kalat (the location is provided by C. 6. 6. 85), he advanced 600 stadia (69 miles) to Arta85. £. Ehlers, "Klimageschichte und siedlungsgang in vor und frflhgeschichtllcher
Zeit in der Tuikmensteppe Nordpersiens," Arch. Mitt. Iran 4 (1971) 7—a i; L. I. Hlopina,
"Southern Turkmenia in the Late Bronze Age," EW » (197s) 199-114; Grégoire
Frumkin, Archaeology in Soviet Central Asia (Leiden, 1970) 141-146; Iranica Antiqua
4 (1964) 69-84; M. P. M. Lessar, "M. P. M. Lessar's Journey from Aakabad to Sarakhs,"
PRGS4 (188s) 486t.; M. P. M. Lessar, "M. P. M. Lessar's Second Journey in the Turkomen Country, Askabad to Ghurian near Herat," PRGS 5 (1883) 1-S3; Edmond O'Donovan, "Merv and its Surroudings," PRGS 4 (188s) 345-358; Lt. Col. C. E. Stewart, " T h e
Country of the Tekke Turkomans and the Tejand and Murghab Rivers," PRGS 3
(1881) 538-543. One site given on the map facing p. 56 in PRGS 5 (1883) has the
intriguing name of Arti-Kala. E. Atagarryev and O. Berdyev, " T h e Archaeological
Exploration of Turkmenistan in the Years of Soviet Power," EW to (1970) 285-306;
Robert A. Lewis, "Early Irrigation in West Turkestan," AAAG 56 (1966) 472t.
86. T h e route through Bamian (Bamyan or Bamiyan) was one of the principal
entrances into Bactria; it follows the lowest passes and is open for longer periods in
winter, A. Foucher and E. Bazin-Foucher, La vieille route de l'Inde de Bactres à Taxila,
Vol. 1, MDAFA 1 (1941) 84-S7,103. One of the reasons Alexander may have taken the
road via Merv was to avoid the difficulties of crossing a mountain pass held by an
enemy, see Appendix t .
87. A. 3. 25. 6.

Iran and Afghaniston / gì

coana. This is the obvious interpretation of events. Now, Satibarzanes had advanced to Artacoana, wishing to attack Alexander on
his march into Bactria with the cooperation of Bessus and his
forces.84 Thus, the site of the city will be rather to the north and
east of Sousia than to the south or west, since this was the direction
of the Macedonian march and also the location of Bessus and his
cohorts. The region 70 miles north to east of Kalat is strewn with
scores of ruined sites and abandoned irrigation works, in both the
Soviet Union and Iran.89 If Artacoana is located in the Soviet
Union, it will only be a matter of time before the intensive excavations and survey work undertaken in Turkmenistan will uncover it. Khorasan in Iran, as was noted, has not yet received adequate attention from archaeologists, and if the city is located here,
we will have to wait a good deal longer for its discovery.
After Alexander captured the Kalat-i-Nadiri and subdued the
rest of Areia, he did not continue the march into Bactria by his
former, northern route, since the meager agricultural resources
of its initial section had no doubt been exhausted by the army's
earlier advance and return into Areia. Furthermore, winter was
now approaching and the army would need to remain in an extensively cultivated region for a considerable period. Therefore,
he marched southeast through the fertile Jam and Heri Rud valleys to Herat and hence south to the Lake Seistan area—the ancient
Zarangaea. Few regions on earth are more inhospitable than Seistan. The Wind of One Hundred and Twenty Days reaches its full
fury here from June to September, often reaching hurricane force.
"It creates a pandemonium of noise, sand, and dust, but although
hot and parching, it mitigates the summer heat and blows away
the insects which from April to June make life in Seistan a purgatory."90 However, plagues of midges, mosquitoes, horseflies, and
poisonous snakes and hurricane-force winds are only mild irrita88. A. 3. «5- 589. Stewart, op. clt., 513-546; Lessar, "Second Journey," 1-23. The ancient geographical references to the site tell us only that it was located in ATeia, Pliny NH
6. 93; Str. 11. 10. 1; Isidore of Charax, GGM 1,151-253; or perhaps in Farthia: Ptol.
Geo. 6. 5; Atnm. Marc «3. 6. 43. It is certainly not the same as Alexandria Areion,
since both cities are named distinctly in our sources.
90. Naval Intelligence Division, Persia, 16s; William Trousdale, "The Homeland
of Rustam," ILN (December 1975) 91-93.

98 / Iran and Afghanistan

tions next to the blowing sand. It not only sandblasts all the buildings (and people) in the region, giving them a short life span, but
also heaps up masses of large, rapidly moving sand dunes that
can overwhelm fields, buildings, and indeed entire towns in a matter of months. For these reasons, all towns and buildings—ancient
and modern—not only have their backs against the northwest
wind but often project only their northwest corners in this direction. In addition, there is the unpredictable behavior of the
lake and the lower Helmand River itself. T h e river frequently
changes its bed, and after heavy precipitation in Afghanistan, the
lake will often expand to two or three times its normal size, wrecking painfully constructed irrigation complexes and submerging
towns and villages. Alternatively, the changing course of the river
can leave former irrigation works high and dry.
Yet, despite all these serious disabilities, the region was one of
the most densely settled and agriculturally productive regions of
the Near East, as is proven not only by the many ruined irrigation complexes (the earliest dating to the second millennium
B.C.), but also by the fact that there are over a hundred ruined
urban sites here—one of the largest concentrations of urban centers anywhere in the world. T h e ancient inhabitants were able to
successfully combat the sand, wind, and the changing course of
the river, problems that baffle their modern descendants. Recent
excavations have proven that it was a major region of human
settlement in the Achaemenid era,81 and undoubtedly it was more
91. Umberto Scerrato, "A Probable Achaemenid Zone in Persian Sistan," EW 13
(1962) 186-197; Umberto Scerrato, "Excavations at Dahn-i Ghulaman (Seistan-Iran):
First Preliminary Report (1962-3)," EW 16 (1966) 9-30; Walter A. Fairservis, Jr.,
"Archaeological Studies in the Seistan Basin of South Western Afghanistan and Eastern Iran," Anthropological Papers of the American Museum of Natural History 48.1
(1961). T h e excavations confirm the Persian traditions that make Seistan a prominent
center in the formation of ancient Persia. T h e site of the capital of Zarangaea in
Alexander's time may have been Dahn-i Ghulaman (although it seems to have been
deserted after the fifth century b.c.). T h e capital of Zarangaea may or may not have
been the same city as Alexandria Prophthasia. Conditions for excavation (excluding
the wretched climate) are extremely difficult because the cities were built of mud
brick which dissolves, or rather melts, back into its original element, mud. Hellenistic
or Achacmenid mud cannot be told apart from Islamic or modern mud. Thus, trying
to find which of the 100 ruined sites was Prophthasia is an exercise in futility. Stratigraphy is difficult to determine and buildings are rarely preserved. T h e depth of
the mud deposits is often so to 30 meters thick, and the extensive areas of some of
the cities—which often cover many square miles—makes the location of Hellenistic
or Achaemenid strata difficult. Given these problems and the fact that several site«

Iran and Afghanistan

/

93

than c a p a b l e of s u p p l y i n g the M a c e d o n i a n a r m y f o r p a r t of the
w i n t e r of 3 3 0 - 3 2 9 . 9 2 It was also n e a r the n a v i g a b l e H e l m a n d R i v e r ,
w h i c h a l l o w e d imports f r o m its fertile valley.
I n J a n u a r y or F e b r u a r y , the M a c e d o n i a n s left Seistan f o r a
60-day j o u r n e y through the territory of the A r i m a s p i , o r E u e r g e tae as they w e r e later called, w h o d w e l t a l o n g the l o w e r H e l m a n d
V a l l e y , a n intensively settled a n d cultivated r e g i o n in the A c h a e m e n i d a n d Hellenistic eras. 93 B y late M a r c h or early A p r i l , the
a r m y b e g a n crossing the region of the Parapanisadae, a n I n d i a n
tribe d w e l l i n g in the u p l a n d s between G h a z n i a n d the H i n d u
Rush. 9 4 O n c e again, A l e x a n d e r seems to have w a i t e d f o r the w i n t e r
w h e a t a n d barley harvest, w h i c h occur in the l o w e r H e l m a n d V a l ley in A p r i l or M a y , b e f o r e a d v a n c i n g t h r o u g h the Parapanisus. 9 5
A l t h o u g h the a r m y p r o b a b l y carried a 14-day grain s u p p l y f o r the
journey—the m a x i m u m a m o u n t of provisions they w e r e c a p a b l e
of carrying—this was n o t a d e q u a t e to last t h r o u g h o u t the fourw e e k j o u r n e y of 3 2 5 miles between K a n d a h a r a n d the K a b u l Valley. T h e area u n d e r cultivation declines as one travels n o r t h f r o m
the f o r m e r city since the c u l t i v a b l e areas b e c o m e restricted to
were occupied simultaneously in Alexander's day, it is a safe assumption that, barring
the find of an inscription (which seems extremely improbable), the site of Prophthasia
will never be securely located. The region contains over 100 archaeological sites, and
new ones are being discovered frequently.
91. We follow the generally accepted chronology of T . B. Jones, "Alexander
and the Winter of 330-329 B . C . " , CW 28 (1935) 1x4-125. It was impossible for the
Macedonians to have marched 1,300 miles from Hecatompylos to Ghazni from July
to late October or early November, as well as undertake a major campaign in
Hyrcania and Mardia, remain 15 days at Zadracarta (A. 3. 25. 1), organize and conduct
a march into Bactria, return from the march and subdue the Areians, and conduct
the trial of Philotas.
93. C. 7. 3. 1-4; A. 3. 27. 4-5; D. 81. 1-2. Isidore of Charax also followed this
route, GGM 1, 253-254. Norman Hammond, "An Archaeological Reconnaissance in
the Helmand Valley, South Afghanistan," EW 20 (1970) 437-459; Klaus Fischer,
"Historical, Geographical, and Philological Studies in Seistan by Bosworth, DafFini,
and Gnoli in the Light of Recent Archaeological Field Surveys," EW 21 (1970
45-51. Cf. Henry Walter Bellew, From the Indus to the Tigris (London, 1874) 155198. Bellew (219) noted that the insects were intolerable in Seistan in early March,
yet another reason for Alexander to have left early.
94. For the date of the crossing during the cosmical setting of the Pleiades: Str.
15. 2. 10; Borza, op. cit., 237. For the location of the Parapanisadae between Ghazni
and Kabul see: Alessio Bombaci, "Ghazni," EW 8 (1957) 247-257; EW 9 (1958) 156;
A. K. Narain, The Indo-Greeks (Oxford, 1957) 28.
95. Naval Intelligence Division, Persia, 434; Bellew, op. cit., 189-192; W. Kraut,
ed. Afghanistan (Tuebingen, 1972) 244.

94 / Iran and

Afghanistan

mountain valleys where the harvests do not occur until August.84
For these reasons, the Macedonians experienced a supply shortage
in this region.87
The ancient route between Kandahar and Kabul has been extensively treated by others,98 so there is no need to discuss it in
detail here. Snowfall in the northern section is heavy, and the
passes cannot be crossed until late spring (although the Macedonians forced them somewhat earlier). Until then, "there is risk of
being lost in deep snow drifts, and, between Ghazni and Kabul
especially, they say winds blow which are sharp enough to 'cut the
life out of a man.' " w Little wonder the army suffered here from
the cold and snow.100 The territory of the Parapanisadae is now
occupied by the Hazaras, who build the same type of dwellings
seen by Alexander's men.101
The army remained some days in the rich Kabul Valley, allowing stragglers to catch up and to make preparations for crossing
the Hindu Kush. The Macedonians undoubtedly used the Khawak
96. Wilfred Thejiger, "The Hazaras of Central Afghanistan," Geo. Journ. 121
(•955) S>z-3i9; Arnold J. Toynbee, Between Oxus and Jumna (Oxford, 1 9 6 1 ) 5 4 - 5 5 ;
James Atkinson, Expedition into Afghanistan (London, 1 8 4 1 ) 1 8 1 - 1 7 0 .
97. A. 3. 28. l.
98. Bombaci, op. clt., Klaus Fischer, "Zur Lage von Kandahar an Landverbindungen zwischen Iran und Indien," Bonner Jahrbucher 1 6 7 ( 1 9 6 7 ) 129-238. This
is the best and most thoroughly documented study on this route, but, unfortunately,
it shows how little is yet known about the locations of the various towns Alexander
passed through here. Kaitul (near Kandahar) was undoubtedly one of them, perhaps
Alexandria of the Arachosians, An intriguing bilingual Aramaic-Greek inscription
of king Asoka was found here, EW 1 0 ( 1 9 5 9 ) 2 4 3 - 1 6 0 . However, the name Kandahar
is not derived from the name of Alexander, for the town was called Kandara in the
Persepolis Fortification Tablets dating to 509-494 B.C. R. T. Hallock, Persepolis Fortification Tablets, University of Chicago Oriental Institute Publications, 92 (Chicago,
i g 6 g ) 708 s.v. Kandara. Mir Zakeh (which Fox, op. cit., 293, mistakenly calls Gardez),
5 3 km. east northeast of Gardez was once a Greek town, MDAFA 1 4 ( 1 9 5 3 ) 65; MDAFA
so ( 1 9 6 5 ) 6 2 , but this mountain outpost has nothing to do with the route between
Kandahar and Kabul. Fox's route (281) in Afghanistan has the Macedonians march
150 miles through the Dasht-i-Margo—the Desert of Death—between the border of
Seistan and Kandahar, a truly astonishing reconstruction. The army made a similar
march through the Gedrosian Desert and lost three-quarters of its troops; see below,
p. H5f99. Conolly, op. cit., Vol. 2, 55.
1 0 0 . C. 7. 3 . 1 3 .
101. C. 7. 3. 8-10, D. 82. 2; Thesiger, op. cit., 314. While archaeology has not yet
confirmed Curtius' and Diodorus' descriptions of the dwellings of the Parapanisadae,
a vaulted roof of brick is the obvious solution for roof construction in areas which
receive heavy snowfall but possess no timber, as the modern houses testify.

Iran and Afghanistan

/ 95

Pass (11,650 feet) for their crossing, for although it is one of the
longest passes over the range (47 miles), it is also the lowest, the
best provided with forage, and the most suitable for a late spring
crossing.102 The crossing took 16 or 17 days, not the usual four
days, since the army encountered the same problems of moving
large numbers of men and animals through narrow spaces that we
have noted before.108 Since the narrowest part of the pass would
not allow more than sections of three infantrymen to pass abreast,
the infantry probably crossed in double file and the cavalry horses
in single file with the baggage animals forming another file beside them: the best way for an army to utilize supplies in a narrow
space.104 By the time they started to cross (probably in May or
June), no snow would lie below 8,000 feet on the pass.
T h e army's known crossing time of the Hindu Kush raises an
interesting possibility of determining the numbers of the Macedonian army at this time. Suppose each part of the army's column
was able to travel 12 miles on the first day while marching to the
steep ascent to the crest.105 Each part of the column should have
been able to cross in four days, the usual time for crossing the
pass. As Maurice has demonstrated, in a double file, 10,000 soldiers
occupy a space of 12 miles, and 4,224 cavalry horses in single file
also occupy a space of 12 miles.108 Since everyone had crossed the
102. Felix Howland, "Crossing the Hindu Kush," Geo. Rev. 30 (1940) «76. T h e
pass Alexander took returning from Bactria into India, which was different from the
Khawak Pass, is usually given as the Kaoshan (Kushan) Pass (14,600 ft.). However,
this precipitous and treacherous pass is seldom used. Foucher, op. cit., s6, remarking
on the suffering of Wood's Indian attendants while crossing this pass remarked, "Well
might it be called the Hindu Kush, the Killer of the Hindus!" It would have been
unwise for Alexander to have used this pass when he could have taken the Salang
Pass (12,000 ft.) which is equally as fast and much less dangerous. T h e Salang is
often used by armies in a hurry.
IOJ. For the length of the crossing: D. 83. 1; C. 7. 3. s i . See also above Chapter
3. n. 56.
104. Maurice, 825: Anderson, op. cit., 45; Xen. Cyrop. 6. 3. 3. From the photograph
of the pass in Frank and Helen Schreider, "The World of Alexander," in National
Geographic Society, Greece and Rome: Builders of Our World (Washington, 1968) 229,
it is obvious that no more than three abreast can be accommodated on the pass.
105. Schreider, op. cit., 228, expected to make 10 miles on the first day, but they
only made three. Hopefully, the Macedonians were in better condition than they.
106. Maurice, 229. He has allowed for the greater interval needed by ancient
soldiers carrying spears than for modern soldiers carrying rifles. T h e followers, who
did not carry spears, would need a lesser interval, but doubtless they did not main-

g6 / Iran and Afghanistan

pass on the sixteenth day, no one would leave to cross the pass
after the thirteenth day, that is, the last section of the army's column began crossing the pass on the thirteenth day. A t two abreast,
with the pack and baggage animals forming another file alongside, about 100,000 troops and followers and 12,672 cavalry horses
in single file could cross the pass in 16 days. It would have taken
3 days for 12,672 cavalry horses to enter the pass and 10 days for
100,000 personnel. We estimated that by the time Alexander
crossed the Hindu Kush, he had approximately 64,000 troops and
10,000 cavalry horses. T h e remaining 36,000 that crossed may have
been followers, who by this time totaled about one-half the number of combatants.107 If the soldiers marched in single file, only
50,000 personnel could have crossed the pass in 13 days, which is
too few. From the photographs of the pass, it is clearly impossible
for more than two soldiers and a pack animal or a cavalry horse
and a pack animal passing abreast to be accommodated at its narrowest part. Like water in a funnel, it is the narrowest part that
determines the rate of crossing. While this process obviously yields
only an estimate for the troop and cavalry numbers, the space occupied by 10,000 troops and 2,224 cavalry cannot have differed
greatly from Maurice's figures, nor can more than three abreast
be accommodated on the pass, nor can the distance the Macedonians traveled on the first day of crossing have differed significantly from 12 miles, given the steep and difficult ascent.
Once again, the Macedonians experienced difficulties with snow
and cold crossing the pass, and there was a supply shortage.108 What
probably happened was that although the army carried 10 days'
rations over the pass with them, the first sections of the column to
cross the pass had to wait almost two weeks in devastated territory
for the rest of the army to cross.
T h e region of Bactria north of the Hindu Kush does not retain as good a march discipline as the troops and their column would inevitably
stretch out. This interval, about 12.5 feet, is only slightly greater than in a modern
army, 11 feet. Doubtless, the cavalrymen dismounted their horses on the ascent,
common procedure, and they would walk between their mounts. T h e intervals,
however, would still be maintained.
107. For the approximate numbers of troops in the army, see table 6. See also
below, p. 137 for the followers.
108. A. 3. »8. 9; C. 7. 4. M.

Iran and Afghanistan / 97

ceive sufficient rainfall for the production of crops by dry farming
techniques, and all agriculture must occur where the rivers debouching from the mountains enter the Bactrian plain, allowing
irrigation. Once across the mountains, the army proceeded down
the Kunduz River valley, a rich, productive agricultural region
when irrigated properly.109 But part of the land here had been
devastated by Bessus' cohorts, and initially the Macedonians were
forced to eat their pack animals and fish from the river. 110 The
army first reached Drapsaca (Kunduz?)"1 and rested, which shows
that the devastation of the country was not complete and that the
site must have been located in a river valley. From here, they
marched west to Aornos (Shahr-i-Banu?),112 where Alexander left
a guard. Once again, this town must have been located on a river
since in this region all agricultural production and human settlements of any size cannot occur anywhere else. Undoubtedly this
109. Krau», op. cit., 35; Toynbee, op. cit., 93; Johannes Humulum, La Géographie
de l'Afghanistan (Gyldendal, 195g) i n , s i o - s i i ; C. Sykes, op. cit., 317-336.
n o . C. 7. 4. 12; A. 3. s8. 8; C. 7. 4. 14-15. Once again, Alexander deliberately
avoided using the main pass into Bactria through Bamian for the reasons noted
above, p. gof.
111. Alexander passed through two Bactrian towns before reaching the capital:
Drapsaca and Aornos. There aTe two sites thus far which have yielded Hellenistic
remains and are located between the Hindu Rush and Balkh: Kunduz on the Kunduz
River and Shahr-i-Banu, near Khulm. Both of these sites are along the route we have
suggested Alexander followed. From the former have been found numerous GrecoBactrian coin boards and a series of Greek Ionic (or Corinthian) column bases with
a cyma reversa instead of an upper torus like the Corinthian column base at the
temple of Apollo at Bassae, dating to the late fifth century or early fourth centuTy
B.c., and those found at Emporio, Chios, dating to the Hellenistic period. T h e bases
are illustrated in Evert Barger, "Exploration of Ancient Sites in Northern Afghanistan," Geo. Journ. 93 (1939), photograph facing p. 383; cf. Klaus Fischer, "Preliminary
Notes on some Ancient Remains at Kunduz," Afghanistan 1 (1961) is—13; MDAFA
so (1965). A t Shahr-i-Banu, Hellenistic pottery was found, virtually the only such
pottery found in Bactria, MDAFA 8 (1958) 59-73.
I cannot omit a reference to the Hellenistic city at Ai Khanoum at the confluence
of the Kokcha and Amu Darya, which has certainly been one of the most important
archaeological discoveries of the last decade. This is the only single-level Greek site
yet discovered in Bactria; an entire Hellenistic city, with gymnasia, a Heroon, perhaps dedicated to the founder of the city (a certain Kineas), porticos with exquisite
Corinthian columns, herms, inscriptions containing Greek lyric poetry, and a precept
from the Delphic Oracle, 3,500 miles away. The abundance of Greek remains becomes all the more impressive when one remembers that at Bactra itself, the capital
of the empire, only two Hellenistic potsherds have been found (as of 1955) beneath
heavy Sassanid and Islamic deposits. Paul Bernard, CRAI (>970) 301-349. It is,
however, too far to the northeast to have been Drapsaca or Aornos.
11s. See n. 111.

g8 / Iran and Afghanistan

river was the Khulm, the only river between the Kunduz and the
Bactrus. Finally, the Macedonians reached the capital Bactra
(Balkh)11* on the Bactrus (Balkh) River, the largest oasis of the
region.
113. While finds other than coins have been rare for Hellenistic Bactra, the identity
of the site rests on the corruption of its name through New Persian and Arabic to
Balkh, Tomaschek, "Bactra," RE x.x (1895) 804-805. The site also fulfills the geographic information provided by Greek sources, W. W. Tarn, The Greeks in Bactria
and India (London, >938) mt The walls one sees here now are Islamic, perhaps
Timurid in date, and rest on earlier walls of the Sassanid era, Rodney S. Young, "The
South Wall of Balkh-Bactra," A]A 59 (1955) <67-176; MDAPA 19 (1964) 61-105.

5*
Uzbekistan, Tadzhikistan,
Turkmenistan, Pakistan,
and Southern Iran
Leaving the city of Bactra for the Oxus (Amu Darya), the Macedonians were about to enter a different world, which even now is
imperfectly understood. No site Alexander visited in Sogdia can
be identified with certainty. Even the identification of Maracanda
with Samarcand, which once seemed to reflect the only genuine
tradition of Alexander's campaigns in this region, has been shaken
by recent archaeological research.1 It is doubtful whether the sites
of Nautaca, Alexandria Eschate, Bagae, or Bazira will ever be securely located. The traditions of settlement continuity that enable
us to correctly identify Tyre, Tarsus, Ancyra, and Arbela, are almost entirely lacking for Sogdia until the seventh century A.D. The
identifications that von Schwarz made in the last century, while
quaint and picturesque, can no longer be seriously considered.*
1. Grégoire Frumkin, Archaeology in Soviet Central Asia (Leiden, 1970) 128. But
see below, n. 16.
2. Franz von Schwarz, Alexander des Grossen Feldxüg in Turkestan (Munich,
189)). E.g., p. »7: Aornus must be Khulm because the Greeks used the term Aornos
for locations on heights and Khulm is on a hill. Leaving aside the {act that virtually
every site in Afghanistan is on a hill or mound, no archaeological evidence from
Khulm indicates that it was inhabited in the Achaemenid or Hellenistic eras. P. 37:
T h e Branchidae must have lived at Kilif because when they lived in Ionia they were
seafaring folk, and since the inhabitants of Kilif were engaged in ferry operations in
the 1890s, naturally the Branchidae lived here. Leaving aside the fact that after exhaustive surveys and excavations in Uzbekistan, no trace of habitation has been found
at Kilif for the Achaemenid or Hellenistic eras, the episode of the Branchidae is most
improbable, coming as it does in the midst of Alexander's hot pursuit of Bessus. P.
40: Schwarz mistakes the Kashka for the Jaxartes, see below, n. 18. One could add

loo / Uzbekistan to Southern Iran

Naturally, since the sites themselves are unknown, Alexander's
routes between them cannot be restored with certainty. Hence, any
reconstruction of the Macedonian's operations in Sogdia can only
be tentative and must be based on the general principles of the
army's motion and logistic system, as well as the human geography
of the region.
Rainfall in Sogdia is inadequate for the cultivation of crops by
dry farming, and all agricultural production and human settlement
is now, and has always been, along the river valleys where irrigation
is possible.3 T h e river valleys of the Zeravshan, Kashka, Shirabad,
Surkhan, Kafirnahan, and Wakhsh are extremely fertile because of
their rich loess soils and the fertile silts the rivers deposit on the
land in spring. T h e immense importance of irrigation for settled
human life in Sogdia can best be seen in the Zeravshan Valley. T h e
name of the river itself, "Scatterer of Gold," does not refer to any
particles of that metal it carries, but to the extraordinary value of
its yellow, silt-laden water in fertilizing its valley. 4 T h e river's importance for irrigation is also reflected in its Greek name, Polytimetus, or "Very Precious," and there is evidence that the river
was worshiped as a deity in antiquity for this reason.5 As in Egypt,
the difference between irrigated and nonirrigated land is not subtle or gradual but sudden and dramatic. Although much of Sogdia's
soil is rich loess, without irrigation it is only capable of supporting
an ephemeral desert vegetation in early spring. Further away from
the river valleys toward the east, the land becomes sandy desert
penetrated by only a few caravan trails, while toward the west, it
is dominated by the sterile foothills of the Pamirs. All travelers are
struck by the contrast between the yellow steppe surrounding the
lush, green oases along the river valleys. All settled human life in
Sogdia is dependent on these rivers, and they were vitally important
to the Macedonians for provisioning and communications routes.
many other examples. This is not to say that there is not much valuable information
on travel, routes, and ethnography, but his identifications, made as they were before
the inception of scientific excavations and surveys, cannot now be accepted. T h e
book is out of date.
3. Lewis, op. cit., 471; O. Olufsen, The Emir of Bukhara and his Country (Copenhagen, 1911) 170, 486.
4. Olufsen, op. cit., 141; Frumkin, op. cit., 78; Tain, Bactria and India, 104.
5. Frumkin, op. cit., 78.

Uzbekistan to Southern Iran / 101

In the early summer of 329, Alexander left Bactra for the Oxus
with detachments of light-armed troops." Since the Sogdians had
not surrendered to him, the main army and the heavy baggage were
left at Bactra near the navigable Oxus where supplies were plentiful. Although the army only traveled 46 miles from Bactra to the
Oxus opposite the Sogdian stronghold of Termez, the army suffered frightfully from the heat and aridity. 7 Once again, one may
be tempted to dismiss Curtius' account of this march as overly
melodramatic, if it were not for the fact that modern travelers have
experienced precisely the same difficulties traveling here in summer:
The sand burned through one's boots and a breath of wind from the
burning hot drift-sand hills struck the face like flames from a fire. Gun
barrels and all metallic objects were heated to such a degree that they
could not be touched and even the water of the Amu-Darya was heated
in July and August to 28° C [86° F]. . . . The fine dust particles are
everywhere, and in connection with the heat and the drought it occasions a terrible thirst which is not easily satisfied.8
Because of the intense heat and extremely low humidity of the region, human life becomes almost dormant in summer, and the high
evaporation causes the skin to chap and develop sores so that ex6. c. 7. 5. i.
7.Tcrmcz: W. W. Tarn, "Two Notes on Seleucid History: Tarmita," JHS 60
(1940) 89-94; W. Barthold, Turkestan Down to the Mongol Invasion (London, 1968)
76; A. Foucher, "Notes sur l'itinéraire de Hiun-Tsang en Afghanistan," Etudes
asiatiques publiées à l'occasion du a;e anniversaire de l'Ecole française d'Extrême
Orient, Vol. 1 (Paris, 1985) 278: L. I. Albaum and B. Brentijes, Wächter des Goldes,
zur Geschichte und Kultur mittelasiatischer Völker vor dem Islam (Berlin, 197*)
81; Aleksander Belenitsky, Central Asia (Cleveland, 1968) 74; Frumkin, op. cit.,
110-111; Boris J. Staviskij, "The Capitals of Ancient Bactria," EW 23 (1973) 265.
Tarn originally identified the town as Alexandria on the Oxus, which was later
refounded by Demetrius I as Demetria. This view was rejected by Narain, op. cit.,
41, but is accepted by Soviet archaeologists in the light of recent excavations. Von
Schwarz identified Alexander's crossing as Kilif, but no evidence supports the view
that it was occupied in Alexander's era. The distance between Bactra and the Oxus
across from Termez is about 46 miles, which is the distance in C. 7. 5. 1-13 between
Bactra and the Oxus traveled by the army. It is about 80 miles between Bactra and
Kilif. Termez was in ancient times the major ford across the Oxus, since there is a
large island in the middle of the river here. It was directly opposite Bactra on the
river and was a strategic town as long as Bactra retained its importance. For the suffering of the army on the journey to the river: C. 7. 5. 1-13.
8. Oluben, op. cit., 158,160.

108 / Uzbekistan to Southern

Iran

posed areas must be smeared with oil. Blindness b y reflected sunlight is frequently a problem and the 120-130-degree heat is so
unbearable that it is literally impossible for even the natives to be
out of doors after 7:00 A.M.9 Hence, all travel in summer must
be conducted at n i g h t wherever possible, when temperatures are
cooler.
A f t e r Alexander's light force crossed the O x u s on floats m a d e
from tent skins, w h i c h took them five days, 10 messengers arrived
from Spitamenes and Dataphernes informing A l e x a n d e r that Bessus was under arrest 1 1 at Nautaca, a town probably located on the
Kashka River. 1 2 A l e x a n d e r then sent Ptolemy with a few light detachments to capture Bessus, and they advanced about 170 miles
u p the Shirabad R i v e r valley through the Iron G a t e at D e r b e n t to
the town, covering the distance in only four days. 13 A t Nautaca, the
Macedonians replaced their horses for those of the country, since
a great many had been worn out by the forced march from the
H i n d u Kush to the O x u s and hence to the town. 1 4 If the same distinction between breeds existed in antiquity as today, these T u r k men horses—the blood-sweating Heavenly Horses of ancient C h i nese sources—had somewhat less speed than European or A r a b i a n
breeds b u t more strength and endurance—important considerations
for the campaigns A l e x a n d e r was about to conduct. 1 5 Alexander's
g. Ibid., 258.
10. C. 7. 5. 18; A. j. 89. 4.
11. A. 3. gg. 6.
12. Bessus is located at Nautaca, A. 3. s8. g, which is between the Oxus and the
Zeravshan, A. 3. sg. 4-30. 6, and about 150-170 miles—about a 10-day march (A.
3. sg. 7)—from the right bank of the Oxus. This indicates a site on the Kashka
Darya which was intensively settled in Alexander's era (Lewis, op. cit., 47gf.), but
there is no indication which site was Nautaca. Cf. von Schwarz, op. cit., 74, who
placed Nautaca at Karshi (the ancient Nakhshab) on the Kashka.
13. This was always the major route between Termez and the Kashka because of
its water and agricultural resources, Barthold, op. cit., ij8-i$g. Von Schwarz believed that the Macedonians traveled directly from Kilif to Karshi on the Kashka
Darya over the steppe. Even if the army crossed at Kilif, which is doubtful, there is
no justification whatsoever for such a route. The route travels 136 miles over unbroken steppe and desert, and the detailed map for the route given for RGS Suppl.
Papers 1 (1886) 203-263 lists only five small wells along Its length. Well water in this
region often becomes too brackish to drink in the summer (Olufsen, op cit., 260).
Given the huge water requirements of an army and its horses (see Appendix 1) and
the difficulties of distributing water from single wells (see above, p. 57), it would have
been impossible for an army to have used this route, especially in summer.
14. A. 3. 30. 6.
15. Naval Intelligence Division, Persia, 449.

Uzbekistan to Southern Iran / 103

next objective was Maracanda (Afrasiab?),18 a populous oasis on
the Polytimetus River, and from here the army advanced to the
Jaxartes (Syr Darya) via the Gates of Tamerlane, Jizak, and Uratube. 17 It was near this river, not the Kashka Darya near Karshi,
that Macedonian foraging teams, while scattered in the fields, were
attacked by the inhabitants of a mountain stronghold in the vicinity.18 Near the Jaxartes, Alexander founded another city, Alexandria
Eschate (Corsu Gozien?)19 as a bastion against nomad incursions
from across the river. T h e circumference of its walls, 5.5 miles,
was taken from the area occupied by the Macedonian camp—a reminder of the huge area needed by an encamped army.
While laying out plans for his new city, the king learned of the
general revolt of Sogdia behind him, and he immediately advanced
to subdue the rebels. He first captured seven cities in the vicinity
that had revolted, the largest of which, Cyropolis (Kurkath),20 was
founded by Cyrus the Great. It is significant in considering the
survival of traditions in this area that this same region is still called
Jety-asar, or "the Seven Fortresses" in modern Kazak, even though
the region is littered with forts, over 400 by one count. Next, Alexander sent a force of 2,000 foot soldiers and 300 cavalry under
Andromachus to Maracanda, where the Macedonian garrison was
being besieged by Spitamenes, while he himself conducted a brilliant operation against the Scythians across the Jaxartes. Here the
army saw heaps of stones set up to commemorate the burial places
16. Afrasiab is t h e old Samarcand, a b o u t o n e mile n o r t h of t h e n e w city. Local
t r a d i t i o n s state t h a t it was f o u n d e d by A l e x a n d e r (Barthold, o p . cit., 84). A l t h o u g h
A c h a e m e n i d p o t t e r y h a d b e e n f o u n d a t t h e site ( M D A F A 15 [1957] 93; EW 16
[1966] 30), it h a s n o t yielded a n y r e m a i n s f r o m t h e Hellenistic era. P e r h a p s it was
destroyed in a revolt shortly a f t e r it was occupied by its garrison. T h e region a r o u n d
S a m a r c a n d was densely p o p u l a t e d in Alexander's era.
17. Von Schwarz, op. cit., 45-46, t h e o n l y feasible r o u t e between t h e Zeravshan
Valley a n d t h e Syr Darya.
18. B o t h Curtius, 7. 5. 36-7. 6. 6, a n d Arrian, 3. 30. 6-11, place this i n c i d e n t n e a r
t h e Jaxartes, n o t between t h e O x u s a n d Samarcand. C u r t i u s (7. 6. 10) h a s mistakenly
p l a c e d M a r a c a n d a o n t h e J a x a r t e s (or T a n a i s , as h e calls it), o n e of t h e few geographical errors C u r t i u s m a k e s in Book 7.
19. B. A. Litvinskij a n d N . O. T u r s u n o v , " T h e L e n i n g r a d K r a t e r a n d t h e L o u v r e
Sosibios Vase (Neo-Attic A r t a n d C e n t r a l Asia)," EW 24 (1974) 89. T h e site is 4 k m .
s o u t h of L e n i n a b a d . A f t e r 15 years of excavation, t h e d i r e c t o r of t h e K h o d z e n t
( L e n i n a b a d ) excavations h a s concluded t h a t the site of A l e x a n d r i a Eschate does n o t
lie h e r e . For t h e circumference of t h e walls: J. 11. 5; C. 7. 6. 15.
so. E. Beneviste, " L a ville d e Cyreschata," Journal Asiatique 134 (1943-45) l 6 3 "
166. T h e site h a s n o t b e e n excavated.

104 / Uzbekistan to Southern Iran

of Scythian chieftains—kurgans—which the men believed were
boundary markers set up by Dionysos himself.21
When Alexander returned, he learned of the destruction of Andromachus' force—the most severe loss ever experienced by the
Macedonians in battle—and taking only one-half the Companion
cavalry, the archers, Agrianians, and the lightest armed of the
phalanx, he advanced to Maracanda, covering the 1,500-stadia distance in three or four days.22 T h e distance, 1,500 stadia or 172 miles,
closely approximates the distance between Corsu Gozien and Afrasiab by the main trunk road, some 177 miles. T h e king, however,
was not able to capture Spitamenes, who disappeared into the
desert with his allies, perhaps to Margiana or the Amu Valley. Apparently, Alexander was not able to get intelligence concerning
the desert routes through the sand dunes followed by the rebels—
probably they were known only to the Scythians themselves—and
without this intelligence no pursuit was possible. It is a testimony
to the productivity of Sogdiana in the fourth century B.C. that at
no time in the entire campaign did a supply shortage occur.23
In the spring of 328, when the wheat and barley in the irrigated
fields began to ripen and the ice floes on the Oxus began breaking
up—making it passable once more by boats—Alexander crossed the
river once again with his forces from Bactra. He divided the army
into five units to subdue the various mountain strongholds in the
region still holding out—a difficult task, since there is scarcely a
hill in eastern Sogdia without a fortress perched menacingly atop.24
From Maracanda, Alexander advanced with his unit to those parts
of Sogdia that had not yet submitted, and won them over. Alexander's expedition into Margiana was also included in this campaign.28 After crossing the Kashka and the Amu, the king proceeded
a i . C. 7. 9. 15; Frumkin, op. cit., 30, 31, 47.
as. A. 4. 6. 4; C. 7. 9. a i .
as- Except for Andromachus' cavalry division (A. 4. 5. 5), which was due, however, to a forced march, giving the horses no time to graze or be fed.
84. Sir Aurel Stein, Innermost Asia, Vol. a (London, 1928) 867f.
a j . C. 7. 10. 15; cf. A. 4. 16. 3. Both authors are discussing the king's activities
in the spring of 388 after Alexander had crossed the Oxus into Sogdiana, and the
army saw the oil portent near the king's tent (C. 7. 10. 14; A . 4. 15. 7). Curtius' geographical sequence of Macedonian operations in Sogdiana, the sequence of marches,
battles, and the locations of halts, is identical to that of Arrian, except for the misplacing of Maracanda (C. 7. 6. 10., although the manuscripts read Marupenta here
and not Maracanda), and the placing of the capture of the Rocks oC Sogdiana (C. 7.

Uzbekistan to Southern Iran / 105

to Margiana via Balkh, Maimana, and Bala Mourghab. 2 * In the
oasis of Merv at Giaur Kala, Alexander founded another city, which
had a long and rich history until its sack and destruction by Genghis
Khan. Naturally, Alexander himself went to Margiana, not one of
his subordinates. T h e king personally inspected each site of the
cities he founded, including this one.27
Curtius' account of the Margiana expedition provides information on the mysterious and elusive Ochus River. From Maracanda,
Alexander proceeded south and crossed the Ochus and Oxus rivers,
in that order, and advanced to the oasis.28 T a r n identified this river
with the lower Arius or Tejend. However, this contradicts Arrian,
who specifically states that the Arius, that is the lower Arius, disappears into the sand.29 Besides, one cannot cross the Arius before
crossing the Oxus to enter Margiana. Only the Kashka Darya can
fulfill the topographical information provided by Curtius.
Spitamenes' mobility was becoming increasingly restricted by
the establishment of garrisons and the mobile Macedonian cavalry
detachments stationed around the country. One of these local cavalry detachments would be within close striking range wherever
Spitamenes made an attack from the desert. In this way, responses
to Spitamenes' attacks could be made more quickly than if the entire Macedonian force was concentrated in one location, since the
time and distances required for a counterattack were reduced. Like
the Turkomen raiders of later eras, Spitamenes' forces were never
large since their bases in small desert oases could not support large
numbers of men and animals. Instead, they relied on speed, mobility, surprise, and their knowledge of desert routes, with their
wells and patches of vegetation at distant intervals, for their effectiveness. Alexander's own cavalry forces did not have sufficient
11. 1-29), and Chorienes (C. 8. 2. 19-3$) somewhat earlier than Arrian. Arrian remains the basis for Alexander's chronology, but Curtius provides an invaluable supplement.
26. For the route see above, p. 89.
«7. See above, p. 33. When C. 7. 10. 15 and Pliny NH 6. 47 specifically state that
Alexander was in Margiana and founded Alexandria Margiana, just as Alexander
personally founded all his Alexandria], I fail to see how it is possible to maintain that
Alexander was never in Margiana and did not found the city of Alexandria Margiana,
as does Schachermeyr, op. cit., 349, n. 416.
28. C. 7. 10. 15. Str. 11. 11. 5 is of no help in identifying the river.
29. Tarn, Alexander, Vol. 2, 8, n. 1; 510, n. 4; Tarn, Bactria and India, 113. A. 4.
6. 6.

io6 / Uzbekistan to Southern Iran

numbers for his strategy to be effective, and he recruited powerful
units of Sogdian, Bactrian, and Dahaean cavalry, which remained
with the army throughout the rest of the expedition.80 T h e Macedonians also required a communications network of fast messengers
to relay word of a nomad attack to the regional cavalry commanders.
Hence, Spitamenes attacked a Bactrian outpost in western Bactria with some Massagetaean allies, killing its garrison, and advanced to Bactra. Here they were counterattacked by the garrison
and later pursued by Craterus' force, which was operating in the
vicinity.81 Later, Spitamenes and his force crossed the Oxus and
made a foray near the Bokhara Oasis. They were repulsed, however, by the nearby troops of Coenus and Amyntas who destroyed
many of the invaders, and when the Massagetaeans learned that
Alexander himself was approaching from the Kashka Darya, they
slew Spitamenes.38 He had been one of Alexander's most formidable
opponents, not only because of his successful hit-and-run tactics but
because he was able to maintain the loyalty of much of the Bactrian
and Sogdian population against the Macedonian invader.
For the winter of 328-327, the army was divided between Bactra,
Maracanda, and the region around Nautaca.88 In the beginning of
spring, the king advanced east from Nautaca to capture the Sogdian
Rock, perhaps near Derbent,84 and the mountain fortress of Chorienes near the Wakhsh River in Pareitacene, a wild, inaccessible
mountainous region.88 Winters here are severe, and all year long
snow lies on the mountains, many of which approach 20,000 feet.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the army suffered from spring
go. A. 4. 17. 3. These large units are still operating with the Macedonians in India
(A. 5. 12. s), although their strengths are never recorded.
31. A. 4. 16. 6; A. 4. 17. l-a.
j s . A. 4. 17. 4-7; C. 8.
16.
33. C. 8. s. 13; A. 4. 17. 3; A. 4. 18. s.
34. T h e location suggested by von Schwarz, op. cit., 75, does not seem to me to
resemble the description of the rock in A. 4. 18. 4-19. 4; C. 7. 11. 1-19, although it
may have been near Derbent.
35. Von Schwarz, op. cit., 83, identified the second rock with Puli-Sangin on the
Wakhsh. It was located near Hissar by J. G. Droysen, Histoire de VHeXUnisme,
Vol. 1, trans, by A. BoucM-Leclercq (Paris, 1883) 477. T h e French edition of 188384 represents Droysen's final revision. For the nature of the country: Olufsen, op.
cit., 8; W. Rickmer Rickmers, "The Fan Mountains in the Duab of Turkestan," Geo.
Journ. 30 (»907) 357-371, 488f. T h e Wakhsh River, the largest tributary of the Amu,
still retains the ancient name of the Oxus.

Uzbekistan to Southern Iran / 107

storms. Hephaistion had been ordered to Bactra to collect supplies
for the army,36 perhaps lor its return across the Hindu Kush. Since
the army recrossed the mountains in late spring87 and harvests do
not occur in the mountain valleys until July or August, the army
could not forage for its grain supplies along the route—hence
Hephaistion's order. After crossing the Hindu Kush by the Salang
Pass, which took 10 days, Alexander arrived at the city of Alexandria, which he had founded before crossing the mountains in gag.38
Alexander now proceeded east down the Kabul (Cophen) River
where he received the submission of several Indian tribes on the
west side of the Indus and also the surrender of Taxiles, whose
capital was some 25 miles east of the river.39 In India, Alexander
encountered some of the most formidable difficulties of his expedition, but the provisioning of his army was not among them. Fierce,
independent tribesmen, rampaging elephants, excessive heat and
rainfall, and his troop's mutiny at the Beas presented severe and
ultimately insurmountable obstacles. Yet, because of the fertility
and extent of the cultivable land in the Swat Valley, the Peshwar
and Rawalpindi plains, and the submontane strip between the
Jhelum and Beas Rivers, as well as the numerous large, navigable
rivers, no supply difficulties were encountered in India.40 T h e
geographical problems concerning Alexander's route in India have
been admirably treated by others, and no purpose would be served
36. c. 8. s. 13.
37. Arrian 4. 18. 4 and 4. ss. 3 takes great pains to tell the reader that the operations against these fortresses occurred from early spring (e.g., late March or early
April) to late spring (e.g., in June). It snows in this region all the time in spring,
even as late as July (see geographical sources in n. 35), and because the army suffered
in a snowstorm (A. 4. s i . 10) does not mean that these operations occurred in winter,
as in Tarn, Alexander, Vol. 1, 7s, n. 1.
38. Harvests: Thesiger, op. cit., 31S-319. The Macedonians took a different and
shorter route across the Hindu Kush than they had taken in 3x9 (Str. 15. 1. s6). Since
the Shibar Pass is longer than the Khawak, this means that Alexander crossed by
the Salang or Kaoshan, and, in all probability, the former, see above Chapter 4,
n. 10s.
39. A. 4. ss. 6.
40. O. H. Spate and A. T . A. Learmonth, India and Pakistan (London, 1967)
580-538. Despite a population of S5,000,000, the two provinces of Punjab and Sind
today produce a surplus of ss,ooo tons of rice and 80,000 tons of wheat. Government
of Pakistan, Pakistan (Karachi, 1953) SS5. T h e region was fertile and productive in
antiquity: Str. 15. 1. s6; 15. 1. s8; 15. 1. ag; D. 89.6. For Alexander's route: Str. 15. 1.
26; 15. 1. 3s.

xo8 / Uzbekistan to Southern Iran

by repeating their conclusions here.41 A brief outline will be
sufficient.
In general, the climate and geography of the Indus watershed
are similar to Mesopotamia's. Along the northern submontane region there is abundant rainfall in the winter and in the summer
monsoon season so that dry farming can be conducted. Further
south, however, below Peshwar, Lahore, and the Siwalik Hills,
rainfall diminishes, and one enters the Great Thar Desert. Agriculture and human settlement in the southern region occurs only in
the Indus Valley and its tributaries where irrigation is possible.
Desert flanks the east side of the valley below the Salt Range and
sterile mountain ranges to the west.44
After dismissing the Indian envoys who met him on the Kabul
River, Alexander divided his army into two units. Hephaistion and
Perdiccas were to proceed directly down the Kabul River through
the territory of Peucelaotis to the Indus and subdue or receive the
submission of the tribes along the way.48 A t the Indus they were to
construct a bridge for the army to cross. Alexander himself took
the rest of the army along the Kabul River to the Kunar (Choaspes),
and crossing the Nawa Pass, he subdued the Aspasians, Assacenians,
and Guraeans who had not submitted.44 W e have already noted
that the king would never commit his entire force for a march
through a region that had not surrendered to him in advance.45
After capturing the mountain citadel of Aomos and receiving the
surrender of Peucelaotis, the Macedonians advanced to the Indus.
Because of the short distances between the navigable Indus, Jhelum
(Hydaspes), Chenab (Acesines), Ravi (Hydraotes), and Beas (Hyphasis) rivers and the fertility and extent of the cultivated land,
41. T h e basla for the reconstruction of Alexander's operations In Punjab, like
the basis for almost all meaningful archaeological research in India, Pakistan, and
Southern Iran, was made by Sir Aurel Stein. His On Alexander's Track to the Indus
(London, 19*9) is still the fundamental work. His journey from T a x i l a to the battlefield of the Jhelum is given in his Archaeological Reconnaissances in North Western
India and South Eastern Iran (London, 1937). See also Olaf Caroe, The Pathans,
;;o B.C.-/957 A.D. (New York, 1958). T h e Macedonians' operation against the Mallians is analyzed in an excellent article by Muhammad Rafique Mughal, "Excavations
at Tulamba, West Pakistan," Pakistan Archaeology 4 (1967) 18-si, which supersedes
all previous discussions, based as it is on the most recent geographical and archaeological research.
4t. Spate, op. cit., 49&-616.
44. A . 4. 30.9; A. 4. 23.1.

43. A. 4. sx. 7.
45. See above, p. 7*.

Uzbekistan to Southern Iran / 109

supplies were now brought to the army from subdued territory
through which they had already marched. Supplies were collected
by Craterus and Coenus 48 and brought by boat to where the army
was about to ford a river. T h e provisions would then be used for
the next advance into hostile territory beyond the river and the
process repeated. Because of the limitations of overland transport
in antiquity, this method of provisioning could only be used where
the army was close to a seaport or navigable river.*7
A t the Beas the troops, wearied of constant marching through
the hot, rainy Indian monsoon weather and fearful of the reports
concerning Indian forces and elephants beyond the river, refused
to march further. T h e Indo-Gangetic divide through which the
army would have marched, had they gone on, was similar to the land
through which they had already come: fertile, extensively cultivated, with abundant rainfall, and thickly settled.48 In addition,
there were many large, navigable rivers; the Sutlej, some 63 miles
from the Beas, the Ghaggar, 40 miles further, the Sarasvati, another
85 miles, the Jumna, 30 miles, and the upper Ganges, about 50
miles from the Jumna. N o logistic difficulties would have been
encountered in the region ahead, had the army chosen to march
further.
Alexander was now confronted with the decision of how to return to the center of his empire with his vast host, by this time approaching lso.ooo combatants. 49 Doubtless many factors contributed to his decision to sail down the Jhelum and Chenab to the
Indus and hence to the ocean,80 but two in particular may be noted
here. One of his considerations was certainly the ease of supplying
his huge army by the navigable rivers, since the Macedonian flotilla
of 8,000 vessels included a great number of transports and grain
ships.81 A second factor would have been the establishment of a
defensible eastern boundary for his empire, if only temporarily
until he could return. As we have noted, deserts, when remote from
river or sea transport facilities, present the most formidable ob46. A. 5. s i . 1; A. 5. s i . 4.
47. For the limitations of land transport in antiquity, see Chapter 1.
48. Spate, op. cit., 534; B. B. Lai, Ancient India 10-11 (1954-55) S - ^ 1 49. See table 6.
50. E.g., Ernst Badian, "Alexander the Great and the Loneliness of Power," In
Ernst Badian, Studies in Greek and Soman History (Oxford, 1964) 198-105.
51. A . 6. a. 4; A I T . Ind. 19. 7.

i io / Uzbekistan to Southern Iran

stacles for the movement of an army.52 By turning south and proceeding down the Indus Valley, the empire's eastern border would
have marched with the Great Thar Desert, the most effective barrier for any army approaching from the east.
Retreating from the Beas, the Macedonians returned to the
Jhelum and sailed down to the Chenab, through the Mallians' territory and hence down the Indus to the sea.83 Since no logistic problems were encountered by the army in the Indus Valley, no time
will be spent on their journey there.
Alexander's most formidable opponent was the Gedrosian Desert, which came closer to destroying him and his army than any
enemy he ever encountered. It is important in analyzing this enigmatic campaign to distinguish Alexander's plans to cross the desert
from the sequence of events that actually occurred. T h e problem
with historical accounts of this campaign is that they simply record
the events without attempting to understand their cause. However,
a simple, coherent hypothesis can be formulated, based on the
general principles used throughout this study, that offers an explanation for the astonishing sequence of events about to occur.
Alexander did not uncharacteristically blunder his way into the
desert without sufficient preparations and then muddle through;
every last detail of the expedition was planned in advance. It was
through the forces of nature, and not through a lack of knowledge
concerning the difficulties of the march, that the expedition ended
so catastrophically.
A thorough understanding of the Gedrosian campaign is important in evaluating Alexander's achievement as a general. T h e primary motivations for undertaking the campaign were probably
twofold. First, Alexander wished to secure the southern boundary
of his empire with the Indian Ocean, and, ironically, by having
the army march along the Makran coast, its provisioning problems
would be reduced by using sea transport. Yet, another reason for
the expedition was probably Alexander's interest in the sea trade
5«. See above, p. s i .
55. T h e recent study by Mughal, op. cit., 19-21, makes it dear that the city of
Multan was nowhere near the Macedonian operations against the Mallians, as Alexander Cunningham, The Ancient Geography of India (London, 1871) so8-sio thought.
Cunningham's book, like von Schwarz's, is out of date.

Uzbekistan to Southern Iran / 111

route with India. Like the Harappan seaports along the Makran
and Persian Gulf connecting India and Mesopotamia a millennium
earlier, Alexander planned to establish colonies along this coast
and the offshore islands.54 Rhambacia may be regarded as the first
o£ these foundations, and the king believed that the coast could
become as rich as Phoenicia. Communications with his Indian
possessions would also be easier by sea than by the long, arduous
land route.55
Preparations for the expedition had begun near Sindimana (perhaps to be identified with Sehwan), where the army was divided.
Craterus took the battalions of Attalus, Meleager, and Antigenes,
some archers, those Companions and Macedonians past service,
and the aoo elephants (each required 500 pounds of grain and 60
gallons of water per day) to Zarangaea via Arachosia, while the king
himself took the rest of the army down the Indus to the sea.88 Thus,
Alexander seems to have had not more than 87,000 infantry, 18,000
cavalry, and perhaps 52,000 noncombatants when he began the expedition into Gedrosia.57 A t Pattala (Bahmanabad), a fleet consisting of the largest and most seaworthy ships in the flotilla was
fitted out for the sea voyage along the Makran coast.58 Among the
ships undertaking the sea voyage were 34 triremes, some 80 triconters, and approximately 400 merchant vessels of average size.59 T h e
average complement of a trireme was 200, including rowers and
54. A. 7. ig. 5.
55. Nearchus (Str. 15. i. 5; A. 6. 24. 2; Arr. Ind. 20. 1) attributed nonrational
motivations for Alexander's expedition into the Gedrosia: pothos and an emulation
of Cyrus and Semiramis who also allegedly made the journey. This, however, is not
correct (see p. 112), and it appears that it is no longer possible to accept the veracity
of Nearchus' account of this expedition (see below, n. 83, and p. 14 if.).
56. A. 6. 17. 857. We estimate that Alexander had approximately 102,000 infantry and 18,000
cavalry before dividing his army at Sindimana (see table 6), and this means that the
army he took into Gedrosia will have been this number minus the three phalanx
battalions, some archers, and the retirees. Each phalanx battalion contained approximately 1,500 men (Marsden, op. cit., 65), and there seems to have been no more than
500 or so archers in all (Marsden, 66). There were about 10,000 retirees for whom
Craterus was responsible (A. 7. 12. 1-3). For the approximate number of followers,
see above, p. 13.
58. For the identification of Pattala: Herbert Wilhelmy, "Indusdelta und Rann
of Kutch," Erdkunde 22 (1968) 183-184. T h e older spelling of Bahmanabad is Brahmanabad. Fleet: C. 9. 10. 3.
59. Triremes: AIT. Ind. 18. 3-10; triconters: A. 6. ». 4; Air. Ind. 31. 4; merchant
vessels: see n. 63.

118 / Uzbekistan to Southern Iran

marines,60 and thus the triremes will have had a crew of 6,800 altogether. T h e triconters will have had a crew of about 33 to 34 men
apiece, and the cargo vessels needed no more than seven to eight
sailors to work the sails and steer.81 Troops were also carried on
the ships, although there is no indication of how many. 82 One can
see that there were at least 12,500 men in the fleet excluding the
troops aboard the vessels, and an estimate of 7,000 to 8,000 for these
will not be unreasonable, although their exact number is unimportant for our analysis.
A t Pattala, Alexander collected four months' provisions for his
army,83 which would weigh in the vicinity of 52,600 tons. It was
apparently the land army's responsibility to provide water for the
expedition in certain sections of the route by digging wells on the
coast. T h e rest of the army's water would be supplied from the
Hab, Windar, Porali, Hingol, Maniji, Basol, Shadi Khor, and
Dasht rivers which flow into the Makran coast. A l l these intermittent rivers would be full during the July monsoons, which is why
Alexander planned to leave Pattala in mid-July, when the monsoons begin. 94 Hence, little water would need to be carried by the
army. Since it was impossible to carry 52,600 tons of supplies overland for more than nine days because the pack animals and personnel would have consumed all the supplies they could carry by
this time, 65 almost all the provisions were stowed aboard the fleet.
For this was to be a combined land and naval operation with the
army providing the fleet with water86 and the fleet supplying the
land army with grain, as we saw along the Thracian, Palestinian,
and Egyptian coasts. It should be remembered that although the
60. John S. Morrison and R. T . Williams, Greek Oared Ships (London, 1968) 154;
Hdt, 7. 184. 1-2.
61. On the size of ship's crews, see Lionel Casson, Ships and Seamanship in the
Ancient World (Princeton, 1971) 314-321.
62. A. 6. 21. 3; Arr. Ind. 19. 7. Green, 558, n. 25 estimated 18,000 in the fleet.
63. A. 6. 20. 5. 152,000 personnel X 3 lb. grain X c. 120 da. = 27,360 tons. 18,000
cavalry horses X 20 lb. (both grain and fodder would be needed in this desert) X
c. lso da. = 21,600 tons; 3,040 baggage animals X 20 lb. X c. 120 da. = 3,648
tons. 27,360 -f 21,600 + 3,648 = 52,608 tons. T h e average merchant ship could
carry 140 tons, so 400 would be needed.
64. Rodman E. Snead, Physical Geography Reconnaissance: Las Beta Coastal
Plain, West Pakistan, Louisiana State University Coastal Studies Series, no. 13 (Baton
Rouge, 1966) 11-22; Str. 15. 2. 3.
65. See above, Chapter 1, n. 30.
66. A. 6. 24. 3.

Uzbekistan to Southern Iran / 113

fleet sailed through as desolate a stretch of ocean as the desert the
Macedonian army marched through, its provisions never ran o u t even though it was laid up for some three months before sailing in
hostile territory from which it would be difficult if not impossible
to procure supplies, and although the voyage itself took about 75
days.87
Once the supplies were marshaled and stowed aboard the fleet,
it was ordered to sail alongside the army which would be marching
along the coast.6* T h e coastal route Alexander planned to follow
was probably the caravan route taken by Sir Aurel Stein from
Karachi to Ormara and followed by the Indo-European telegraph
line.89
Remembering Alexander's logistic planning, we can now reconstruct this fateful expedition. In the beginning of his march, Alexander probably took nine days' supplies from Pattala and supplemented this from the territory of the Arabitae, who dwelt along
the coastal plain to the Hab River, 187 miles from Pattala. Near
the Hab, a detachment was ordered to dig wells along the coast for
the fleet. After crossing the river, Alexander divided his army into
three units to devastate the territory of the Oreitans, who had not
surrendered to him.70 T h e fleet had been delayed—temporarily,
Alexander thought—because of the adverse winds, but supplies had
been adequate for the army so far. Next, the Macedonians advanced
to Rhambacia (Bela),71 which Alexander wished to colonize because
of its impressive position in the center of the most fertile and extensive cultivable land in the region.
Meanwhile, the Oreitans, having collected their forces, took a
position blocking the Kumbh Pass, which formed the boundary
67. Str. 15. s. 5. See A p p e n d i x 3 for the chronology of the campaign. T h i s reconstruction is accepted by Green, 430!
68. A. 6. 24. 3; Str. 15. 2. 4.
69. Rodman E. Snead, Physical Geography Reconnaissance: West Pakistan Coastal
Zone, University of New Mexico Publications in Geography, 1 (Albuquerque, 1969)
4-5. Sir Aurel Stein, " O n Alexander's Route into Gedrosia: An Archaeological T o u r
in Las Bela," Geo. Journ. 10a (1943) 193-887. Stein's is the most intelligent article
ever written on Alexander's Gedrosian campaign; it is by a professional geographer
who knew the Makran, from personal experience, like the back of his hand. If the
telegraph line crossed Ras Malan, so could Alexander with the help of his road
builders (A. 1. 26. 1) and perhaps with an assist from the fleet.
70. D. 104. 5-6; A . 6. s i . 3-5; C. 9. 10. 7.
71. For the correct identification of this site, see below A p p e n d i x 4, n. 81.

114 / Uzbekistan to Southern Iran

of the Oreitan and Gedrosian territories, leading from the Porali
Valley to the Jhau tract.7* When Alexander approached, however,
they fled; but later their chiefs surrendered and were given terms.
Alexander, becoming concerned about the fleet, wished to march
along the shore, but the fleet never came. For, as it turned out, the
very southwest monsoon that provided the army with water prevented the sailing of the fleet until October. 73 T h e southwest monsoon had just begun about the time Alexander began his march in
mid-July,74 and neither he nor Nearchus knew that the adverse
winds would last until late October.
This was one of the greatest crises of his life; all Alexander's
elaborate preparations were shattered, and he knew that whatever
decision he made would cost the lives of three-quarters of his forces.
It is a tribute to his spirit of determination that Alexander kept
his head and escaped the desert with so much of his army. What
were his options at this critical moment? There were three. First,
he could remain where he was and wait for the fleet to arrive. However, it was not possible for his entire army to remain stationary in
an area that had been devastated, and that, in any case, had only
sufficient agricultural resources to support a few scattered towns.75
Alexander had no idea what had happened to the fleet; it might
have been destroyed by the hostile Indians at Pattala, in which
case it would never come. It was just as well he did not wait, for it
was now early August, and the fleet did not sail until late October. 78
Second, he could have marched back to Pattala. But it was «90 miles
from Bela to Bahmanabad over territory that had been thoroughly
devastated by the army.77 Few, if any, supplies would remain in
territory that was mainly desert and that had suffered the passage
of an army containing 87,000 infantry, 18,000 cavalry, and as many
as 52,000 followers. A march of 150 miles through the fearsome
Kolwa depression was sufficient to cause the destruction of threequarters of the entire land army: a 290-mile march to Pattala would
72. A. 6. i s . 1; Stein, "Las Bela," «17.
73. Str. 15.
5; A. 6. s i . j. See Appendix 3.
74. Jen-Hu Chang, "The Indian Summer Monsoon," Geo. Rev. 57 (1967) 394.
75. See above, p. 6i.
76. See Appendix 3 for the chronology. T h e king had probably learned by this
time, whether through communications with the fleet or through local sources of
information, that the adverse winds would continue until October.
77. C. 9. 10. 7; D. 104. 4-5; cf. above, pp. 37-38.

Uzbekistan to Southern Iran / 115

have been fatal to the entire force. As Curtius put it, "they could
neither remain where they were nor advance without danger of
death; if they remained, famine, if they went on, a deadlier enemy,
pestilence, afflicted them." 78 Given the circumstances, Alexander
pursued the third and most feasible course: he left a detachment
of the army behind in the Porali Valley and took the main army
eastward to Pura through those inhabited regions of Gedrosia
where supplies were most plentiful. 79
After leaving Leonnatus in the Oreitans' territory with a small
force, the king sent Thoas to reconnoiter the coast and report on
conditions there.80 He returned and told the king that the coast
was desert, inhabited by only a few fishermen in huts made of fish
bones (the same dwellings one saw here until recently). Learning
this, Alexander took the army inland through the Kumbh Pass,
which separated the Oreitans from the Gedrosians, and into the
Jhau tract, where there is some cultivable land supporting a modest
population: the "certain place where provisions were plentiful." 81
Up till now, supplies may have been barely adequate to support
the army, but in the 150-mile distance from Jhau to Turbat, past
the Nundara River, Awaran, and down the Kolwa depression, they
would not find adequate supplies of grain, water, or fodder. This
combined with the heat, burning sand, and improper diet caused
the massive destruction of human life recorded by all our sources.
After losing the track in an ocean of drifting sand, the army at last
reached the vicinity of Turbat, the "halting place from where the
sea is nearest," 82 and the most extensively cultivated and populous
region of the Makran. Here the remnants of the army amassed supplies of grain, dates, and sheep for the journey to Pasni. From this
point on the coast, Alexander marched along the shore to the vicinity of Gwatar, a distance of some 136 miles which the army covered
in seven days,88 an indication of the speed of their forced march.
78. C. 9. 10. 13. T h e pestilence is the disorders caused by unwholesome and unprepared food which took a heavy toll of life when combined with the other difficulties of the march.
79. For the rationale of Alexander's route through the Gedrosia, see A p p e n d i x 4.
80. A . 6. 23. s.
81. A. 6. gg. 4.
8s. A. 6. 13. 4.
83. A . 6. s6. 5. T h e r e are still two unanswered questions about this campaign.
First, why was not the seasonal nature of the monsoons, which wrecked Alexander's
planned synchronized coordination between the fleet and the army, known to

116 / Uzbekistan to Southern Iran

From this point, their supply problems would be minimal, if not
completely eliminated.
It is a tribute to Alexander's leadership and organizational skill
that one-quarter of his land army and his entire fleet did escape the
Nearchua or Alexander? It is pouible that Nearchus knew the monsoons would
delay his voyage but wished to kill Alexander by letting him starve in the desert.
It is improbable, however, that Nearchus had collected more detailed intelligence
concerning the climate than Alexander himself (see above, Chapter g, n. 97). Also,
the cooperation between the fleet and the army was not one-sided: it was apparently
the army's responsibility to provide wells and anchorages for the fleet, a (unction
they could not (and did not, as it turned out) fulfill if they had perished in the
desert. It would be of no value to Nearchus to have the Macedonian army perish
while he himself would have to sail along goo miles of hostile coast alone. Also,
it was possible that Alexander and a remnant of his army would escape the desert—
which is what happened. If the king had the slightest suspicion that Nearchus had
withheld intelligence from him concerning the monsoons, he would have no hesitation
in inflicting a terrible penalty when the fleet returned. In fact, however, Nearchus
was given the daughter of Barsine for a wife, which would make him the son-in-law
of Alexander's mistress (A. 7. 4. 6), was decorated for his voyage (A. 7. 5. 6), and was
later given a command in the fleet for Alexander's projected Arabian expedition
(A. 7.15. 4). T h e answer seems to be that Alexander did not receive adequate intelligence from the hostile Indians at Pattala. His guides for the expedition escaped, and
new ones could not be found (C. 9. 9. 1). He could not find a pilot to sail down the
Indus from the city, since all the Indians had fled at his approach (A. 6. 18. 4). Later,
the fleet was damaged by an incoming tide, yet none of the Indians had bothered to
tell Alexander of his error in anchoring in a tidal inlet. After the land army had left,
the Indians began behaving like free men and tried to drive the fleet out of the
harbor (Str. 15. a. 5). Hence, neither Alexander nor Nearchus could be blamed for
their ignorance of the monsoons, phenomena utterly unlike any meteorological event
in the Mediterranean.
The second question that arises is why, if the expedition was to be a coordinated
operation with the fleet supplying the army with grain, was not this fact noted by
our sources, who, on the other hand, provide copious information on the land army's
responsibility to supply the fleet with water? Indeed, we are treated to the astonishing spectacle of the land army, literally starving to death, providing magazines of
provisions for the fleet (A. 6. 13. 4-5). Arrian's sources for this campaign were
Nearchus and Ptolemy. Ptolemy, as we have noted (see above. Chapter 1, n. 137), is
almost completely uninterested in logistic problems, and it would be remarkable if
he made the Gedrosian campaign an exception. Nearchus was admiral of the fleet
(AIT. Ind. 18. 4) and would have no interest in recounting his failure in provisioning
Alexander's army. It appears that all was not well between Nearchus and Alexander
when they were reunited in Carmania. Although Nearchus has told the tale (Arr.
Ind. 36. 4), Alexander does not seem to have been pleased with his performance and
threatened to remove him as admiral of the fleet. Indeed, Nearchus' account of Alexander's motive for the expedition, his planned coordination of the fleet and the
army, and his own role in the operation, has been systematically and deliberately
distorted (see also below, p. 141). Nearchus' reliability and veracity have already
been dealt a mortal blow on other grounds by Ernst Badian, "Nearchus the Cretan,"
Yale Class. Stud. >4 (1975) 147-170.

Uzbekistan to Southern Iran / 117

desert despite hostile nature which destroyed his planning by holding up the fleet for three months. In a real sense, he had won a victory over the desert, not through planning and preparation as he
had hoped, but through leadership, endurance, and a determination to get his men through. He was not motivated by pothos, or
irrational impulsiveness, to cross the Gedrosia, but by a rational
calculation of the best method to return his army safely to Mesopotamia. His planning did not succeed because of a gap in advance
intelligence about the nature of the monsoon winds; it was not
because of a defect of his personality.
From a logistic standpoint, after the tour de force of the Gedrosia,
the rest of the campaign is an anticlimax. Yet, there still remain
logistic and geographical problems to discuss. T h e first is the route
from Gwatar to Pura, the district of the Gedrosian capital that the
army reached after a 60-day march from the Kumbh Pass.84 T h e
easiest route and the one best supplied with provisions passes up
the Chil River to the oasis of Qasrkand, from there to Champ, and
hence to Bampur.85
After resting the force some time at Pura, Alexander marched to
the Carmanian capital (Tepe Yahya?),89 probably following the
route past Kahnu. Here Alexander may have had his unhoped-for
meeting with Nearchus, who had anchored his fleet at Old Hormuz.
Well might the king rejoice at Nearchus' return, for he may have
had half of the remaining army aboard his fleet.87 From here, Alexander advanced to Pasargadae, taking with him some light infantry, the Companions, and part of the archers.88 One of the reasons
he took so few was probably the difficulty and barrenness of the
84. A. 6. 24. 1; P. 66. 3. Stein, "Las Bela," S22-223. T h e capital city of Pura (in
the Bampur River Basin) has not been located, but the region is dotted with unexcavated sites.
85. Stein, "Las Bela," 222.
86. The Carmanian capital, where Nearchus may have been reunited with Alexander, is perhaps located at Tepe Yahya, Iran 7 (1969) 185. However, the site of the
meeting may have been a coastal town (D. 106. 4) and Nearchus, once again, may
have distorted the evidence to embroider his account of his dramatic meeting with
Alexander by having the site inland, Badian, "Nearchus," i6of.
87. If Plutarch (66. 2; cf. A. 6. 25. 3) is correct, and there is no evidence that he
is not, Alexander lost three-quarters of the land army in the desert. Hence, he may
have had only 20,000 foot soldiers and 5,000 cavalry remaining with him at Carmania.
We estimated that there were about'20,000 with the fleet (pp. 155-156).
88. A. 6. 29. 1.

u 8 / Uzbekistan to Southern Iran

terrain between Sirjan and Niriz to Pasargadae and Persepolis, the
only feasible route.89 Nearchus was ordered to continue his voyage
from Harmozia to the mouth of the Tigris, while Hephaistion,
with the baggage train, elephants, and the rest of the army, was
ordered to march along the seacoast from Carmania to Persis since,
according to Nearchus, the shore was "sunny and well supplied
with necessities."80 This is indeed an astonishing statement. The
coast here, as Nearchus himself well knew,91 was "sandy and sterile,"
and in fact the Iranian shore of the Persian Gulf is as much a desert
as the Gedrosia, if not worse.92 Thus, if the shore was "well supplied
with necessities," it was only because they had been supplied by
Nearchus and the fleet.
89. Harrison, op. cit., 120.
90. A. 6. »8. 7.
91. Arr. Ind. 40. 2; 37-38. It would not be possible for the coast between Bandar
Abbas and Bushire to have been provisioned overland, since the sources of supply
in Sitacene and Carmania are too distant. Any pack animal traveling in such terrain
would need grain, fodder, and water, and would quickly devour the supplies it carried
by the fourth day (see above, p. 21). This is why it was impossible for the army to
have been supplied overland while marching through the desert, as related by D.
105. 7, and C. 9. 10. 17-18. For the probable interpretation of these passages, see
Ernst Badian, " T h e Eunuch Bagoas," CQ 52 (1958) 147-150. Nearchus' description
of the coast here certainly does not leave one with the impression that it was "well
supplied with all necessities."
92. "Persis," Encyclopaedia Britannica 17 (1943) 611; Harrison, op. cit., 122;
Naval Intelligence Division, Persia, 121-135; Schachermeyr, op. cit., pi. 24b.

6.
Conclusion

The major problem in attempting to understand the logistic system
of the Macedonian army is not only the almost complete lack of
interest by our sources in its functioning but also the fact that Alexander so capably directed its operation that logistics scarcely seems
to have affected any of his strategic decisions. Yet, a deeper analysis
shows this latter view to be false. Supply was indeed the basis of
Alexander's strategy; and when the climate, human and physical
geography, available methods of transport, and the agricultural
calendar of a given region are known, one can often determine what
Alexander's next move will be.
The Macedonians' logistic organization, developed by Philip,
was fundamentally different from that of contemporary Greek and
Persian armies. In Greek armies, the number of followers often
approached the number of combatants; and rations, arms, and
armor were carried by servants or baggage animals. Philip trained
his soldiers to carry their full panoply as well as provisions, and he
forbade carts and women to accompany the army. Much equipment was carried by a limited number of servants rather than by
carts or pack animals. The consequence of Philip's reforms, which
were continued as far as possible by Alexander, was a dramatic reduction in the size of the baggage train, and this had a momentous
effect. It made the Macedonian army the fastest, lightest, and most
mobile force in existence, capable of making lightning strikes "before anyone had time to fear the event." Alexander's astonishing

iso /

Conclusion

speed, which so terrified his opponents, was due in no small part
to Philip's reforms. Because many supplies were carried by the
troops and a restricted number of servants, the Macedonian army
would need far fewer pack animals than would other contemporary
forces, which would reduce the problems of acquiring sufficient
animals and feeding them among populations engaged in subsistence agriculture. In short, the logistic organization of Alexander's
army was brilliantly adapted for campaigning in Asia, where the
acquisition of pack animals and provisions would often be difficult
in barren terrain and where speed and mobility were important
tactical advantages.1
T h e two most significant obstacles to the supplying of the army
were the limited capabilities of overland transportation and the
subsistence level of most agricultural production in antiquity
(which in turn was caused in large part by a lack of efficient transport). Because of the limitations of transport, the army could not
remain self-sufficient for long distances when remote from navigable rivers or seaports. Hence, arrangements for the army's supply
were made in advance with local officials, who regularly surrendered to Alexander before he entered their territory. In regions
where local geographical conditions made the acquisition of supplies particularly difficult, Alexander would often take hostages or
establish garrisons to insure their efficient collection. 2 When he
entered the Iranian heartland, however, few surrendered to him
in advance, and the army's provisioning problems were intensified.
Alexander would never commit his entire army for a campaign into
a region that had not surrendered to him in advance. Instead, he
would first obtain intelligence concerning the routes, climate, and
resources of the country and then strike out with a small, light
force, while the main army remained behind at a base well supplied with provisions. Alternatively, he would divide the army
into smaller units so that their diminished requirements could be
more easily provided during their advance through the countryside. Supplies at such times would not be provided by markets,
gifts, or requisitions, as before, but by pillaging towns and villages
or foraging. Advance intelligence was always an essential factor in
Alexander's successful operations.'
i. See diacuuion in Chapter 1.
i . See above Chapter a, n. 79.

3 See above Chapter s, n. 97.

Conclusion / 121

Because of the subsistence level of most agricultural production
in antiquity, most populations scarcely had enough food to feed
themselves in the months before harvest. For this Teason, the army
would delay at its winter base until the harvest of winter wheat
and barley were completed before undertaking its march.4 T h e
subsistence level of agriculture and the limitations of overland
transportation made it impossible for the army to remain stationary
for long periods when remote from sea or river transport. T h e
radius from which supplies could be effectively carried overland
to the army was only 60 to 80 miles, and the army's huge consumption rates would have quickly exhausted all the agricultural surplus
within this limit. For these reasons, the Macedonians always wintered in regions that were populous and intensively cultivated,
with easy access to a nagivable river or ocean port.8 Where these
conditions could not be fulfilled, the army would be divided into
smaller units for the winter. Even locations where the army halted
only for a few weeks would invariably be equipped with river- or
sea-transport facilities. Because all agricultural production occurred within a limited radius of human settlement, the army always marched through populous regions wherever possible and not
through uninhabited, open countryside.*
Alexander better understood the capabilities and limitations of
his logistic system than perhaps any other commander, before or
since. In this respect, he was aided by capable lieutenants, to whom
the actual tasks of supply were delegated. Among these were certainly Parmenio and perhaps Craterus, Coenus, and Erigyius.7
Their achievement becomes more impressive when one remembers
the barren terrain through which the army often marched, the limitations of overland transport, and the low level of agricultural production they had to reckon with.
T h e terrain of the Persian Empire was in a real sense the Persian
king's most formidable weapon. Its extensive deserts, salt wastelands, barren, impenetrable mountain ranges, rivers of salt water,
severe climatic extremes, and the often vast distances between cultivated inhabited regions were immense obstacles to any invading
army. Indeed, these factors were largely responsible for the failures
of Crassus, Antony, and Julian. Yet Alexander was able to over4. See above p. »7, p. 61.
g. See above Chapter 3, n. 40.

6. See above p. 31.
7. See above Chapter t, notes 53 and 54.

188 / Conclusion

come these obstacles where other armies had failed because of his
superior abilities in gathering intelligence, planning, preparation,
and organization. In Cilicia, the king was even able to use logistics
as a weapon against his opponent, forcing Darius to fight in unfavorable terrain.
T h e details of the Macedonians' logistic system given by Arrian,
Curtius, Diodorus, Plutarch, and Strabo form a coherent and consistent pattern from which a meaningful hypothetical model can
be reconstructed. They are also accurate and consistent when compared with other sources such as Polyaenus and Frontinus and
with the known achievements of Alexander's expedition. Their
descriptions of the types of pack animals used, the use of servants,
the transporting of equipment, and of the troops carrying their own
arms, armor, and rations (details unimportant in themselves) coincide in all our sources and form a firm basis for the reconstruction
of Alexander's logistic organization.
The method used in this study has been to correlate the simple
relationships of time, distance, consumption rates, and transport
capabilities with Alexander's strategy, tactics, and the timing and
direction of his marches. Perhaps this simple method could be of
some value for the understanding of other ancient campaigns or
any other problem concerning time, distance, and transportation.
It is hoped that this study has led to a greater appreciation of the
very real difficulties Alexander had to face in directing the provisioning of his army. Even a daily march from one camp to the
next required prodigious planning, preparation, and efficient logistic organization. T h e importance of geographical factors in Alexander's strategic decisions has also been stressed since "The locality
is the surviving portion of the reality of an event that has long ago
passed by . . . it often restores to clearness the picture which history
has preserved in half-effaced outlines." 8 If this study contributes to
a greater understanding of this complex man and his achievement,
it has fulfilled its purpose.
8. Sir A u t e l Stein, Geo. Journ. 80 (1932) 31.

Appendix 1
Rations
PERSONNEL
In order to sustain life, an individual must obtain sufficient protein
and calories from the food he consumes. Sources in the U.S. Army
Quartermaster Corps have informed me that the caloric content of
an army ration needed to sustain a soldier in combat conditions is
3,600 per day.1 A similar caloric requirement, 3,402 per day, is
needed by a 120-pound individual engaged in carrying a moderate
load for 8 hours in addition to other normal activities (other active
work, 1 hr.; walking, 1 hr.; sedentary activities, 6 hr.; sleeping, 8
hr.).s Of course, individuals leading sedentary lives need fewer
calories. The life of the Macedonian soldier was far from sedentary,
however, and 3,600 calories per day is a realistic estimate for his
needs. It should be remembered that the average daily caloric intake for a male in the United States during the last century was
6,000 to 6,500; for an adult female, 4,000 to 4,500. In addition to
calories, at least 70 grams of protein per day are needed if one is
to avoid the effects of malnutrition and starvation. The major
staple of Alexander's troops would always have been grain products
since wheat, barley, and millet were the most readily available
forms of food to be found throughout their campaigns and the
easiest to carry; once dried, they could be stored indefinitely, even
in hot weather, unlike meat, fish, vegetables, or fruit.
When milled, 2.2 lb. (1 kg.) of wheat will weigh 2 lb. (goo g.) and
contain 3,150 calories and go g. of protein.8 The protein and caloric
1. U.S. Army Reserve Officers Training Corps Quartermaster, University of Texas,
pen. comm. 197s.
x. Clark and Haswell, 11-13.
3. Clark and Haswell, 58; Philip L. Altaian and Dorothy S. Dittmer, Metabolism
(Bethesda, 1968) <6; Errett C. Albritton, Standard Values in Nutrition and Metabolism (Philadelphia, 1954) 115; Benjamin T . Burton, The Heinz Handbook of Nutrition (New York, 1965) 430.

124 / Appendix

i

content of both milled and unmilled grain is identical per unit of
weight. But too often it is assumed, even by those who should know
better, that this is the amount of absorbable calories and protein
actually digested by the individual. 4 Few people eat raw grain or
even flour, however, most consuming grains in the form of bread,
biscuits, or porridge. T h e Macedonians' grain ration was consumed
in the form of bread 5 and perhaps biscuits and porridge, as in the
Roman army. 8 Many calories are lost in the production of bread so
that 2.2 lb. of bread contains only 2,500 calories and 100 g. of protein. 7 In addition, because of the high cellulose content of grain,
only 90 percent of the calories and 80 percent of the protein can be
digested. 8 Hence, after the original kilogram of wheat is milled,
baked, and digested, it only contains 2,025 usable calories and 80 g.
of protein, so that 3.5 lb. of bread, manufactured from 3.9 lb. of
grain, would have to be consumed to obtain 3,600 digestible calories. T h r e e pounds of bread, the ration used in this study, contains
3,085 calories. Biscuits made from wheat contain about the same
amount of protein and calories. In the process of cooking porridge,
however, the caloric content of grain is sharply reduced to only 450
calories per kilogram. 9 Millet and barley have slightly more calories
and slightly less protein per pound than wheat. 10 T h e soldier's basic
grain ration would be supplemented where possible with meat,
fish, vegetables, wine, fruit, olive products, and cheeses. Beef and
cheese contain more calories and protein than an equivalent weight
of bread, and the other products contain less. Olive oil also contains
more calories than the other foods but no protein. However, meat
would only be rarely obtainable by the Macedonians because few
individuals engaged in subsistence agriculture can aSord to possess
many cattle or even goats or sheep for food consumption, 11 and
both meat and cheese are difficult to preserve in hot climates. It is
unlikely that flocks of sheep or cattle accompanied the army, and
4. Clark and Haswell, 58. One of the few errors in an otherwise excellent book.
5. D. 41. 7; C. 4. 2. 14.
6. Front. Strat. 4. 1. 6; cf. Xen. Cyrop. 6. 3. 31.
7. Burton, op. cit., 43a.
8. Altman and Dittmer, op. cit., 291-893.
9. Ibid., s».
10. Burton, op. cit., 430; Altman and Dittmer, op. cit., 16; Albritton, op. cit., 11s.
11. Clark and Haswell, 24, 59-68, 212.

Appendix i / 125

none are ever mentioned.1* For the convenience of calculation we
will estimate that the average food ration of Alexander's army
(which was composed largely of adult males—the troops and their
attendants—at all times) weighed 3 lb.
Grain rations in antiquity ranged from 1 choinix (1.92 pt. or 1.5
lb.) per day for Xerxes' troops to 414 choinices per day for the
Spartans.13 Since the former is inadequate to support human life,
it must have been supplemented. T h e ration of a U.S. soldier during the Civil War also weighed 3 lb. 14
T h e water ration used in this study, 2 qt. per day, is taken from
Maurice (p. 223). Since all water rations we use were taken from
English sources, the British Imperial liquid measures will be retained for the convenience of calculation (1 imperial gallon = 1.20
U.S. gallons). These rations could be reduced for short periods depending on the climate and terrain through which the army
marched. In a desert, while the food ration could be reduced for a
short period, it would not be possible to reduce the water ration
below 2 qt. per day. Sources in the U. S. Army Quartermaster Corps
have informed me that water rations can be reduced in a desert
only by troops who have conditioned themselves to go without
water for extended periods of time. T h e normal water ration for
troops in a desert is 10 litres per day (about 9 qt.). 15 Under actual
desert marching conditions, a daily water ration of 2 imperial qt.
has been shown to be inadequate even for individuals conditioned
for desert journeys. 19 It is unlikely that the Macedonians received
special training for desert warfare, and their ration could not be
reduced below 2 qt. per day. This is especially true when one reis. Since all animals are inefficient converters of vegetable protein and calories,
they need far larger quantities of protein and calories from grain and fodder in feeding them than one could obtain from eating their meat Since, like hones, cattle and
sheep will only eat during the day, large quantities of food must be carried for them
(cf. Hallock, op. cit., 1780-1787). Hence, their presence would slow the army down
and restrict its mobility.
13. Hdt. 7. 187. 1; Jardd, op. cit., isg; Thuc. 4. 16. 1.
14. Hard wheat flour, 18 oz.; fresh beef, 20 01.; dry beans, 3.4 oz.; coffee, 1.6 oz.;
salt, .64 oz.; vinegar, .38 gill; pepper, .04 oz., U. S. Army R.O.T.C. Quartermaster, University of Texas.
15. Ibid.
16. G. A. Hoskinj, Visit to the Great Oasis of the Libyan Desert (London, 1837)
53-54-

is6 / Appendix

i

members that they had to march for eight hours per day under a
desert sun in extremely low humidity, subsisting on a diet of grain
products, wearing their arms and armor, carrying other equipment,
personal possessions, and provisions. Even in nondesert areas where
the climate is hot—a description of virtually the entire march route
—a reduction of water rations would be a severe hardship on the
troops and animals.
T h e food ration we have allowed for the personnel—3 lb. per day,
consisting largely of grain products—is inadequate to supply sufficient calories to the troops, and to reduce it still further would invite the effects of starvation and malnutrition if the reduction extended for long periods. It is injurious to the health and morale of
troops to overwork them by making them carry heavy burdens and
feeding them inadequate rations. If the reductions are extended
for longer than a few days, undesirable effects will result: a lack of
drive and initiative, avoidance of physical and mental effort, and
excessive rest. 17 T h i s is not the way to keep an army in fighting trim.

ANIMALS
In addition to horses for the cavalry, mules, horses, and camels were
used as transport animals by the expedition. One should always remember in discussing food and water requirements for animals on
a military campaign that "the conditions of service are totally different to, and much harder than, the normal work of the animal.
T h e loads are, generally speaking, heavy, the marches long and often
hurried, the opportunities for rest and grazing limited and the general wear and tear increased." 18 Under these circumstances, the animals require more water and more frequent watering than at any
other time.
On a military campaign, a horse doing moderate work will need
from 20-24 lb. of provisions or a daily ration of 24-32 lb. for hard
work. Half this ration should be grain and the other half fodder. 19
Military practice has shown that the cavalry and transport horses
17. Clark and Haswell, s i .
18. Army Veterinary Dept., >89.
19. Ibid., 12s; Isaac Phillips Roberts, The Horse (New York, 1905) 360-381; W. H.
Jordan, The Feeding of Animals (London, 1905) 371-377; Altman and Dittmer, op.
cit., 101; "Horse," Encyclopaedia Britannica 11 (1943) 757; Albritton, op. cit., 65.

Appendix i / 127

will require from 5 to 15 gal. of water per day, depending on the
temperature; the average quantity is 8 gal. per day.20 Hot weather
and hard work will almost double ordinary water requirements.
Mules require about the same rations as a horse.21 We will estimate
that the average cavalry horse on Alexander's expedition consumed
10 lb. of grain, 10 lb. of forage, and 8 gal. of water per day: the
ration of a medium size horse doing moderate work.
As Markham noted, the breeds and true sizes of ancient horses
cannot be determined by references to works of ancient art, but
only by careful measurements of their skeletal remains.22 This is
because in evaluating works of art, one must contend with the
artist's traditions, his artistic style and conventions (such as isocephaly on the Parthenon frieze), his skill (or lack thereof), the limitations of his medium, and his knowledge of horses.23
Fortunately, the skeletal remains of large numbers of ancient
horses have been excavated and studied, and they show that the
size of the average horse has not changed from Alexander's day to
our own. For example, Liepe's detailed catalog of the sizes of over
a hundred fossil European horses from Neolithic times to the Middle Ages24 records large, full-size horses, identical in size to the largest modern horses (massive draught horses excluded), as well as
medium-size horses and small horses; just as one finds at present.
One will note, for example, two horses from Roman Vindonissa
of 160 and 167 cm. height at the withers (151,4 and 16.1 hands respectively) that are as large as any modern Arabian, Thoroughbred,
Standardbred, or Morgan. These two animals are not aberrations,
for the table shows other large Roman and Iron Age horses as
well.2*
so. Army Veterinary Dept., isg.
»1. Ibid., »7a-»7j; Riley, op. cit., 43; Leonard, op. cit., «97.
a«. S. D. Markham, The Horse in Greek Art (New York, 1969) 3.
13. An exception may be the famous Alexander Mosaic, since in this instance
the artist, in accordance with the realistic conventions of Hellenistic art, has depicted all details with superb accuracy. He has depicted full-size, powerful cavalry
chargers, fully as large as those of the early modern era.
»4. Hans-Ulrich Liepe, Die Pjerde des Latine—Oppidums Munching, Studien in
vor-und frtthgeschichtlichen Tierresten Bayerns, 4 (Munich, 1958) 17-19. Cf. M.
Hilzheimer, " T h e Evolution of the Domestic Horse," Antiquity 9 (1935) 133-139.
15. A t Roman Cambodunum, 161.5 cm.; at Linderbeek, 164 cm.; and at Iron
Age La Tene, Engehabinsel, 164 cm. Cavalry horses in the nineteenth century
averaged 14.3 hands for light cavalry and 15.3 hands for heavy cavalry, Maj. Gen.
Sir F. Smith, A Manual of Veterinary Hygiene (New York, igo6) 761.

iz8 / Appendix i

However, the Macedonians' use of various sizes and breeds of
horses in the baggage train had n o overall effect on their logistic
system. Exhaustive tests, scientifically conducted under the auspices of the A r m y Veterinary Department of Great Britain, have
shown that the weight a horse is capable of carrying or p u l l i n g is
directly proportional to his body weight. T h e tests dynometrically
measured the capabilities of s 16 horses of different breeds and sizes,
weighing from 840 lb. to 1,333.5 lb. 29 A horse's nutritional requirement of food is also directly proportional to his body weight.* 7
Hence, if there were ponies in the Macedonian baggage train, say
75 percent of the weight of standard-size horses, they would only
require 75 percent as m u c h food, b u t they w o u l d also only be able
to d o 75 percent of the work of the larger horses. T h e r e f o r e , the
ratio between the animal's consumption rate and his carrying capabilities in pounds remains approximately the same (about 1 : 10),
n o matter what the size of the animal; and, of course, it is this ratio
*6. Maj. Gen. Sir F. Smith, "The Relationship between the Weight of a Horie
and its Weight-Carrying Power," Journal of Comparative Pathology and Therapeutics 11 (1898) 287-390; Maj. Gen. Sir F. Smith, "Maximum Muscular Effort of the
Horse," Journal of Physiology ig (1896) 1x4-116. One hundred thirty-six horses were
measured for the weight they could carry and 80 for their draught capabilities. The
ratio between the body weight and the weight capable of being carried under conditions of hard work averages about 5.757 : 1 or about 17% of the horse's body weight.
The ratio between a horse's body weight and the weight capable of being pulled
varies greatly depending upon the velocity he is required to achieve, the duration of
time he is required to work, the condition and sizes of the axles and wheels of the
vehicle he pulls, his harness, and road conditions. For example, a 10% grade is
equivalent to increasing the load by 10%. Mud, sand, rocks, and other unfavorable
conditions will also slow him down and reduce his work capabilities. At maximum
effort, the best, most spirited horses are capable of pulling about 78% of their body
weight for a few seconds on a smooth, level road. If the horse is to work eight hours
per day, however, he can only pull a maximum of 8% of his body weight, or from
100 to 150 lb., depending on his size. If the horse is required to achieve a high speed,
he can only pull 4% of his body weight, or about 40 lb. for a period of only 50
minutes. Note that a horse is capable of carrying more over long distances and slow
speeds than he can pull and this was undoubtedly a significant reason for armies of
preindustrial periods to prefer pack animals to wagons. Moreover, because of the
inefficient throat and girth harness used in antiquity, a horse or mule may have been
capable of pulling even less, Forbes, op. cit., 8X-87. Naturally, horses are no longer
used to carry military provisions, and this is why the relationships between his weight
and carrying and draught capabilities have not received subsequent study, as far as
I can determine.
17. Carl W. Gay, Productive Horse Husbandry (Philadelphia, 1916) 134; Roberts,
op. cit., 364; Smith, Veterinary Hygiene, 116; or any standard handbook on the care
and feeding of horses.

Appendix / / i s g

that determines how far the army can travel before the animals
consume all the supplies they are capable of carrying.
Also, the use of smaller horses in the baggage train would not
have significantly affected the army's gross consumption rates of
food. This is because more small horses (or mules or camels) would
be needed than standard-size horses to carry a given weight. For
example, if an army detachment needed 3,000 lb. of supplies carried for one day, they would require 15 standard-size horses of 1,000
lb., capable of carrying 200 lb. apiece, or 20 ponies of 750 lb., capable of carrying 150 lb. apiece. Since the ratio between an animal's
daily food requirements and carrying capabilities in pounds remains constant no matter what the size of the animal, both the 15
standard size horses and the 20 ponies would have consumed approximately the same amount of supplies per day; about 300 lb.
T h e requirements are higher for camels: 10 lb. of grain and 25
lb. of straw per day. If only 8 lb. of grain can be given, then 30 lb.
of straw will be required; if only 6 lb. of grain, then 40-50 lb. of
straw; if 4 lb. of grain, 50-60 lb. of straw; and if no grain can be
given, 70 lb. of straw will be needed.28 Concerning the watering of
camels, "his powers or capabilities have been grossly exaggerated
and the most culpable ignorance and negligence have been displayed." 28 Camels ought to be watered daily and will need 10 gal.
although if the animal has gone three or four days without water,
it may require 20 gal. at a time.80 For the sake of convenience, we
will estimate that the average pack animal's ration is that of a
cavalry horse; but it must be remembered that because of the many
camels with the expedition from Egypt onward, the hot climate of
the march, and the heavy work required, this is a minimum ration
and cannot be reduced without danger.
Unlike men, the physical condition of cavalry and transport
animals cannot be restored by rest and proper diet after they have
been worn out by several days of excessive work and inadequate
rations; such treatment renders them unfit for further use.81 This
28. Leonard, op. cit., 153-154; Army Veterinary Dept., «84-285.
29. Leonard, op. cit., 134.
jo. Army Veterinary Dept., 285.
31. Ibid., 285, J02: "Whilst the animal is fit and in condition hardship and
exertion can be borne without injury, but once the troop horse is sick, injured or
exhausted, he is only an encumbrance to a fighting unit and has to be left behind.

i$o / Appendix i

is why "the transport animals of an army shall be regarded as worth
their weight in gold, no care or supervision can be too great or too
strict."84 This statement, written abotit transport animals in the
early part of this century, is even more relevant to Alexander's
army, for the subsistence level of most agricultural production 83
and the barrenness of much of the terrain in Iran, Afghanistan, and
Turkmenistan made suitable animals relatively scarce.
his place being filled by a fresh animal. . . . It is on this account that so much stress
is laid [by the book] . . . on feeding and work under all circumstances, and to the
directing attention to the prevention of injuries rather than to the treatment of
those that have occurred." Cf. Leonard, op. ciL, soif.; A. j . go. 6.
ga. Army Veterinary Dept., 199.
33. Clark and Haswell, ¡4, xis. Certain favored regions such as lower Mesopotamia, the lower Helmand River Basin, and the Indus River Basin could support a
greater number of animals.

Appendix 2
The Site of the Piiiarus
One frequently overlooked factor in studies concerning the location of the Pinarus River, where the battle of Issus was fought, is
the relationship between time and distance.
After Alexander learned that Darius had crossed his rear and was
descending south from Issus, he turned north from Myriandrus
and encamped along the Pillars of Jonah Pass.*1 Now, it is 7.75
miles from the Pillars to the Payas River and 16.85 m i l e s from the
pass to the Deli Chai.35 The Macedonian army left camp at dawn
and descended through the pass in column, and when the plain
widened, they deployed into a line.36 It is easy for those unfamiliar
with the time problem of an army marching through a pass to believe that the army could have deployed from a column to a line
and then have marched 16 miles, all in one day. However, as Col.
Sir Charles Wilson and Commandant Bourgeois observed long ago,
this is impossible.87 An army marching through a pass is like water
flowing through a funnel: just as the volume of water flowing
through the funnel per unit of time depends upon the narrowest
constriction of the funnel, so the numbers of troops marching
through a pass per unit of time depends upon the narrowest constriction of the pass. The narrowest part of the Pillars of Jonah
S4- A. x. 8. 1 - 1 . See William Ainswoith, "Notes on the Comparative Geography
of the Cilidan and Syrian Gates," JRGS 8 (i8j8) 186 for the correct spelling of the
Pillars of Jonah.
35. Naval Staff, Asia Minor, Vol. 4, p t 1, $17-319. This source has measured the
distance scientifically on the actual ground. It should be remembered that the Pillars of Jonah Pass is almost a mile high, Roman Oberhummer and Heinrich Zimmerer, Durch Syrien und Kleinasien
(Berlin, 1899) 104.
36. A. x. 8. a.
37. Col. Sir Charles Wilson, "The Identification of the Pinarus with the River
Payas," PRGS 6 (1884) 540-541; Dieulafoy, op. cit., 41-76. The methodology was first
developed by Bourgeois and Dieulafoy, and by me independently in 1973. It obviously needs restating.

13« / Appendix a

could allow no more than four infantry or two cavalry horses to
pass abreast," and hence, it would have taken 714 hours for 40,864
infantry and 6,«80 cavalry" to cross just the narrowest part of the
pass if they marched at 4 miles per hour—a furious rate of speed
considering that the pass is nearly a mile high—even though Alexander ordered his men to march through the pass on the double.40
This is because 40,864 troops in sections of 4 will form a line 21
miles long, and 6,s8o cavalry 2 abreast will form a column 9 miles
long.41 Hence, if they marched at 4 miles per hour, the column
would take 714 hours to pass a single point. Since the cavalry followed the infantry through the pass.4* the cavalry's rate of speed
would be determined by the infantry's rate.4* As with water in a
funnel, the march rate for the entire army will depend on how
many soldiers and cavalry horses can cross the narrowest part of
the pass per hour. We have repeatedly noted throughout this study
that it takes a great deal of time to move large numbers of men and
animals through constricted spaces.44 Now, if the army began
marching at dawn,41 about 7:00 A.M. (the time of sunrise on November 15 for this latitude),44 the last soldier and cavalry horse will
38. Dieulafoy, op. cit., 6*.
39. For the number* tee table 4. Cf. Polyb. is. ig. 3 who lists 41.000 foot and
5,000 cavalry.
40. C. 3. 8. 13. The average march rate for infantry ii 3 mph. and >.5 mph. over
rough terrain, iee table 7.
41. Maurice, 229.
4*. A. a. 8. 3; Polyb. 12. 19. 5; cf. C. 4. 1«. 3; C. 6. 4. 15.
43. Obviously, the cavalry could not march faster than the infantry they followed
in the column or they would trample the infantry. If, on the other hand, the cavalry
delayed its march for 15 minute« until the infantry crossed the pass, allowing a gap of
one mile between the rear of the infantry column and the head of the cavalry column,
and then tried to catch up by trotting up the mile-high pass at 6 mph., no time
would be saved. Simple arithmetic will show that in 30 minutes, the cavalry traveling at 6 mph. will collide with the rear of the infantry column traveling at 4 mph.
and the cavalry would then be forced to march at the same rate as the infantry. Hence,
no time would be saved by this maneuver since the cavalry would end up in the same
place at the same time as if they had been marching right behind the infantry column
at 4 mph. all along. The same result would occur if the cavalry waited 30 minutes or
an hour for the infantry to cross the pass before it began its march. The cavalry did
not march alongside of the infantry or ahead of it but behind it, and they did not
line up abreast of the infantry until shortly before the battle was joined, A. 2. 8. 2-2.
8.9.
44. See above. Chapter 3, n. 56.
45. A. 2. 8. 2.
46. Dieulafoy, op. cit, 63.

Appendix

a / 133

have crossed the pass at 8:30 P.M. If the Macedonians were then to
march 16 miles to the Deli Chai, even at 4 miles per hour, they
would reach that river at 6:30 P.M., one and a half hours after sunset,47 whereas they would have reached the Payas (Pinarus) at 4:30
P.M. Even excluding the march through the pass, 16 miles was a
good distance for the army to march in one day (see table 7). Were
they, then, one and a half hours after sunset to fight a pitched
battle? Even if the army left camp at 6:00 A.M.—one hour before
sunrise—they still would not Teach the Deli Chai until 5:30 at the
very earliest, one-half hour after sunset.
T h e topography of the Payas also supports its location for the
battle. Both the Payas and Deli have steep banks,4* as recorded by
the sources for the Pinarus, but only near the Payas is the ground
considerably broken u p by deep torrent beds, which, as Callistbenes, Arrian, and Plutarch noted, made the ground unsuitable
for the deployment of cavalry on the Persian left wing. 4 * T h i s description does not apply at all to the Deli plain, which is completely
smooth.50
T h e width of the battlefield recorded by Callisthenes and preserved in Polybius' polemical attack against him, 14 stadia («,83s
yards), better fits the Payas, which is about 3,828 yards, 51 than the
Deli, which is considerably wider. Callisthenes' figure seems to be
corrupt, however, perhaps through a scribal error or through a distortion of Callisthenes' measurement by Polybius in his biased
attack. It is clear that the coastline of eastern Cilicia has neither
advanced nor receded since Alexander's day. T h i s is proven by the
existence of no fewer than seven sites on the eastern edge of the
Gulf of Alexandretta that were occupied from Alexander's era.5*
47. Sunset occurs at 5:05, Ibid.
48. A. Janice, Auf Alexanders des Grossen Pfaden (Berlin, 1904) 54; A. Janke, "Die
Schlacht bei Issus," Klio 10 (1910) 173; Naval Staff, Asia Minor, Vol. 4, pt. 1, ai.
49. Polyb. ix. to. 4; A. 8. 8. 10; P. 10. 3.
50. William AinswoTth, "The Identification of the Pinarus with the River Piyas,"
PRCS 6 (1884) 468-469. He has often hunted badger over the Deli Chai Plain for
many miles without encountering a single obstacle.
51. About 3,500 meters. F. W. Walbank, A Historical Commentary on Polybius,
Vol. a (Oxford, 1967) 364, notes: "Even when all allowance is made for possible errors
in copying and the manuscript tradition, this criticism of Callisthenes shows P. at
his worst. His points are almost all trivial or fallacious; and his mathematical calculations are marred by egregious errors of logical reasoning and gross carelessness."
51. Seton-Williams, op. cit., 147-167. The sites are: Kinet (Nicopolis, occupied
pre-Hellenistic through Byzantine); Payas (occupied Hellenistic to early nineteenth

134 / Appendix a

Now, if the coastline had receded since antiquity (for whatever
reason) these ancient ports would now be wholly or partly under
water, which we see is not the case. If the coastline had advanced
since Alexander's era, these sites, to be where they now are, would
have been originally constructed under water, which is impossible.
Not all measurements of distances preserved in ancient authors are
accurate,53 and this is one of them.
I pass over the fact that Curtius M reported that when the Macedonians were crossing the Pillars of Jonah, the Persians were 30
stadia (3.4 miles) away; that is, the advance divisions of the Persian
army had deployed in front of the Payas, as the sources state."*
One can conclude that the Pinarus was the Deli Chai only by
having the battle of Issus fought in the dark and by ignoring the
laws of physics and the topographical information provided by the
sources. Serious students of Alexander will avoid making such hazardous conclusions.
cent A.D.); Iskanderun (Alexandretta, Hellenistic to modern); Ada Tepe (Hellenistic
to Roman) Qokmeydan (Hellenistic to Roman); Seyithidir Merkadi (Hellenistic to
Byzantine); A m u (Rhossui, Hellenistic to Roman).
5 j . CI., e.g., Str. 15. «. 11; A. 3. 8. 7; D. 68. 4; Pliny NH 6. 6« on the distance from
the Jhelum to the Be as.
54. C. $. 8. * j ; cf. D. 3j. 1.
55. A. t. 8. 5; C. S- 8-

Appendix 3
Approximate Chronology
of the Gedrosian Campaign
Mid-July:
Late August:

Late October:
Mid-December:
Mid-January:

Alexander leaves Pattala (Bahmanabad).
Alexander reaches the border of the Oreitans and
Gedrosians at the Kumbh Pass, 300 miles from
Pattala.
Nearchus begins his voyage, and Alexander arrives in Pura and rests the army.
Alexander arrives at the Carmanian capital (Tepe
Yahya?).
Nearchus, having anchored at Harmozia after a
trip of 75 days, is reunited with Alexander about
5 days later at the Carmanian Capital.

Alexander arrived in Pattala sometime in July of 325, around the
heliacal rising of Sirius,66 and probably left by mid-July. It was essential for Alexander to leave in July during the monsoon storms,
for if he left much later, the ephemeral, intermittent streams, lakes,
and wells of southern Baluchistan would all be dry.67 Strabo is certainly correct in having Alexander march in summer to catch the
rains."
It took 60 days for Alexander to march from the border of the
Oreitans' country at the Kumbh Pass to the capital of Gedrosia at
Pura.59 T h e location of Pura in the Bampur Basin is still unknown,
56. Str. 15. 1. 17.
57. Snead, Las Bela, 1 i-S2, 58, 65; Stein, "Las Bela," 194, 214.
58. Str. 15. 2. 3.
59. A. 6. «4- 1; Str. 15. 2. 7. Strabo says irò 'fipóòv and Arrian, # "tlpar. Is this
reckoned from the beginning of the Oreitans' territory at the Hab, the border between the Oreitans and the Gedrosians at the Kumbh Pass, or somewhere in be-

136 / Appendix 3

but the march accomplished in the 60 days would be between 630
to 787 miles, depending on where in the 157-mile-long basin the
capital was located. Alexander reached Pura about the same time
Nearchus began his voyage in late October.80
T h e best fixed date for the expedition is the beginning of
Nearchus' voyage, around the cosmical setting of the Pleiades.61
T h e date of their cosmical setting would be around the fourth
week of October in 325 B.C., when allowance is made, as usual, for
haze and dust obscuring the horizon. October is also the month
when the southwest monsoons cease and the wind circulation becomes northerly.62 Nearchus wrote63 that he began his voyage on
the twentieth of Boedromion, which would be either September
or October. By my count, Nearchus' voyage lasted about 75 days
from Pattala to Harmozia.
Pliny 64 wrote that it was seven (lunar) months (about six of our
months) after Alexander left Pattala that he and Nearchus were
reunited at the Carmanian Capital. Thus, if Nearchus left in late
October, his voyage lasted two and a half months, and it was about
five days after he anchored that he met Alexander; 65 this would
mean that Alexander left Pattala by mid-July and that they were
reunited in mid-January. It seems that the king's estimate of four
months' supplies needed to sustain the army during the march66
was about correct.
tween? I believe it is reckoned from the border with the Gedrosians since this would
better reflect a 6o-day march to the Bampur Basin, considering the immense difficulties of the march, especially the deep sand, the fact that the expedition was lost
for a time, and that they had to cross at least one mountain pass.
60. Str. 15. s. 5.
61. A. 6. 21. s; Str. 15. s. 5. Strabo wrote that the voyage began when the Pleiades
rose IriroXi) in the west. But stars, of course, like all other astronomical bodies,
do not rise in the west; and, obviously, Strabo, like Arrian, meant when the Pleiades
set in the west. For the date of the setting in antiquity see D. R. Dicks, Early Greek
Astronomy to Aristotle (Ithaca, 1970) $6. T h e date is only approximate. T h e time for
the march between Pattala and the Kumbh Pass includes the operations against the
Oreitans, the refoundation of Rhambacia, and Thoas' reconnaissance.
6s. Jen-Hu Chang, "The Indian Summer Monsoon," Geo. Rev. 57 (1967) 394;
J. W. M'Crindle, The Invasion oj India by Alexander the Great (London, 1896) 167.
T h e monsoons begin here about July 15.
63. Arr. Ind. 21. 1.
64. NH 6. 100.
65. Arr. Ind. 33. 7, for the five-day journey from the anchorage.
66. A. 6. so. g.

Appendix 4
Alexander's Route
in the Gedrosian Desert
It is ironic that for the Gedrosian Desert, the most desolate and
remote region traversed by the Macedonian army, we possess more
detailed archaeological and geographical evidence for Alexander's
route than for almost any other location. Thanks to the accounts
of the march given by Arrian and Strabo as well as the archaeological and paleogeographical research undertaken in the last 40 years,
Alexander's essential route can be accurately restored.
The Makran region has received exhaustive and diligent archaeological research, since, among other reasons, it was on one
of the major trade routes between Mesopotamia and the Indus
civilization. The surveys and excavations are concerned with all
periods of the region's history. The first modem works were undertaken by Sir Aurel Stein.67 As for so much of Iran, Afghanistan,
and Pakistan, the research of this extraordinarily talented man
forms the foundation for all subsequent studies of the Makran.
More recently, Stein's pioneering work has been augmented by
further survey work and excavations carried out under the capable
direction of Fairservis, Dales, Raikes, and Field.M Supplementing
the archaeological research, Snead has ably studied the region's
67. Sir Aurel Stein, An Archaeological Tour in Gedrosia, Mem. Arch. Surv.
India, Vol. 43 (1931); "On Alexander's Route into Gedrosia: An Archaeological Tour
in Las Bela," GJ 101 (1943) 193-827.
68. The research of Raikes and Fairservis is conveniently tabulated in Walter A.
Fairservis, The Roots of Ancient India (New York, 1971) 406-408; Robert L. Raikes,
" T h e End of Ancient Cities of the Indus Civilization in Sind and Baluchistan,"
American Anthropologist 65 (1963) 655-659; George F. Dales, Jr., " A Search for
Ancient Sea Routes," Expedition 4 (196s) s-11; Henry Field, An Anthropological
Reconnaissance in West Pakistan, i f f } , Papers of the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology, 5* (1959); George F. Dales, "Harappan Outposts on the Makran
Coast," Antiquity 36 (196s) 86-96.

138 / Appendix 4

geography6* and shows conclusively that the configuration of the
Makran coastline has changed considerably since Alexander's day,
especially in Las Bela.
Today, there are two basic theories of Alexander's route, one
proposed by Stein70 and the other by Hermann Strasburger.71
Strasburger wrote his first essay without having consulted Stein's
works, both of which represent the most thorough geographical
and archaeological studies on the Makran ever to appear. After
reading Stein's studies, Strasburger wrote a second article which
discussed the differences between his views and those of Stein.7*
Strasburger's route was based on the journeys of Miles and Goldsmid,73 made over a hundred years ago when the geography of the
Makran was still largely unknown. More recently, Hamilton74 published a brief article in support of Strasburger's study. Hamilton
is unaware of the recent research undertaken by Fairservis, Dales,
Raikes, Field, and, most importantly, by Snead, although it was
all published before his article appeared. There is no doubt whatsoever that Stein's route is the correct one.
The beginning of both routes is the same; both Stein and Strasburger follow Alexander to Lake Siranda and the Porali Valley of
Las Bela (see map, p. 174). From here their routes diverge. Strasburger, first following Goldsmid, proceeds along the coast past
Kandewari, up the Hingol River and Maniji stream, to avoid the
69. Rodman Snead, "Recent Morphological Changes Along the Coast of West
Pakistan," AAAG 55 (1965) §48; Physical Geography Reconnaissance: West Pakistan
Coastal Zone, University of New Mexico Publications in Geography, No. i (Albuquerque, 1969); Physical Geography Reconnaissance: Las Bela Coastal Plain, West
Pakistan (Baton Rouge, 1966).
70. Stein, "Las Bela."
71. Herman Strasburger, "Alexanders Zug durch die Gedrosische Wtlste," Hermes
80 (195s) 456-493. While I disagree with his route, which occupies only a short
section of his article, the essay contains much of value. Another theory was advanced
by T . Holdich, The Gates of India (London, 1910) 144-168, which was thoroughly
demolished by Stein, "Las Bela," »04-308. Holdich't route passed along the Parkini
River, and even M'Crindle, op. cit., 357, saw that this route bore no resemblance at
all to the route described by the sources of Alexander's march, which was lacking
water and passed through wide expanses of sand dunes.
7i. "Zur Route Alexanders durch Gedrosien," Hermes 82 (1954) 251-854.
73. Capt. S. B. Miles, "Journey from Gwadur to Karachi," JRGS 44 (1874) 16318a; Maj. F. J. Goldsmid, "Diary of Proceedings of the Mission into Mekran for
Political and Survey Purposes from the isth to the 19th December, 1861," JRGS
33 (1863) 181-113.
74. J. R. Hamilton, "Alexander Among the Oreitae," Historia 21 (1972), 603-608.

Appendix

4 / 139

obstacle of Ras Malan, and along the coast to Ormara. Although
Strasburger believes that Alexander's main objective was to remain as close to the shore as possible so that the land army—marching through the desert—could supply provisions for the fleet, he
next has Alexander following Miles' route, turning inland from
Ormara up the Basol River to the Kech River and hence along
the river to T u r b a t and south to Pasni. Stein follows Alexander to
the Kumbh Pass into the Jhau tract, past the Nundara River into
the Kolwa depression to Turbat, and hence down the Shadi River
to Pasni.
Hamilton, supporting Strasburger's route, rejects Stein's observation that Alexander proceeded north from Lake Siranda to the
vicinity of Bela because "it seems quite arbitrary to assume that he
continued in a northerly direction rather than that he turned
west." 75 Hamilton would look for Rhambacia, which Alexander refounded as an Alexandria, "between the Siranda Lake and Kandewari, north of the Miani Hor," 7 8 since the town was near the sea.
However, intensive geological investigation has shown that the
shore line of Las Bela has advanced from between 20 to 30 miles
in the last a,000 to 5,000 years.77 This is because the southwest
monsoon and the prevailing westerly currents have deposited an
enormous quantity of sand along the coast. In addition, the Porali
River carries down a large volume of silt, and the land itself has
been uplifted 200 feet or more since the recent past.78 A l l these
factors have contributed to the building up of the shoreline, which
has occurred at a prodigious rate. For these reasons, the shoreline
of the Porali Valley in Alexander's day was probably near Liari,
some nine miles north of the present Miani Khor. 79
Diligent archaeological research has shown, not surprisingly,
that because of the rapid advance of the coastline, the southernmost archaeological site in the Porali Valley is Kaiara Kot—a medieval site a good 16 miles inland.® Thus, since the route Hamilton
75. Hamilton, op. cit., 607.
76. Ibid., 608.
77. Snead, "Morphological Changes," 648; Las Bela, yj, 65, 79, 83. A« recently
as 1890 the north shore of the Miani Lagoon was four miles north of its present
location in some places.
78. Snead, Las Bela, 41.
79. Ibid. T h e Porali no longer reaches the sea because of a dam.
80. Stein, "Las Bela," soo; Fairservis, op. cit., 407.

140 / Appendix 4

would have Alexander follow after leaving the vicinity of Siranda
Lake was under the Indian Ocean at the time, there is nothing at
all "arbitrary" about Alexander marching north instead of west.
In fact, it was the only possible decision he could have made. Since
the area was under water in Alexander's day and exhaustive archaeological surveys have shown that the southern-most site is located at Kaiara Kot, Rhambacia cannot be on the north shore of
the Miani Khor lagoon. Instead, as Stein observed long ago, the
site of Rhambacia is located at Bela or its immediate vicinity. 81
Hamilton next denies Stein's identification of the Kumbh Pass
as the pass Alexander reached between the borders of the Oreitan
and the Gedrosian territories.82 T h e location of the Gedrosians'
country is known from the study of the archaeology and human
geography of Baluchistan.83 They lived, in fact, in the Jhau tract
and the Kolwa depression, and the pass the Oreitans blocked to
prevent Alexander's approach had to be the pass between the Jhau
tract and Las Bela—the Kumbh Pass.84 T h e pass is not to be looked
for near the coast, for this was the territory of the Ichthyophagoi;85
the Gedrosians dwelt inland and north of the Fish-eaters.
There is abundant evidence from archaeology, human geography, and the literary sources on the route Alexander followed from
the Porali Valley to Pasni. T h e route followed by Miles and Goldsmid bears no resemblance whatsoever to the descriptions of Alexander's route in the sources. First, when Alexander realized that
the fleet would not be able to provision his army, he was faced
with the decision of how best to supply his large force. Along the
Macedonians' route, quantities of grain, dates, and sheep were
81. Stein, " L a s B e l a , " a i j ; Fairservis, op. cit., 185.
8*. H a m i l t o n , op. cit., 607. See Stein's perceptive reconstruction for the correct
location of this pass, " L a s B e l a , " gi6f.
83. Fairservis, op. cit., 406I; Stein, Gedrosia; Stein, " L a s B e l a , " 110. T h e Macedonians traversed the Gedrosian Desert. T h e Gedrosians d i d not dwell along or near
the coast, the Ichthyophagoi dwelt here. T h e Gedrosians d w e l t inland and north of
the Fish-eaters, Arr. Ind. 16. 1-»; j * . 1.
84. Stein, " L a s Bela," 1 1 6 - 8 1 7 .
85. A r r . Ind. ¡6. i - z ; 3*. 1. H a m i l t o n , op. c i t , 607, notes that Alexander's expedition saw mangroves (which only grow near the sea), a n d this invalidates Stein's
route, w h i c h is away f r o m the coast. However, the passage (A. 6. t x . 6) occurs before
the e x p e d i t i o n advanced into the desert (A. 6. (3. 1), a n d hence the trees were obviously seen in the Porali Valley. In any event, the expedition w o u l d have a m p l e opp o r t u n i t y to observe mangroves along their 7-day coastal j o u r n e y f r o m Pasni to
Gwatar (A. 6 . 1 6 . g; Snead, West Pakistan, 7, ax, 34).

Appendix

4

/

141

consumed." As we have noted,87 all agricultural production in
antiquity occurred within a short radius of human settlements.
Thorough archaeological surveys have shown that the human settlement of Baluchistan in Alexander's era, as today, occurred in
the Jhau tract, the Kolwa depression, and the Kech River valley.
Hence, in the Porali Valley—the Oreitans' territory—the king first
sent Thoas to reconnoiter the coast, and he reported back that the
shore was entirely desert.88 Naturally, Alexander did not then take
the coastal route but instead led his army inland 89 through the
above-mentioned regions where provisions were most plentiful,
although far from adequate to maintain the army. T h e army did
not march in the Fish-eaters' country along or near the coast. Here,
the only thing they could have eaten was fish, which is the one
thing our sources do not record the army as having eaten.80
T h e idea that the army had to keep close to the shore to supply
the fleet with provisions91 is utterly false. T h e land army was literally starving to death in the desert and was in no condition to
supply anything to anyone.92 In fact, throughout the entire coastline of the Ichthophagai, there was not a single anchorage, well,
or magazine of provisions set up by the land army for the fleet.
Once Alexander understood that the fleet would be unable to provision his army because of the adverse winds, there was no reason
for him to maintain close contact with the sea. A l l references to
Alexander's need to keep close to the shore to provision the fleet
are based on the account of Nearchus,98 who by this method attempted to obscure his own responsibilities in supplying the land
army. Arrian takes great pains to inform the reader that Alexander did not march along the coast of the Ichthyophagoi (which
Goldsmid's route follows for some 100 miles from Kandewari to
86. A. 6. s$. 4 twice; A. 6. xg. 6.
88. A. 6. x j . x.
87. See above, p. j i f .
89. A. 6. x6. 4; Str. 15. a. 6.
go. ATT. Ind. 19. 9-16 for the diet of the Fish-eaters.
91. A . 6 . 1 4 . 3 ; Str. 15. x. 4. from Nearchus. Strabo (15. x. 4) wrote that Alexander
kept no more than 500 stadia (57 miles) from the coast, "90 that he could supply
necessities to the fleet along the coast." T h i s is absurd; it neveT in fact occurred, and
the passage, based on Nearchus, is of no value. In any event. Stein's route is almost
entirely within 57 miles of the coast. Also, the Macedonians could have n o idea how
far from the sea they were when they were lost and the sea was not even visible, Str.
15. a. 6; A . 6. «6. 4.
gx. A. 6. x j . 1; A . 6. x j . 4; A. 6. X4.4; A . 6. X5.1; Str. 15. x. 5; Str. 15. x. 6; C. 9. 10.
1 1 - 1 5 ; D. 105. 6; P. 66. 3.
93. A . 6. X4. 3.

142 / Appendix 4

Ormara) but in the Gedrosians' country, inland and north of the
Fish-eaters.94
Another severe difficulty encountered by the troops was the lack
of water along their route, which was fatal to a great many. 96 Now,
if they followed Strasburger's suggested route u p the Basol and
Kech rivers, the only thing the army would be able to procure was
water. T h e r e is no permanent settlement, ancient or modern, along
the narrow, rocky gorges of the Basol River, and hence no grain
or dates would be procurable here. Deep sand dunes were also a
major obstacle, and their endless extent caused the guides to lose
their way. 99 Now, there is no sand in the narrow, rocky gorges of
the Basol and Kech rivers, but there are extensive areas of sand
dunes in the Kolwa. 97 Arrian 98 wrote that the army's march deliberately followed even ground on account of the wagons, whereas Goldsmid himself wrote, " I t is quite certain that this zigzag
route (from the Hariani Gorge to Ormara) would be wholly impractical for troops." 99 Strasburger 100 wrote that Goldsmid's route
would have just enough provisions to "allure" Alexander, whereas Thoas reported that the coast here was entirely desert 101 and
Goldsmid noted that supplies here were barely adequate for a dozen men,10* let alone for an army of 150,000 personnel and 18,000
cavalry horses. A l o n g the inland march, Alexander first reached
an area where grain was plentiful. 108 This describes the Jhau tract,
where the cultivable land supported a modest population, and
certainly not the coast from Kandewari to Ormara, the most desolate region of the Makran, 104 where the army would be lucky to
find a few fish.
Strasburger 105 wrote that Goldsmid and Miles followed their
routes with Alexander's march in mind. Miles does not mention
94. A I T . Ind. «6. i - s ; gs. i.
95. A. 6. <4. 4; A. 6.14. 5; A. 6.14. 6; A. 6. :6. 2; Str. 15. 2. 6.
96. A. 6. «4. 4; A. 6. 25. s; A. 6. «6. 4; Str. 15. 2. 6.
97. Stein, Gedrosia, 52-144.
98. A. 6. 25. 3.
99. Goldsmid, op. cit., 193.
100. Strasburger, "Zur Route Alexanders," 153.
101. A. 6. (3. z.
lox. Goldsmid, op. cit., 193-202.
103. A. 6. 23. 4.
104. Goldsmid, op. cit., 194; Snead, West Pakistan, 23-26.
105. "Zur Route Alexanders," 252.

Appendix 4 / 143

any army, ancient or modern, throughout his account. Goldsmid 106
wrote that the route he took was impossible for an army and
would be fatal in a heavy rain (we remember that Alexander made
his march during the rainy season).107 Neither officer mentions
Alexander.
T h e routes of Goldsmid and Miles do not resemble the route
followed by Alexander as described by our sources. Their routes
were supplied with abundant water, little or no cultivable land,
and no sand dunes. T h e Macedonian route traversed sand dunes,
contained little water, but provided quantities of dates, grain, and
sheep (hence cultivable land) and no fish. Had they marched along
or near the coast, fish is all they could have eaten. It is only the
route so ably reconstructed by Stein, based on the general principles of an army's requirements and the ancient human geography
of Baluchistan, that corresponds to our literary evidence. Only by
following Stein's route could the Macedonians hope to collect a
fraction of the thousands of tons of provisions they needed and
escape the desert. As Goldsmid himself wrote, the route he followed would be suicide for an army, to the last man and pack
animal.
106. Goldsmid, op. cit., 193.
107. Str. 15. 2. 3.

Appendix 5
Statistical Tables
Table 1

The Army's Grain Requirement for One Day
Numbers

Ration

Weight
(lb.)

Personnel

65,000

31b.

195,000

Cavalry
hones

6,100

101b.

61,000

Baggage
animals

1,300

10 lb. (average)

13,000

Animals
carrying
provisions

1,121

10 lb. (average)

11,210

Note: Of course, it is impouible to determine whether each person and animal received his precise ration at any given time throughout the campaigns. Hence, these
figures and others like them in subsequent pages are meant to indicate only the order
of magnitude of the army's gross consumption. They are based on the nutritional requirements of men and animals discussed in Appendix i. Furthermore, the army's gross
requirements are not as important as the ratio between the army's carrying capability
and its consumption rate of food and water.

Appendix y / 145

Table 2

The Army's Grain and Forage Requirement (or One Day
Numbers

Ration

Weight
(lb.)

Penonnel

65,000

31b.

195,000

Cavalry
horses

6,100

10 lb. gTain
10 lb. forage

122,000

Baggage
animals

1,300

10 lb. grain (average)
10 lb. forage (average)

26,000

Animals
carrying
provisions

1,492

10 lb. grain (average)
10 lb. forage (average)

29,840

Table 3

The Army's Grain, Forage, and Water Requirement for One Day
Number*
Personnel

65,000

Cavalry
horses

Ration

Weight
(lb.)

3 lb. grain
Yi gal. (5 lbs.) water

195,000
325,000

6,100

20 lb. grain and forage
8 gal. (80 lb.) water

122,000
488,000

Baggage
animals

1,300

20 lb. grain and forage (average)
8 gal. (80 lb.) water (average)

26,000
104,000

Animals
carrying
provisions

8,400

20 lb. grain and forage (average)
8 gal. (80 lb.) water (average)

168,000
672,000

146 / Appendix 5

S

s
in
""s ^ S « * - « i « «
¡2 r. . . 71 .
\0i o ~fl ^ ^
^ <

S
I
O

I»
I .

8

8

8

C(4
O

Appendix y / 147

t>«ò
O
•* ©"

oe
ON
.. ..
ü
f» «>n rt
00 ^ ..
o!
.
<s o\ r^fe><<í 8
V V ri
ri «Ó n O
«i d O flu' Cj «¡

I 9

s

Appendix;

148 /

..<.. .. «I
r4 e
»- >0 w , X. - ao o-. N
«Ú, Os. «Ift
O M f.to. «n
. <0 M>
. r»o\ m. o»
. r». <0
t»
y
«n
<s
M
t- co c Cl n i/i r^
T~< m 1" m com
m in m in tots m
ci d c i o « î d
«O

2

M o
1M
S
M

M

0

I
3
.s

s
in
ss

I.

Pi's

8H
5

§
5

I
I
Il
si

Ï S

il

s

s
o»

II

« l» fg
S

gii
311

sM
m
î

I

i

Jaa

1

Appendix 5 / 149

t 3 -

N

SÍ7
•

>0
m

r, N
Os
.
m

m
n

J
t*
. K*
«o

^

»

N
« i l i

« O M O !

i«

o\ o* " 7M1 «1<« i-«A. N .
ü

r - ' r»'
cj

V

0

"

V

a s s

00 00

oò

V

ü

ò

c i t i

I

m

IO

S

Hl
h

s

S

a
fi
o

2

«
f f

a

a.
<S
2
e
I

4

I

Ì

I

S3«

X

1SÍI1 I
J

M

O

1

O
H

1

2
w

1

150 / Appendix 5

S
V

3

«
n
"> «
« "i

no

M
< m
NO
Vg (S
oo'
00
CNl . <N) 00
•«r V N-« wi i/>

.
•><- m <s
^
ui
Ifl N
w . . . . —
on .
.
in m t - . o
. r-i
n « U 9i « « « « ft no

a 4 4 Q

3
8
N
M

I
|

I

8
00

8
r»

Q
«*>
fO
»h

CO rt
m t00
» N

.a

.1

m

§

•s &

(N
o

Pi d
I*» 00
O N-H
•n cs*
o
o

J1 i l l s
H to

Appendix 5 f 1 5 1

M
I ! MWtf
f * * * * * 1
•MH«SS*i «sí**
lJ|l%J
.«•a ° I § S i » i

i § f i y 0.8'SI
•si « I

||i|Ü|i

3 Jg ° ? 2 1 ».a I* ¡
" í « í s1 te«-a,
" » l l ^ SJ íá í «^ í
* §§3 a

1 S 3 3 ?0 «
8 2 1«
2

nuii
2 í« J o '
b
"I •S -o S J ' & á § o 2
0 M
- " i l s 8.2
ts ?, § s » § f 3

-

11 ^

S^a-S'
| .3

- ® s - S f "S"b * * 3 B 5.1 i " I

fiSlá-silii
. g
.0 •a « k-

si^illySi SOíS lá-|fh?l¡ 1
ílfHHüf
i!«?»
.[h «i ¡m¡
s! r | ¡ 11 1 P
ll'sfí'Hsf
SlJIU! UtUH;
¡íilltlil lili»
llSfími* il8^228»
131-l-iíi
ÍÍIÍJS¡gílllllllííillil
iiMifíniiíi!
§ khüi
i mmu
2 « 3 9 3 '« -3 ef 5 á?«

jjq 8 "
. c¡ 7, _ 5 fl » 7, .2 á
•« S t 2fUa ^ y jjj .9 s - J

-ü oí ™

.3

Appendix y / 153

Table 7
Alexander's March Rates
Location
Pelinna—Border
of Boeotia
Oncheatus—Thebes
Therma(?)—Sestos
Ariabe—Percote
Percote—Praktios
River
Sard is—Ephesus

Units

Reference

whole army
whole army
whole army
whole army

A. 1. 7. 5

10.5 mpd.
16.2 mpd.
7 mpd.
c. 11 mpd.
15 mpd.

whole army
whole army

A. 1. 12. 6
A. 1. 17. 10

Rate
18.9 mpd. (?)

A. 1. 7. 7
A. 1.11. 5
A. 1. 12. 6

Gaza—Pelusium
Paraetonium—
Amnion Oracle

19.5 mpd.

whole army

A. 3. 1. 1

22.5 mpd.
c. 46 mpd.
12.3 mpd.
22 mpd. (?)

small, light force
cavalry only
whole army
Companions' cavalry,
mounted scouts,
mercenary horse,
part of phalanx,
archers and Agrinniana

D. 49. 3-5

Assyria
Babylon—Susa
Ecbatana—Rhagae

Rhagae—Airaniief

Comisene

34 mpd.
45 miles in
c. 12 hours
c. 33.3 mpd.

Parthia

Sogdiana
(Oxus to Nautaka?)

Comisene

same as above

A. 3. 15. 5
A. 3. 16. 7
A. 3. 20. 2

500 mounted infantry

A. 3. 20. 2
A. 3. 21. 9

same as from
Ecbatana—Rhagae

A. 3. 20. 2 3. 21. 9

34.4 mpd.

Companions' cavalry,
mounted javelin men,
archers, 2 phalanx
brigades

A. 3. 25. 6

c. 37.542.5 mpd.

3 regiments Companions' cavalry,
mounted javelin men,
1 phalanx brigade,
regiment of bodyguard, Agrianians,
Yl archers

A. 3. 29. 7

154 / Appendix 5

Table 7 (Continued)
Location

Rate

Units

Reference

Sogdiana
(Alexandria Eschate
to Maracanda?)

43?-57.5 m p d . Yi Companions' cavalry, A. 4. 6. 4
archers, Agrianians,
lightest of phalanx

Mallians' Territory

c. 30.6 m p d .

bodyguard, archers,
Agrianians, 1 brigade
infantry Companions,
mounted archers, Yi
Companions' cavalry

A. 6. 6. 2

Oreitans' Territory
to P u r a

10.5-13 ?
mpd.

whole army minus
fleet a n d Craterus'
force

Str. 15. 2. 7;
A. 6. 24. 1

NOTE ON TABLE 7
A great deal of confusion exists concerning the march rates achieved by the Macedonian army. This confusion is not the result of any lack of cataloging evidence (e.g.,
Neumann, op. cit., Milnes, op. cit.), but rather of a failure to understand what the evidence means.
As anyone delayed in heavy vehicular traffic knows, large groups of individuals
move much more slowly than smaller groups. Likewise, large armies are slower than
small ones (Maurice, 213). The reason for this is the length of an army's column while
on the march. If Alexander's army had, say, 6 5 , 0 0 0 personnel and 6 , 0 0 0 cavalry, and
the terrain allowed the personnel to march 10 abreast and the cavalry 5 abreast, their
column would extend for some 16.5 miles (Maurice, 229). This excludes any space
needed for baggage animals and animal» carrying provisions. This column length has
two significant implications for the army's march rate.
First, when the soldiers at the head of the column were filing into camp at the
end of a day's march, those at the rear would not reach camp for over 5 hours if they
inarched at the standard march speed for infantry, 2.5 to 3 mph. (Maurice, 329; Neumann, op. cit., 1 9 7 - 1 9 8 ; Milnes, op. cit., 2 5 6 , 3 mph. over open terrain and 2 . 5 mph.
over difficult terrain). Thus, the army's marching time would have to be reduced to
allow the troops at the end of the column to reach camp before nightfall.
However, much more significant are the halts that an army must make during
its daily marches. First, an army must make at least one day's halt in seven days while
on the march (Maurice, 2 1 2 ; Army Veterinary Dept., I 3 6 f . , Clark and Haswell, 2 0 4 ) .
This is because horses and other baggage animals cannot withstand the pressure of
riders or packs on their backs for more than five, to seven consecutive marching days.
If they are not rested, they will develop bleeding sores or physical damage, and will
be unable to carry anything until they are completely healed. Additionally, horses
and other baggage animals have large fodder requirements (see Appendix 1) and
since they ought to be fed only during the day (hard-working horses, like hard-working

Appendix $ / 155

people, need all the ileep they can get at night, Smith, Vitmnay Hyguru, 145-148), it
ii necessary to allow one day's grazing in five to (even day* or they will become malnourished and exhausted, becoming a burden that the army will have to leave behind.
It is certain that Alexander or any competent commander would never allow such
conditions to exist.
In addition to these day-long halts, the army will make several short halts during
the course of its daily march. The Army Veterinary Department (>37) recommends
that one halt for a few minutes be made after the first one or two miles to adjust harnesses and tighten girths; a short halt of five to ten minutes every hour; and at two- to
three-hour intervals, a long halt to feed the horses and off-saddle.
Since the cavalry and baggage regularly followed the infantry (A. a. 8. 3; Polyb.
la. 19. 3; G. 4. la. 3; C . 6. 4. 15), these halts would not impede the progress of the
entire army. But if it were necessary for the entire army to halt during the course of
their daily inarch for their midday meal or for some other reason, the following situation would occur. If the army had 63,000 personnel inarching 10 abreast and 6,000
cavalry traveling 5 abreast, each file would contain 6,500 individuals and 1,200 cavalry horses. Now, when the individuals started on the march once more after a halt, the
entire file would not begin marching instantaneously; first the first man would begin,
then the second man, and so on until the last individual in the file began to move. If
it took only a second between the time one soldier started and the next man in line
began to march, it would take over two hours before the rear of the line began to move.
Hence, wherever possible, the army would try to march with as broad a front as possible to reduce the length of its column. This is also why it was essential for road builders to precede the army on its march (A. 1. 26. 1; cf. Josephus, BJ 3. 6. 115-136),
for if the army were held up only for a minute by some obstacle, it would still take
the whole force a considerable time to begin moving again. It also explains why placing
obstacles in front of a column of marching soldiers to impede their progress is a common and effective procedure (Huston, op. cit., 53). Of course, the same problem was
faced initially each day when the army filed out of camp In the morning.
It is for these reasons that the march rate of a large army is utterly incommensurable with that of a small force. Hence, when comparisons are made between the
march rate of Alexander's entire army (e.g., from Mallus to Myriandrus) and 6,000
light infantry and cavalry in light marching order under Massina (e.g., Fuller, op.
cit., 156) with no mountain passes to cross (T. A. Dodge, Napolton [Boston, 1904]
38af.) we will reject them immediately. W e will also reject the notion that an army of
47,000 combatants marching with elephants can achieve a march rate of 40 mpd. for
seven consecutive days (Diod. 18. 44-45). No elephant, living or dead, could possibly
achieve a rate of 40 mpd., or even 10 mpd. (Leonard, op. cit., a8if.). Nor when we
read that Alexander made his stathmoi, or encampments, at intervals of 70 miles to
conserve supplies in the Gedrosian Desert (Str. 15. a. 6) will we believe that Alexander
made his daily marches 70 miles long. Stathmoi have nothing to do with a day's march
in this context: Cyrus also made his stathmoi longer while marching through the desert
(Xen. Anab. 1. 5. 7); he did not make the days longer. It undoubtedly took the Macedonians three days of continuous marching to reach a site at a 70-mile interval where
sufficient water and supplies would be available for a camp. No army even approaching the size of Alexander's beleaguered force in the Gedrosia could achieve a march
rate of 70 mpd. Nor is comparison valid between Alexander's entire force and other
armies supplied by fleets (cf. Polyb. 3. 39. 6), or those using different harnessing techniques or modern methods of transport.
Small, light units of Alexander's army were capable of great speed, as much as
40 or even 50 mpd. The maximum recorded rate for the tntin army, however, is 19.5
mpd. and it is doubtful whether this rate could ever be surpassed under any condi-

156 / Appendix $

tians. Notably, when the army achieved thii rate in the Sinai, it was provisioned by the
fleet, and hence its transport problems were reduced. The army's average rate of
speed over long distances, which included day-long halts every five to seven days, was
about 13 mpd. (Therma-Sestos, Babylon-Susa, Oreitans-Pura). This would be equivalent to a 15-mpd. daily rate with one day's halt in seven. The army's daily rate
for short distances, when long halts need not have been made, was about 14 mpd.
(cf. Manden, op. cit., 20, who estimates the Macedonians could achieve 15 mpd.
for four to five days at a stretch). Averages, of course, are always imperfect reflections of reality, since they do not include the numerous political, strategic, climatic,
geographical, and logistic factors that influence the decision of how far the army would
march on a given day. Nevertheless, when we suggest approximate times the army
took to march specified distances, these will be based on a daily inarch rate of 15
mpd. with one day's halt in seven. In table 7, when the exact routes Alexander traveled
are unknown, a question mark is placed after the figure in the "Rate" column.

Appendix 5/157

«-•o T3
2 « g
J
JS
«
- ff «f

S '3

1„
S

a
ö

I

1

I

hC4
N

*n
CNJ
f«

co
ifl

00
H

3

S

S?
IO

8 |
\o ¡Fi

S
«

S
th

O»
N
m

Cl
00
»H

©
M
w

en
en

m m os
r- N
O o
m iA n

m
»0
1/)

»

o*

m
cvï
ifl

**
co
N

m

8
N

3

i

S

è

©
ao

S

o «o
K >0
04 *-«

©
«

158 / Appendix 5

Note on the Maps
Because of the limitations of our sources, all routes depicted on
the maps are only approximate. All the maps are original and may
not be reproduced without permission.

MAP 1

MAP 2

MAP 3

MAP 4

MAP 5

MAP 6

MAP 7

MAP 8

MAP 9

M A P 10

M A P 11

KARA KUM
DESERT

SOGDIA
Tarmai
^Qundui

Alexandria
Marciana

,Ounduz
'Andkhui

Bactra
BACT
BactruaH/

Maìmanao
Sala MurshalljS

Bagramo

Kabul»

Kala Ñauo

íjisadaA

/

Alexandria Aralon

oGhaznl

Sabxawar
Kelat-V<3hlUalo/v

ijuwaln
^ l ' r r r "•• REQISTAN
; \ . DESERT

f

0

SCALI or Milli
Alexander's Routa
80*00 foot élevât log

AFGHANISTAN
M A P 12

M A P 13

\
Kabul

i
,

\

^ -Í//
mbui a

Paucolatis
. ,

Peshwar

oTaxlla

»Lahor«

T H A R

DESERT

Sahwano

•

SCALE Or MILES
A l e x a n d e r ' « Rout»
5 0 0 0 foot «l«vâtton

.-.¿-JpTiaa

INDIA
MAP 14

M A P 15

M A P 16

Bibliography

ANCIENT

SOURCES

NOTE. Translations of ancient authors are based on the Loeb editions.

Arrian. History of Alexander and Indica, ed. and trans. E. Iliff Robson.
s vols. Loeb Classical Library, London, 1929.
Curtius. History of Alexander, ed. and trans. J. C. Rolfe. 2 vols. Loeb
Classical Library, Cambridge, Mass., 1946.
Diodorus Siculus, Diodorus of Sicily, Books 16. 66-95; 17, ed. and trans.
C. Bradford Welles. Loeb Classical Library, London, 1963.
Frontinus. The Stratagems and the Aqueducts of Rome, ed. and trans.
Charles E. Bennett. Loeb Classical Library, Cambridge, Mass.,
19*5Justin. Epitome Historiarum Philippicarum Pompei Trogi, ed. Otto
Seel. Teubner Classical Texts, Stuttgart, 1935.
Pliny. Natural History, Books 3-7, ed. and trans. H. Rackham. Loeb
Classical Library, Cambridge, Mass., 1942.
Plutarch. Life of Alexander, ed. and trans. B. Perrin. Loeb Classical
Library, London, 1919.
Polyaenus. Strategemata, ed. Edward Woelfflin and John Melber. Teubner Classical Texts, Leipzig, 1970.
Strabo. The Geography of Strabo, ed. and trans. Horace Leonard Jones.
8 vols. Loeb Classical Library, London, 1917-1932.
Xenophon. Anabasis, ed. and trans. Carleton I. Brownson. 2 vols. Loeb
Classical Library, Cambridge, Mass., 1922.
MODERN

SOURCES

This bibliography only includes sources cited in this work and
is not exhaustive. Journal abbreviations follow those used in L'Année
Philologique and the list of frequently abbreviated works on p. xiii.

NOTE:

Abel M. "Alexandre le Grand en Syrie et en Palestine." Revue
43 (1934) 5»8-545-

Biblique

178 /

Bibliography

Ainsworth, William. "Notes on the Comparative Geography of the
Cilician and Syrian Gates." JRGS 8 (1838) 185-195.
. "The Identification of the Pinarus with the River Piyas." PRGS
6 (1884) 468-469.
Albaum, L. I., and Brentijes, B. Wächter des Goldes: zur Geschichte
und Kultur mittelasiatischer Völker vor dem Islam. Berlin, 197s.
1972.
Albritton, Erret C. Standard Values in Nutrition and Metabolism.
Philadelphia, 1954.
Altman, Philip L., and Dittmer, Dorothy S. Metabolism. Bethesda,
Md., 1968.
Anderson, J . G. C. "The Road System of Eastern Asia Minor with the
Evidence of Byzantine Campaigns." JHS 17 (1897) 22-44.
. "Explorations in Asia Minor During 1898." BSA 4 (1897-98)
72-78.
Anderson, J . K. Military Theory and Practice in the Age of Xenophon.
Berkeley, 1970.
Army Veterinary Department, Great Britain. Animal Management.
London, 1908.
Atkinson, James. Expedition into Afghanistan. London, 1842.
Attagarryev, E., and Berdyev, O. "The Archaeological Exploration of
Turkmenistan in the Years of Soviet Power." EW 20 (1970) 285306.
Badian, Ernst. "Alexander the Great, 1948-67." CW 65 (1971) 37-56,
77-83. "Alexander the Great and the Loneliness of Power," in Badian,
Ernst, Studies in Greek and Roman History. Oxford, 1964, 192205.
. "The Eunuch Bagoas." CQ 8 (1958) 144-157.
. "Nearchus the Cretan." Yale Class. Stud. 24 (1975) 147-170.
Barger, Evert. "Exploration of Ancient Sites in Northern Afghanistan."
Geo. Journ. 93 (1939) 377-398.
Barthold, W. Turkestan Down to the Mongol Invasion. London, 1968.
Bauer, A. "Die Schlacht bei Issos." öst. Jh. 2 (1899) 105-128.
Beek, Martin A. Atlas of Mesopotamia. London, 1962.
Belenitsky, Aleksander. Central Asia. Cleveland, 1968.
Beigrave, C. D. Siwa: The Oasis of Jupiter Ammon. London, 1923.
Bellew, Henry Walter. From the Indus to the Tigris. London, 1874.
Bellinger, A. R. Essays on the Coinage of Alexander the Great. Numismatic Studies, vol. 1 1 . New York, 1963.
Beneviste, E. "La ville de Cyreschata." Journal Asiatique 234 (194345) 163-166.

Bibliography

/ 179

Berve, H. Das Alexanderreich auf prosopographischer Grundlage. >
vols. Munich, igs6.
Bevan, E. R. The House of Seleucus. 2 vols. London, 1903.
Bombaci, Alessio. "Ghazni." EW 8 (1957) «47-857.
Borza, Eugene N. "Alexander and the Return from Siwah." Historia
16 (.967) 369.
. "Cleitarchus and Diodorus' Account of Alexander." Proc. Afr.
Class. Assoc. 2 (1968) 25-45.
. "Fire from Heaven: Alexander at Persepolis." CPA 67 (197»)
*33"*45. "Alexander's Communications." Proceedings of the Second
International Symposium on Ancient Macedonia. Thessalonike,
»973Bossert, Helmut T h . Journ. of the Turkish Hist. Soc. 14 (1950) 661666.
Braudel, Fernand. The Mediterranean and the Mediterranean World
in the Age of Philip II. 2 vols. New York, 197s.
Brown, Truesdell S. Onesicritus: A Study in Hellenistic Historiography.
Berkeley, 1949.
Brunt, P. A. "Alexander's Macedonian Cavalry." JHS 83 (1963) 27-46.
Burn, A. R. "Notes on Alexander's Campaigns, 338-330 B.C." JHS 7»
(»95») 81-91Burton, Benjamin T . The Heinz Handbook of Nutrition. New York,
1965.
Butler, Howard Crosby. "Desert Syria: Land of a Lost Civilization."
Geo. Rev. 9 (1920) 77-108.
Caroe, Olaf. The Pathans: 550 B . C . - A . D . 1957. New York, 1958.
Casson, Lionel. Ships and Seamanship in the Ancient World. Princeton,
»97 »•
Chang, Jen-Hu. " T h e Indian Summer Monsoon." Geo. Rev. 57 (1967)
373-396Chisholm, Michael. Rural Settlement and Land Use: An Essay in Location. London, 1968.
Clark, Colin, and Haswell, Margaret. The Economics of Subsistence
Agriculture. London, 1970.
Conolly, Lt. Arthur. Journey to the North of India Overland from England. 2 vols. London, 1838.
Cook, G. A. A Textbook of North Semitic Inscriptions. New York,
1903Cordington, K. DeB. "A Geographical Introduction to the History of
Central Asia." Geo. Journ. 104 (1944) 27-40, 73-91.

i8o / Bibliography

Cornwall, J. H. M. "A Journey in Anatolia." Geo. Journ. 64 (1924)
213-222.
Cunningham, Alexander. The Ancient Geography of India. London,
1871.
Curzon, Lord George N. Persia and the Persian Question, 2 vols. London, 1966.
Dales, George F., Jr. "A Search for Ancient Sea Routes." Expedition 4
(196«) 2-11.
. "Harappan Outposts on the Makran Coast." Antiquity 36
(1962) 86-96.
De Planhol, Xavier. De la plaine Pamphylienne aux lacs Pisidiens.
Paris, 1958.
Des Noettes, Lefebvre. L'attelage: le cheval de selle à travers les âges.
Paris, 193 X.
Dewdney, J. C. Turkey: An Introductory Geography. New York, 1971.
Dicks, D. R Early Greek Astronomy to Aristotle. Ithaca, 1970.
Dieulafoy, Marcel. "La bataille d'Issus: analyse critique d'un travail
manuscrit du Commandant Bourgeois." Mem. Instit. Nat. France
Acad. Inscr. et Belles-Lettres 39 (1914) 41-76.
Dillemann, Louis. Haute Mésopotamie orientale et pays adjacents.
Paris, 1962.
Dinsmoor, William B. Archons of Athens. Cambridge, 1931.
. The Architecture of Ancient Greece. New York, 1973.
Directorate General of Antiquities, Iraq. Map of Ancient Sites of Iraq.
Baghdad, 1954.
Dittberner, W. Issos, ein Beitrag zur Geschichte Alexanders des Grossen.
Berlin, 1908.
Droysen, J. G. Histoire de l'Hellénisme, vol. 1. trans. A. Bouche-Leclercq. Paris, 1883.
Dupont-Sommer, A. "Une inscription araméenne inédite de Bahadirli
(Cilicie)." Jahrbuch fuer Kleinasiatische Forshung 3 (1965) 200209.
Dussaud, René. Topographie historique de la Syrie antique et mediévale. Paris, 1927.
Ehlers, E. "Klimageschichte und Siedlungsgang in vor— und frühgeschichtlicher Zeit in der Turkmensteppe Nordpersiens." Arch.
Mitt. Iran 4 (1971) 7-21.
Elgood, P. G. Egypt and the Army. London, 1924.
Erinc, Sirri. "Climatic Types and the Variation of Moisture Regions in
Turkey." Geo. Rev. 40 (1950) 224-235.
Evenari, Michael. The Negev: The Challenge of a Desert. Cambridge,
197

Bibliography

/ 181

Fairservis, Walter A., Jr. "Archaeological Studies in the Seistan Basin
of South Western Afghanistan and Eastern Iran." Anthropological Papers of the American Museum of Natural History 48.1
(1961).
. The Roots of Ancient India. New York, 1971.
Farrell, W. J. "A Revised Itinerary of the Route Followed by Cyrus the
Younger Through Syria." JHS 81 (1961) 153-155.
Field, Henry. An Anthropological Reconnaissance in West Pakistan,
1955. Papers of the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology, vol. 52. 1959.
Finley, M. I. The Ancient Economy. Berkeley, 1973.
Fischer, Klaus. "Zur Lage von Kandahar an Landverbindungen zwischen Iran und Indien." Bonner Jahrbucher 167 (1967) 129-238.
. "Preliminary Notes on Some Ancient Remains at Qunduz."
Afghanistan x (1961) 12-13.
. "Historical, Geographical, and Philological Studies in Seistan
by Bosworth, Daffinà, and Gnoli in the Light of Recent Archaeological Field Surveys." EW 21 (1971) 45-51.
Fisher, W. B. The Middle East: A Physical, Social, and Regional Geography. London, 1961.
, ed. Cambridge History of Iran. vol. 1. Cambridge, ig68.
Flottwell, V. "Aus dem Stromgebiet des Qyzyl-Yrmaq (Halys)." Pett.
Mitt. Ergänzungsheft 24 (1894-95) 114.
Forbes, R. J. Studies in Ancient Technology, vol. 2. Leiden, 1965.
Foucher, A., and Bazin-Foucher, E. La vieille route de l'Inde de Bactres
à Taxila. 2 vols. MDAFA 1 (1942).
. "Notes sur l'itinéraire de Hiun-Tsang en Afghanistan." Études
asiatiques publiées à l'occasion du 25e anniversaire de l'Ecole
française d'Extrême Orient, vol. 1. Paris, 1925, 278-307.
Fox, Robin Lane. Alexander the Great. New York, 1974.
Fraser, P. M. Ptolemaic Alexandria. 3 vols. Oxford, 1972.
Freeman, Douglas Southall. Lee's Lieutenants: A Study in Command.
3 vols. New York, 1944.
French, D. H. "A Study of Roman Roads in Anatolia." Anatolian
Studies 24 (1974) i43->49Frumkin, Grégoire. Archaeology in Soviet Central Asia. Leiden, 1970.
Fuller, J. F. C. The Generalship of Alexander the Great. London, 1958.
Galloway, J. P. N. "A Kurdish Village of North East Iraq." Geo. Journ.
124 (1958) 361-366.
Garstang, John. "Hittite Military Roads in Asia Minor." AJA 47
(1943) 35-6*-

i8g /

Bibliography

, and Gurney, O. R. The Geography of the Hittite Empire. London, 1959.
Ghirshman, R. Iran. Baltimore, 1954.
Goetze, Albrecht. "An Old Babylonian Itinerary." JCS 7 (1953) 51-72.
Goldsmid, Maj. F. J . "Diary of Proceedings of the Mission into Mekran
for Political and Survey Purposes from the 12th to 19th December, 1861." JRGS 33 (1863) 181-213.
Government of Pakistan. Pakistan. Karachi, 1953.
Grant, Col. J . A. "Route, March, with Camels, from Berber to Korosko
in 1863." PRGS 6 (1884) 326-334.
Gray, John. Archaeology and the Old Testament World. New York,
196s.
Green, Peter. Alexander of Macedon. Harmondsworth, 1974.
Hallock, R. T . Persepolis Fortification Tablets. University of Chicago
Oriental Institute Publications, vol. 92 Chicago, 1969.
Hamilton, J . R. "Alexander's Early Life." GR 12 (1965) 117-124.
. Plutarch Alexander: A Commentary. Oxford, 1968.
. "Alexander Among the Oreitae." Historia 21 (1972) 603-608.
Hamilton, William J . Researches in Asia Minor, Pontus, and Armenia.
2 vols. London, 1842.
Hammond, Norman. "An Archaeological Reconnaissance in the Helmand Valley, South Afghanistan." EW 20 (1970) 437-459.
Hancär, Franz. Das Pferd in prähistorischer und früher historischer
Zeit. Wiener Beiträge zur Kulturgeschichte und Linguistik, vol.
Ii- 1955Hansman, John. "The Problems of Qümis." JRAS 100 (1968) 1 1 1 - 1 3 9 .
. "Elamites, Achaemenians, and Anshan." Iran 10 (1972) 1 0 1 125.
Harmand, J . L'armée et le soldat à Rome. Paris, 1967.
Harrison, J . V. "Some Routes in Southern Iran." Geo. Journ. 99 (1941)
113-130.
Herzfeld, E. "Sakastan." Arch. Mitt. Iran 4 (1932).
Hicks, E. L. "Recent Discoveries in Eastern Cilicia." JHS n (i8go)
231-254.
Hilzheimer, M. "The Evolution of the Domestic Horse." Antiquity 9
0935) 133-139Hlopina, L. I. "Southern Turkmenia in the Late Bronze Age." EW 22
(1972) 199-214.
Hogarth, D. G., and Wooley, C. L. Carchemish, vol. 1. London, 1914.
. "The Geography of the War Theatre in the Near East." Geo.
Journ. 45 (1915) 4 5 7 - 4 7 1 Holdich, T . The Gates of India. London, 1910.

Bibliography / 183

"Horse." Encyclopaedia Britannica 11 (1943)'
Houtum-Schindler, Gen. A. "Notes on Some Antiquities Found in a
Mound Near Damghan." JRAS 9 (1877) 4*5-427.
. Eastern Persian Irak. London, 1896.
Howland, Felix. "Crossing the Hindu Kush." Geo. Rev. 30 (1940) 27*278.
Humulum, Johannes. La giographie de l'Afghanistan. Gyldendal, 1959.
Huston, James A. The Sinews of War: Army Logistics 1775-1953Washington, 1966.
Imbrie, Maj. Robert Whitney. "Crossing Asia Minor: The Country of
the New Turkish Republic." National Geographic Magazine 46
(1924) 445-47*Jackson, A. V. Williams. Persia, Past and Present. New York, 1966.
. Constantinople to the Home of Omar Khyyam: Travels in
Transcaucasia and Northern Persia for Historic and Literary
Research. New York, 1911.
Jacobsen, Thorkild, and Adams, Robert McC. "Salt and Silt in Ancient
Mesopotamian Agriculture." Science 128 (1958) 1251-1258.
Janke, A. "Die Schlacht bei Issos." Klio 10 (1910) 137-177.
. Auf Alexanders des Grossen Pfaden. Berlin, 1904.
Jardé, A. Les céréales dans l'antiquiti Grecque. Paris, 1925.
Jarvis, Maj. C. S. Yesterday and Today in Sinai. Boston, 1932.
Jennings-Bramly, Wilfred. "A Journey to Siwah in September and October, 1896." Geo. Journ. 10 (1897) 597-608.
Joint Palestine Survey Commission. Agricultural Colonization of Palestine. Boston, 1928.
Jones, T. B. "Alexander and the Winter of 330-329 B.C." CW 28 (1935)
124-125.
Jordan, W. H. The Feeding of Animals. London, 1905.
Kinneir, John Macdonald. Journey through Asia Minor, Armenia, and
Kordistan. London, 1818.
Kraus, W., ed. Afghanistan. Tuebingen, 1972.
Leaf, Walter. Strabo on the Troad. Cambridge, 1923.
Leonard, Maj. Arthur Glyn. The Camel. London, 1894.
Lessar, M. P. M. "M. P. M. Lessar's Journey from Askabad to Sarakhs."
PRGS 4 (1882) 486-497.
. "M P. M. Lessar's Second Journey in the Turkomen Country:
Askabad to Ghurian near Herat." PRGS 5 (1883), 1-23.
Lewis, Robert A. "Early Irrigation in West Turkestan." A A AG 56
(1966) 467-49»-

184 /

Bibliography

Lewy, Julius. "Studies in the Historic Geography of the Ancient Near
East." Orientalia 21 (195s) 1-12, «65-892, 393-425.
Liepe, Hans-Ulrich. Die Pferde des Latine-Oppidums
Manching,
Studien an vor- und frühgeschichtlichen Tierresten Bayerns,
vol. 4. Munich, 1958.
Litvinskij, B. A., and Tursunov, N. O. " T h e Leningrad Krater and the
Louvre Sosibios Vase (Neo-Attic Art and Central Asia)." EW
24 (1974) 89-110.
Mallowan, M. £. L. " T h e Excavations at Tall Chagar Bazar and an
Archaeological Survey of the Habur Region, 1934-35." Iraq 3
(1936) 1-59.
Markham, S. D. The Horse in Greek Art. New York, 1969.
Marquart, J. "Untersuchung zur Geschichte von Eran." Philologus
Suppl. 10 (1907) 1-258.
Marsden, E. W. The Campaign of Gaugamela. Liverpool, 1964.
Marshall, Sir John. Taxila. 3 vols. Cambridge, 1951.
Marvin, Charles. Colonel Grodelcoffs Ride from Samarcand to Herat
through the Uzbek States of Afghan Turkestan. London, 1880.
Maurice, F. " T h e Size of the Army of Xerxes in the Invasion o£ Greece,
480 B.C." JHS 50 (1930) 210-235.
Mclntyre, James, and Richmond, I. A. "Tents of the Roman Army and
Leather from Birdoswald." Transactions of the Cumberland and
Westmoreland Antiquarian and Archaeological Soc. 34 (1934)
62-90.
M'Crindle, J. W. The Invasion of India by Alexander the Great. London, 1896.
Miles, Capt. S. B. "Journey from Gwadur to Karachi." JRGS 44 (1874)
163-182.
Milns, R. D. "Alexander's Pursuit of Darius through Iran." Historia
15 (1966) 256.
Miltner, Franz. "Alexanders Strategie bei Issos." Oest. Jh. 28 (1933)
69-78.
Morier, James. A Journey through Persia, Armenia, and Asia Minor to
Constantinople in the Years 1808 and 1809. London, 1812.
. A Second Journey through Persia in the Years 1810 and 1816.
London, 1818.
Morrison, John S., and Williams, R. T . Greek Oared Ships. London,
1968.
Mounsey, A. H. A Journey through the Caucasus and the Interior of
Persia. London, 1872.
Mouterde, R., and Poidebard, A. Le limes de Chalcis. Paris, 1945.

Bibliography

/ 185

Mughal, Muhammad Rafique. "Excavations at Tulamba, West Pakistan." Pakistan Archaeology 4 (1967) 1-152.
Murison, C. L. "Darius III and the Battle of Issus." Historia 21 (1972)

399-4*3-

Murray, G. W. " T h e Land of Sinai." Geo. Journ. 119 (1953) 140-154.
Napier, Capt. G. "Extracts from a Diary of a Tour in Khorassan and
Notes on the Eastern Alburz Tract." JRGS 46 (1876) 145-172.
Narain, A. K. The Indo-Greeks. Oxford, 1957.
Naval Intelligence Division, Great Britain. Greece. 3 vols. 1945.
. Turkey. 2 vols. 1943.
. Syria. 1943.
.Palestine and Trans-Jordan. 1943.
.Persia. 1945.
Naval Intelligence Division, Naval Staff, Great Britain. A Handbook of
Syria. London, n.d.
Naval Staff, Intelligence Department, Great Britain. A Handbook of
Asia Minor. 4 vols. London, 1919.
Neuberger, A. The Technical Arts and Sciences of the Ancients. New
York, 1930.
Neumann, C. "A Note on Alexander's March Rates." Historia so (1971)
196-198.
Newton, C. T . Discoveries at Halicarnassus, Cnidus, and Branchidae.
London, 1863.
Oakey, George. Military Routes of Communication in Asia Minor. M.A.
Thesis, University of Pennsylvania, 1958.
Oates, David. Studies in the Ancient History of Northern Iraq. London,
1968.
Oberhummer, Roman, and Zimmerer, Heinrich. Durch Syrien und
Kleinasien. Berlin, 1899.
O'Donovan, Edmond. "Merv and its Surroundings." PRGS 4 (1882)

345-358-

Olufsen, O. The Emir of Bukhara and his Country. Copenhagen, 1911.
Operations Research Office, U.S. Army. Area Handbook, Iran. Washington, 1963.
Oppenheim, A. Leo. Mesopotamia: Portrait of a Dead Civilization.
Chicago, 1964.
Pearson, L. The Lost Histories of Alexander the Great. New York,
i960.
Pidech, P. "Deux campagnes d'Antiochus III chez Polybe." RE A 60
(1958) 67-81.
"Persis." Encyclopaedia Britannica 17 (1943).

i86 /

Bibliography

Poidebard, A. La trace de Rome dans le disert de Syrie. Paris, 1934.
Porter, Sir Robert Ker. Travels in Georgia, Persia, Armenia, Ancient
Babylonia, 2 vols. London, 1822.
"
Pritchett, William Kendrick. Ancient Greek Military Practices, pt. 1,
University of California Publications: Classical Studies, vol. 7.
Berkeley, 1971.
Radet, G. "La dernière campagne d'Alexandre contre Darius." Mélanges Gustave Glotz, vol. 2. Paris, 193s.
Raikes, Robert L. "The End of Ancient Cities of the Indus Civilization
in Sind and Baluchistan." Amer. Anthropologist 65 (1963) 655659Ramsay, W. M. Historical Geography of Asia Minor. London, 1890.
"Cilicia, Tarsus, and the Great Tarsus Pass." Geo. Journ. as
(1903) 357"4»3Richmond, I. A. "Trajan's Army on Trajan's Column." BSR 13 (1935)
1-40.
Rickmers, W. Rickmer. " T h e Fan Mountains in the Duab of Turkestan." Geo. Journ. 30 (1907) 357-371.
Riley, H. The Mule. New York, 1867.
Robert, L. "Contributions à la topographie des villes de l'Asie Mineure
méridionale." CRAI (1951) 254-259.
Roberts, Isaac Philips. The Horse. New York, 1905.
Runciman, Steven. A History of the Crusades, vol 1. Cambridge, 1952.
Russell, Franklin. "The Road to Ur." Horizon 14 (1972) 90-103.
Scerrato, Umberto. "A Probable Achaemenid Zone in Persian Sistan."
EW 13 (1962) 186-197.
. "Excavations at Dahn-i Ghulaman (Seistan-Iran): First Preliminary Report (1962-63)." EW 16 (1966) 9-30.
Schachermeyr, Fritz. Alexander der Grosse. Vienna, 1972.
Schaefer, Ch. Nouveaux Mélanges Orientaux. Publications de l'Ecole
des Langues Orientales Vivantes. Paris, 1886.
Schreider, Frank and Helen. "The World of Alexander," in National
Geographic Society, Greece and Rome, Builders of Our World.
Washington, 1968.
Seton-Williams, M. V. "Cilician Survey." Anatolian Studies 4 (1954)
121-174.
Smith, Maj. Gen. Sir. F. A Manual of Veterinary Hygiene. New York,
1906.
. "Maximum Muscular Effort of the Horse." Journal of Physiology 19 (1896) 224-226.
" T h e Relationship between the Weight of a Horse and its

Bibliography

/ 187

Weight-Carrying Power." Journal of Comparative Pathology and
Therapeutics 11 (1898) «87-890.
Snead, Rodman. "Recent Morphological Changes Along the Coast of
West Pakistan." AAAG 55 (1965) 648.
. Physical Geography Reconnaissance: Las Bela Coastal Plain,
West Pakistan. Baton Rouge, 1966.
.Physical Geography Reconnaissance: West Pakistan Coastal
Zone. University of New Mexico Publications in Geography,
no. 1. Albuquerque, 1969.
Snodgrass, A. M. The Arms and Armor of the Greeks. Ithaca, 1967.
Spate, O. H., and Learmonth, A. T . A. India and Pakistan. London,
1967.
Spooner, Brian. "Arghiyän, the Area of Järjam in Western Khurässän."
Iran 3 (1965) 97-107.
Stark, Freya. "Alexander's Minor Campaigns in Turkey." Geo. Journ.
1 » (1956) 294-305.
. "Alexander's March from Miletus to Phrygia." JHS 78 (1958)
I OS-ISO.

. Alexander's Path from Caria to Cilicia. London, 1958.
Starr, Frederick S. "Mapping Ancient Roads in Anatolia." Archaeology
16 (1963) 162-169.
Staviskij, Boris J. "The Capitals of Ancient Bactria." EW 23 (1973)
265-277.
Stein, Sir Aurel. An Archaeological Tour in Gedrosia, Mem. Arch.
Surv. India, vol. 43. 1931.
"On Alexander's Route into Gedrosia: An Archaeological
Tour in Las Bela." Geo. Journ. 102 (1943) 193-227.
. "Notes on Alexander's Crossing of the Tigris and the Battle of
Arbela." Geo. Journ. 100 (1942) 155-164.
. "An Archaeological Journey in Western Iran." Geo. Journ. 92
(»93») 313-34*. "An Archaeological Tour in the Ancient Persis." Geo. Journ.
86 (>935) 489-497. On Alexander's Track to the Indus. London, 1929.
. Innermost Asia. 2 vols. London, 1928.
. Archaeological Reconnaissances in North Western India and
South Eastern Iran. London, 1937.
Stewart, Lt. Col. C. E. "The Country of the Tekke Turkomans and the
Tejand and Murghab Rivers." PRGS 3 (1881) 513-546.
Strasburger, Hermann. "Alexanders Zug durch die Gedrosische
Wüste." Hermes 80 (1952) 456-493.

i88 /

Bibliography

. "Zur Route Alexanders durch Gedrosien." Hermes 8a (1954)
851-254.
Sumner, William M. Cultural Development in the Kur River Basin,
Iran: An Archaeological Analysis of Settlement Patterns. Ph.D.
Dissertation, University of Pennsylvania, 1972.
Sykes, C. "Some Notes on a Recent Journey in Afghanistan." Geo. Journ.
84 (1934) 327-336.
Sykes, P. M. "A Fifth Journey in Persia." Geo. Journ. 28 (1906) 56059»Tarn, William W. Alexander the Great. 2 vols. Cambridge, 1948.
. The Greeks in Bactria and India. London, 1938.
. " T w o Notes on Seleucid History: Tarmita." JHS 60 (1940)
89-94Tegetmeir, W. B. Horses, Asses, Mules, and Mule Breeding. Washington, 1897.
Thesiger, Wilfred. " T h e Hazaras of Central Afghanistan." Geo. Journ.
»si (>955) S i a - S 1 ^
Topographical Section, General Staff, Great Britain. Sinai Peninsula
Map, 1: 250,000. n.d.
Torry, William. "Life in the Camel's Shadow." Natural History (May
1974) 59-68.
Toynbee, Arnold J. Between Oxus and Jumna. Oxford, 1961.
Treidler, Hans. "Paraetacene." RE Suppl. 10 (1965) 478-482.
Trousdale, William. " T h e Homeland of Rustam." ILN (December
1975) 91-93.
Tscherikower, V. "Die hellenistischen Städtgrundüngen von Alexander
dem Grossen bis auf die Römerzeit." Philologus Suppl. 19.1
(1972) 1-216.
Von Hagen, Victor W. "The Horror of the Tomissa Crossing." Geographical Magazine 48 (1976) 278-281.
Von Schwarz, Franz. Alexander des Grossen Feldzüg in Turkestan.
Munich, 1893.
Von Stahl, A. F. "Notes on the March of Alexander the Great from
Ecbatana to Hyrcania." Geo. Journ. 64 (1924) 312-329.
Warner, Arthur George, and Warner, Edmond. The Shahnama of
Firdausi. 3 vols. London, 1908.
Welles, C. B. " T h e Discovery of Sarapis and the Foundation of Alexandria." Historia 11 (1962) 271-298.
"Wheat." Encyclopaedia Britannica 23 (1943).
Wheeler, Sir Mortimer. Charsada, a Metropolis of the North West Frontier. Oxford, 1962.
White, Lynn. Medieval Technology and Social Change. Oxford, 1963.

Bibliography

/ 189

Wilhelmy, Herbert. "Indusdelta und Rann of Kutch." Erdkunde 22
(1968) 179-191.
Willcocks, Sir William. "Mesopotamia: Past, Present, and Future."
Geo. Journ. 35 (1910) 1-18.
Williams, John. Two Essays on the Geography of Ancient Asia. London,
i8sg.
Wilson, Sir Arnold T . Persia. London, 1932.
Wilson, Col. Sir Charles. "The Identification of the Pinarus with the
River Payas." PRGS 6 (1884) 540-541.
Wilson, H. H. Ariana Antiqua. London, 1841.
Wright, W. Catalogue of Syriac Manuscripts in the British Museum,
vol. 3. London, 1872.
Young, Rodney S. "Gordion of the Royal Road." Proceedings Amer.
Philosoph. Soc. 107 (1963) 348-364.
. "The South Wall of Balkh-Bactra." A JA 59 (1955) 267-276.

Index
Ai Khaooum: 9711.111
Alexandria Areion: 3311.36, 85, 8511.
69. 9111.89,157
Alexandria, Egypt: 3311.36,6311.54,158
Alexandria Each ate (Corsu Gozien?):
99,103, losn.ig, 154
Alexandria by Oxus. See Termez
Alexandria Margiaoa (Giaur Kala):
3311.36, i05n.*7
Alexandria Troas: 33, 3311.36
Aleppo: 410.79, 65, 6511.63
Alliance: logistic significance of, g,
40-41,56. See also Surrenders
Amanic Gates. See Bah;e Pass, Hasaobeyli Pass
Ammon, oracle of Zeus. See Siwah
Arachosia, Arachosian: harvest date
in, 93; mentioned, »80.14, 780.36,
111. 148. 15*
Areia: », 15, »30.37, 78, 80, 85, 87, 90,
91, 9111.89, 93n.g*
Artacoana: 47, 87, 89, go, gi, 148
Babylon: 11, n n . i , 330.36, 4», 4»n.
91,4311.91,61, 640.61,66, 67, 70, 71,
7in.i, 78n.3s, 148, 153, 156
Bactra: 6in.4i, 97n.n1, g8, g8n.H3,
99, 101, ioin.7, 104, 106, 107, 149,
»57
Bactria, Bactrian: climate and terrain
of, 96-97; mentioned, », 6, 7, 13,
410.79, 75. 79, 86, 86n.76, 87, 89,
go, gon.86, 91, 93n.g», 950.10», g698, 106,151,15»
Baggage animal. See Camel, Donkey,
Horse, Mule, Ox

Bahte Pass: 49, 50, 51, 5311.137
Beilan Pa»: 44, 440.97, 50, 510.131,
54
Bematists: 4, 330.36, 68, 85, 850.69,
157-158
Camel: carrying capability of, 14,1411.
11; feeding of, 18, lag; meotiooed,
3, 1411.10, 15, i5n.i*, »3, »g, 35, 40,
54, 58n.*5, 6», 63, 630.5«, 630.53,
79. 1*6
Cappadocia: 6, 37, 41, 4»
Caria: 11, i*n.5, 35, 430.94
Carmania: », 1160.83, 117, 1170.86,
1170.87, 118, 11811.91, 135, 136
Cart: use of, 1», 14, 15-16, 170.19, »»,
»4, »40.39, »40.40, lig. See also
Wagon
Caspiao Gates: southern, 47, 80-83
passim, 85, 157; northern, 83n.6i,
>57
Castabalum (Bodrum): 48,4g, 50, 530.
»37
Cilicia: 38, 39, 43-53, 7in.3, 1»», 133
Coenus: i»n.», 7», 7»n.6, 8», 83, 87,
106, 109, i»i, 15»
Comiseoe: 710.3,7*0.5,153
Craterus: 36, 360.54, 7», 7S0.6, 87, 89,
go, 106, 109, 111, 1110.57, l s i
Cyropolis: 103
Damascus: 150.1», 54, 65, 650.63
Dascylioo: 30, 31, 3», 3*0.34
Dasht-i-Kavir: 3, 360.55, 600.39, 8»
Deli Chai: 131, 133,1330.50
Dividiog of army: logistic significance

Index

of, 9, 36, 3611.55, 6J, 7«, 1*0, I»I;
mentioned, 104,106, 113
Donkey: 14, 1411.10, i6n.i5, 19,13
Ecbatana (Hamad an): 35, 74-80 passim, 8611.76, 153
Egypt: harvest date in, 64; mentioned,
6, 11, n n . i , 14, 15, 59, 6on.j8, 6in.
40, 62, 64, 78n.33, loo, 112, 147
Elburz Mountains: 8in.5»
Erigyius: 36, 3611.54, 1*1
Euphrates River: 5, 8, 8n.i6, 84, 42,
43n.gi, 64-69 passim
Fleet: Macedonian, g, 11, 34, 35, 4 m .
79, 46n.io6, 58, 58^26, 59, 60, 6s,
64, 66, 111-118 passim, 141, 155,
156; Persian, 33, 34
Followers: numbers of, 11-14; mentioned, 3,1611.18, 18, «3, 24, 40, 47
Foraging: 2, 30, 7«, 7*n.6, 103, 107,
120
Forced march: logistic significance of,
6on.sg; examples of, 9, 39, 69, 6gn.
80, 115
Garrisons: logistic significance of, 9,
41, 4in.79, 120; other examples of,
87,103n.i6, 105, 151,152
Gaugamela: 3, 13, 17^19, 35, 36^53,
67, 70, 7on.8o, 7in.3, 78^33. 148,
»5«
Gaza: 28n.i5, 40^78, 41^79, 57, 58,
59, 60, 64, 153
Gedrosia, Gedrosian: terrain and climate of, 112-118; location of, 140142; mentioned, 1,5,10, isn.8, ign.
13, 4111.79, 59, 6on-39, 94n.g8, 110118, 135-143, 155
Gifts of provisions: 41,4in.8s, 72,120
Gordion: 37, 42, 43^91, 43n.94, 61,
6 i n 4 i , 147
Grain. See Wheat
Halicarnassos: 34, 34n.46, 35, 43n.g4,
56,146

/

lgi

Halys River: 37, 38, 39, 40^78, 41,
4in-79
Hamah: 41^79, 65, 65n.63, 66n.65
Harvest dates: significance of for tactical planning, 27-28, 37,121; dates
of in individual regions, see under
the region
Harvests: 4, 9, 30, 32, 33, 45, 57, 59,
68, 68n-77, 78
Hasanbeyli Pass: 4g, 50, 51, 53^137
Hecatompylos: 47, 78, 80, 83, 85, gsn.
9*. »57
Helmand River (Etymandrus): 8, gn.
16, 32^30, g2, 93, 130^33
Hephaistion: 4in.79, 72, 72n.6, 107,
108, 118
Hindu Kush: 64n.56, go, 93-97 passim, 102,107, 107^38, 152
Horse: carrying capability of, 14,128129; size of ancient, 14n.11, 1271S9; feeding of, 18, 126-129; mentioned, 3, i4n.io, 15, 15^15, 16,
i 6 n . i 5 , 1 7 , 1 9 , 21, san.35, 23, 26, 29,
37n.66, 45, 54, 60, 63, 63^52, 65n.
61,68, 81,95,96, g6n.io6,102, losn.
13, 104^23, 126-129, 145, 154, 155
Hostages: logistic significance of, g,
41, 4in-7g, 120; mentioned, 11
Hyrcania, Hyrcanian: 13, 13^5, 79,
80, 83, 84, 85, 85^67, 93n.g2, 148,
»5«
Ichthyophagoi: location of, 140, i4on.
83, 141
Ilium: 31, S3
Indus River, 8, gn.16, 3211.30, 38n.67,
1 0 7 - n i passim, 130^33,137, 150
Intelligence, advance: 2, an.8, 4, 4sn.
91, 43, 44^97, 49, 51, 5in.i28, 71,
7*. 73- 83, 104, n6n.8s, 117, 120,
122
Isfahan (Gabae): 4in.79,75,77^28,7g
Issus (Kara Huyuk): battle of, 3, 15,
i5n.i2, 35, 36^53, 43^91, 43^94,
47» 49- 5 o n - l s 5 ' 5* n -»37. 54. 66n.65,
67, 8on.46, 134, 151, 152; town of,
44, 44n.g6, 48-51 passim, 131, 147

192 / Index

Jaxartes River (Syr Darya): ggn.s, 103,
10311.18, 149
Jhelum River (Hydaspes): 3, 85, 107,
109, 110, 13411.53, 150, 157, 158
Kabul: 93,930.94,94,940.98,107,108,
158
Kalat-i-Nadiri: 47, 6011.39, 87-91 passim
Kandahar: 93, 94, 9411.98
Kara Kapu Pass: 43, 49, 4911.1 so, 50,
5011.1 «5, 5»
Kara Kum Desert: 13, 4111.79, 8611.76
Kashka Darya (Ochus River?): 100,
10s-106 passim
Khawak Pass: 94, 9511.10s, 10711.38
Kolwa: 114, 115, 14s
Kumbh Pass: 113, 115, 117, 135, 13511.
59, 13611.61, 139, 140
Las Bela. See Oreitans
Litani River: 55, 58
Lycia: 35, 3511.53, 36, 3611.56, 57
Magarsus (Dort Direkli): 44, 46
Magazines of provisions: 9,40, 41, 60,
76, 87, 11611.83, 141
Makran. See Gedrosia; Ichthophagai
Mallus (near Kiziltahta): 44^97, 45,
46,4611.105,47,48, 49,50, 5*
Marakanda (Afrasiab?): 47,6in.4i, 99,
103-106 passim, 149, 154
Margiana (Merv Oasis): 90, 104, 105,
1050.S7
Market: 41, 7a, i s o
Media, Median: 7in.3, 74, 75, 77-80
passim, 148, 15s
Memphis: 63, 630.54
Mesopotamia, Mesopotamian: climate
and terrain of, 66-68; harvest date
in, 67; mentioned, 9n.i6, i t , 3 m .
30, 37, 38n.67, 7on.go, 7in.s, 108,
111, 117, 13011.33, 137
Miletus: 34, 34^46, 36^55, 4sn.94,
146
Mopsuestia (Misis): 49, 4911.1 so, 50, 5s
Mule: carrying capability of, 14; feed-

ing of, 18, 116-117; mentioned, 3,
1411.10, 15, 16, i6n.i5, 19, 13, *4n.
38, s6, sg, 35, 45, 63, 79, 159
Multan: non.53
Myriandrus (Ada Tepe?): 47, 470.108,
48. 49» 51» 5 l n i 3 > . 5*. >3>
Nautaka: 61n.41.99,102, ìosn.is, 106,
>53
Nearchus: 7, 8, 114, u6n.83, 117,
11711.86, 118, 1180.91, 136, 141,
>4"i.gi
Nile River: «4, 380.30, 3811.67,4111.79,
61,6s, 64
Ochus River. See Kashka Darya
Oreitans: 7«n.5, 113, 114, 115, 135,
1 35n-59' >360.61, 140, 141, 154, 156
Ox, oxen: isn.4, 14, 140.10, 15, ign.
15, i6n.i5, S3
Oxus River (Amu Darya): 61040,640.
56, 99, 101-106 passim, 153
Pack saddle: weight of, i5n.i 1
Palestine, Palestiniao: harvests in, 64;
mentioned, 3, 5, 55-58, 64, 11*
Pamphylia: 35, 36
Parapanisadae: harvest date in, 94,
107,1070.38; mentioned, 850.67,93,
93n-94> 94. 940.101, 148, 15s
Parmenio: isn.s, 30, ssn.34, 35, 350.
53. 36» 360.56, 43. 44. 440-97- 48.
49, 50, 5sn.i37, 54, 78n.36, 79, 80,
l s i , 151
Parthia, Parthian: s, 710.3, 75, 78, 79,
80, 84, 85, 910.89, 153
Pattala (Bahmanabad): 111, 1110.58,
11s, 113, 114, n6n.83, 135, 136,
1360.61, 150
Persepolis: 35, 410.79, 73-79, 940.98,
118, 148
Persis: harvest date io, 73, 77; climate
aod terrain of, 74-78; mentioned,
>°. 35. 35 n -53. 360.55, 61, 610.41,
70, 71-78, 118
Philotas: 130.5, 150.13, 7s, 7S0.6,930.
9*

Index

Phoenicia, Phoenician: harvest date
in, 56; mentioned, 11,1 in.i, 6011.38,
63^54, 65, 66, 111
Phrygia, Phrygian: harvest date in,
37; mentioned, 35, 57, 38
Pillaging: 7«, 7211.6, 77, 110
Pillars of Jonah Pass: 44n.g7, 48, ¡on.
i*5- 5'» 5*> >31» iSin-34. >3in-35»
>34
Pinarus River (Payas): 51, 5m.13»,
5», 131-134, 151
Pisidia: 36
Polytimetus River. See Zeravshan River
Ptolemy, son of Lagus: 6, 8, 5211.137,
72, 7sn.6, 108, 11611.83
Pura: 115, 117, 117^84,135, 136, 154,
156
Pyramus River (Ceyhan or Jihan): 49,
4911.119, 50
Rations: men, 1 «3-1x6; animals, 126130; mentioned, isn.4, 13, 18, son.
30, s i , sin.3», ssn.35, S3,40, 60, 83,
96,119
Requisitions: sg, 30,41,41^82,56, 7s,
iso
Rhagae: 80-83 passim, 153
Rhambacia (Bela): 111, 113, i36n.6i,
139. 140
River transport: s6, «7, 45, 61,70, log,
1S1
Saddle bags. See Pack Saddle
Salang Pass: 95n.ios, 107, 10711.38
Sardis: 30, 3011.23, 31, 3s, 33, 43^94,
»46. 153
Sea transport: s, 3, s6, «7, 45,46n.io6,
55. 61, 65, 109, n o , l s i . See also
Fleet; Ship
Seistan: harvest date in, 93; mentioned, 8, 911.16, 91, 9211.91, 93, 93n.
93,94n.g8. See also Zarangaea
Ship: s6, s6n.3, 28, 30,31, 34, 46n.io6,
5811.s6, 66, 111, 11s, 112^63. See
also Fleet; Sea transport

/

193

Sinai: climate and terrain of, 60-, mentioned, 3, 5, so, 4in.79, 59, 59n.3s,
64, 156
Siwah (Oracle of Zeus Ammon): 6163, 640.54, 8511.67
Sochoi (Darab Sat): 42-46 passim,
51^131, 53n.i37
Sogdia, Sogdian, Sogdiana: operations
in, 99-106; climate and terrain of,
100-102; mentioned, s, 36^55, 61,
711.3, 7sn-5, 8611.76, 149, 151, 152,
»53. >54
Sousia (Tus): 13, 6on.3g, 78, 7811.36,
80, 85-89 passim, 91
Surrenders: logistic significance of, 1,
9, 41, 4in.8i, 120; other examples
of, 55, 71, 72, 7sn.6, 8411.63, 101,
114. See also Alliance
Susa: 35,6111.40, 71-73 passim, 75n.xs,
77. 78*1.33. 79, 148, 153, 156
Syria, Syrian: harvest date in, 56; operations in, 54-55; mentioned, 4 m.
79, 46n.io6, 58, 65, 6511.61, 66, 66n.
65, 67^74, 78^33, 151
Tarsus: 37, 42, 44, 4511.10s, 46, 46n.
105, 4911.119, 61, 99
Taxila: 85, 150, 157, 158
Termez (Alexandria by Oxus, Demetria): 33^36, 101, ioin.7, iosn.13
Thapsacus (Carchemish): 64-69 passim, 158
Therma: s6, S7, 28, 29
Tigris River: 5, 8, 8n.i6, 24, 33^36,
65n.6i, 6511.64, 66n.68, 68, 69, 70,
7on.86, 118, 158
Tyana: 39, 40, 4on.78, 411.79
Tyre: 32^30, 4111.79, 54, 56, 57, 59,
6in.40, 63, 64, 6411.60, 64^61, 99,
>47
Uxians: 23n.s7, 72, 78n-5, 77
Wagon: use of, 12, 15-16, i28n.26;
mentioned, 13, 14, 23, 46, 47, 5 m .

ig4 /

Index

131, 60, 86, 8611.76, 141. See also
Cart
Wheat: yield rates of, 38, 3811.67; nutritional value of, 1*3, 1*4; mentioned, 45, 8in.5i, 93, 104, 1070.40,
i8i, 113, U511.14
Winter: provisioning problems in,
3711.4, 61, 6111.40, 131; mentioned,
4. J«. "3. 85- 3®» 37. 74. 75- 7®' 9 1 '
106, 108

Zadracarta (Sari): 84,85, gsn.gs
Zagros Mountains: climate and terrain
of in winter, 74-75, 78, 79; mentioned, 3, 67
Zarangaea: harvest date in, 93; mentioned, g, 6in.40, 91, gsn.gi, 111.
See also Seistan
Zeravshan River (Polytimetus): 100,
10211.12, iojn.17

