in India. I’d be a little kid on the floor going through all of my grandfather’s Read- er’s Digests, which is all he had to read. Now, of course, there’s a smorgasbord of
information out there—anybody can read anything all the time. Back then, it was much more limited. I would read comic books, storybooks, whatever I could get my hands on. I think I
always loved to read because I’m actually an antiso- cial introvert. I was lost in the world of words and ideas from an early age. I think some of it comes from the happy cir-
cumstance that when I was young, nobody forced me to read certain things. I think there’s a tendency among parents and teachers to say, “Oh, you should read this, but don’t read
that.” I read a lot which (by today’s standards) would be considered mental junk food. [4] 114 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T Read what you love until you
love to read. You almost have to read the stuff you’re reading, because you’re into it. You don’t need any other reason. There’s no mission here to accomplish. Just read because
you enjoy it. These days, I find myself rereading as much (or more) as I do reading. A tweet from @illacertus said, “I don’t want to read everything. I just want to read the 100
great books over and over again.” I think there’s a lot to that idea. It’s really more about identifying the great books for you because different books speak to different people.
Then, you can really absorb those. Reading a book isn’t a race—the better the book, the more slowly it should be absorbed. I don’t know about you, but I have very poor attention. I
skim. I speed read. I jump around. I could not tell you specific pas- sages or quotes from books. At some deep level, you absorb them, and they become threads in the tapestry of
your psyche. They kind of weave in there. I’m sure you’ve had this feeling where you pick up a book and start reading it, and you’re like, “This is pretty interesting. This is
pretty good.” You’re getting this increasing sense of deja vu. Then halfway through the book, you realize, “I’ve read this book before.” That’s perfectly fine. It means you were
ready to reread it. [4] B uilding J udgment · 1 1 5 I don’t actually read a lot of books. I pick up a lot of books and only get through a few which form the foundation of my
knowledge. The reality is, I don’t actually read much compared to what people think. I probably read one to two hours a day. That puts me in the top .00001 percent. I think that
alone accounts for any material success I’ve had in my life and any intelligence I might have. Real people don’t read an hour a day. Real people, I think, read a minute a day or
less. Making it an actual habit is the most important thing. It almost doesn’t matter what you read. Eventually, you will read enough things (and your interests will lead you
there) that it will dramatically improve your life. Just like the best workout for you is one you’re excited enough to do every day, I would say for books, blogs, tweets, or
whatever—anything with ideas and information and learning—the best ones to read are the ones you’re excited about reading all the time. [4] “As long as I have a book in my hand, I
don’t feel like I’m wasting time.” —Charlie Munger Everyone’s brain works differently. Some people love to take notes. Actually, my notetaking is Twitter. I read and read and read.
If I have some fundamental “ah-ha” insight or concept, Twitter forces me to distill it into a few characters. Then I try and put it out there as an aphorism. Then I get attacked by
116 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T random people who point out all kinds of obvious exceptions and jump down my throat. Then I think, “Why did I do this
again?” [4] Pointing out obvious exceptions implies either the target isn’t smart or you aren’t. When you first pick up a book, are you skimming for some- thing interesting? How do
you go about reading it? Do you just flip to a random page and start reading? What’s your process? I’ll start at the beginning, but I’ll move fast. If it’s not interest- ing, I’ll
just start flipping ahead, skimming, or speed reading. If it doesn’t grab my attention within the first chapter in a mean- ingful, positive way, I’ll either drop the book or skip
ahead a few chapters. I don’t believe in delayed gratification when there are an infinite number of books out there to read. There are so many great books. The number of books
completed is a vanity metric. As you know more, you leave more books unfinished. Focus on new concepts with predictive power. Generally, I’ll skim. I’ll fast forward. I’ll try and
find a part to catch my attention. Most books have one point to make. (Obvi- ously, this is nonfiction. I’m not talking about fiction.) They B uilding J udgment · 1 1 7 have one
point to make, they make it, and then they give you example after example after example after example, and they apply it to explain everything in the world. Once I feel like I’ve
gotten the gist, I feel very comfortable putting the book down. There’s a lot of these, what I would call pseudoscience bestsellers…People are like, “Oh, did you read this book?” I
always say yes, but the reality is I read maybe two chapters of it. I got the gist. If they wrote it to make money, don’t read it. What practices do you follow to
internalize/organize infor- mation from reading books? Explain what you learned to someone else. Teaching forces learning. It’s not about “educated” vs. “uneducated.” It’s about
“likes to read” and “doesn’t like to read.” What can I do for the next sixty days to become a clearer, more independent thinker? Read the greats in math, science, and philosophy.
Ignore your contemporaries and news. Avoid tribal identification. Put truth above social approval. [11] 118 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T Study logic and
math, because once you’ve mastered them, you won’t fear any book. No book in the library should scare you. Whether it’s a math, physics, electrical engineering, sociology, or
economics book. You should be able to take any book down off the shelf and read it. A number of them are going to be too difficult for you. That’s okay—read them anyway. Then go
back and reread them and reread them. When you’re reading a book and you’re confused, that con- fusion is similar to the pain you get in the gym when you’re working out. But you’re
building mental muscles instead of physical muscles. Learn how to learn and read the books. The problem with saying “just read” is there is so much junk out there. There are as
many different kinds of authors as there are people. Many of them are going to write lots of junk. I have people in my life I consider to be very well-read who aren’t very smart.
The reason is because even though they’re very well-read, they read the wrong things in the wrong order. They started out reading a set of false or just weakly true things, and
those formed the axioms of the foundation for their worl- dview. Then, when new things come, they judge the new idea based on a foundation they already built. Your foundation is
critical. Because most people are intimidated by math and can’t independently critique it, they overvalue opinions backed with math/pseudoscience. B uilding J udgment · 1 1 9 When
it comes to reading, make sure your foundation is very, very high quality. The best way to have a high-quality foundation (you may not love this answer), but the trick is to stick
to science and to stick to the basics. Generally, there are only a few things you can read people don’t disagree with. Very few people disagree 2+2=4, right? That is serious
knowledge. Mathematics is a solid foundation. Similarly, the hard sciences are a solid foundation. Microeco- nomics is a solid foundation. The moment you start wandering outside of
these solid foundations you’re in trouble because now you don’t know what’s true and what’s false. I would focus as much as I could on having solid foundations. It’s better to be
really great at arithmetic and geometry than to be deep into advanced mathematics. I would read microeco- nomics all day long—Microeconomics 101. Another way to do this is to read
originals and read classics. If you’re interested in evolution, read Charles Darwin. Don’t begin with Richard Dawkins (even though I think he’s great). Read him later; read Darwin
first. If you want to learn macroeconomics, first read Adam Smith, read von Mises, or read Hayek. Start with the original philos- ophers of the economy. If you’re into communist or
socialist ideas (which I’m personally not), start by reading Karl Marx. Don’t read the current interpretation someone is feeding you about how things should be done and run. If you
start with the originals as your foundations, then you 120 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T have enough of a worldview and understanding that you won’t fear
any book. Then you can just learn. If you’re a perpetual learning machine, you will never be out of options for how to make money. You can always see what’s coming up in society,
what the value is, where the demand is, and you can learn to come up to speed. [74] To think clearly, understand the basics. If you’re memorizing advanced concepts without being
able to re-derive them as needed, you’re lost. We’re now in a day and age of Twitter and Facebook. We’re getting bite-sized, pithy wisdom, which is really hard to absorb. Books are
very difficult to read as a modern person because we’ve been trained. We have two contradictory pieces of training: One is our attention span has gone through the floor because
we’re hit with so much information all the time. We want to skip, summarize, and cut to the chase. Twitter has made me a worse reader but a much better writer. On the other hand,
we’re also taught from a young age to finish your books. Books are sacred—when you go to school and you’re assigned to read a book, you have to finish the book. Over time, we
forget how to read books. Everyone I know is stuck on some book. I’m sure you’re stuck on something right now—it’s page 332, B uilding J udgment · 1 2 1 you can’t go any further,
but you know you should finish the book. So what do you do? You give up reading books for a while. For me, giving up reading was a tragedy. I grew up on books, then I switched to
blogs, then I switched to Twitter and Face- book, and I realized I wasn’t actually learning anything. I was just taking little dopamine snacks all day long. I was getting my little
140-character burst of dopamine. I would Tweet, then look to see who retweeted my Tweet. It’s a fun and wonderful thing, but it’s a game I was playing. I realized I had to go back
to reading books. [6] I knew it was a very hard problem because my brain had now been trained to spend time on Facebook, Twitter, and these other bite-sized pieces. I came up with
this hack where I started treating books as throwaway blog posts or bite-sized tweets or posts. I felt no obligation to finish any book. Now, when someone mentions a book to me, I
buy it. At any given time, I’m reading somewhere between ten and twenty books. I’m flipping through them. If the book is getting a little boring, I’ll skip ahead. Sometimes, I
start reading a book in the middle because some paragraph caught my eye. I’ll just continue from there, and I feel no obli- gation whatsoever to finish the book. All of a sudden,
books are back into my reading library. That’s great, because there is ancient wisdom in books. [6] When solving problems: the older the problem, the older the solution. 122 · T H
E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T If you’re trying to learn how to drive a car or fly a plane, you should read something written in the modern age because this
problem was created in the modern age and the solution is great in the modern age. If you’re talking about an old problem like how to keep your body healthy, how to stay calm and
peaceful, what kinds of value systems are good, how you raise a family, and those kinds of things, the older solutions are probably better. Any book that survived for two thousand
years has been fil- tered through many people. The general principles are more likely to be correct. I wanted to get back into reading these sorts of books. [6] You know that song
you can’t get out of your head? All thoughts work that way. Careful what you read. B uilding J udgment · 1 2 3 A calm mind, a fit body, and a house full of love. These things
cannot be bought. They must be earned. 124 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T PART II HAPPINESS The three big ones in life are wealth, health, and happiness. We
pursue them in that order, but their importance is reverse. LEARNIN G HAPPINESS Don’t take yourself so seriously. You’re just a monkey with a plan. L earning H appiness · 1 27
HAPPINESS IS LEARNED Ten years ago, if you would have asked me how happy I was, I would have dismissed the question. I didn’t want to talk about it. On a scale of 1–10, I would
have said 2/10 or 3/10. Maybe 4/10 on my best days. But I did not value being happy. Today, I am a 9/10. And yes, having money helps, but it’s actu- ally a very small piece of it.
Most of it comes from learning over the years my own happiness is the most important thing to me, and I’ve cultivated it with a lot of techniques. [10] Maybe happiness is not
something you inherit or even choose, but a highly personal skill that can be learned, like fitness or nutrition. Happiness is a very evolving thing, I think, like all the great
questions. When you’re a little kid, you go to your mom and ask, “What happens when we die? Is there a Santa Claus? Is there a God? Should I be happy? Who should I marry?” Those
kinds of things. There are no glib answers because no answers apply to everybody. These kinds of questions ultimately do have answers, but they have personal answers. The answer
that works for me is going to be nonsense to you, and vice versa. Whatever happiness means to me, it means something different to you. I think it’s very important to explore what
these definitions are. For some people I know, it’s a flow state. For some people, it’s 128 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T satisfaction. For some people,
it’s a feeling of contentment. My definition keeps evolving. The answer I would have given you a year ago will be different than what I tell you now. Today, I believe happiness is
really a default state. Happiness is there when you remove the sense of something missing in your life. We are highly judgmental survival-and-replication machines. We constantly
walk around thinking, “I need this,” or “I need that,” trapped in the web of desires. Happiness is the state when nothing is missing. When nothing is missing, your mind shuts down
and stops running into the past or future to regret something or to plan something. In that absence, for a moment, you have internal silence. When you have internal silence, then
you are content, and you are happy. Feel free to disagree. Again, it’s different for everybody. People mistakenly believe happiness is just about positive thoughts and positive
actions. The more I’ve read, the more I’ve learned, and the more I’ve experienced (because I verify this for myself), every positive thought essentially holds within it a negative
thought. It is a contrast to something negative. The Tao Te Ching says this more articulately than I ever could, but it’s all duality and polarity. If I say I’m happy, that means I
was sad at some point. If I say he’s attractive, then somebody else is unattractive. Every positive thought even has a seed of a negative thought within it and vice versa, which is
why a lot of greatness in life comes out of suffering. You have to view the negative before you can aspire to and appreciate the positive. To me, happiness is not about positive
thoughts. It’s not about L earning H appiness · 1 2 9 negative thoughts. It’s about the absence of desire, especially the absence of desire for external things. The fewer desires I
can have, the more I can accept the current state of things, the less my mind is moving, because the mind really exists in motion toward the future or the past. The more present I
am, the happier and more content I will be. If I latch onto a feeling, if I say, “Oh, I’m happy now,” and I want to stay happy, then I’m going to drop out of that happiness. Now,
suddenly, the mind is moving. It’s trying to attach to something. It’s trying to create a permanent situation out of a temporary situation. Happiness to me is mainly not suffering,
not desiring, not think- ing too much about the future or the past, really embracing the present moment and the reality of what is, and the way it is. [4] If you ever want to have
peace in your life, you have to move beyond good and evil. Nature has no concept of happiness or unhappiness. Nature follows unbroken mathematical laws and a chain of cause and
effect from the Big Bang to now. Everything is perfect exactly the way it is. It is only in our particular minds we are unhappy or not happy, and things are perfect or imperfect
because of what we desire. [4] The world just reflects your own feelings back at you. Real- ity is neutral. Reality has no judgments. To a tree, there is no concept of right or
wrong, good or bad. You’re born, you have a whole set of sensory experiences and stimulations (lights, colors, and sounds), and then you die. How you choose to inter- pret them is
up to you—you have that choice. 130 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T This is what I mean when I say happiness is a choice. If you believe it’s a choice, you
can start working on it. [77] There are no external forces affecting your emotions—as much as it may feel that way. I’ve also come to believe in the complete and utter insignifi-
cance of the self, and I think that helps a lot. For example, if you thought you were the most important thing in the Universe, then you would have to bend the entire Universe to
your will. If you’re the most important thing in the Universe, then how could it not conform to your desires. If it doesn’t conform to your desires, something is wrong. However, if
you view yourself as a bacteria or an amoeba—or if you view all of your works as writing on water or building castles in the sand, then you have no expectation for how life should
“actually” be. Life is just the way it is. When you accept that, you have no cause to be happy or unhappy. Those things almost don’t apply. Happiness is what’s there when you
remove the sense that something is missing in your life. What you’re left with in that neutral state is not neutrality. I think people believe neutrality would be a very bland
existence. No, this is the existence little children live. If you look at little children, on balance, they’re generally pretty happy because they are really immersed in the
environment and the moment, L earning H appiness · 1 3 1 without any thought of how it should be given their personal preferences and desires. I think the neutral state is actually
a perfection state. One can be very happy as long as one isn’t too caught up in their own head. [4] Our lives are a blink of a firefly in the night. You’re just barely here. You
have to make the most of every minute, which doesn’t mean you chase some stupid desire for your entire life. What it means is every second you have on this planet is very pre-
cious, and it’s your responsibility to make sure you’re happy and interpreting everything in the best possible way. [9] We think of ourselves as fixed and the world as malleable,
but it’s really we who are malleable and the world is largely fixed. Can practicing meditation help you accept reality? Yeah. But it’s amazing how little it helps. [laughs] You can
be a long-time meditator, but if someone says the wrong thing in the wrong way, you go back to your ego-driven self. It’s almost like you’re lifting one-pound weights, but then
somebody drops a huge barbell with a stack of plates on your head. It’s absolutely better than doing nothing. But when the actual moment of mental or emotional suffering arrives,
it’s still never easy. [8] Real happiness only comes as a side-effect of peace. Most of it is going to come from acceptance, not from changing your external environment. [8] 132 ·
T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T A rational person can find peace by cultivating indifference to things outside of their control. I have lowered my identity. I
have lowered the chattering of my mind. I don’t care about things that don’t really matter. I don’t get involved in politics. I don’t hang around unhappy people. I really value my
time on this earth. I read philosophy. I meditate. I hang around with happy people. And it works. You can very slowly but steadily and methodically improve your happiness baseline,
just like you can improve your fitness. [10] HAPPINESS IS A CHOICE Happiness, love, and passion…aren’t things you find—they’re choices you make. L earning H appiness · 1 3 3
Happiness is a choice you make and a skill you develop. The mind is just as malleable as the body. We spend so much time and effort trying to change the external world, other
people, and our own bodies—all while accepting ourselves the way we were programmed in our youths. We accept the voice in our head as the source of all truth. But all of it is
malleable, and every day is new. Memory and identity are burdens from the past preventing us from living freely in the present. [3] HAPPINESS REQUIRES PRESENCE At any given time,
when you’re walking down the streets, a very small percentage of your brain is focused on the present. The rest is planning the future or regretting the past. This keeps you from
having an incredible experience. It’s keeping you from seeing the beauty in everything and for being grateful for where you are. You can literally destroy your happiness if you
spend all of your time living in delusions of the future. [4] We crave experiences that will make us be present, but the cravings themselves take us from the present moment. I just
don’t believe in anything from my past. Anything. No memories. No regrets. No people. No trips. Nothing. A lot of our unhappiness comes from comparing things from the past to the
present. [4] 134 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T Anticipation for our vices pulls us into the future. Eliminating vices makes it easier to be present. There’s
a great definition I read: “Enlightenment is the space between your thoughts.” It means enlightenment isn’t some- thing you achieve after thirty years sitting on a mountaintop.
It’s something you can achieve moment to moment, and you can be enlightened to a certain percent every single day. [5] What if this life is the paradise we were promised, and we’re
just squandering it? HAPPINESS REQUIRES PEACE Are happiness and purpose interconnected? Happiness is such an overloaded word, I’m not even sure what it means. For me these days,
happiness is more about peace than it is about joy. I don’t think peace and purpose go together. If it’s your internal purpose, the thing you most want to do, then sure, you’ll be
happy doing it. But an externally inflicted purpose, like “society wants me to do X,” “I am the first son of the first son of this, so I should do Y,” or “I have this debt or
burden I took on,” I don’t think it will make you happy. I think a lot of us have this low-level pervasive feeling of anx- iety. If you pay attention to your mind, sometimes you’re
just running around doing your thing and you’re not feeling great, and you notice your mind is chattering and chattering about L earning H appiness · 1 3 5 something. Maybe you
can’t sit still…There’s this “nexting” thing where you’re sitting in one spot thinking about where you should be next. It’s always the next thing, then the next thing, the next
thing after that, then the next thing after that creating this pervasive anxiety. It’s most obvious if you ever just sit down and try and do noth- ing, nothing. I mean nothing, I
mean not read a book, I mean not listen to music, I mean literally just sit down and do noth- ing. You can’t do it, because there’s anxiety always trying to make you get up and go,
get up and go, get up and go. I think it’s important just being aware the anxiety is making you unhappy. The anxiety is just a series of running thoughts. How I combat anxiety: I
don’t try and fight it, I just notice I’m anxious because of all these thoughts. I try to figure out, “Would I rather be having this thought right now, or would I rather have my
peace?” Because as long as I have my thoughts, I can’t have my peace. You’ll notice when I say happiness, I mean peace. When a lot of people say happiness, they mean joy or bliss,
but I’ll take peace. [2] A happy person isn’t someone who’s happy all the time. It’s someone who effortlessly interprets events in such a way that they don’t lose their innate
peace. 136 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T DESIRE TO BE UNHAPPY UNTIL YOU GET IS A CONTRACT THAT YOU MAKE WHAT YOU WITH YOURSELF WANT. EVERY DESIRE IS A
CHOSEN UNHAPPINESS I think the most common mistake for humanity is believ- ing you’re going to be made happy because of some external circumstance. I know that’s not original.
That’s not new. It’s fundamental Buddhist wisdom—I’m not taking credit for it. I think I really just recognize it on a fundamental level, includ- ing in myself. We bought a new
car. Now, I’m waiting for the new car to arrive. Of course, every night, I’m on the forums reading about the car. Why? It’s a silly object. It’s a silly car. It’s not going to
change my life much or at all. I know the instant the car arrives I won’t care about it anymore. The thing is, I’m addicted to the desir- ing. I’m addicted to the idea of this
external thing bringing me some kind of happiness and joy, and this is completely delusional. L earning H appiness · 1 3 7 Looking outside yourself for anything is the fundamental
delu- sion. Not to say you shouldn’t do things on the outside. You absolutely should. You’re a living creature. There are things you do. You locally reverse entropy. That’s why
you’re here. You’re meant to do something. You’re not just meant to lie there in the sand and meditate all day long. You should self-actualize. You should do what you are meant to
do. The idea you’re going to change something in the outside world, and that is going to bring you the peace, everlasting joy, and happiness you deserve, is a fundamental delusion
we all suffer from, including me. The mistake over and over and over is to say, “Oh, I’ll be happy when I get that thing,” whatever it is. That is the fundamental mistake we all
make, 24/7, all day long. [4] The fundamental delusion: There is something out there that will make me happy and fulfilled forever. Desire is a contract you make with yourself to
be unhappy until you get what you want. I don’t think most of us realize that’s what it is. I think we go about desiring things all day long and then wonder why we’re unhappy. I
like to stay aware of it, because then I can choose my desires very carefully. I try not to have more than one big desire in my life at any given time, and I also recognize it as
the axis of my suffering. I realize the area where I’ve chosen to be unhappy. [5] Desire is a contract you make with yourself to be unhappy until you get what you want. 138 · T H E
A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T One thing I’ve learned recently: it’s way more important to per- fect your desires than to try to do something you don’t 100 percent
desire. [1] When you’re young and healthy, you can do more. By doing more, you’re actually taking on more and more desires. You don’t realize this is slowly destroying your
happiness. I find younger people are less happy but more healthy. Older people are more happy but less healthy. When you’re young, you have time. You have health, but you have no
money. When you’re middle-aged, you have money and you have health, but you have no time. When you’re old, you have money and you have time, but you have no health. So the trifecta
is trying to get all three at once. By the time people realize they have enough money, they’ve lost their time and their health. [8] SUCCESS DOES NOT EARN HAPPINESS Happiness is
being satisfied with what you have. Success comes from dissatisfaction. Choose. Confucius says you have two lives, and the second one begins when you realize you only have one.
When and how did your second life begin? That’s a very deep question. Most people who are past a cer- tain age have had this feeling or phenomenon; they’ve gone L earning H
appiness · 1 3 9 through life a certain way and then gotten to a certain stage and had to make some pretty big changes. I’m definitely also in that boat. I struggled for a lot of
my life to have certain material and social successes. When I achieved those material and social successes (or at least was beyond a point where they didn’t matter as much), I
realized the people around me who had achieved similar successes and were on their way to achiev- ing more didn’t seem all that happy. In my case, there was definitely hedonic
adaptation: I’d very quickly get used to anything. This led me to the conclusion, which seems trite, that happi- ness is internal. That conclusion set me on a path of working more
on my internal self and realizing all real success is inter- nal and has very little to do with external circumstances. One has to do the external thing anyway. We’re biologically
hard-wired. It’s glib to say, “You can just turn it off.” Your own life experience will bring you back to the internal path. [7] The problem with getting good at a game, especially
one with big rewards, is you continue playing it long after you should have outgrown it. Survival and replication drive put us on the work treadmill. Hedonic adaptation keeps us
there. The trick is knowing when to jump off and play instead. Who do you think of as successful? 140 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T Most people think of
someone as successful when they win a game, whatever game they play themselves. If you’re an athlete, you’re going to think of a top athlete. If you’re in business, you might think
Elon Musk. A few years ago, I would have said Steve Jobs, because he was part of the driving force creating something that changed lives for all of humanity. I think Marc
Andreessen is successful, not because of his recent incarnation as a venture capitalist, but because of the incredible work he did with Netscape. Satoshi Nakamoto is successful in
that he created Bitcoin, which is this incredible technological creation that will have repercus- sions for decades to come. Of course, Elon Musk, because he changed everyone’s
viewpoint on what is possible with modern technology and entrepreneurship. I consider those creators and commercializers successful. To me, the real winners are the ones who step
out of the game entirely, who don’t even play the game, who rise above it. Those are the people who have such internal mental and self-control and self-awareness, they need nothing
from anybody else. There are a couple of these characters I know in my life. Jerzy Gregorek—I would consider him successful because he doesn’t need anything from anybody. He’s at
peace, he’s healthy, and whether he makes more money or less money compared to the next person has no effect on his mental state. Historically, I would say the legendary Buddha or
Krish- namurti, whose stuff I like reading, they are successful in the sense that they step out of the game entirely. Winning or losing does not matter to them. There’s a line from
Blaise Pascal I read. Basically, it says: “All of L earning H appiness · 1 4 1 man’s troubles arise because he cannot sit in a room quietly by himself.” If you could just sit for
thirty minutes and be happy, you are successful. That is a very powerful place to be, but very few of us get there. [6] I think of happiness as an emergent property of peace. If
you’re peaceful inside and out, that will eventually result in happi- ness. But peace is a very hard thing to come by. The irony is the way most of us try to find peace is through
war. When you start a business, in a way, you’re going to war. When you struggle with your roommates as to who should clean the dishes, you’re going to war. You’re struggling so
you can have some sense of security and peace later. In reality, peace is not a guarantee. It’s always flowing. It’s always changing. You want to learn the core skill set of
flowing with life and accepting it in most cases. [8] You can get almost anything you want out of life, as long as it’s one thing and you want it far more than anything else. In my
own personal experience, the place I end up the most is wanting to be at peace. Peace is happiness at rest, and happiness is peace in motion. You can convert peace into happiness
anytime you want. But peace is what you want most of the time. If you’re a peaceful person, anything you do will be a happy activity. Today, the way we think you get peace is by
resolving all your external problems. But there are unlimited external problems. 142 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T The only way to actually get peace on the
inside is by giving up this idea of problems. [77] ENVY IS THE ENEMY OF HAPPINESS I don’t think life is that hard. I think we make it hard. One of the things I’m trying to get rid
of is the word “should.” When- ever the word “should” creeps up in your mind, it’s guilt or social programming. Doing something because you “should” basically means you don’t
actually want to do it. It’s just making you miserable, so I’m trying to eliminate as many “shoulds” from my life as possible. [1] The enemy of peace of mind is expectations
drilled into you by society and other people. Socially, we’re told, “Go work out. Go look good.” That’s a multi- player competitive game. Other people can see if I’m doing a good
job or not. We’re told, “Go make money. Go buy a big house.” Again, external multiplayer competitive game. Train- ing yourself to be happy is completely internal. There is no
external progress, no external validation. You’re competing against yourself—it is a single-player game. We’re like bees or ants. We are such social creatures, we’re externally
programmed and driven. We don’t know how to play and win these single-player games anymore. We compete purely in multiplayer games. The reality is life is a single-player game.
You’re born alone. You’re going to die alone. All of your interpretations are alone. L earning H appiness · 1 4 3 All your memories are alone. You’re gone in three generations, and
nobody cares. Before you showed up, nobody cared. It’s all single player. Perhaps one reason why yoga and meditation are hard to sustain is they have no extrinsic value. Purely
single-player games. Buffett has a great example when he asks if you want to be the world’s best lover and known as the worst, or the world’s worst lover and known as the best?
[paraphrased] in refer- ence to an inner or external scorecard. Exactly right. All the real scorecards are internal. Jealousy was a very hard emotion for me to overcome. When I was
young, I had a lot of jealousy. By and by, I learned to get rid of it. It still crops up every now and then. It’s such a poisonous emotion because, at the end of the day, you’re no
better off with jealousy. You’re unhappier, and the person you’re jealous of is still successful or good-looking or whatever they are. One day, I realized with all these people I
was jealous of, I couldn’t just choose little aspects of their life. I couldn’t say I want his body, I want her money, I want his personality. You have to be that person. Do you
want to actually be that person with all of their reactions, their desires, their family, their hap- piness level, their outlook on life, their self-image? If you’re not willing to
do a wholesale, 24/7, 100 percent swap with who that person is, then there is no point in being jealous. 144 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T Once I came to
that realization, jealousy faded away because I don’t want to be anybody else. I’m perfectly happy being me. By the way, even that is under my control. To be happy being me. It’s
just there are no social rewards for it. [4] HAPPINESS IS BUILT BY HABITS My most surprising discovery in the last five years is that peace and happiness are skills. These are not
things you are born with. Yes, there is a genetic range. And a lot of it is conditioning from your environment, but you can un-condition and recon- dition yourself. You can
increase your happiness over time, and it starts with believing you can do it. It’s a skill. Just like nutrition is a skill, dieting is a skill, working out is a skill, making
money is a skill, meeting girls and guys is a skill, having good relationships is a skill, even love is a skill. It starts with realizing they’re skills you can learn. When you put
your intention and focus on it, the world can become a better place. When working, surround yourself with people more successful than you. When playing, surround yourself with
people happier than you. What type of skill is happiness? L earning H appiness · 1 4 5 It’s all trial and error. You just see what works. You can try sitting meditation. Did that
work for you? Was it Tantra medi- tation or was it Vipassana meditation? Was it a ten-day retreat or was twenty minutes enough? Okay. None of those worked. But what if I tried
yoga? What if I kite-surfed? What if I go car racing? What about cooking? Does that make me Zen? You literally have to try all of these things until you find something that works
for you. When it comes to medicines for the mind, the placebo effect is 100 percent effective. When it comes to your mind, you want to be positively inclined, not incredulous in
belief. If it is fully internal, you should have a positive mindset. For example, I was reading The Power of Now by Eckhart Tolle, which is a fantastic introduction to being
present, for people who are not religious. He shows you the single-most import- ant thing is to be present and hammers it home over and over again until you get it. He wrote about
this body-energy exercise. You lie down and you feel the energy moving around your body. At that point, the old me would have put the book down and said, “Well, that’s BS.” But the
new me said, “Well, if I believe it, maybe it’ll work.” I went into it with a positive mindset. I laid down and tried the meditation. You know what? It felt really good. How does
someone build the skill of happiness? You can build good habits. Not drinking alcohol will keep your mood more stable. Not eating sugar will keep your mood more stable. Not going
on Facebook, Snapchat, or Twitter will keep 146 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T your mood more stable. Playing video games will make you happier in the short
run—and I used to be an avid gamer—but in the long run, it could ruin your happiness. You’re being fed dopamine and having dopamine withdrawn from you in these little
uncontrollable ways. Caffeine is another one where you trade long term for the short term. Essentially, you have to go through your life replacing your thoughtless bad habits with
good ones, making a commitment to be a happier person. At the end of the day, you are a combi- nation of your habits and the people who you spend the most time with. When we’re
kids, we have very few habits. Over time, we learn the things we are not supposed to do. We become self- conscious. We start forming habits and routines. Many distinctions between
people who get happier as they get older and people who don’t can be explained by what habits they have developed. Are they habits that will increase your long-term happiness
