company. This company did well, but I didn’t do well, so I sued some of the people involved. It was a good outcome for me in the end, and everything worked out okay, but there was
a lot of angst and a lot of anger. Today, I wouldn’t have the angst and the anger. I would have just walked up to the people and said, “Look, this is what hap- pened. This is what
I’m going to do. This is how I’m going to do it. This is what’s fair. This is what’s not.” I would have realized the anger and emotions are a huge, com- pletely unnecessary
consequence. Now, I’m trying to learn from that and do the same things I think are the right things to do but without anger and with a very long-term point of S aving Y ourself · 1
7 9 view. If you take a very long-term point of view and take the emotion out of it, I wouldn’t consider those things mistakes anymore. [4] Again, habits are everything—everything
we are. We are trained in habits from when we are children, including potty training, when to cry and when not to, how to smile and when not to. These things become
habits—behaviors we learn and integrate into ourselves. When we’re older, we’re a collection of thousands of habits constantly running subconsciously. We have a little bit of extra
brainpower in our neocortex for solving new problems. You become your habits. This came to light for me when my trainer gave me a routine to do every single day. I had never worked
out every single day before. It’s a light workout. It’s not tough on your body, but I did this workout every single day. I realized the incredible, astonishing transformation it
had on me both physically and mentally. To have peace of mind, you have to have peace of body first. This taught me the power of habits. I started realizing it’s all about habits.
At any given time, I’m either trying to pick up a good habit or discard a previous bad habit. It takes time. If someone says, “I want to be fit, I want to be healthy. Right now,
I’m out of shape and I’m fat.” Well, nothing sustainable is going to work for you in three months. It’s going to be at least 180 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N
T a ten-year journey. Every six months (depending on how fast you can do it), you’re going to break bad habits and pick up good habits. [6] One of the things Krishnamurti talks
about is being in an inter- nal state of revolution. You should always be internally ready for a complete change. Whenever we say we’re going to try to do something or try to form
a habit, we’re wimping out. We’re just saying to ourselves, “I’m going to buy myself some more time.” The reality is when our emotions want us to do something, we just do it. If
you want to go approach a pretty girl, if you want to have a drink, if you really desire something, you just go do it. When you say, “I’m going to do this,” and “I’m going to be
that,” you’re really putting it off. You’re giving yourself an out. At least if you’re self-aware, you can think, “‘I say I want to do this, but I don’t really because if I really
wanted to do it, I would just do it.” Commit externally to enough people. For example, if you want to quit smoking, all you have to do is go to everybody you know and say, “I quit
smoking. I did it. I give you my word.” That’s all you need to do. Go ahead, right? But most of us say we’re not quite ready. We know we don’t want to commit our- selves
externally. It’s important to be honest with yourself and say, “Okay, I’m not ready to give up smoking. I like it too much, it is going to be too hard for me to give up.” Say
instead, “I’ll set a more reasonable goal for myself; I’ll cut down to the following amount. I can commit to that externally. I’m going to work on that for three or six months.
When I get S aving Y ourself · 1 81 there, I’ll take the next step, as opposed to beating myself up over it.” When you really want to change, you just change. But most of us don’t
really want to change—we don’t want to go through the pain just yet. At least recognize it, be aware of it, and give yourself a smaller change you can actually carry out. [6]
Impatience with actions, patience with results. Anything you have to do, just get it done. Why wait? You’re not getting any younger. Your life is slipping away. You don’t want to
spend it waiting in line. You don’t want to spend it traveling back and forth. You don’t want to spend it doing things you know ultimately aren’t part of your mission. When you do
them, you want to do them as quickly as you can while doing them well with your full attention. But then, you just have to be patient with the results because you’re dealing with
complex systems and many people. It takes a long time for markets to adopt products. It takes time for people to get comfortable working with each other. It takes time for great
products to emerge as you polish away, polish away, polish away. Impatience with actions, patience with results. As Nivi said, inspiration is perishable. When you have inspiration,
act on it right then and there. [78] 182 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T TIME ACTIONS RESULTS CHOOSING TO GROW YOURSELF I don’t believe in specific goals.
Scott Adams famously said, “Set up systems, not goals.” Use your judgment to figure out what kinds of environments you can thrive in, and then create an environment around you so
you’re statistically likely to succeed. The current environment programs the brain, but the clever brain can choose its upcoming environment. I’m not going to be the most
successful person on the planet, nor do I want to be. I just want to be the most successful ver- sion of myself while working the least hard possible. I want to live in a way that
if my life played out 1,000 times, Naval is successful 999 times. He’s not a billionaire, but he does pretty well each time. He may not have nailed life in every regard, but he
sets up systems so he’s failed in very few places. [4] S aving Y ourself · 1 83 Remember I started as a poor kid in India, right? If I can make it, anybody can, in that sense.
Obviously, I had all my limbs, my mental faculties, and I did have an education. There are some prerequisites you can’t get past. But if you’re reading this book, you probably have
the requisite means at your disposal, which is a functioning body and a functioning mind. [78] If there’s something you want to do later, do it now. There is no “later.” How do you
personally learn about new subjects? Mostly, I just stay on the basics. Even when I learn physics or science, I stick to the basics. I read concepts for fun. I’m more likely to do
something that has arithmetic in it than calculus. I won’t be a great physicist at this point. Maybe in the next lifetime or my kid will do it, but it’s too late for me. I have to
stick to what I enjoy. Science is, to me, the study of truth. It is the only true discipline because it makes falsifiable predictions. It actually changes the world. Applied
science becomes technology, and technology is what separates us from the animals and allows us to have things like cell phones, houses, cars, heat, and electricity. Science, to me,
is the study of truth and mathematics is the language of science and nature. I’m not religious, but I’m spiritual. To me, that is the most devo- tional thing that I could do, to
study the laws of the Universe. The same kick that someone might get out of being in Mecca 184 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T or Medina and bowing to the
prophet, I get the same feeling of awe and small sense of self when I study science. For me, it’s unparalleled and I’d rather stay at the basics. This is the beauty of reading. [4]
Do you agree with the idea “If you read what everybody else is reading, you’re going to think what everyone else is thinking”? I think almost everything that people read these days
is designed for social approval. [4] I know people who have read one hundred regurgitated books on evolution and they’ve never read Darwin. Think of the number of macroeconomists
out there. I think most of them have read tons of treatises in economics but haven’t read any Adam Smith. At some level, you’re doing it for social approval. You’re doing it to fit
in with the other monkeys. You’re fitting in to get along with the herd. That’s not where the returns are in life. The returns in life are being out of the herd. Social approval is
inside the herd. If you want social approval, definitely go read what the herd is reading. It takes a level of contrarianism to say, “Nope. I’m just going to do my own thing.
Regardless of the social outcome, I will learn anything I think is interesting.” Do you think there’s some loss aversion there? Because once you diverge, you’re not sure if you’re
diverging toward a pos- itive outcome or a negative outcome? Absolutely. I think that’s why the smartest and the most suc- S aving Y ourself · 1 85 cessful people I know started
out as losers. If you view yourself as a loser, as someone who was cast out by society and has no role in normal society, then you will do your own thing and you’re much more
likely to find a winning path. It helps to start out by saying, “I’m never going to be popular. I’m never going to be accepted. I’m already a loser. I’m not going to get what all
the other kids have. I’ve just got to be happy being me.” For self-improvement without self-discipline, update your self-image. Everyone’s motivated at something. It just depends
on the thing. Even the people that we say are unmotivated are suddenly really motivated when they’re playing video games. I think motivation is relative, so you just have to find
the thing you’re into. [1] Grind and sweat, toil and bleed, face the abyss. It’s all part of becoming an overnight success. If you had to pass down to your kids one or two
principles, what would they be? Number one: read. Read everything you can. And not just the stuff that society tells you is good or even books that I tell you to read. Just read
for its own sake. Develop a love for it. Even if you have to read romance novels or paperbacks or comic books. There’s no such thing as junk. Just read it all. Eventually, you’ll
guide yourself to the things that you should and want to be reading. 186 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T Related to the skill of reading are the skills of
mathematics and persuasion. Both skills help you to navigate through the real world. Having the skill of persuasion is important because if you can influence your fellow human
beings, you can get a lot done. I think persuasion is an actual skill. So you can learn it, and it’s not that hard to do so. Mathematics helps with all the complex and difficult
things in life. If you want to make money, if you want to do sci- ence, if you want to understand game theory or politics or economics or investments or computers, all of these
things have mathematics at the core. It’s a foundational language of nature. Nature speaks in mathematics. Mathematics is us reverse engi- neering the language of nature, and we
have only scratched the surface. The good news is you don’t have to know a lot of math. You just have to know basic statistics, arithmetic, etc. You should know statistics and
probability forwards and back- wards and inside out. [8] CHOOSING TO FREE YOURSELF The hardest thing is not doing what you want—it’s knowing what you want. Be aware there are no
“adults.” Everyone makes it up as they go along. You have to find your own path, picking, choosing, and discarding as you see fit. Figure it out yourself, and do it. [71] S aving Y
ourself · 1 87 How have your values changed? When I was younger, I really, really valued freedom. Freedom was one of my core values. Ironically, it still is. It’s probably one of
my top three values, but it’s now a different definition of freedom. My old definition was “freedom to.” Freedom to do anything I want. Freedom to do whatever I feel like, whenever
I feel like. Now, the freedom I’m looking for is internal freedom. It’s “free- dom from.” Freedom from reaction. Freedom from feeling angry. Freedom from being sad. Freedom from
being forced to do things. I’m looking for “freedom from,” internally and externally, whereas before I was looking for “freedom to.” [4] Advice to my younger self: “Be exactly who
you are.” Holding back means staying in bad relationships and bad jobs for years instead of minutes. FREEDOM FROM EXPECTATIONS I don’t measure my effectiveness at all. I don’t
believe in self-measurement. I feel like this is a form of self-discipline, self-punishment, and self-conflict. [1] If you hurt other people because they have expectations of you,
that’s their problem. If they have an agreement with you, it’s your problem. But, if they have an expectation of you, that’s completely their problem. It has nothing to do with
you. They’re going to have lots of expectations out of life. The sooner you can dash their expectations, the better. [1] 188 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T
Courage isn’t charging into a machine gun nest. Courage is not caring what other people think. Anyone who has known me for a long time knows my defining characteristic is a
combination of being very impatient and willful. I don’t like to wait. I hate wasting time. I’m very famous for being rude at parties, events, dinners, where the moment I figure
out it’s a waste of my time, I leave immediately. Value your time. It is all you have. It’s more important than your money. It’s more important than your friends. It is more
important than anything. Your time is all you have. Do not waste your time. This doesn’t mean you can’t relax. As long as you’re doing what you want, it’s not a waste of your time.
But if you’re not spend- ing your time doing what you want, and you’re not earning, and you’re not learning—what the heck are you doing? Don’t spend your time making other people
happy. Other people being happy is their problem. It’s not your problem. If you are happy, it makes other people happy. If you’re happy, other people will ask you how you became
happy and they might learn from it, but you are not responsible for making other people happy. [10] FREEDOM FROM ANGER What is anger? Anger is a way to signal as strongly as you
can to the other party you’re capable of violence. Anger is a pre- cursor to violence. S aving Y ourself · 1 89 Observe when you’re angry—anger is a loss of control over the
situation. Anger is a contract you make with yourself to be in physical and mental and emotional turmoil until reality changes. [1] Anger is its own punishment. An angry person
trying to push your head below water is drowning at the same time. FREEDOM FROM EMPLOYMENT People who live far below their means enjoy a freedom that people busy upgrading their
lifestyles can’t fathom. [11] Once you’ve truly controlled your own fate, for better or for worse, you’ll never let anyone else tell you what to do. [11] A taste of freedom can
make you unemployable. FREEDOM FROM UNCONTROLLED THINKING A big habit I’m working on is trying to turn off my “monkey mind.” When we’re children, we’re pretty blank slates. We live
very much in the moment. We essentially just react to our environment through our instincts. We live in what I would call the “real world.” Puberty is the onset of desire—the first
time you really, really want something and you start long-range planning. You start thinking a lot, building an identity and an ego to get what you want. 190 · T H E A L M A N A C
K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T If you walk down the street and there are a thousand people in the street, all thousand are talking to themselves in their head at any given point.
They’re constantly judging everything they see. They’re playing back movies of things that happened to them yesterday. They’re living in fantasy worlds of what’s going to happen
tomorrow. They’re just pulled out of base reality. That can be good when you do long-range planning. It can be good when you solve problems. It’s good for us as survival-and-
replication machines. I think it’s actually very bad for your happiness. To me, the mind should be a servant and a tool, not a master. My monkey mind should not control and drive
me 24/7. I want to break the habit of uncontrolled thinking, which is hard. [4] A busy mind accelerates the passage of subjective time. There is no endpoint to self-awareness and
self-discovery. It’s a lifelong process you hopefully keep getting better and better at. There is no one meaningful answer, and no one is going to fully solve it unless you’re one
of these enlightened characters. Maybe some of us will get there, but I’m not likely to, given how involved I am in the rat race. The best case is I’m a rat who might be able to
look up at the clouds once in a while. I think just being aware you’re a rat in a race is about as far as most of us are going to get. [8] S aving Y ourself · 1 91 The modern
struggle: Lone individuals summoning inhuman willpower, fasting, meditating, and exercising… Up against armies of scientists and statisticians weaponizing abundant food, screens,
and medicine into junk food, clickbait news, infinite porn, endless games, and addictive drugs. 192 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T PHILOSOPHY The real truths
are heresies. They cannot be spoken. Only discovered, whispered, and perhaps read. P hilosophy · 1 93 THE MEANINGS OF LIFE A really unbounded, big question: what is the meaning and
purpose of life? That’s a big question. Because it’s a big question, I’ll give you three answers. Answer 1: It’s personal. You have to find your own meaning. Any piece of wisdom
anybody else gives you, whether it’s Buddha or me, is going to sound like nonsense. Fundamentally, you have to find it for yourself, so the important part is not the answer, it’s
the question. You just have to sit there and dig with the question. It might take you years or decades. When you find an answer you’re happy with, it will be fundamental to your
life. Answer 2: There is no meaning to life. There is no purpose to life. Osho said, “It’s like writing on water or building houses of sand.” The reality is you’ve been dead for
the history of the Universe, 10 billion years or more. You will be dead for the next 70 billion years or so, until the heat death of the Universe. Anything you do will fade. It
will disappear, just like the human race will disappear and the planet will disappear. Even the group who colonizes Mars will disappear. No one is going to remember you past a
certain number of generations, whether you’re an artist, a poet, a conqueror, a pauper, or anyone else. There’s no meaning. You have to create your own meaning, which is what it
boils down to. You have to decide: “Is this a play I’m just watching?” 194 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T “Is there a self-actualization dance I’m doing?”
“Is there a specific thing I desire just for the heck of it?” These are all meanings you make up. There is no fundamental, intrinsic purposeful meaning to the Universe. If there
was, then you would just ask the next question. You’d say, “Why is that the meaning?” It would be, as physicist Richard Feynman said, it would be “turtles all the way down.” The
“why’s” would keep accumulating. There is no answer you could give that wouldn’t have another “why.” I don’t buy the everlasting afterlife answers because it’s insane to me, with
absolutely no evidence, to believe because of how you live seventy years here on this planet, you’re going to spend eternity, which is a very long time, in some afterlife. What
kind of silly God judges you for eternity based on some small period of time here? I think after this life, it’s very much like before you were born. Remember that? It’s going to
be just like that. Before you were born, you didn’t care about anything or anyone, including your loved ones, including yourself, includ- ing humans, including whether we go to
Mars or whether we stay on planet Earth, whether there’s an AI or not. After death, you just don’t care either. Answer 3: The last answer I’ll give you is a little more
complicated. From what I’ve read in science (friends of mine have written books on this), I’ve stitched together some theories. Maybe there is a meaning to life, but it’s not a
very satisfying purpose. Basically, in physics, the arrow of time comes from entropy. P hilosophy · 1 95 The second law of thermodynamics states entropy only goes up, which means
disorder in the Universe only goes up, which means concentrated free energy only goes down. If you look at living things (humans, plants, civilizations, what have you) these
systems are locally reversing entropy. Humans locally reverse entropy because we have action. In the process, we globally accelerate entropy until the heat death of the Universe.
You could come up with some fanciful theory, which I like, that we’re headed towards the heat death of the Universe. In that death, there’s no concentrated energy, and everything
is at the same energy level. Therefore, we’re all one thing. We’re essentially indistinguishable. What we do as living systems accelerates getting to that state. The more complex
system you create, whether it’s through computers, civilization, art, mathematics, or creating a family—you actually accelerate the heat death of the Universe. You’re pushing us
towards this point where we end up as one thing. [4] LIVE BY YOUR VALUES What are your core values? I’ve never fully enumerated them, but a few examples: Honesty is a core, core,
core value. By honesty, I mean I want to be able to just be me. I never want to be in an environment or around people where I have to watch what I say. If I disconnect what I’m
thinking from what I’m saying, it creates multiple threads in my mind. I’m no longer in the moment—now I have to be future-planning or past-regretting every time I talk to 196 · T
H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T somebody. Anyone around whom I can’t be fully honest, I don’t want to be around. Before you can lie to another, you must first lie
to yourself. Another example of a foundational value: I don’t believe in any short-term thinking or dealing. If I’m doing business with somebody and they think in a short-term
manner with some- body else, then I don’t want to do business with them anymore. All benefits in life come from compound interest, whether in money, relationships, love, health,
activities, or habits. I only want to be around people I know I’m going to be around for the rest of my life. I only want to work on things I know have long-term payout. Another
one is I only believe in peer relationships. I don’t believe in hierarchical relationships. I don’t want to be above anybody, and I don’t want to be below anybody. If I can’t treat
someone like a peer and if they can’t treat me like peer, I just don’t want to interact with them. Another: I don’t believe in anger anymore. Anger was good when I was young and
full of testosterone, but now I like the Buddhist saying, “Anger is a hot coal you hold in your hand while waiting to throw it at somebody.” I don’t want to be angry, and I don’t
want to be around angry people. I just cut them out of my life. I’m not judging them. I went through a lot of anger too. They have to work through it on their own. Go be angry at
someone else, somewhere else. I don’t know if these necessarily fall into the classical defini- P hilosophy · 1 97 tion of values, but it’s a set of things I won’t compromise on
and I live my entire life by. [4] I think everybody has values. Much of finding great relationships, great coworkers, great lovers, wives, husbands, is finding other people where
your values line up. If your values line up, the little things don’t matter. Gener- ally, I find if people are fighting or quarreling about something, it’s because their values
don’t line up. If their values lined up, the little things wouldn’t matter. [4] Meeting my wife was a great test because I really wanted to be with her, and she wasn’t so sure at
the beginning. In the end, we ended up together because she saw my values. I am lucky I had developed them by that point. If I hadn’t, I wouldn’t have gotten her. I wouldn’t have
deserved her. As investor Charlie Munger says, “To find a worthy mate, be worthy of a worthy mate.” [4] My wife is an incredibly lovely, family-oriented person, and so am I. That
was one of the foundational values that brought us together. The moment you have a child, it’s this really weird thing, but it answers the meaning-of-life, purpose-of-life,
question. All of a sudden, the most important thing in the Universe moves from being in your body into the child’s body. That changes you. Your values inherently become a lot less
selfish. [4] RATIONAL BUDDHISM The older the question, the older the answers. 198 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T You’ve called your philosophy Rational
Buddhism. How does it differ from traditional Buddhism? What type of explora- tion did you go through? The rational part means I have to reconcile with science and evolution. I
have to reject all the pieces I can’t verify for myself. For example, is meditation good for you? Yes. Is clearing your mind a good thing? Yes. Is there a base layer of awareness
below your monkey mind? Yes. All these things I’ve verified for myself. Some beliefs from Buddhism I believe and follow because, again, I’ve verified or reasoned with thought
experiments myself. What I will not accept is things like, “There’s a past life you’re paying off the karma for.” I haven’t seen it. I don’t remember any past lives. I don’t have
any memory. I just have to not believe that. When people say your third chakra is opening, etc.—I don’t know—that’s just fancy nomenclature. I have not been able to verify or
confirm any of that on my own. If I can’t verify it on my own or if I cannot get there through science, then it may be true, it may be false, but it’s not falsifiable, so I cannot
view it as a fundamental truth. On the other side, I do know evolution is true. I do know we are evolved as survival and replication machines. I do know we have an ego, so we get
up off the ground and worms don’t eat us and we actually take action. Rational Buddhism, to me, means understanding the internal work Buddhism espouses to make yourself happier,
better off, more present and in control of your emotions—being a better human being. P hilosophy · 1 99 I don’t subscribe to anything fanciful because it was written down in a
book. I don’t think I can levitate. I don’t think medi- tation will give me superpowers and those kinds of things. Try everything, test it for yourself, be skeptical, keep what’s
useful, and discard what’s not. I would say my philosophy falls down to this—on one pole is evolution as a binding principle because it explains so much about humans, on the other
is Buddhism, which is the oldest, most time-tested spiritual philosophy regarding the internal state of each of us. I think those are absolutely reconcilable. I actually want to
write a blog post at some point about how you can map the tenants of Buddhism, especially the non-fanciful ones, directly into a virtual reality simulation. [4] Everyone starts out
innocent. Everyone is corrupted. Wisdom is the discarding of vices and the return to virtue, by way of knowledge. How do you define wisdom? Understanding the long-term consequences
of your actions. [11] 200 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T If wisdom could be imparted through words alone, we’d all be done here. P hilosophy · 2 0 1 THE
PRESENT IS ALL WE HAVE There is actually nothing but this moment. No one has ever gone back in time, and no one has ever been able to success- fully predict the future in any way
that matters. Literally, the only thing that exists is this exact point where you are in space at the exact time you happen to be here. Like all great profound truths, it’s all
paradoxes. Any two points are infinitely different. Any moment is perfectly unique. Each moment itself slips by so quickly you can’t grab it. [4] You’re dying and being reborn at
every moment. It’s up to you whether to forget or remember that. [2] “Everything is more beautiful because we’re doomed. You will never be lovelier than you are now, and we will
never be here again.” —Homer, The Iliad I don’t even remember what I said two minutes ago. At best, the past is some fictional little memory tape in my head. As far as I’m
concerned, my past is dead. It’s gone. All death really means is that there are no more future moments. [2] Inspiration is perishable—act on it immediately. 202 · T H E A L M A N A
C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T INSPIRATION IS PERISHABLE, ACT ON IT IMMEDIATELY. P H I L O S O P H Y · 203 BONUS The democratization of technology allows anyone to be a creator,
entrepreneur, scientist. The future is brighter. It’s statistically likely there are more advanced alien civilizations out there. Hopefully, they’re good environmentalists and find
us cute. 206 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T N AVAL’S RECOMMENDED READIN G The truth is, I don’t read for self-improvement. I read out of curiosity and
interest. The best book is the one you’ll devour. N aval ’ s R ecommended R eading · 2 0 7 BOOKS (Since there are so many links in this section, you may prefer a digital copy. Go
to Navalmanack.com to get a digital version of this chapter for your convenience.) Read enough, and you become a connoisseur. Then you naturally gravitate more toward theory,
concepts, nonfiction. NONFICTION The Beginning of Inﬁnity: Explanations That Transform the World by David Deutsch Not the easiest read, but it made me smarter. [79] Sapiens: A
Brief History of Humankind by Yuval Noah Harari A history of the human species. The observations, frameworks, and mental models will have you looking at history Open the camera on
your phone and hover over this image. and your fellow humans differently. [1] Sapiens is the best book of the last decade I have read. He had decades to write Sapiens. There are
lots of great ideas in there and it’s just full of them, chock-full per page. [1] The Rational Optimist: How Prosperity Evolves by Matt Ridley The most brilliant and enlightening
book I’ve read in years. He has written four of my top twenty books. [11] 208 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T Everything else written by Matt Ridley. Matt is
a scientist, optimist, and forward thinker. One of my favorite authors. I’ve read everything of his, and reread every- thing of his. [4] Open the camera on your phone and hover
over this image. → Genome: The Autobiography of a Species in 23 Chapters → The Red Queen: Sex and the Evolution of Human Nature → The Origins of Virtue: Human Instincts and the
Evolution of Cooperation → The Evolution of Everything: How New Ideas Emerge Skin in the Game by Nassim Taleb The best book I read in 2018, I highly recommend it. Lots of great
ideas in there. Lots of good mental models and constructs. He has a bit of an attitude, Open the camera on your phone and hover over this image. but he has that because he’s
brilliant, and it’s okay. So just look past the attitude and read the book, learn the concepts. It’s one of the best business books I’ve ever read. And luckily, it doesn’t
masquerade as a business book. [10] The Bed of Procrustes: Philosophical and Practical Aphorisms by Nassim Taleb This is his collection of ancient wisdom. He is also famous for The
Black Swan: The Impact of the Highly Improbable, Antifrag- ile: Things That Gain from Disorder, and Fooled by Randomness: The Hidden Role of Chance in Life and in the Markets, all
of which are worth reading. [7] N A V A L ’ S R E C O M M E N D E D R E A D I N G · 20 9 Six Easy Pieces: Essentials of Physics Explained by Its Most Brilliant Teacher by Richard
Feynman I would give my kids a copy of Rich- ard Feynman’s Six Easy Pieces and Six Open the camera on your phone and hover over this image. Not-So-Easy Pieces: Einstein’s
Relativity, Symmetry, and Space- Time. Richard Feynman is a famous physicist. I love both his demeanor as well as his understanding of physics. I’ve also been reading Perfectly
Reasonable Deviations from the Beaten Track by Feynman and rereading Genius: The Life and Science of Richard Feynman, a biography about him. [8] Thing Explainer: Complicated Stuﬀ
in Simple Words by Randall Munroe A great book by Randall Munroe (cre- ator of xkcd, a very science-oriented webcomic). In this book, he explains Open the camera on your phone and
hover over this image. very complicated concepts, all the way from climate change to physical systems to submarines while only using the thou- sand most common words in the English
language. He called the Saturn Five rocket “Up Goer Five.” You can’t define a rocket as a spaceship or a rocket. It’s self-referential. He says “up goer.” It’s this thing that goes
up. Kids get it right away. [4] Thinking Physics: Understandable Prac- tical Reality by Lewis Carroll Epstein There’s another great book called Think- ing Physics. I open this one
all the time. Open the camera on your phone and hover over this image. I love on the back cover how it has this 210 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T great
little pitch that says, “The only book used in both grade school and graduate school.” It’s true. It’s all simple physics puzzles that can be explained to a twelve-year-old child
and can be explained to a twenty-five-year-old grad student in physics. They all have fundamental insights in physics. They’re all kind of tricky, but anyone can get to the answer
through purely logical reasoning. [4] The Lessons of History by Will and Ariel Durant This is a great book I really like that summarizes some of the larger themes of history; it’s
very incisive. And unlike most history books, it’s actually really small, and it covers a lot of ground. [7] The Sovereign Individual: Mastering the Transition to the Information
Age by James Dale Davidson and Lord William Rees-Mogg This is the best book I’ve read since Sapiens (far less main- stream, though). Poor Charlie’s Almanack: The Wit and Wisdom of
Charles T. Munger by Charlie Munger (edited by Peter Kaufman) This masquerades as a business book, but it’s really just Charlie Munger (of Open the camera on your phone and hover
over this image. Berkshire Hathaway)’s advice on overcoming oneself to live a successful and virtuous life. [7] [80] Reality Is Not What It Seems: The Journey to Quantum Gravity by
Carlo Rovelli N A V A L ’ S R E C O M M E N D E D R E A D I N G · 21 1 This is the best book I’ve read in the last year. Physics, poetry, philosophy, and history packaged in a very
accessible form. Seven Brief Lessons on Physics by Carlo Rovelli I’ve read this one at least twice. For game theory, in addition to playing strategy games, you may want to try The
Compleat Strategyst: Being a Primer on the Theory of Games of Strategy by J.D. Williams and The Evolution of Cooperation by Robert Axelrod. [11] PHILOSOPHY AND SPIRITUALITY
Everything by Jed McKenna Jed spits raw truth. His style may be off-putting, but the ded- ication to truth is unparalleled. [79] Theory of Everything (The Enlightened Perspective)
- Dream- state Trilogy Jed McKenna’s Notebook Jed Talks #1 and #2 Everything by Kapil Gupta, MD Kapil recently became a personal advisor and coach to me, and this comes from a
person who doesn’t believe in coaches. [79] A Master’s Secret Whispers: For those who abhor noise and seek The Truth…about life and living 212 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L
R A V I K A N T Direct Truth: Uncompromising, non-prescriptive Truths to the enduring questions of life Atmamun: The Path to achieving the bliss of the Himalayan Swamis. And the
freedom of a living God. The Book of Life by Jiddu Krishnamurti Krishnamurti is a lesser-known guy, an Indian philosopher who lived at the turn of the last century and is extremely
influential to me. He’s an uncompromis- Open the camera on your phone and hover over this image. ing, very direct person who basically tells you to look at your own mind at all
times. I have been hugely influenced by him. Probably the best book is The Book of Life, which is excerpts from his various speeches and books stitched together. [6] I’ll give my
kids a copy of The Book of Life. I’ll tell them to save it until they’re older because it won’t make much sense while they’re younger. [8] Total Freedom: The Essential Krishnamurti
by Jiddu Krishnamurti I like this for someone who’s more advanced. A rationalist’s guide to the perils of the human mind. The “spiritual” book I keep returning to. [1] Siddhartha
by Herman Hesse I love this as a classic book on philosophy, a good introduction for someone starting out. I’ve given out more copies of this book than any other. [1] N A V A L ’ S
R E C O M M E N D E D R E A D I N G · 21 3 I’m pretty much always rereading something by either Krishnamurti or Osho. Those are my favorite philosophers. [4] [Update: I’d now add
Jed McKenna, Kapil Gupta, the Vashistha Yoga, and Schopenhauer to that list.] The Book of Secrets: 112 Meditations to Discover the Mystery Within by Osho Most meditation techniques
are con- centration methods, and there are many, many meditation techniques. If you Open the camera on your phone and hover over this image. want to run through a bunch of them,
you can pick up a book called The Book of Secrets by Osho. I know he’s gotten a bad rap recently, but he was a pretty smart guy. It’s actually a transla- tion of an old Sanskrit
book with 112 different meditations. You can try each one and see which one works for you. [74] The Great Challenge: Exploring the World Within by Osho The Way to Love: The Last
Meditations of Anthony de Mello by Anthony de Mello The Untethered Soul: The Journey Beyond Yourself by Michael Singer Meditations by Marcus Aurelius Marcus Aurelius was absolutely
life- changing for me. It’s the personal diary of the emperor of Rome. Here’s a guy Open the camera on your phone and hover over this image. who was probably the most powerful 214
· T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T human being on Earth at the time he lived. He’s writing a diary to himself, never expecting it to be published. When you open
this book, you realize he had all the same issues and all the same mental struggles; he was trying to be a better person. Right there, you figure out success and power don’t
improve your internal state—you still have to work on it. [6] Love Yourself Like Your Life Depends on It by Kamal Ravikant I’ve actually been reading my brother’s book, Love
Yourself Like Your Life Depends on It. I thought it was very succinctly written. (Obviously a plug for my bro.) He’s the philosopher in the family—I’m just the amateur. He has a
great line in his book: I once asked a monk how he found peace. “I say ‘yes,’” he’d said. “To all that happens, I say ‘yes.’” [7] The Tao of Seneca: Practical Letters from a Stoic
Master My most listened-to audiobook. The most important audio- book I’ve ever heard. How to Change Your Mind by Michael Pollan There’s a good book Michael Pollan wrote recently
called How to Change Open the camera on your phone and hover over this image. N A V A L ’ S R E C O M M E N D E D R E A D I N G · 21 5 Your Mind, and I think it is a brilliant book
everybody should read. The book discusses psychedelics. Psychedelics are a bit of a cheat code in self-observation. I don’t recommend drugs for anybody—you can do it all through
pure meditation. If you want to accelerate ahead, you know, psychedelics are good for that. [74] Striking Thoughts: Bruce Lee’s Wisdom for Daily Living by Bruce Lee Oddly enough,
Bruce Lee wrote some great philosophy, and Striking Thoughts is a good summary of some of his philosophy. The Prophet by Kahlil Gibran This book reads like a modern-day poetic
