THE ALMANACK OF NAVAL RAVIKANT T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A VA L R A V I K A N T ERIC JORGENSON Copyright © 2020 Eric Jorgenson All rights reserved. The Almanack of Naval Ravikant
A Guide to Wealth and Happiness IS B N 978-1-5445-1422-2 Hardcover 978-1-5445-1421-5 Paperback 978-1-5445-1420-8 Ebook This book has been created as a public service. It is
available for free download in pdf and e-reader versions on Navalmanack.com. Naval is not earning any money on this book. Naval has essays, podcasts and more at Nav.al and is on
Twitter @Naval. FOR MY PARENTS, WHO GAVE ME E V E R Y T H I N G A N D A LWAYS S E E M TO F I N D A WAY TO G I V E M O R E . CONTENTS IMPORTANT NOTES ON THIS BOOK (DISCLAIMER) 9
FOREWORD 13 ERIC’S NOTE (ABOUT THIS BOOK) 17 TIMELINE OF NAVAL RAVIKANT 21 NOW, HERE IS NAVAL IN HIS OWN WORDS… 23 PART I: WEALTH BUILDING WEALTH 29 Understand How Wealth Is
Created 30 Find and Build Specific Knowledge 40 Play Long-Term Games with Long-Term People 46 Take on Accountability 50 Build or Buy Equity in a Business 53 Find a Position of
Leverage 55 Get Paid for Your Judgment 67 Prioritize and Focus 69 Find Work That Feels Like Play 76 How to Get Lucky 82 Be Patient 87 BUILDING JUDGMENT 93 Judgment 94 How to Think
Clearly 95 Shed Your Identity to See Reality 101 Learn the Skills of Decision-Making 103 Collect Mental Models 106 Learn to Love to Read 114 PART II: HAPPINESS LEARNING HAPPINESS
127 Happiness Is Learned 128 Happiness Is a Choice 133 Happiness Requires Presence 134 Happiness Requires Peace 135 Every Desire Is a Chosen Unhappiness 137 Success Does Not Earn
Happiness 139 Envy Is the Enemy of Happiness 143 Happiness Is Built by Habits 145 Find Happiness in Acceptance 151 SAVING YOURSELF 157 Choosing to Be Yourself 158 Choosing to Care
for Yourself 161 Meditation + Mental Strength 168 Choosing to Build Yourself 178 Choosing to Grow Yourself 183 Choosing to Free Yourself 187 PHILOSOPHY 193 The Meanings of Life 194
Live by Your Values 196 Rational Buddhism 198 The Present Is All We Have 202 BONUS NAVAL’S RECOMMENDED READING 207 Books 208 Other Recommendations 221 NAVAL’S WRITING 223 NEXT ON
NAVAL 227 APPRECIATION 229 SOURCES 233 ABOUT THE AUTHOR 241 IMPORTANT N OTES ON THIS BOOK (DISCL AIMER) I built the Navalmanack entirely out of transcripts, Tweets, and talks Naval
has shared. Every attempt is made to present Naval in his own words. However, there are a few important points. → The transcripts have been edited for clarity and brevity (multiple
times). → Not all sources are primary (some excerpts are from other writers quoting Naval). → I can’t be 100 percent certain of every source’s authenticity. → Concepts and
interpretations change over time, medium, and context. → Please verify phrasing with a primary source before citing Naval from this text. → Please interpret generously. By
definition, everything in this book is taken out of context. Interpretations will change over time. Read and interpret gen- I mportant N otes O n T his B ook ( D isclaimer ) · 9
erously. Understand the original intent may be different than your interpretation in a different time, medium, format, and context. In the process of creating this book, I may have
mistakenly re-contextualized, misinterpreted, or misunderstood things. As content passed through time, space, and medium, some phrasing may have shifted in flight. Every effort has
been made to maintain the original intent, but errors are (very) possible. Interviews have been transcribed, edited, rearranged, and re-edited for readability. I did my best to
keep Naval’s ideas in his own words. All brilliance in this book is Naval’s; any mistakes are mine. TWEETS AND TWEETSTORMS Tweets are formatted like pull quotes but are unique
content. I use them to summarize or punctuate an idea from the main prose. This formatting shows I’m quoting a tweet. Tweetstorms are connected tweets, formatted like this: 10 · T
H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T This is the first tweet in a tweetstorm. ↓ This is the second tweet. Tweetstorms are longer series of tweets all threaded
together, similar to a blog post. BOLDED QUESTIONS Many excerpts are from interviews by fantastic creators like Shane Parrish, Sarah Lacy, Joe Rogan, and Tim Ferriss. The questions
are bolded. For simplicity and continuity, I do not distinguish various interviewers from each other. NON-NARRATIVE This is a choose-your-own adventure book. Jump to anything that
interests you and skip anything that doesn’t. LOOK IT UP If you find a word or concept you’re not familiar with, look it up. Or, read on to find more context. Some referenced ideas
are expanded upon later in the book. CITATIONS Citations (like [1]) indicate the end of an excerpt. I’ve done my best to maintain context for smooth reading. Sources are in the
appendix for reference. Some sources appear many times and do not appear in order. I mportant N otes O n T his B ook ( D isclaimer ) · 1 1 F OREWORD BY T I M F E R R I S S Dear
Reader, It feels strange for me to write these words, as I committed many years ago to never write forewords. I’m making a rare exception in this case for three reasons. First, a
free version of this book is being offered to the world in a digital/Kindle/eBook format with no strings attached. Second, I’ve known Naval for more than a decade and have long
wanted someone to compile this book. Third, I’m increasing the like- lihood of Naval’s next child being named “Tim” (I’ll settle for “Timbo,” if he prefers). Naval is one of the
smartest people I’ve ever met, and he’s also one of the most courageous. Not in the “run into the fire with- out thinking twice” sense, but in the “think twice and then tell
everyone they’re focusing on the wrong fire” sense. He is rarely part of any consensus, and the uniqueness of his life, lifestyle, family dynamics, and startup successes is a
reflection of con- scious choices he’s made to do things differently. F oreword · 1 3 He can be as blunt as a foot to the face, but that’s part of what I love and respect about
him: you never have to guess what Naval is thinking. I’ve never had to guess how he’s feeling about me, someone else, or a situation. This is a huge relief in a world of
double-talk and ambiguity. We’ve shared a lot of meals, shared a lot of deals, and hopped around the world together. That’s all to say that, while I con- sider myself a good
people-watcher, I consider myself an excellent Naval-watcher. He is one of the people I call most for advice, and I’ve watched him in many habitats through many seasons: easy
times, hard times, recessions, booms— you name it. Sure, he’s the CEO and a co-founder of AngelList. Sure, he previously co-founded Vast.com and Epinions, which went public as part
of Shopping.com. Sure, he’s an angel investor and has invested in many mega successes, including Twitter, Uber, Yammer, and OpenDNS, to name but a few. That’s all great, of course,
and it shows Naval is a world-class operator instead of an armchair philosopher. But I don’t take his perspectives, maxims, and thoughts seri- ously because of the business stuff.
There are lots of miserable “successful” people out there. Be careful about modeling those, as you will get all the bathwater with the baby. I take Naval seriously because he: →
Questions nearly everything → Can think from first principles → Tests things well 14 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T → Is good at not fooling himself →
Changes his mind regularly → Laughs a lot → Thinks holistically → Thinks long-term → And…doesn’t take himself too goddamn seriously. That last one is important. This book will give
you a good taste of what that cocktail of bullets looks like in Naval’s head. So, pay attention…but don’t simply parrot his words. Follow his advice…but only if it holds up after
scrutiny and stress- testing in your own life. Consider everything…but take nothing as gospel. Naval would want you to challenge him, as long as you bring your A-game. Naval has
changed my life for the better, and if you approach the following pages like a friendly but highly competent spar- ring partner, he might just change yours. Keep your hands up and
your mind open. Pura Vida, Tim Ferriss Austin, Texas F oreword · 1 5 ERIC ’S N OTE (A BOUT THIS BOOK) Throughout his career, Naval has generously shared his wisdom, and millions of
people around the world follow his advice on building wealth and living happily. Naval Ravikant is an icon in Silicon Valley and startup culture around the world. He founded
multiple successful companies (Epinions during the 2000 dot-com crash, AngelList in 2010). Naval is also an angel investor, betting early on companies like Uber, Twitter,
Postmates, and hundreds more. More than a financial success, Naval has been sharing his own philosophy of life and happiness, attracting readers and listen- ers throughout the
world. Naval is broadly followed because he is a rare combination of successful and happy. After a lifetime of study and application of philosophy, economics, and wealth creation,
he has proven the impact of his principles. Today, Naval continues to build and invest in companies almost casually, in his own artistic way, while maintaining a healthy, peaceful,
and balanced life. This book collects and organizes E ric ’ s N ote ( A bout T his B ook ) · 1 7 the pieces of wisdom he has shared and shows you how to achieve the same for
yourself. Naval’s life story is instructive. An introspective founder, self-taught investor, capitalist, and engineer certainly has something to teach us all. As a first-principles
thinker with no fear of speaking his truth, Naval’s thoughts are often unique and thought-provoking. His instinct for seeing through life’s veneer has changed how I see the world.
I’ve learned an enormous amount from Naval. Reading, listening, and applying his principles of wealth and happiness has given me calm confidence on my path and taught me to enjoy
every moment of this journey. Closely studying his career has shown me how great things are accomplished through small, persistent steps, and how large an impact one individual can
have. I refer to his work often and recommend it to friends. Those conversations inspired me to create this book, so people can learn from his perspective whether they’re new to
Naval’s ideas or have followed him the past ten years. This book collects the wisdom shared by Naval over the past decade in his own words through Twitter, blog posts, and pod-
casts. With this book, you can get the benefits of a lifetime in a few hours. I created this book as a public service. Tweets, podcasts, and interviews quickly get buried and lost.
Knowledge this valu- able deserves a more permanent, accessible format. That is my mission with this book. 18 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T I hope this acts
as an introduction to Naval’s ideas. I’ve col- lected his most powerful and useful ideas in his own words, woven them into a readable thread, and organized those into sections for
easy reference. I often find myself reviewing sections of this book before making an investment or opening to the Happiness chapter if I’m feeling off. Creating this book has
changed me. I feel more clarity, confidence, and peace through all aspects of life. I hope reading it will do the same for you. The Almanack is intended as a guide to be read and
consulted for specific topics. If Naval doesn’t answer your emails, I hope this book gives you the next-best advice. This book is an introduction to Naval and dives deeply into his
two most-explored topics: wealth and happiness. If you want to continue exploring Naval and his other ideas, I encourage you to check out the “Next on Naval” section at the end of
this book. I’ve shared chapters that were edited out of the final book, as well as other popular resources. Be well, Eric E ric ’ s N ote ( A bout T his B ook ) · 1 9 TIMELINE OF N
AVAL RAVIKANT → 1974 - Born in Delhi, India → 1985 - Age 9 - Moved from New Delhi to Queens, NY → 1989 - Age 14 - Attended Stuyvesant High School → 1995 - Age 21 - Graduated
Dartmouth (studied computer science and economics) → 1999 - Age 25 - Founder/CEO of Epinions → 2001 - Age 27 - Venture Partner at August Capital → 2003 - Age 29 - Founder of
Vast.com, a classified ad mar- ketplace → 2005 - Age 30 - Is called “Radioactive Mud” in Silicon Valley → 2007 - Age 32 - Founded Hit Forge, a small VC fund origi- nally conceived
as an incubator → 2007 - Age 32 - Launched VentureHacks blog → 2010 - Age 34 - Launched AngelList → 2010 - Age 34 - Invested in Uber → 2012 - Age 36 - Lobbied Congress to get the
JOBS Act passed → 2018 - Age 43 - Is named “Angel Investor of the Year” T imeline of N aval R avikant · 2 1 N OW, HERE IS N AVAL IN HIS OWN WORDS… N ow , here is N aval in his own
words … · 2 3 BACKGROUND I grew up in a single-parent household with my mom working, going to school, and raising my brother and me as latchkey kids. We were very self-sufficient
from a very early age. There was a lot of hardship, but everyone goes through hardship. It did help me in a number of ways. We were poor immigrants. My dad came to the US—he was a
pharmacist in India. But his degree wasn’t accepted here, so he worked in a hardware store. Not a great upbringing, you know. My family split up. [47] My mother uniquely provided,
against the background of hard- ship, unconditional and unfailing love. If you have nothing in your life, but you have at least one person that loves you unconditionally, it’ll do
wonders for your self-esteem. [8] We were in a part of New York City that isn’t very safe. Basically, the library was my after-school center. After I came back from school, I would
just go straight to the library and hang out there until they closed. Then, I would come home. That was my daily routine. [8] We moved to the US when we were very young. I didn’t
have many friends, so I wasn’t very confident. I spent a lot of time reading. My only real friends were books. Books make for great friends, because the best thinkers of the last
few thousand years tell you their nuggets of wisdom. [8] My first job was with an illegal catering company in the back of a van delivering Indian food when I was fifteen. Even when
I was younger, I had a paper route and I washed dishes in the cafeteria. 24 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T I was a totally unknown kid in New York City from
a nothing family, an “immigrants trying to survive” situation. Then, I passed the test to get into Stuyvesant High School. That saved my life, because once I had the Stuyvesant
brand, I got into an Ivy League college, which led me into tech. Stuyvesant is one of those intelligence lottery situations where you can break in with instant validation. You go
from being blue collar to white collar in one move. [73] At Dartmouth, I studied economics and computer science. There was a time when I thought I was going to be a PhD in
economics. [8] Today, I’m an investor, personally, in about two hundred com- panies. Advisor to a bunch. I’m on a bunch of boards. I’m also a small partner in a cryptocurrency fund
because I’m really into the potential of cryptocurrencies. I’m always cooking up something new. I always have a bunch of side projects. [4] All that, of course, in addition to
being the founder and chair- man of AngelList. [4] I was born poor and miserable. I’m now pretty well-off, and I’m very happy. I worked at those. I’ve learned a few things, and
some principles. I try to lay them out in a timeless manner, where you can figure it out for your- self. Because at the end of the day, I can’t quite teach anything. I can only
inspire you and maybe give you a few hooks so you can remember. [77] N ow , here is N aval in his own words … · 2 5 Live, on Twitter, it’s Naval (applause ensues…) On May 18th,
2007 26 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T PART I WEALTH How to get rich without getting lucky. BUILDIN G WEALTH Making money is not a thing you do—it’s a skill
you learn. B uilding W ealth · 2 9 UNDERSTAND HOW WEALTH IS CREATED I like to think that if I lost all my money and you dropped me on a random street in any English-speaking
country, within five or ten years I’d be wealthy again because it’s just a skillset I’ve developed that anyone can develop. [78] It’s not really about hard work. You can work in a
restaurant eighty hours a week, and you’re not going to get rich. Getting rich is about knowing what to do, who to do it with, and when to do it. It is much more about
understanding than purely hard work. Yes, hard work matters, and you can’t skimp on it. But it has to be directed in the right way. If you don’t know yet what you should work on,
the most important thing is to figure it out. You should not grind at a lot of hard work until you figure out what you should be work- ing on. I came up with the principles in my
tweetstorm (below) for myself when I was really young, around thirteen or fourteen. I’ve been carrying them in my head for thirty years, and I’ve been living them. Over time (sadly
or fortunately), the thing I got really good at was looking at businesses and figuring out the point of maximum leverage to actually create wealth and capture some of that created
wealth. This is exactly what I did my famous tweetstorm about. Of course, every one of these tweets can be extrapolated into an hour’s worth of conversation. The tweetstorm below
is a good starting point. The tweetstorm tries to be information-dense, very concise, high-impact, and timeless. It has all the informa- tion and principles, so if you absorb these
and you work hard over ten years, you’ll get what you want. [77] 30 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T How to Get Rich (Without Getting Lucky): ↓ Seek wealth,
not money or status. Wealth is having assets that earn while you sleep. Money is how we transfer time and wealth. Status is your place in the social hierarchy. ↓ Understand ethical
wealth creation is possible. If you secretly despise wealth, it will elude you. ↓ Ignore people playing status games. They gain status by attacking people playing wealth creation
games. ↓ You’re not going to get rich renting out your time. You must own equity—a piece of a business—to gain your financial freedom. ↓ You will get rich by giving society what it
wants but does not yet know how to get. At scale. ↓ B uilding W ealth · 3 1 Pick an industry where you can play long-term games with long-term people. ↓ The internet has massively
broadened the possible space of careers. Most people haven’t figured this out yet. ↓ Play iterated games. All the returns in life, whether in wealth, relationships, or knowledge,
come from compound interest. ↓ Pick business partners with high intelligence, energy, and, above all, integrity. ↓ Don’t partner with cynics and pessimists. Their beliefs are
self-fulfilling. ↓ Learn to sell. Learn to build. If you can do both, you will be unstoppable. ↓ 32 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T Arm yourself with specific
knowledge, accountability, and leverage. ↓ Specific knowledge is knowledge you cannot be trained for. If society can train you, it can train someone else and replace you. ↓
Specific knowledge is found by pursuing your genuine curiosity and passion rather than whatever is hot right now. ↓ Building specific knowledge will feel like play to you but will
look like work to others. ↓ When specific knowledge is taught, it’s through apprenticeships, not schools. ↓ Specific knowledge is often highly technical or creative. It cannot be
outsourced or automated. ↓ B uilding W ealth · 3 3 Embrace accountability, and take business risks under your own name. Society will reward you with responsibility, equity, and
leverage. ↓ “Give me a lever long enough and a place to stand, and I will move the earth.” —Archimedes ↓ Fortunes require leverage. Business leverage comes from capital, people,
and products with no marginal cost of replication (code and media). ↓ Capital means money. To raise money, apply your specific knowledge with accountability and show resulting good
judgment. ↓ Labor means people working for you. It’s the oldest and most fought-over form of leverage. Labor leverage will impress your parents, but don’t waste your life chasing
it. ↓ 34 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T Capital and labor are permissioned leverage. Everyone is chasing capital, but someone has to give it to you. Everyone
is trying to lead, but someone has to follow you. ↓ Code and media are permissionless leverage. They’re the leverage behind the newly rich. You can create software and media that
works for you while you sleep. ↓ An army of robots is freely available—it’s just packed in data centers for heat and space efficiency. Use it. ↓ If you can’t code, write books and
blogs, record videos and podcasts. ↓ Leverage is a force multiplier for your judgment. ↓ Judgment requires experience but can be built faster by learning foundational skills. ↓ B
uilding W ealth · 3 5 There is no skill called “business.” Avoid business magazines and business classes. ↓ Study microeconomics, game theory, psychology, persuasion, ethics,
mathematics, and computers. ↓ Reading is faster than listening. Doing is faster than watching. ↓ You should be too busy to “do coffee” while still keeping an uncluttered calendar.
↓ Set and enforce an aspirational personal hourly rate. If fixing a problem will save less than your hourly rate, ignore it. If outsourcing a task will cost less than your hourly
rate, outsource it. ↓ Work as hard as you can. Even though who you work with and what you work on are more important than how hard you work. ↓ 36 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V
A L R A V I K A N T Become the best in the world at what you do. Keep redefining what you do until this is true. ↓ There are no get-rich-quick schemes. Those are just someone else
getting rich off you. ↓ Apply specific knowledge, with leverage, and eventually you will get what you deserve. ↓ When you’re finally wealthy, you’ll realize it wasn’t what you were
seeking in the first place. But that is for another day. [11] Summary: Productize Yourself Your summary says “Productize yourself”—what does that mean? “Productize” and “yourself.”
“Yourself ” has uniqueness. “Productize” has leverage. “Yourself” has accountability. “Pro- ductize” has specific knowledge. “Yourself ” also has specific knowledge in there. So
all of these pieces, you can combine them into these two words. B uilding W ealth · 3 7 If you’re looking toward the long-term goal of getting wealthy, you should ask yourself, “Is
this authentic to me? Is it myself that I am projecting?” And then, “Am I productizing it? Am I scaling it? Am I scaling with labor or with capital or with code or with media?” So
it’s a very handy, simple mnemonic. [78] This is hard. This is why I say it takes decades—I’m not saying it takes decades to execute, but the better part of a decade may be
figuring out what you can uniquely provide. [10] What’s the difference between wealth and money? Money is how we transfer wealth. Money is social credits. It is the ability to have
credits and debits of other people’s time. If I do my job right, if I create value for society, society says, “Oh, thank you. We owe you something in the future for the work you
did in the past. Here’s a little IOU. Let’s call that money.” [78] Wealth is the thing you want. Wealth is assets that earn while you sleep. Wealth is the factory, the robots,
cranking out things. Wealth is the computer program that’s running at night, serv- ing other customers. Wealth is even money in the bank that is being reinvested into other assets,
and into other businesses. Even a house can be a form of wealth, because you can rent it out, although that’s probably a lower productivity use of land than some commercial
enterprise. So, my definition of wealth is much more businesses and assets that can earn while you sleep. [78] 38 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T Technology
democratizes consumption but consolidates production. The best person in the world at anything gets to do it for everyone. Society will pay you for creating things it wants. But
society doesn’t yet know how to create those things, because if it did, they wouldn’t need you. They would already be stamped out. Almost everything in your house, in your
workplace, and on the street used to be technology at one point in time. There was a time when oil was a technology that made J.D. Rockefeller rich. There was a time when cars were
technology that made Henry Ford rich. So, technology is the set of things, as Alan Kay said, that don’t quite work yet [correction: Danny Hillis]. Once something works, it’s no
longer technology. Society always wants new things. And if you want to be wealthy, you want to figure out which one of those things you can provide for society that it does not yet
know how to get but it will want and provid- ing it is natural to you, within your skill set, and within your capabilities. Then, you have to figure out how to scale it because if
you only build one, that’s not enough. You’ve got to build thousands, or hundreds of thousands, or millions, or billions of them so everybody can have one. Steve Jobs (and his
team, of course) figured out society would want smartphones. A computer in their pocket that had all the phone capability times one hun- dred and was easy to use. So, they figured
out how to build it, and then they figured out how to scale it. [78] B uilding W ealth · 3 9 BECOME THE BEST IN THE WORLD AT WHAT YOU DO. KEEP REDEFINING WHAT YOU DO UNTIL THIS IS
TRUE. FIND AND BUILD SPECIFIC KNOWLEDGE Sales skills are a form of specific knowledge. There’s such a thing as “a natural” in sales. You run into them all the time in startups and
venture capital. When you meet someone who is a natural at sales, you just know they’re amazing. They’re really good at what they do. That is a form of specific knowledge.
Obviously they learned somewhere, but they didn’t learn it in a classroom setting. They learned probably in their childhood in the school yard, or they learned negotiating with
their parents. Maybe some is a genetic component in the DNA. But you can improve sales skills. You can read Robert Cialdini, you can go to a sales training seminar, you can do
door-to-door sales. It is brutal but will train you very quickly. You can defi- nitely improve your sales skills. 40 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T Specific
knowledge cannot be taught, but it can be learned. When I talk about specific knowledge, I mean figure out what you were doing as a kid or teenager almost effortlessly. Some- thing
you didn’t even consider a skill, but people around you noticed. Your mother or your best friend growing up would know. Examples of what your specific knowledge could be: → Sales
skills → Musical talents, with the ability to pick up any instrument → An obsessive personality: you dive into things and remem- ber them quickly → Love for science fiction: you
were into reading sci-fi, which means you absorb a lot of knowledge very quickly → Playing a lot of games, you understand game theory pretty well → Gossiping, digging into your
friend network. That might make you into a very interesting journalist. The specific knowledge is sort of this weird combination of unique traits from your DNA, your unique
upbringing, and your response to it. It’s almost baked into your personality and your identity. Then you can hone it. No one can compete with you on being you. Most of life is a
search for who and what needs you the most. B uilding W ealth · 4 1 For example, I love to read, and I love technology. I learn very quickly, and I get bored fast. If I had gone
into a profession where I was required to tunnel down for twenty years into the same topic, it wouldn’t have worked. I’m in venture investing, which requires me to come up to speed
very, very quickly on new technologies (and I’m rewarded for getting bored because new technologies come along). It matches up pretty well with my specific knowledge and skill
sets. [10] I wanted to be a scientist. That is where a lot of my moral hier- archy comes from. I view scientists as being at the top of the production chain for humanity. The group
of scientists who have made real breakthroughs and contributions probably added more to human society, I think, than any single other class of human beings. Not to take away
anything from art or politics or engineering or business, but without science, we’d still be scram- bling in the dirt fighting with sticks and trying to start fires. Society,
business, & money are downstream of technology, which is itself downstream of science. Science applied is the engine of humanity. Corollary: Applied Scientists are the most
powerful people in the world. This will be more obvious in the coming years. My whole value system was built around scientists, and I wanted to be a great scientist. But when I
actually look back at what I was uniquely good at and what I ended up spending my time doing, it was more around making money, tinkering with technology, and selling people on
things. Explaining things and talking to people. 42 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T I have some sales skills, which is a form of specific knowledge. I have
some analytical skills on how to make money. And I have this ability to absorb data, obsess about it, and break it down—that is a specific skill that I have. I also love tinkering
with technology. And all of this stuff feels like play to me, but it looks like work to others. There are other people to whom these things would be hard, and they say, “Well, how
do I get good at being pithy and sell- ing ideas?” Well, if you’re not already good at it or if you’re not really into it, maybe it’s not your thing—focus on the thing that you are
really into. The first person to actually point out my real specific knowl- edge was my mother. She did it as an aside, talking from the kitchen, and she said it when I was fifteen
or sixteen years old. I was telling a friend of mine that I want to be an astrophysi- cist, and she said, “No, you’re going to go into business.” I was like, “What, my mom’s
telling me I’m going to be in business? I’m going to be an astrophysicist. Mom doesn’t know she’s talking about.” But Mom knew exactly what she was talking about. [78] Specific
knowledge is found much more by pursuing your innate talents, your genuine curiosity, and your passion. It’s not by going to school for whatever is the hottest job; it’s not by
going into whatever field investors say is the hottest. Very often, specific knowledge is at the edge of knowledge. It’s also stuff that’s only now being figured out or is really
hard to figure out. If you’re not 100 percent into it, somebody else who is 100 percent into it will outperform you. And they won’t just outperform you by a little bit—they’ll
outperform you by a lot B uilding W ealth · 4 3 because now we’re operating the domain of ideas, compound interest really applies and leverage really applies. [78] The internet has
massively broadened the possible space of careers. Most people haven’t figured this out yet. You can go on the internet, and you can find your audience. And you can build a
business, and create a product, and build wealth, and make people happy just uniquely expressing your- self through the internet. [78] The internet enables any niche interest, as
long as you’re the best person at it to scale out. And the great news is because every human is different, everyone is the best at something— being themselves. Another tweet I had
that is worth weaving in, but didn’t go into the “How to Get Rich” tweetstorm, was very simple: “Escape competition through authenticity.” Basically, when you’re competing with
people, it’s because you’re copying them. It’s because you’re trying to do the same thing. But every human is different. Don’t copy. [78] If you are fundamentally building and
marketing something that is an extension of who you are, no one can compete with you on that. Who’s going to compete with Joe Rogan or Scott Adams? It’s impossible. Is somebody
else going to come along and write a better Dilbert? No. Is someone going to compete with Bill Watterson and create a better Calvin and Hobbes? No. They’re being authentic. [78] 44
· T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T The best jobs are neither decreed nor degreed. They are creative expressions of continuous learners in free markets. The most
important skill for getting rich is becoming a perpet- ual learner. You have to know how to learn anything you want to learn. The old model of making money is going to school for
four years, getting your degree, and working as a professional for thirty years. But things change fast now. Now, you have to come up to speed on a new profession within nine
months, and it’s obsolete four years later. But within those three productive years, you can get very wealthy. It’s much more important today to be able to become an expert in a
brand-new field in nine to twelve months than to have studied the “right” thing a long time ago. You really care about having studied the foundations, so you’re not scared of any
book. If you go to the library and there’s a book you cannot understand, you have to dig down and say, “What is the foun- dation required for me to learn this?” Foundations are
super important. [74] Basic arithmetic and numeracy are way more important in life than doing calculus. Similarly, being able to convey yourself simply using ordinary English words
is far more important than being able to write poetry, having an extensive vocabulary, or speaking seven different foreign languages. Knowing how to be persuasive when speaking is
far more important than being an expert digital marketer or click opti- mizer. Foundations are key. It’s much better to be at 9/10 or 10/10 on foundations than to try and get super
deep into things. B uilding W ealth · 4 5 You do need to be deep in something because otherwise you’ll be a mile wide and an inch deep and you won’t get what you want out of life.
You can only achieve mastery in one or two things. It’s usually things you’re obsessed about. [74] OR KNOWLEDGE, COME FROM COMPOUND INTEREST. IN WEALTH, RELATIONSHIPS, RETURNS IN
LIFE, WHETHER ALL THE PLAY LONG-TERM GAMES. PLAY LONG-TERM GAMES WITH LONG-TERM PEOPLE You said, “All the returns in life, whether in wealth, relation- ships, or knowledge, come
from compound interest.” How does one know if they’re earning compound interest? 46 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T Compound interest is a very powerful
concept. Compound interest applies to more than just compounding capital. Com- pounding capital is just the beginning. Compounding in business relationships is very important. Look
at some of the top roles in society, like why someone is a CEO of a public company or managing billions of dollars. It’s because people trust them. They are trusted because the
relationships they’ve built and the work they’ve done has compounded. They’ve stuck with the business and shown themselves (in a visible and accountable way) to be high- integrity
people. Compound interest also happens in your reputation. If you have a sterling reputation and you keep building it for decades upon decades, people will notice. Your reputation
will literally end up being thousands or tens of thousands of times more valuable than somebody else who was very talented but is not keeping the compound interest in reputation
going. This is also true when you’re working with individual people. If you’ve worked with somebody for five or ten years and you still enjoy working with them, obviously you trust
them, and the little foibles are gone. All the normal negotiations in business relationships can work very simply because you trust each other—you know it will work out. For
example, there’s another Angel in Silicon Valley named Elad Gil who I like to do deals with. I love working with Elad because I know when the deal is being done, he will bend over
backward to give me extra. He will always round off in my favor if there’s an extra dollar being B uilding W ealth · 4 7 delivered here or there. If there’s some cost to pay, he
will pay it out of his own pocket, and he won’t even mention it to me. Because he goes so far out of his way to treat me so well, I send him every deal I have—I try to include him
in everything. Then, I go out of my way to try and pay for him. Compounding in those relationships is very valuable. [10] Intentions don’t matter. Actions do. That’s why being
ethical is hard. When you find the right thing to do, when you find the right people to work with, invest deeply. Sticking with it for decades is really how you make the big
returns in your relationships and in your money. So, compound interest is very important. [10] 99% of effort is wasted. Obviously, nothing is ever completely wasted because it’s
all a learning moment. You can learn from anything. But for exam- ple, when you go back to school, 99 percent of the term papers you did, books you read, exercises you did, things
you learned, they don’t really apply. You might have read geography and history you never reuse. You might have studied a language you don’t speak anymore. You might have studied a
branch of mathematics you completely forgot. Of course, these are learning experiences. You did learn. You learned the value of hard work; you might have learned some- thing that
went deep into your psyche and became a piece of 48 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T what you’re doing now. But at least when it comes to the goal- oriented
life, only about 1 percent of the efforts you made paid off. Another example is all the people you dated until you met your husband or wife. It was wasted time in the goal sense.
Not wasted in the exponential sense, not wasted in the learning sense, but definitely wasted in the goal sense. The reason I say this is not to make some glib comment about how 99
percent of your life is wasted and only 1 percent is useful. I say this because you should be very thoughtful and realize in most things (relationships, work, even in learning)
what you’re trying to do is find the thing you can go all-in on to earn compound interest. When you’re dating, the instant you know this relationship is not going to be the one
that leads to marriage, you should probably move on. When you’re studying something, like a geography or history class, and you realize you are never going to use the information,
drop the class. It’s a waste of time. It’s a waste of your brain energy. I’m not saying don’t do the 99 percent, because it’s very hard to identify what the 1 percent is. What I’m
saying is: when you find the 1 percent of your discipline which will not be wasted, which you’ll be able to invest in for the rest of your life and has meaning to you—go all-in and
forget about the rest. [10] B uilding W ealth · 4 9 INTENTIONS DON’T MATTER. ACTIONS DO. TAKE ON ACCOUNTABILITY Embrace accountability and take business risks under your own name.
Society will reward you with responsibility, equity, and leverage. To get rich, you need leverage. Leverage comes in labor, comes in capital, or it can come through code or media.
But most of these, like labor and capital, people have to give to you. For labor, somebody has to follow you. For capital, somebody has to give you money, assets to manage, or
machines. So to get these things, you have to build credibility, and you have to do it under your own name as much as possible, which is risky. So, accountability is a double-edged
thing. It allows 50 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T you to take credit when things go well and to bear the brunt of the failure when things go badly. [78]
