Clear accountability is important. Without accountability, you don’t have incentives. Without accountability, you can’t build credibility. But you take risks. You risk failure. You
risk humil- iation. You risk failure under your own name. Luckily, in modern society, there’s no more debtors’ prison and people aren’t imprisoned or executed for losing other
people’s money, but we’re still socially hardwired to not fail in public under our own names. The people who have the ability to fail in public under their own names actually gain
a lot of power. I’ll give a personal anecdote. Up until about 2013, 2014, my public persona was entirely around startups and investing. Only around 2014, 2015 did I start talking
about philosophy and psychological things and broader things. It made me a little nervous because I was doing it under my own name. There were definitely people in the industry who
sent me messages through the backchannel like, “What are you doing? You’re ending your career. This is stupid.” I kind of just went with it. I took a risk. Same with crypto. Early
on, I took a risk. But when you put your name out there, you take a risk with certain things. You also get to reap the rewards. You get the benefits. [78] In the old days, the
captain was expected to go down with the ship. If the ship was sinking, then literally the last person to get off was the captain. Accountability does come with real risks, but
we’re talking about a business context. B uilding W ealth · 5 1 The risk here would be you would probably be the last one to get your capital back out. You’d be the last one to get
paid for your time. The time that you put in, the capital you put into the company, these are at risk. [78] Realize that in modern society, the downside risk is not that large.
Even personal bankruptcy can wipe the debts clean in good ecosystems. I’m most familiar with Silicon Valley, but generally, people will forgive failures as long as you were honest
and made a high-integrity effort. There’s not really that much to fear in terms of failure, and so people should take on a lot more accountability than they do. [78] ALLOCATION
KNOWLEDGE 52 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T BUILD OR BUY EQUITY IN A BUSINESS If you don’t own a piece of a business, you don’t have a path towards financial
freedom. Why is owning equity in a business important to becoming rich? It’s ownership versus wage work. If you are paid for rent- ing out your time, even lawyers and doctors, you
can make some money, but you’re not going to make the money that gives you financial freedom. You’re not going to have passive income where a business is earning for you while you
are on vacation. [10] This is probably one of the most important points. People seem to think you can create wealth—make money through work. It’s probably not going to work. There
are many reasons for that. Without ownership, your inputs are very closely tied to your outputs. In almost any salaried job, even one paying a lot per hour like a lawyer or a
doctor, you’re still putting in the hours, and every hour you get paid. Without ownership, when you’re sleeping, you’re not earn- ing. When you’re retired, you’re not earning. When
you’re on vacation, you’re not earning. And you can’t earn nonlinearly. If you look at even doctors who get rich (like really rich), it’s because they open a business. They open a
private practice. The private practice builds a brand, and the brand attracts B uilding W ealth · 5 3 people. Or they build some kind of a medical device, a proce- dure, or a
process with an intellectual property. Essentially, you’re working for somebody else, and that person is taking on the risk and has the accountability, the intellectual property,
and the brand. They’re not going to pay you enough. They’re going to pay you the bare minimum they have to, to get you to do their job. That can be a high bare minimum, but it’s
still not going to be true wealth where you’re retired but still earning. [78] Owning equity in a company basically means you own the upside. When you own debt, you own guaranteed
revenue streams and you own the downside. You want to own equity. If you don’t own equity in a business, your odds of making money are very slim. You have to work up to the point
where you can own equity in a business. You could own equity as a small shareholder where you bought stock. You could also own it as an owner where you started the company.
Ownership is really important. [10] Everybody who really makes money at some point owns a piece of a product, a business, or some IP. That can be through stock options if you work
at a tech company. That’s a fine way to start. But usually, the real wealth is created by starting your own companies or even by investing. In an investment firm, they’re buying
equity. These are the routes to wealth. It doesn’t come through the hours. [78] 54 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T LEVERAGE 1X 1,000X 10,000X FIND A POSITION
OF LEVERAGE We live in an age of infinite leverage, and the economic rewards for genuine intellectual curiosity have never been higher. [11] Following your genuine intellectual
curiosity is a better foun- dation for a career than following whatever is making money right now. [11] Knowledge only you know or only a small set of people knows is going to come
out of your passions and your hobbies, oddly B uilding W ealth · 5 5 enough. If you have hobbies around your intellectual curiosity, you’re more likely to develop these passions.
[1] If it entertains you now but will bore you someday, it’s a distraction. Keep looking. I only really want to do things for their own sake. That is one definition of art. Whether
it’s business, exercise, romance, friendship, whatever, I think the meaning of life is to do things for their own sake. Ironically, when you do things for their own sake, you
create your best work. Even if you’re just trying to make money, you will actually be the most successful. The year I generated the most wealth for myself was actually the year I
worked the least hard and cared the least about the future. I was mostly doing things for the sheer fun of it. I was basically telling people, “I’m retired, I’m not working.” Then,
I had the time for whatever was my highest valued project in front of me. By doing things for their own sake, I did them at their best. [74] The less you want something, the less
you’re thinking about it, the less you’re obsessing over it, the more you’re going to do it in a natural way. The more you’re going to do it for yourself. You’re going to do it in
a way you’re good at, and you’re going to stick with it. The people around you will see the quality of your work is higher. [1] Follow your intellectual curiosity more than
whatever is “hot” right now. If your curiosity ever leads you to a place where soci- ety eventually wants to go, you’ll get paid extremely well. [3] 56 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F
N A V A L R A V I K A N T You’re more likely to have skills society does not yet know how to train other people to do. If someone can train other people how to do something, then
they can replace you. If they can replace you, then they don’t have to pay you a lot. You want to know how to do something other people don’t know how to do at the time period when
those skills are in demand. [1] If they can train you to do it, then eventually they will train a computer to do it. You get rewarded by society for giving it what it wants and
doesn’t know how to get elsewhere. A lot of people think you can go to school and study for how to make money, but the reality is, there’s no skill called “business.” [1] Think
about what product or service society wants but does not yet know how to get. You want to become the person who delivers it and delivers it at scale. That is really the challenge
of how to make money. Now, the problem is becoming good at whatever “it” is. It moves around from generation to generation, but a lot of it happens to be in technology. You are
waiting for your moment when something emerges in the world, they need a skill set, and you’re uniquely qualified. You build your brand in the meantime on Twitter, on YouTube, and
by giving away free work. You make a name for yourself, and you take some risk in the process. When it is time to move B uilding W ealth · 5 7 on the opportunity, you can do so
with leverage—the maxi- mum leverage possible. [1] There are three broad classes of leverage: One form of leverage is labor—other humans working for you. It is the oldest form of
leverage, and actually not a great one in the modern world. [1] I would argue this is the worst form of leverage that you could possibly use. Managing other people is incredibly
messy. It requires tremendous leadership skills. You’re one short hop from a mutiny or getting eaten or torn apart by the mob. [78] Money is good as a form of leverage. It means
every time you make a decision, you multiply it with money. [1] Capital is a trickier form of leverage to use. It’s more modern. It’s the one that people have used to get
fabulously wealthy in the last cen- tury. It’s probably been the dominant form of leverage in the last century. You can see this by looking for the richest people. It’s bankers,
politicians in corrupt countries who print money, essentially people who move large amounts of money around. If you look at the top of very large companies, outside of technology
companies, in many, many large old companies, the CEO job is really a financial job. It scales very, very well. If you get good at managing capital, you can manage more and more
capital much more easily than you can manage more and more people. [78] The final form of leverage is brand new—the most democratic form. It is: “products with no marginal cost of
replication.” 58 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T This includes books, media, movies, and code. Code is probably the most powerful form of permissionless
leverage. All you need is a computer—you don’t need anyone’s permission. [1] Forget rich versus poor, white-collar versus blue. It’s now leveraged versus un-leveraged. The most
interesting and the most important form of leverage is the idea of products that have no marginal cost of replication. This is the new form of leverage. This was only invented in
the last few hundred years. It started with the printing press. It accelerated with broadcast media, and now it’s really blown up with the internet and with coding. Now, you can
multiply your efforts without involving other humans and without needing money from other humans. This book is a form of leverage. Long ago, I would have had to sit in a lecture
hall and lecture each of you personally. I would have maybe reached a few hundred people, and that would have been that. [78] This newest form of leverage is where all the new
fortunes are made, all the new billionaires. For the last generation, fortunes were made by capital. The people who made fortunes were the Warren Buffetts of the world. But the new
generation’s fortunes are all made through code or media. Joe Rogan making $50 million to $100 million a year from his podcast. You’re going to have PewDiePie. I don’t know how
much money he’s rolling in, but he’s bigger than the news. And of course, there’s Jeff Bezos, Mark Zuckerberg, Larry Page, B uilding W ealth · 5 9 Sergey Brin, Bill Gates, and
Steve Jobs. Their wealth is all code- based leverage. [78] Probably the most interesting thing to keep in mind about new forms of leverage is they are permissionless. They don’t
require somebody else’s permission for you to use them or succeed. For labor leverage, somebody has to decide to follow you. For capital leverage, somebody has to give you money to
invest or to turn into a product. Coding, writing books, recording podcasts, tweeting, You- Tubing—these kinds of things are permissionless. You don’t need anyone’s permission to
do them, and that’s why they are very egalitarian. They’re great equalizers of leverage. [78] Every great software developer, for example, now has an army of robots working for him
at nighttime while he or she sleeps, after they’ve written the code, and it’s cranking away. [78] You’re never going to get rich renting out your time. Whenever you can in life,
optimize for independence rather than pay. If you have independence and you’re accountable on your output, as opposed to your input—that’s the dream. [10] Humans evolved in
societies where there was no leverage. If I was chopping wood or carrying water for you, you knew eight hours put in would be equal to about eight hours of output. Now we’ve
invented leverage—through capital, cooperation, technology, productivity, all these means. We live in an age of leverage. As a worker, you want to be as leveraged as possible 60 ·
T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T so you have a huge impact without as much time or physical effort. A leveraged worker can out-produce a non-leveraged worker by
a factor of one thousand or ten thousand. With a leveraged worker, judgment is far more important than how much time they put in or how hard they work. Forget 10x programmers.
1,000x programmers really exist, we just don’t fully acknowledge it. See @ID_AA_Carmack, @notch, Satoshi Nakomoto, etc. For example, a good software engineer, just by writing the
right little piece of code and creating the right little applica- tion, can literally create half a billion dollars’ worth of value for a company. But ten engineers working ten
times as hard, just because they choose the wrong model, the wrong prod- uct, wrote it the wrong way, or put in the wrong viral loop, have basically wasted their time. Inputs don’t
match outputs, especially for leveraged workers. What you want in life is to be in control of your time. You want to get into a leveraged job where you control your own time and
you’re tracked on the outputs. If you do something incred- ible to move the needle on the business, they have to pay you. Especially if they don’t know how you did it because it’s
innate to your obsession or your skill or your innate abilities, they’re going to have to keep paying you to do it. If you have specific knowledge, you have accountability and you
have leverage; they have to pay you what you’re worth. If B uilding W ealth · 61 they pay you what you’re worth, then you can get your time back—you can be hyper-efficient. You’re
not doing meetings for meetings’ sake, you’re not trying to impress other people, you’re not writing things down to make it look like you did work. All you care about is the actual
work itself. When you do just the actual work itself, you’ll be far more productive, far more efficient. You’ll work when you feel like it—when you’re high-energy—and you won’t be
trying to struggle through when you’re low energy. You’ll gain your time back. Forty hour work weeks are a relic of the Industrial Age. Knowledge workers function like
athletes—train and sprint, then rest and reassess. Sales is an example—especially very high-end sales. If you’re a real estate agent out there selling houses, it’s not a great job,
necessarily. It’s very crowded. But if you’re a top-tier real estate agent, you know how to market yourself and you know how to sell houses, it’s possible you could sell $5 million
mansions in one tenth of the time while somebody else is struggling to sell $100,000 apartments or condos. Real estate agent is a job with input and output disconnected. Building
any product and selling any product fits this descrip- tion. And fundamentally, what else is there? Where you don’t necessarily want to be is a support role, like customer ser-
vice. In customer service, unfortunately, inputs and outputs relate relatively close to each other, and the hours you put in matter. [10] 62 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R
A V I K A N T Tools and leverage create this disconnection between inputs and outputs. The higher the creativity component of a pro- fession, the more likely it is to have
disconnected inputs and outputs. If you’re looking at professions where your inputs and your outputs are highly connected, it’s going to be very hard to create wealth and make
wealth for yourself in that process. [78] If you want to be part of a great tech company, then you need to be able to SELL or BUILD. If you don’t do either, learn. Learn to sell,
learn to build. If you can do both, you will be unstoppable. These are two very broad categories. One is building the prod- uct. This is hard, and it’s multivariate. It can include
design; it can include development; it can include manufacturing, logis- tics, procurement; and it can even be designing and operating a service. It has many, many definitions. But
in every industry, there is a definition of the builder. In our tech industry, it’s the CTO, it’s the programmer, it’s the soft- ware engineer or hardware engineer. But even in the
laundry business, it could be the person who’s building the laundry service, who is making the trains run on time, who’s making sure all the clothes end up in the right place at
the right time, and so on. The other side of it is sales. Again, selling has a very broad definition. Selling doesn’t necessarily just mean selling to individual customers, but it
can mean marketing, it can mean B uilding W ealth · 63 communicating, it can mean recruiting, it can mean raising money, it can mean inspiring people, it could mean doing PR. It’s
a broad umbrella category. [78] Earn with your mind, not your time. Let’s talk more about the real estate business. The worst kind of job is someone who’s doing labor to repair a
house. Maybe you get paid ten dollars or twenty dollars an hour. You go to people’s houses, your boss demands you’re there at 8:00 a.m., and you repair your piece of the house.
Here, you have zero leverage. You have some accountability, but not really, because your accountability is to your boss, not to the client. You don’t have any real specific
knowledge, since what you’re doing is labor lots of people can do. You’re not going to get paid a lot. You’re getting paid minimum wage plus a little bit for your skill and your
time. The next level up might be the general contractor working on the house for the owner. They may be getting paid $50,000 to do the whole project, then they’re paying the labor
fifteen dollars an hour and they’re keeping the difference. A general contractor is obviously a better place to be. But how do we measure it? How do we know it’s better? Well, we
know it’s better because this person has some accountabil- ity. They’re responsible for the outcome, they have to sweat at night if things aren’t working. Contractors have leverage
through laborers working for them. They also have little bit more specific knowledge: how to organize a team, make them show up on time, and how to deal with city regulations. 64 ·
T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T The next level up might be a real estate developer. A developer is someone who’s going to buy a property, hire a bunch of con-
tractors, and transform it into something higher value. They probably have to take out a loan to buy a house or go to investors to raise money. They buy the old house, tear it
down, rebuild it, and sell it. Instead of $50,000 like the general contractor, or fifteen dollars an hour like the laborer, the developer might be able to make a million dollars or
half a million dollars in profit when they sell the house for more than they bought it for, including the expenses of construction. But now, notice what is required from the
developer: a very high level of accountability. The developer takes on more risk, more accountability, has more leverage, and needs to have more specific knowledge. They need to
understand fundraising, city regulations, where the real estate market is headed, and whether they should take the risk or not. It is more difficult. The next level up might be
someone who’s managing money in a real estate fund. They have an enormous amount of capital leverage. They’re dealing with lots and lots of developers, and they’re buying huge
amounts of housing inventory. [74] One level beyond that might be somebody who says, “Actually, I want to bring the maximum leverage to bear in this market and the maximum specific
knowledge.” That person would say, “Well, I understand real estate, and I understand everything from basic housing construction, to building properties and selling them, to how
real estate markets move and thrive, and I also understand the technology business. I understand how to recruit developers, how to write code, and how to build a good product, and
I understand how to raise money from venture capitalists, how to return it, and how all of that works.” B uilding W ealth · 65 Obviously, not a single person may know this. You may
pull a team together to do it where each have different skill sets, but that combined entity would have specific knowledge in technology and in real estate. It would have massive
account- ability because that company’s name would be a very high-risk, high-reward effort attached to the whole thing, and people would devote their lives to it and take on
significant risk. It would have leverage in code with lots of developers. It would have capital with investors putting money in and the founder’s own capital. It would have some of
the highest-quality labor you can find, which is high-quality engineers, designers, and marketers who are working on the company. Then, you may end up with a Trulia, Redfin, or
Zillow company, and then the upside could potentially be in the billions of dol- lars, or the hundreds of millions of dollars. [78] Each level has increasing leverage, increasing
accountability, increasingly specific knowledge. You’re adding in money- based leverage on top of labor-based leverage. Adding in code-based leverage on top of money and labor
allows you to actually create something bigger and bigger and get closer and closer to owning all the upside, not just being paid a salary. You start as a salaried employee. But
you want to work your way up to try and get higher leverage, more accountability, and spe- cific knowledge. The combination of those over a long period of time with the magic of
compound interest will make you wealthy. [74] The one thing you have to avoid is the risk of ruin. Avoiding ruin means stay out of jail. So, don’t do anything ille- 66 · T H E A L
M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T gal. It’s never worth it to wear an orange jumpsuit. Stay out of total catastrophic loss. Avoiding ruin could also mean you stay out of
things that could be physically dangerous or hurt your body. You have to watch your health. Stay out of things that could cause you to lose all of your capital, all of your
savings. Don’t gamble everything on one go. Instead, take rationally optimistic bets with big upsides. [78] EARN WITH YOUR MIND, NOT YOUR TIME. GET PAID FOR YOUR JUDGMENT Choosing
what kinds of jobs, careers, or fields you get into and what sort of deals you’re willing to take from your employer will give you much more free time. Then, you don’t have to B
uilding W ealth · 67 worry as much about time management. I would love to be paid purely for my judgment, not for any work. I want a robot, capital, or computer to do the work, but
I want to be paid for my judgment. [1] I think every human should aspire to being knowledgeable about certain things and being paid for our unique knowl- edge. We have as much
leverage as is possible in our business, whether it’s through robots or computers or what have you. Then, we can be masters of our own time because we are just being tracked on
outputs and not inputs. Imagine someone comes along who demonstrably has slightly better judgment. They’re right 85 percent of the time instead of 75 percent. You will pay them $50
million, $100 million, $200 million, whatever it takes, because 10 percent better judgment steering a $100 billion ship is very valuable. CEOs are highly paid because of their
leverage. Small differences in judgment and capability really get amplified. [2] Demonstrated judgment—credibility around the judgment— is so critical. Warren Buffett wins here
because he has massive credibility. He’s been highly accountable. He’s been right over and over in the public domain. He’s built a reputation for very high integrity, so you can
trust him. People will throw infinite leverage behind him because of his judgment. Nobody asks him how hard he works. Nobody asks him when he wakes up or when he goes to sleep.
They’re like, “Warren, just do your thing.” Judgment—especially demonstrated judgment, with high accountability and a clear track record—is critical. [78] 68 · T H E A L M A N A C
K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T We waste our time with short-term thinking and busywork. Warren Buffett spends a year deciding and a day acting. That act lasts decades. Just from
being marginally better, like running a quarter mile a fraction of a second faster, some people get paid a lot more—orders of magnitude more. Leverage magnifies those differences
even more. Being at the extreme in your art is very important in the age of leverage. [2] SOLVE VIA ITERATION. THEN GET PAID VIA REPETITION. PRIORITIZE AND FOCUS I’ve encountered
plenty of bad luck along the way. The first little fortune I made I instantly lost in the stock market. The second little fortune I made, or should have made, I basically B uilding
W ealth · 69 got cheated out of by my business partners. It’s only the third time around that has been a charm. Even then, it has been a slow and steady struggle. I haven’t made
money in my life in one giant payout. It has always been a whole bunch of small things piling up. It’s more about con- sistently creating wealth by creating businesses, creating
opportunities, and creating investments. It hasn’t been a giant one-off thing. My personal wealth has not been gener- ated by one big year. It just stacks up a little bit, a few
chips at a time: more options, more businesses, more investments, more things I can do. Thanks to the internet, opportunities are massively abundant. In fact, I have too many ways
to make money. I don’t have enough time. I literally have opportunities pouring out of my ears, and I keep running out of time. There are so many ways to create wealth, to create
products, to create businesses, and to get paid by society as a byproduct. I just can’t handle them all. [78] Value your time at an hourly rate, and ruthlessly spend to save time
at that rate. You will never be worth more than you think you’re worth. No one is going to value you more than you value yourself. You just have to set a very high personal hourly
rate and you have to stick to it. Even when I was young, I just decided I was worth a lot more than the market thought I was worth, and I started treating myself that way. 70 · T H
E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T Always factor your time into every decision. How much time does it take? It’s going to take you an hour to get across town to get
something. If you value yourself at one hundred dollars an hour, that’s basically throwing one hundred dollars out of your pocket. Are you going to do that? [78] Fast-forward to
your wealthy self and pick some intermediate hourly rate. For me, believe it or not, back when you could have hired me…Which now obviously you can’t, but back when you could have
hired me…this was true a decade ago or even two decades ago, before I had any real money. My hourly rate, I used to say to myself over and over, is $5,000 an hour. Today when I
look back, really it was about $1,000 an hour. Of course, I still ended up doing stupid things like arguing with the electrician or returning the broken speaker, but I shouldn’t
have, and I did a lot less than any of my friends would. I would make a theatrical show out of throwing something in the trash pile or giving it to Salvation Army rather than
trying to return it or handing something to people rather than trying to fix it. I would argue with my girlfriends, and even today it’s my wife, “I don’t do that. That’s not a
problem that I solve.” I still argue that with my mother when she hands me little to-do’s. I just don’t do that. I would rather hire you an assistant. This was true even when I
didn’t have money. [78] Another way of thinking about something is, if you can out- source something or not do something for less than your hourly rate, outsource it or don’t do
it. If you can hire someone to do it for less than your hourly rate, hire them. That even includes things like cooking. You may want to eat your healthy home cooked meals, but if
you can outsource it, do that instead. [78] B uilding W ealth · 7 1 Set a very high hourly aspirational rate for yourself and stick to it. It should seem and feel absurdly high. If
it doesn’t, it’s not high enough. Whatever you picked, my advice to you would be to raise it. Like I said, for myself, even before I had money, for the longest time I used $5,000
an hour. And if you extrapolate that out into what it looks like as an annual salary, it’s multiple millions of dollars per year. Ironically, I actually think I’ve beaten it. I’m
not the hardest working person—I’m actually a lazy person. I work through bursts of energy where I’m really motivated with something. If I actually look at how much I’ve earned per
actual hour that I’ve put in, it’s probably quite a bit higher than that. [78] Can you expand on your statement, “If you secretly despise wealth, it will elude you”? If you get
into a relative mindset, you’re always going to hate people who do better than you, you’re always going to be jeal- ous or envious of them. They’ll sense those feelings when you
try and do business with them. When you try and do business with somebody, if you have any bad thoughts or any judgments about them, they will feel it. Humans are wired to feel
what the other person deep down inside feels. You have to get out of a relative mindset. [10] Literally, being anti-wealth will prevent you from becoming wealthy, because you will
not have the right mindset for it, you won’t have the right spirit, and you won’t be dealing with people on the right level. Be optimistic, be positive. It’s import- ant. Optimists
actually do better in the long run. [10] 72 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T The business world has many people playing zero sum games and a few playing
positive sum games searching for each other in the crowd. There are fundamentally two huge games in life that people play. One is the money game. Because money is not going to
solve all of your problems, but it’s going to solve all of your money problems. People realize that, so they want to make money. But at the same time, many of them, deep down,
believe they can’t make money. They don’t want any wealth creation to happen. So, they attack the whole enterprise by saying, “Well, making money is evil. You shouldn’t do it.” But
they’re actually playing the other game, which is the status game. They’re trying to be high status in the eyes of other people watching by saying, “Well, I don’t need money. We
don’t want money.” Status is your ranking in the social hierarchy. [78] Wealth creation is an evolutionarily recent positive-sum game. Status is an old zero-sum game. Those
attacking wealth creation are often just seeking status. Status is a zero-sum game. It’s a very old game. We’ve been playing it since monkey tribes. It’s hierarchical. Who’s number
one? Who’s number two? Who’s number three? And for number three to move to number two, number two has to move out of that slot. So, status is a zero-sum game. B uilding W ealth · 7
3 Politics is an example of a status game. Even sports are an example of a status game. To be the winner, there must be a loser. I don’t fundamentally love status games. They play
an important role in our society, so we can figure out who’s in charge. But fundamentally, you play them because they’re a necessary evil. [78] The problem is, to win at a status
game, you have to put some- body else down. That’s why you should avoid status games in your life—they make you into an angry, combative person. You’re always fighting to put other
people down, to put your- self and the people you like up. Status games are always going to exist. There’s no way around it, but realize most of the time, when you’re trying to
create wealth and you’re getting attacked by someone else, they’re trying to increase their own status at your expense. They’re playing a different game. And it’s a worse game.
It’s a zero-sum game instead of a positive-sum game. [78] Play stupid games, win stupid prizes. What is the most important thing to do for younger people starting out? Spend more
time making the big decisions. There are basically three really big decisions you make in your early life: where you live, who you’re with, and what you do. We spend very little
time deciding which relationship to get into. We spend so much time in a job, but we spend so little 74 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T time deciding which
job to get into. Choosing what city to live in can almost completely determine the trajectory of your life, but we spend so little time trying to figure out what city to live in.
Advice to a young engineer considering moving to San Francisco: “Do you want to leave your friends behind? Or be the one left behind?” If you’re going to live in a city for ten
years, if you’re going to be in a job for five years, if you’re in a relationship for a decade, you should be spending one to two years deciding these things. These are highly
dominating decisions. Those three decisions really matter. You have to say no to everything and free up your time so you can solve the important problems. Those three are probably
the three biggest ones. [1] What are one or two steps you’d take to surround yourself with successful people? Figure out what you’re good at, and start helping other people with
it. Give it away. Pay it forward. Karma works because people are consistent. On a long enough timescale, you will attract what you project. But don’t measure—your patience will run
out if you count. [7] An old boss once warned: “You’ll never be rich since you’re obviously smart, and someone will always offer you a job that’s just good enough.” B uilding W
ealth · 7 5 How did you decide to start your first company? I was working at this tech company called @Home Network, and I told everybody around me—my boss, coworkers, my friends,
“In Silicon Valley, all of these other people are start- ing companies. It looks like they can do it. I’m going to start a company. I’m just here temporarily. I’m an entrepreneur.”
…I didn’t actually mean to trick myself into it. It wasn’t a delib- erate, calculated thing. I was just venting, talking out loud, being overly honest. But I didn’t actually start
a company. This was in 1996, it was a much scarier, more difficult proposition to start a company then. Sure enough, everyone started saying “What are you still doing here? I
thought you were leaving to start a company?” and “Wow, you’re still here…” I was literally embarrassed into starting my own company. [5] Yes, I know some people aren’t necessarily
ready to be entre- preneurs, but long-term, where did we come up with this idea the correct logical thing to do is for everybody to work for somebody else? It is a very
hierarchical model. [14] FIND WORK THAT FEELS LIKE PLAY Humans evolved as hunters and gatherers where we all worked for ourselves. It’s only at the beginning of agriculture we
became more hierarchical. The Industrial Revolution and factories made us extremely hierarchical because one indi- vidual couldn’t necessarily own or build a factory, but now,
thanks to the internet, we’re going back to an age where more and more people can work for themselves. I would rather be a 76 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T
failed entrepreneur than someone who never tried. Because even a failed entrepreneur has the skill set to make it on their own. [14] There are almost 7 billion people on this
planet. Someday, I hope, there will be almost 7 billion companies. I learned how to make money because it was a necessity. After it stopped being a necessity, I stopped caring
about it. At least for me, work was a means to an end. Making money was a means to an end. I’m much more interested in solving prob- lems than I am in making money. Any end goal
will just lead to another goal, lead to another goal. We just play games in life. When you grow up, you’re playing the school game, or you’re playing the social game. Then you’re
playing the money game, and then you’re playing the status game. These games just have longer and longer and longer- lived horizons. At some point, at least I believe, these are
all just games. These are games where the outcome really stops mattering once you see through the game. Then you just get tired of games. I would say I’m at the stage where I’m
just tired of games. I don’t think there is any end goal or purpose. I’m just living life as I want to. I’m literally just doing it moment to moment. I want to be off the hedonic
treadmill. [1] What you really want is freedom. You want freedom from your money problems, right? I think that’s okay. Once you can solve B uilding W ealth · 7 7 your money
problems, either by lowering your lifestyle or by making enough money, you want to retire. Not retirement at sixty-five years old, sitting in a nursing home collecting a check
retirement—it’s a different definition. What is your definition of retirement? Retirement is when you stop sacrificing today for an imagi- nary tomorrow. When today is complete, in
and of itself, you’re retired. How do you get there? Well, one way is to have so much money saved that your passive income (without you lifting a finger) covers your burn rate. A
second is you just drive your burn rate down to zero—you become a monk. A third is you’re doing something you love. You enjoy it so much, it’s not about the money. So there are
multiple ways to retirement. The way to get out of the competition trap is to be authen- tic, to find the thing you know how to do better than anybody. You know how to do it better
because you love it, and no one can compete with you. If you love to do it, be authentic, and then figure out how to map that to what society actually wants. Apply some leverage
and put your name on it. You take the risks, but you gain the rewards, have ownership and equity in what you’re doing, and just crank it up. [77] 78 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A
V A L R A V I K A N T Did your motivation to earn money drop after you become financially independent? Yes and no. It did in the sense the desperation was gone. But if anything,
creating businesses and making money are now more of an “art.” [74] Whether in commerce, science, or politics—history remembers the artists. Art is creativity. Art is anything done
for its own sake. What are the things that are done for their own sake, and there’s nothing behind them? Loving somebody, creating something, playing. To me, creating businesses is
play. I create businesses because it’s fun, because I’m into the product. [77] I can create a new business within three months: raise the money, assemble a team, and launch it.
It’s fun for me. It’s really cool to see what can I put together. It makes money almost as a side effect. Creating businesses is the game I became good at. It’s just my motivation
has shifted from being goal-oriented to being artistic. Ironically, I think I’m much better at it now. [74] Even when I invest, it’s because I like the people involved, I like
hanging out with them, I learn from them, I think the prod- uct is really cool. These days, I will pass on great investments because I don’t find the products interesting. These
