rather than your short-term happiness? Are you surrounding yourself with people who are generally positive and upbeat people? Are those relationships low- maintenance? Do you
admire and respect but not envy them? There’s the “five chimps theory” where you can predict a chimp’s behavior by the five chimps it hangs out with the most. I think that applies
to humans as well. Maybe it’s politically incorrect to say you should choose your friends very wisely. But you shouldn’t choose them haphazardly based on who you live next to or
who you happen to work with. The people who are the most happy and optimistic choose the right five chimps. [8] L earning H appiness · 1 4 7 The first rule of handling conflict is:
Don’t hang around people who constantly engage in conflict. I’m not interested in any- thing unsustainable or even hard to sustain, including difficult relationships. [5] If you
can’t see yourself working with someone for life, don’t work with them for a day. There’s a friend of mine, a Persian guy named Behzad. He just loves life, and he has no time for
anybody who is not happy. If you ask Behzad what’s his secret? He’ll just look up and say, “Stop asking why and start saying wow.” The world is such an amazing place. As humans,
we’re used to taking everything for granted. Like what you and I are doing right now. We’re sitting indoors, wearing clothes, well-fed, and communicating with each other through
space and time. We should be two monkeys sitting in the jungle right now watching the sun going down, asking ourselves where we are going to sleep. When we get something, we assume
the world owes it to us. If you’re present, you’ll realize how many gifts and how much abundance there is around us at all times. That’s all you really need to do. I’m here now,
and I have all these incredible things at my disposal. [8] The most important trick to being happy is to realize happi- ness is a skill you develop and a choice you make. You
choose to be happy, and then you work at it. It’s just like building muscles. It’s just like losing weight. It’s just like succeeding at your job. It’s just like learning calculus.
148 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T You decide it’s important to you. You prioritize it above every- thing else. You read everything on the topic. [7]
HAPPINESS HABITS I have a series of tricks I use to try and be happier in the moment. At first, they were silly and difficult and required a lot of attention, but now some of them
have become second nature. By doing them religiously, I’ve managed to increase my happiness level quite a bit. The obvious one is meditation—insight meditation. Working toward a
specific purpose on it, which is to try and understand how my mind works. [7] Just being very aware in every moment. If I catch myself judg- ing somebody, I can stop myself and
say, “What’s the positive interpretation of this?” I used to get annoyed about things. Now I always look for the positive side of it. It used to take a rational effort. It used to
take a few seconds for me to come up with a positive. Now I can do it sub-second. [7] I try to get more sunlight on my skin. I look up and smile. [7] Every time you catch yourself
desiring something, say, “Is it so important to me I’ll be unhappy unless this goes my way?” You’re going to find with the vast majority of things it’s just not true. [7] I think
dropping caffeine made me happier. It makes me more of a stable person. [7] I think working out every day made me happier. If you have peace of body, it’s easier to have peace of
mind. [7] L earning H appiness · 1 4 9 The more you judge, the more you separate yourself. You’ll feel good for an instant, because you feel good about yourself, thinking you’re
better than someone. Later, you’re going to feel lonely. Then, you see negativity everywhere. The world just reflects your own feelings back at you. [77] Tell your friends you’re a
happy person. Then, you’ll be forced to conform to it. You’ll have a consistency bias. You have to live up to it. Your friends will expect you to be a happy person. [5] Recover
time and happiness by minimizing your use of these three smartphone apps: phone, calendar, and alarm clock. [11] The more secrets you have, the less happy you’re going to be. [11]
Caught in a funk? Use meditation, music, and exercise to reset your mood. Then choose a new path to commit emotional energy for rest of day. [11] Hedonic adaptation is more
powerful for man-made things (cars, houses, clothes, money) than for natural things (food, sex, exercise). [11] No exceptions—all screen activities linked to less happiness, all
non-screen activities linked to more happiness. [11] A personal metric: how much of the day is spent doing things out of obligation rather than out of interest? [11] It’s the news’
job to make you anxious and angry. But its under- lying scientific, economic, education, and conflict trends are positive. Stay optimistic. [11] 150 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A
V A L R A V I K A N T Politics, academia, and social status are all zero-sum games. Positive-sum games create positive people. [11] Increase serotonin in the brain without drugs:
Sunlight, exer- cise, positive thinking, and tryptophan. [11] CHANGING HABITS: Pick one thing. Cultivate a desire. Visualize it. Plan a sustainable path. Identify needs, triggers,
and substitutes. Tell your friends. Track meticulously. Self-discipline is a bridge to a new self-image. Bake in the new self-image. It’s who you are—now. [11] First, you know it.
Then, you understand it. Then, you can explain it. Then, you can feel it. Finally, you are it. FIND HAPPINESS IN ACCEPTANCE In any situation in life, you always have three choices:
you can change it, you can accept it, or you can leave it. If you want to change it, then it is a desire. It will cause you L earning H appiness · 1 5 1 suffering until you
successfully change it. So don’t pick too many of those. Pick one big desire in your life at any given time to give yourself purpose and motivation. Why not two? You’ll be
distracted. Even one is hard enough. Being peaceful comes from having your mind clear of thoughts. And a lot of clarity comes from being in the present moment. It’s very hard to be
in the present moment if you’re thinking, “I need to do this. I want that. This has got to change.” [8] You always have three options: you can change it, you can accept it, or you
can leave it. What is not a good option is to sit around wishing you would change it but not changing it, wishing you could leave it but not leaving it and not accept- ing it. That
struggle or aversion is responsible for most of our misery. The phrase I probably use the most to myself in my head is just one word: “accept.” [5] What does acceptance look like
to you? It’s to be okay whatever the outcome is. It’s to be balanced and centered. It’s to step back and to see the grander scheme of things. We don’t always get what we want, but
sometimes what is hap- pening is for the best. The sooner you can accept it as a reality, the sooner you can adapt to it. Achieving acceptance is very difficult. I have a couple of
hacks I try, but I wouldn’t say they are totally successful. 152 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T One hack is stepping back and looking at previous bits of
suffering I’ve had in my life. I write them down. “Last time you broke up with somebody, last time you had a business failure, last time you had a health issue, what happened?” I
can trace the growth and improvement that came from it years later. I have another hack I use for minor annoyances. When they happen, a part of me will instantly react negatively.
But I’ve learned to mentally ask myself, “What is the positive of this situation?” “Okay, I’ll be late for a meeting. But what is the benefit to me? I get to relax and watch the
birds for a moment. I’ll also spend less time in that boring meeting.” There’s almost always some- thing positive. Even if you can’t come up with something positive, you can say,
“Well, the Universe is going to teach me something now. Now I get to listen and learn.” To give you the simplest example: I was at an event and after- ward, someone flooded my
inbox with a whole bunch of photos they took. There was a tiny instant judgment saying, “Come on, couldn’t you have just selected a few of the best? Who sends a hun- dred photos?”
But then immediately I asked myself, “What is the positive?” The positive is that I get to pick my five favorite photos. I get to use my judgment. Over the last year, by practicing
this hack enough, I’ve managed to go from taking a couple of seconds to think of a response, to L earning H appiness · 1 5 3 now my brain doing it almost instantaneously. That’s a
habit you can train yourself to do. [8] How do you learn to accept things you can’t change? Fundamentally, it boils down to one big hack: embracing death. Death is the most
important thing that is ever going to happen to you. When you look at your death and you acknowledge it, rather than running away from it, it’ll bring great meaning to your life.
We spend so much of our life trying to avoid death. So much of what we struggle for can be classified as a quest for immortality. If you’re religious and believe there is an
afterlife, then you’ll be taken care of. If you’re not religious, maybe you’ll have kids. If you’re an artist, a painter, or a businessman, you want to leave a legacy behind.
Here’s a hot tip: There is no legacy. There’s nothing to leave. We’re all going to be gone. Our children will be gone. Our works will be dust. Our civilizations will be dust. Our
planet will be dust. Our solar system will be dust. In the grand scheme of things, the Universe has been around for ten billion years. It’ll be around for another ten billion
years. Your life is a firefly blink in a night. You’re here for such a brief period of time. If you fully acknowledge the futility of what you’re doing, then I think it can bring
great happiness and peace because you realize this is a game. But it’s a fun game. All that matters is you experience your reality as you go through life. Why not interpret it in
the most positive possible way? 154 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T Any moment where you’re not having a great time, when you’re not really happy, you’re not
doing anyone any favors. It’s not like your unhappiness makes them better off somehow. All you’re doing is wasting this incredibly small and precious time you have on this Earth.
Keeping death on the forefront and not denying it is very important. Whenever I get caught up in my ego battles, I just think of entire civilizations that have come and gone. For
example, take the Sumerians. I’m sure they were important people and did great things, but go ahead and name me a single Sumerian. Tell me anything interesting or important
Sumerians did that lasted. Nothing. So maybe ten thousand years from now or a hundred thou- sand years from now, people will say, “Oh yeah, Americans. I’ve heard of Americans.” [8]
You’re going to die one day, and none of this is going to matter. So enjoy yourself. Do something positive. Project some love. Make someone happy. Laugh a little bit. Appreciate
the moment. And do your work. [8] L earning H appiness · 1 5 5 EA FE . SY LI CH SY OI EA CE S, S, CE OI HA CH RD RD LI HA FE . 156 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A
N T SAVIN G YOURSELF Doctors won’t make you healthy. Nutritionists won’t make you slim. Teachers won’t make you smart. Gurus won’t make you calm. Mentors won’t make you rich.
Trainers won’t make you fit. Ultimately, you have to take responsibility. Save yourself. S aving Y ourself · 1 5 7 CHOOSING TO BE YOURSELF A lot of what goes on today is what many
of you are doing right now—beating yourself up and scribbling notes and saying, “I need to do this, and I need to do that, and I need to do…” No, you don’t need to do anything. All
you should do is what you want to do. If you stop trying to figure out how to do things the way other people want you to do them, you get to listen to the little voice inside your
head that wants to do things a certain way. Then, you get to be you. I never met my greatest mentor. I wanted so much to be like him. But his message was the opposite: Be yourself,
with passionate intensity. No one in the world is going to beat you at being you. You’re never going to be as good at being me as I am. I’m never going to be as good at being you
as you are. Certainly, listen and absorb, but don’t try to emulate. It’s a fool’s errand. Instead, each person is uniquely qualified at something. They have some specific
knowledge, capability, and desire nobody else in the world does, purely from the combinatorics of human DNA and development. The combinatorics of human DNA and experience are
staggering. You will never meet any two humans who are substitutable for each other. 158 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T Your goal in life is to find the
people, business, project, or art that needs you the most. There is something out there just for you. What you don’t want to do is build checklists and deci- sion frameworks built
on what other people are doing. You’re never going to be them. You’ll never be good at being somebody else. [4] S aving Y ourself · 1 5 9 To make an original contribution, you have
to be irrationally obsessed with something. 160 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T CHOOSING TO CARE FOR YOURSELF My number one priority in life, above my
happiness, above my family, above my work, is my own health. It starts with my physical health. Second, it’s my mental health. Third, it’s my spiritual health. Then, it’s my
family’s health. Then, it’s my family’s wellbeing. After that, I can go out and do whatever I need to do with the rest of the world. [4] Nothing like a health problem to turn up
the contrast dial for the rest of life. What about the modern world steers us away from the way humans are meant to live? There are many, many things. There are a number on the
physical side. We have diets we are not evolved to eat. A correct diet should probably look closer to a paleo diet, mostly eating vegetables with a small amount of meat and
berries. In terms of exercise, we’re probably meant to play instead of running on a treadmill. We’re probably evolved to use all of our five senses equally as opposed to favoring
the visual cortex. In modern society, almost all of our inputs and communica- tion are visual. We’re not meant to walk in shoes. A lot of back and foot problems come from shoes.
We’re not meant to have clothes keep us warm all of the time. We’re meant to have some cold exposure. It kickstarts your immune system. We’re not evolved to live in a perfectly
sterile and clean envi- S aving Y ourself · 1 61 ronment. It leads to allergies and an untrained immune system. This is known as the hygiene hypothesis. We’re evolved to live in
much smaller tribes and to have more family around us. I partially grew up in India, and in India, everybody is in your business. There’s a cousin, an aunt, an uncle who is in your
face, which makes it hard to be depressed, because you are never alone. (I’m not referring to people with chemical depression. I’m talking more about the existential angst and
malaise teen- agers seem to go through.) But on the other hand, you have no privacy, so you can’t be free. There are trade-offs. We’re not meant to check our phone every five
minutes. The constant mood swings of getting a “like” then an angry com- ment makes us into anxious creatures. We evolved for scarcity but live in abundance. There’s a constant
struggle to say no when your genes always want to say yes. Yes to sugar. Yes to staying in this relationship. Yes to alcohol. Yes to drugs. Yes, yes, yes. Our bodies don’t know how
to say no. [8] When everyone is sick, we no longer consider it a disease. DIET Outside of math, physics, and chemistry, there isn’t much “settled science.” We’re still arguing over
what the optimal diet is. Do you have an opinion on the ketogenic diet? 162 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T It seems really difficult to follow. It makes
sense for the brain and the body to have a backup mechanism. For example, in the Ice Ages, humans evolved without many plants available. At the same time, we have been eating
plants for thousands of years…I don’t think plants are bad for you, but something closer to the paleo diet is probably correct. I think the interplay between sugar and fat is
really interesting. Fat is what makes you satiated. Fatty foods make you feel full. The easiest way to feel full is to go on a ketogenic diet, where you’re eating tons of bacon all
the time, and you’re going to feel almost nauseous and not want to look at fat anymore. Sugar makes you hungry. Sugar signals to your body, “There’s this incredible food resource
in the environment we’re not evolved for,” so you rush out to get sugar. The problem is the sugar effect dominates the fat effect. If you eat a fatty meal and you throw some sugar
in, the sugar is going to deliver hunger and fat is going to deliver the calories and you’re just going to binge. That’s why all desserts are large combinations of fat and carbs
together. In nature, it’s very rare to find carbs and fat together. In nature, I find carbs and fat together in coconuts, in mangoes, maybe in bananas, but it’s basically tropical
fruits. The combination of sugar and fat together is really deadly. You’ve got to watch out for that in your diet. I’m not an expert, and the problem is diet and nutrition are like
politics: everybody thinks they’re an expert. Their identity is wrapped up in it because what they’ve been eating or what they think they should be eating is obviously the correct
answer. Everybody has a little religion—it’s just a really difficult topic S aving Y ourself · 1 63 to talk about. I will just say in general, any sensible diet avoids the
combination of sugar and fat together. [2] Dietary fat drives satiety. Dietary sugar drives hunger. The sugar effect dominates. Control your appetite accordingly. Most fit and
healthy people focus much more on what they eat than how much. Quality control is easier than (and leads to) quantity control. [11] Ironically, fasting (from a low-carb/paleo base)
is easier than portion control. Once the body detects food, it overrides the brain. [11] What I wonder about Wonder Bread is how it can stay soft at room temperature for months. If
bacteria won’t eat it, should you? [11] It has been five thousand years, and we’re still arguing over whether meat is poisonous or plants are poisonous. Ditch the extremists and
any food invented in the last few hundred years. [11] When it comes to medicine and nutrition, subtract before you add. [11] My trainer sends me photos of his meals, and it reminds
me we are all flavor addicts. [11] 164 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T World’s simplest diet: The more processed the food, the less one should consume.
EXERCISE The harder the workout, the easier the day. What habit would you say most positively impacts your life? The daily morning workout. That has been a complete game- changer.
It’s made me feel healthier, younger. It’s made me not go out late. It came from one simple thing, which is everybody says, “I don’t have time.” Basically, whenever you throw any
so-called good habit at somebody, they’ll have an excuse for themselves. Usually the most common is “I don’t have time.” “I don’t have time” is just another way of saying “It’s not
a pri- ority.” What you really have to do is say whether it is a priority or not. If something is your number one priority, then you will do it. That’s just the way life works. If
you’ve got a fuzzy basket of ten or fifteen different priorities, you’re going to end up getting none of them. What I did was decide my number one priority in life, above my
happiness, above my family, above my work, is my own health. It starts with my physical health. [4] Because my physi- cal health became my number one priority, then I could never
say I don’t have time. In the morning, I work out, and however long it takes is how long it takes. I do not start my day until I’ve worked out. I don’t care if the world is
imploding and melt- S aving Y ourself · 1 65 ing down, it can wait another thirty minutes until I’m done working out. It’s pretty much every day. There are a few days where I’ve
had to take a break because I’m traveling, or I’m injured or sick or something. I can count on one hand the number of breaks I take every year. [4] One month of consistent yoga and
I feel 10 years younger. To stay flexible is to stay young. How you make a habit doesn’t matter. Do something every day. It almost doesn’t matter what you do. The people who are
obsessing over whether to do weight training, tennis, Pilates, the high-intensity interval training method, “The Happy Body,” or whatever. They’re missing the point. The important
thing is to do something every day. It doesn’t matter what it is. The best workout for you is one you’re excited enough to do every day. [4] Walking meetings: • Brain works better
• Exercise & sunlight • Shorter, less pleasantries • More dialogue, less monologue • No slides • End easily by walking back Like everything in life, if you are willing to make the
short-term sacrifice, you’ll have the long-term benefit. My physical trainer 166 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T (Jerzy Gregorek) is a really wise, brilliant
guy. He always says, “Easy choices, hard life. Hard choices, easy life.” Basically, if you are making the hard choices right now in what to eat, you’re not eating all the junk food
you want, and making the hard choice to work out. So, your life long-term will be easy. You won’t be sick. You won’t be unhealthy. The same is true of values. The same is true of
saving up for a rainy day. The same is true of how you approach your relationships. If you make the easy choices right now, your overall life will be a lot harder. [4] MEDITATION
IS INTERMITTENT FASTING FOR THE MIND. S aving Y ourself · 1 67 MEDITATION + MENTAL STRENGTH An emotion is our evolved biology predicting the future impact of a current event. In
modern settings, it’s usually exaggerated or wrong. Why is meditation so powerful? Your breath is one of the few places where your autonomic nervous system meets your voluntary
nervous system. It’s involuntary, but you can also control it. I think a lot of meditation practices put an emphasis on the breath because it is a gateway into your autonomic
nervous system. There are many, many cases in the medical and spiri- tual literature of people controlling their bodies at levels that should be autonomous. Your mind is such a
powerful thing. What’s so unusual about your forebrain sending signals to your hindbrain and your hindbrain routing resources to your entire body? You can do it just by breathing.
Relaxed breathing tells your body you’re safe. Then, your forebrain doesn’t need as many resources as it normally does. Now, the extra energy can be sent to your hindbrain, and it
can reroute those resources to the rest of your body. I’m not saying you can beat whatever illness you have just because you activated your hindbrain. But you’re devoting most of
the energy normally required to care about the exter- nal environment to the immune system. 168 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T I highly recommend listening
to the Tim Ferriss’s podcast with Wim Hof. He is a walking miracle. Wim’s nickname is the Ice Man. He holds the world record for the longest time spent in an ice bath and swimming
in freezing cold water. I was very inspired by him, not only because he’s capable of super-human physical feats, but because he does it while being incredibly kind and happy—which
is not easy to accomplish. He advocates cold exposure, because he believes people are too separate from their natural environment. We’re constantly clothed, fed, and warm. Our
bodies have lost touch with the cold. The cold is important because it can activate the immune system. So, he advocates taking long ice baths. Being from the Indian subcontinent,
I’m strongly against the idea of ice baths. But Wim inspired me to give cold showers a try. And I did so by using the Wim Hof breathing method. It involves hyperventi- lating to
get more oxygen into your blood, which raises your core temperature. Then, you can go into the shower. The first few cold showers were hilarious because I’d slowly ease myself in,
wincing the entire way. I started about four or five months ago. Now, I turn the shower on full-blast, and then I walk right in. I don’t give myself any time to hesitate. As soon
as I hear the voice in my head telling me how cold it’s going to be, I know I have to walk in. I learned a very important lesson from this: most of our suffer- ing comes from
avoidance. Most of the suffering from a cold shower is the tip-toeing your way in. Once you’re in, you’re in. It’s not suffering. It’s just cold. Your body saying it’s cold is
different than your mind saying it’s cold. Acknowledge your S aving Y ourself · 1 69 body saying it’s cold. Look at it. Deal with it. Accept it, but don’t mentally suffer over it.
Taking a cold shower for two minutes isn’t going to kill you. Having a cold shower helps you re-learn that lesson every morning. Now hot showers are just one less thing I need out
of life. [2] Meditation is intermittent fasting for the mind. Too much sugar leads to a heavy body, and too many distractions lead to a heavy mind. Time spent undistracted and
alone, in self-examination, journaling, meditation, resolves the unresolved and takes us from mentally fat to fit. Do you have a current meditation practice? I think meditation is
like dieting, where everyone is supposedly following a regimen. Everyone says they do it, but nobody actu- ally does it. The real set of people who meditate on a regular basis,
I’ve found, are pretty rare. I’ve identified and tried at least four different forms of meditation. The one I found works best for me is called Choiceless Aware- ness, or
Nonjudgmental Awareness. As you’re going about your daily business (hopefully, there’s some nature) and you’re not talking to anybody else, you practice learning to accept the
moment you’re in without making judgments. You don’t think, “Oh, there’s a homeless guy over there, better cross the street” 170 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N
T or look at someone running by and say, “He’s out of shape, and I’m in better shape than him.” If I saw a guy with a bad hair day, I would at first think “Haha, he has a bad hair
day.” Well, why am I laughing at him to make me feel better about myself? And why am I trying to make me feel better about my own hair? Because I’m losing my hair, and I’m afraid
it’s going to go away. What I find is 90 percent of thoughts I have are fear-based. The other 10 percent may be desire-based. You don’t make any decisions. You don’t judge
anything. You just accept everything. If I do that for ten or fifteen minutes while walking around, I end up in a very peaceful, grateful state. Choiceless Awareness works well for
me. [6] You could also do transcendental meditation, which is where you’re using repetitive chanting to create a white noise in your head to bury your thoughts. Or, you can just
very keenly and very alertly be aware of your thoughts as they happen. As you watch your thoughts, you realize how many of them are fear- based. The moment you recognize a fear,
without even trying it goes away. After a while, your mind quiets. When your mind quiets, you stop taking everything around you for granted. You start to notice the details. You
think, “Wow, I live in such a beautiful place. It’s so great that I have clothes, and I can go to Starbucks and get a coffee anytime. Look at these people—each one has a perfectly
valid and complete life going on in their own heads.” It pops us out of the story we’re constantly telling ourselves. If you stop talking to yourself for even ten minutes, if you
stop S aving Y ourself · 1 7 1 obsessing over your own story, you’ll realize we are really far up Maslow’s hierarchy of needs, and life is pretty good. [6] Life-hack: When in bed,
meditate. Either you will have a deep meditation or fall asleep. Victory either way. Another method I’ve learned is to just sit there and you close your eyes for at least one hour
a day. You surrender to what- ever happens—don’t make any effort whatsoever. You make no effort for something, and you make no effort against anything. If there are thoughts
running through your mind, you let the thoughts run. For your entire life, things have been happening to you. Some good, some bad, most of which you have processed and dis- solved,
but a few stuck with you. Over time, more and more stuck with you, and they almost became like these barnacles stuck to you. You lost your childhood sense of wonder and of being
present and happy. You lost your inner happiness because you built up this personality of unresolved pain, errors, fears, and desires that glommed onto you like a bunch of
barnacles. How do you get those barnacles off you? What happens in meditation is you’re sitting there and not resisting your mind. These things will start bubbling up. It’s like a
giant inbox of unanswered emails, going back to your childhood. They will come out one by one, and you will be forced to deal with them. You will be forced to resolve them.
Resolving them doesn’t take 172 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T any work—you just observe them. Now you’re an adult with some distance, time, and space from
previous events, and you can just resolve them. You can be much more objective about how you view them. Over time, you will resolve a lot of these deep-seated unre- solved things
you have in your mind. Once they’re resolved, there will come a day when you sit down to meditate, and you’ll hit a mental “inbox zero.” When you open your mental “email” and there
are none, that is a pretty amazing feeling. It’s a state of joy and bliss and peace. Once you have it, you don’t want to give it up. If you can get a free hour of bliss every
morning just by sitting and closing your eyes, that is worth its weight in gold. It will change your life. I recommend meditating one hour each morning because any- thing less is
not enough time to really get deep into it. I would recommend if you really want to try meditation, try sixty days of one hour a day, first thing in the morning. After about sixty
days, you will be tired of listening to your own mind. You will have resolved a lot of issues, or you have heard them enough to see through those fears and issues. Meditation isn’t
hard. All you have to do is sit there and do nothing. Just sit down. Close your eyes and say, “I’m just going to give myself a break for an hour. This is my hour off from life.
This is the hour I’m not going to do anything. “If thoughts come, thoughts come. I’m not going to fight them. I’m not going to embrace them. I’m not going to think harder about
them. I’m not going to reject them. I’m just going to sit here for an hour with my eyes closed, and I’m going to do S aving Y ourself · 1 7 3 nothing.” How hard is that? Why can
you not do anything for an hour? What’s so hard about giving yourself an hour-long break? [74] Was there a moment you realized you could control how you interpreted things? I think
one problem people have is not recognizing they can control how they interpret and respond to a situation. I think everyone knows it’s possible. There’s a great Osho lec- ture,
titled “The Attraction for Drugs Is Spiritual.” He talks about why do people do drugs (everything from alcohol to psy- chedelics to cannabis). They’re doing it to control their
mental state. They’re doing it to control how they react. Some people drink because it helps them not care as much, or they’re pot- heads because they can zone out, or they do
psychedelics to feel very present or connected to nature. The attraction of drugs is spiritual. All of society does this to some extent. People chasing thrills in action sports or
flow states or orgasms—any of these states people strive for are people trying to get out of their own heads. They’re trying to get away from the voice in their heads—the
overdeveloped sense of self. At the very least, I do not want my sense of self to continue to develop and strengthen as I get older. I want it to be weaker and more muted so I can
be more in present everyday reality, accept nature and the world for what it is, and appreciate it very much as a child would. [4] The first thing to realize is you can observe
your mental state. Meditation doesn’t mean you’re suddenly going to gain the 174 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T superpower to control your internal state.
The advantage of meditation is recognizing just how out of control your mind is. It is like a monkey flinging feces, running around the room, making trouble, shouting, and breaking
things. It’s completely uncontrollable. It’s an out-of-control madperson. You have to see this mad creature in operation before you feel a certain distaste toward it and start
separating yourself from it. In that separation is liberation. You realize, “Oh, I don’t want to be that person. Why am I so out of control?” Awareness alone calms you down. [4]
Insight meditation lets you run your brain in debug mode until you realize you’re just a subroutine in a larger program. I try to keep an eye on my internal monologue. It doesn’t
always work. In the computer programming sense, I try to run my brain in “debugging mode” as much as possible. When I’m talking to someone, or when I’m engaged in a group activity,
it’s almost impossible because your brain has too many things to handle. If I’m by myself, like just this morning, I’m brushing my teeth and I start thinking forward to a podcast.
I started going through this little fantasy where I imagined Shane asking me a bunch of questions and I was fantasy- answering them. Then, I caught myself. I put my brain in debug
mode and just watched every little instruction go by. I said, “Why am I fantasy-future planning? Why can’t I just stand here and brush my teeth?” It’s the awareness my brain was
running off in the future and planning some fantasy sce- nario out of ego. I was like, “Well, do I really care if I embarrass S aving Y ourself · 1 7 5 myself? Who cares? I’m going
to die anyway. This is all going to go to zero, and I won’t remember anything, so this is pointless.” Then, I shut down, and I went back to brushing my teeth. I was noticing how
good the toothbrush was and how good it felt. Then the next moment, I’m off to thinking something else. I have to look at my brain again and say, “Do I really need to solve this
problem right now?” Ninety-five percent of what my brain runs off and tries to do, I don’t need to tackle in that exact moment. If the brain is like a muscle, I’ll be better off
resting it, being at peace. When a particular problem arises, I’ll immerse myself in it. Right now as we’re talking, I’d rather dedicate myself to being completely lost in the
conversation and to being 100 percent focused on this as opposed to thinking about “Oh, when I brushed my teeth, did I do it the right way?” The ability to singularly focus is
related to the ability to lose your- self and be present, happy, and (ironically) more effective. [4] It’s almost like you’re taking yourself out of a certain frame and you’re
watching things from a different perspective even though you’re in your own mind. Buddhists talk about awareness versus the ego. They’re really talking about how you can think of
your brain, your con- sciousness, as a multilayered mechanism. There’s a core-base, kernel-level OS running. Then, there are applications running on top. (I like to think of it as
computer and geek speak.) I’m actually going back to my awareness level of OS, which is 176 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T always calm, always peaceful, and
generally happy and con- tent. I’m trying to stay in awareness mode and not activate the monkey mind, which is always worried, frightened, and anxious. It serves incredible
purpose, but I try not to activate the monkey mind until I need it. When I need it, I want to just focus on that. If I run it 24/7, I waste energy and the monkey mind becomes me. I
am more than my monkey mind. Another thing: spirituality, religion, Buddhism, or anything you follow will teach you over time you are more than just your mind. You are more than
just your habits. You are more than just your preferences. You’re a level of awareness. You’re a body. Modern humans, we don’t live enough in our bodies. We don’t live enough in
our awareness. We live too much in this internal monologue in our heads. All of which is just programmed into you by society and by the environment when you were younger. You are
basically a bunch of DNA that reacted to environmental effects when you were younger. You recorded the good and bad experiences, and you use them to prejudge everything thrown
against you. Then you’re using those experiences, constantly trying and predict and change the future. As you get older, the sum of preferences you’ve accumulated is very, very
large. These habitual reactions end up as runaway freight trains controlling your mood. We should control our own moods. Why don’t we study how to control our moods? What a
masterful thing it would be if you could say, “Right now I would like to be in the curious state,” and then you can genuinely get yourself into the curious state. Or say, “I want
to be in a mourning state. I’m mourning a loved one, and I want to grieve for them. I really want to feel that. I don’t want to be dis- tracted by a computer programming problem
due tomorrow.” S aving Y ourself · 1 7 7 The mind itself is a muscle—it can be trained and condi- tioned. It has been haphazardly conditioned by society to be out of our control.
If you look at your mind with awareness and intent (a 24/7 job you’re working at every moment) I think you can unpack your own mind, your emotions, thoughts, and reactions. Then
you can start reconfiguring. You can start rewriting this program to what you want. [4] Meditation is turning off society and listening to yourself. It only “works” when done for
its own sake. Hiking is walking meditation. Journaling is writing meditation. Praying is gratitude meditation. Showering is accidental meditation. Sitting quietly is direct
meditation. CHOOSING TO BUILD YOURSELF The greatest superpower is the ability to change yourself. What’s the biggest mistake you’ve made in your life and how did you recover? 178 ·
T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T I’ve made a class of mistakes I would summarize the same way. The mistakes were obvious only in hindsight through one exer-
cise, which is asking yourself: when you’re thirty, what advice would you give your twenty-year-old self? And when you’re forty, what advice would you give your thirty-year-old
self? (Maybe if you’re younger, you can do it by every five years.) Sit down and say, “Okay, 2007, what was I doing? How was I feeling? 2008, what was I doing? How was I feeling?
2009, what was I doing? How was I feeling?” Life is going to play out the way it’s going to play out. There will be some good and some bad. Most of it is actually just up to your
interpretation. You’re born, you have a set of sensory experiences, and then you die. How you choose to interpret those experiences is up to you, and different people interpret
them in different ways. Really, I wish I had done all of the same things, but with less emotion and less anger. The most celebrated example would be when I was younger, I started a
