are not 100 percent-or-nothing things. You can start moving more and more toward that goal in your life. It’s a goal. B uilding W ealth · 7 9 When I was younger, I used to be so
desperate to make money that I would have done anything. If you’d shown up and said, “Hey, I’ve got a sewage trucking business, want to go into that?” I would have said, “Great, I
want to make money!” Thank God no one gave me that opportunity. I’m glad I went down the road of technology and science, which I genuinely enjoy. I got to combine my vocation and
my avocation. I’m always “working.” It looks like work to others, but it feels like play to me. And that’s how I know no one can compete with me on it. Because I’m just playing,
for sixteen hours a day. If others want to compete with me, they’re going to work, and they’re going to lose because they’re not going to do it for sixteen hours a day, seven days
a week. [77] What was your figure where you thought you were financially safe? Money is not the root of all evil; there’s nothing evil about it. But the lust for money is bad. The
lust for money is not bad in a social sense. It’s not bad in the sense of “you’re a bad person for lusting for money.” It’s bad for you. Lusting for money is bad for us because it
is a bottomless pit. It will always occupy your mind. If you love money, and you make it, there’s never enough. There is never enough because the desire is turned on and doesn’t
turn off at some number. It’s a fallacy to think it turns off at some number. The punishment for the love of money is delivered at the same time as the money. As you make money,
you just want even more, and you become paranoid and fearful of losing what you do have. There’s no free lunch. 80 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T You make
money to solve your money and material problems. I think the best way to stay away from this constant love of money is to not upgrade your lifestyle as you make money. It’s very
easy to keep upgrading your lifestyle as you make money. But if you can hold your lifestyle fixed and hopefully make your money in giant lump sums as opposed to a trickle at a
time, you won’t have time to upgrade your lifestyle. You may get so far ahead you actually become financially free. Another thing that helps: I value freedom above everything else.
All kinds of freedom: freedom to do what I want, freedom from things I don’t want to do, freedom from my own emotions or things that may disturb my peace. For me, freedom is my
number one value. To the extent money buys freedom, it’s great. But to the extent it makes me less free, which it definitely does at some level as well, I don’t like it. [74] The
winners of any game are the people who are so addicted they continue playing even as the marginal utility from winning declines. Do I have to start a company to be successful? The
most successful class of people in Silicon Valley on a con- sistent basis are either the venture capitalists (because they are diversified and control what used to be a scarce
resource) or people who are very good at identifying companies that have just hit product/market fit. Those people have the background, expertise, and references those companies
really want to help B uilding W ealth · 81 them scale. Then, they go into the latest Dropbox or the latest Airbnb. The people who were at Google, then joined Facebook when it was
one hundred people, and then joined Stripe when it was one hundred people? When Zuckerberg was just starting to scale his company and panicked, he was like, “I don’t know how to do
this.” And he called Jim Breyer [venture capitalist and founder of Accel Partners]. And Jim Breyer said, “Well, I have this really great head of product at this other company, and
you need this person.” Those people tend to do the best, risk-adjusted over a long period of time, other than the venture investors themselves. [30] Some of the most successful
people I’ve seen in Silicon Valley had breakouts very early in their careers. They got promoted to VP, director, or CEO, or started a company that did well fairly early. If you’re
not getting promoted through the ranks, it gets a lot harder to catch up later in life. It’s good to be in a smaller company early because there’s less of an infrastructure to pre-
vent early promotion. [76] For someone who is early in their career (and maybe even later), the single most important thing about a company is the alumni network you’re going to
build. Think about who you will work with and what those people are going on to do. [76] HOW TO GET LUCKY Why do you say, “Get rich without getting lucky”? 82 · T H E A L M A N A C
K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T In 1,000 parallel universes, you want to be wealthy in 999 of them. You don’t want to be wealthy in the fifty of them where you got lucky, so we
want to factor luck out of it. But getting lucky would help, right? Just recently, Babak Nivi, my co-founder, and I were talking on Twitter about how one gets lucky, and there are
really four kinds of luck we were talking about. The first kind of luck is blind luck where one just gets lucky because something completely out of their control happened. This
includes fortune, fate, etc. Then, there’s luck through persistence, hard work, hustle, and motion. This is when you’re running around creating opportu- nities. You’re generating a
lot of energy, you’re doing a lot to stir things up. It’s almost like mixing a petri dish or mixing a bunch of reagents and seeing what combines. You’re just generating enough
force, hustle, and energy for luck to find you. A third way is you become very good at spotting luck. If you are very skilled in a field, you will notice when a lucky break happens
in your field, and other people who aren’t attuned to it won’t notice. So, you become sensitive to luck. The last kind of luck is the weirdest, hardest kind, where you build a
unique character, a unique brand, a unique mindset, which causes luck to find you. For example, let’s say you’re the best person in the world at deep-sea diving. You’re known to
take on deep-sea dives nobody else will even dare to attempt. By sheer luck, somebody B uilding W ealth · 83 finds a sunken treasure ship off the coast they can’t get to. Well,
their luck just became your luck, because they’re going to come to you to get to the treasure, and you’re going to get paid for it. This is an extreme example, but it shows how one
person had blind luck finding the treasure. Them coming to you to extract it and give you half is not blind luck. You created your own luck. You put yourself in a position to
capitalize on luck or to attract luck when nobody else created the opportunity for themselves. To get rich without getting lucky, we want to be deterministic. We don’t want to
leave it to chance. [78] Ways to get lucky: • Hope luck finds you. • Hustle until you stumble into it. • Prepare the mind and be sensitive to chances others miss. • Become the best
at what you do. Refine what you do until this is true. Opportunity will seek you out. Luck becomes your destiny. It starts becoming so deterministic, it stops being luck. The
definition starts fading from luck to destiny. To summarize the fourth type: build your character in a certain way, then your character becomes your destiny. One of the things I
think is important to make money is having a reputation that makes people do deals through you. Remem- ber the example of being a great diver where treasure hunters will come and
give you a piece of the treasure for your diving skills. 84 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T If you are a trusted, reliable, high-integrity, long-term-thinking
dealmaker, when other people want to do deals but don’t know how to do them in a trustworthy manner with strangers, they will literally approach you and give you a cut of the deal
just because of the integrity and reputation you’ve built up. Warren Buffett gets offered deals to buy companies, buy war- rants, bail out banks, and do things other people can’t
do because of his reputation. Of course, he has accountability on the line, and he has a strong brand on the line. Your character and your reputation are things you can build,
which will let you take advantage of opportunities other people may characterize as lucky, but you know it wasn’t luck. [78] My co-founder Nivi said, “In a long-term game, it seems
that everybody is making each other rich. And in a short-term game, it seems like everybody is making themselves rich.” I think that is a brilliant formulation. In a long-term
game, it’s positive sum. We’re all baking the pie together. We’re trying to make it as big as possible. And in a short-term game, we’re cutting up the pie. [78] How important is
networking? I think business networking is a complete waste of time. And I know there are people and companies popularizing this con- cept because it serves them and their business
model well, but the reality is if you’re building something interesting, you will always have more people who will want to know you. Trying to build business relationships well in
advance of doing business is a complete waste of time. I have a much more comfortable philosophy: “Be a maker who makes something interesting B uilding W ealth · 85 people want.
Show your craft, practice your craft, and the right people will eventually find you.” [14] And once you’ve met someone, how do you determine if you can trust someone? What signals
do you pay attention to? If someone is talking a lot about how honest they are, they’re probably dishonest. That is just a little telltale indicator I’ve learned. When someone
spends too much time talking about their own values or they’re talking themselves up, they’re cov- ering for something. [4] Sharks eat well but live a life surrounded by sharks. I
have great people in my life who are extremely successful, very desirable (like everybody wants to be their friend), very smart. Yet, I’ve seen them do one or two things slightly
not great to other people. The first time, I’ll say, “Hey, I don’t think you should do this to that other person. Not because you won’t get away with it. You will get away with it,
but because it will hurt you in the end.” Not in some cosmic, karma kind of way, but I believe deep down we all know who we are. You cannot hide anything from yourself. Your own
failures are written within your psyche, and they are obvious to you. If you have too many of these moral shortcomings, you will not respect yourself. The worst out- come in this
world is not having self-esteem. If you don’t love yourself, who will? I think you just have to be very careful about doing things you 86 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A
V I K A N T are fundamentally not going to be proud of, because they will damage you. The first time someone acts this way, I will warn them. By the way, nobody changes. Then I
just distance myself from them. I cut them out of my life. I just have this saying inside my head: “The closer you want to get to me, the better your values have to be.” [4] GIVE
ME A LEVER LONG ENOUGH AND I WILL MOVE THE EARTH. AND A PLACE TO STAND, BE PATIENT One thing I figured out later in life is generally (at least in the tech business in Silicon
Valley), great people have great outcomes. You just have to be patient. Every person I met at the beginning of my career twenty years ago, where I looked at them and said, “Wow,
that guy or gal is super capable—so smart and dedicated”…all of them, almost without exception, B uilding W ealth · 87 became extremely successful. You just had to give them a long
enough timescale. It never happens in the timescale you want, or they want, but it does happen. [4] Apply specific knowledge with leverage and eventually, you will get what you
deserve. It takes time—even once you have all of these pieces in place, there is an indeterminate amount of time you have to put in. If you’re counting, you’ll run out of patience
before success actually arrives. Everybody wants to get rich immediately, but the world is an efficient place; immediate doesn’t work. You do have to put in the time. You do have
to put in the hours, and so I think you have to put yourself in the position with the specific knowl- edge, with accountability, with leverage, with the authentic skill set you
have, to be the best in the world at what you do. You have to enjoy it and keep doing it, keep doing it, and keep doing it. Don’t keep track, and don’t keep count because if you
do, you will run out of time. [78] The most common bad advice I hear is: “You’re too young.” Most of history was built by young people. They just got credit when they were older.
The only way to truly learn something is by doing it. Yes, listen to guidance. But don’t wait. [3] 88 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T People are oddly
consistent. Karma is just you, repeating your patterns, virtues, and flaws until you finally get what you deserve. Always pay it forward. And don’t keep count. This is not to say
it’s easy. It’s not easy. It’s actually really freaking hard. It is the hardest thing you will do. But it’s also rewarding. Look at the kids who are born rich—they have no meaning
to their lives. Your real résumé is just a catalog of all your suffering. If I ask you to describe your real life to yourself, and you look back from your deathbed at the
interesting things you’ve done, it’s all going to be around the sacrifices you made, the hard things you did. However, anything you’re given doesn’t matter. You have your four
limbs, your brain, your head, your skin—that’s all for granted. You have to do hard things anyway to create your own meaning in life. Making money is a fine thing to choose. Go
struggle. It is hard. I’m not going to say it’s easy. It’s really hard, but the tools are all available. It’s all out there. [77] Money buys you freedom in the material world. It’s
not going to make you happy, it’s not going to solve your health problems, it’s not going to make your family great, it’s not going to make you fit, it’s not going to make you
calm. But it will solve a lot of external problems. It’s a reasonable step to go ahead and make money. [10] B uilding W ealth · 89 What making money will do is solve your money
problems. It will remove a set of things that could get in the way of being happy, but it is not going to make you happy. I know many very wealthy people who are unhappy. Most of
the time, the person you have to become to make money is a high-anxiety, high-stress, hard-working, competitive person. When you have done that for twenty, thirty, forty, fifty
years, and you suddenly make money, you can’t turn it off. You’ve trained yourself to be a high-anxiety person. Then, you have to learn how to be happy. [11] Let’s get you rich
first. I’m very practical about it because, you know, Buddha was a prince. He started off really rich, then he got to go off in the woods. In the old days, if you wanted to be
peaceful inside, you would become a monk. You would give up everything, renounce sex, children, money, politics, science, technology, everything, and you would go out in the woods
by yourself. You had to give everything up to be free inside. Today, with this wonderful invention called money, you can store it in a bank account. You can you work really hard,
do great things for society, and society will give you money for things it wants but doesn’t know how to get. You can save money, you can live a little below your means, and you
can find a certain freedom. That will give you the time and the energy to pursue your own internal peace and happiness. I believe the solution to making everybody happy is to give
them what they want. Let’s get them all rich. 90 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T Let’s get them all fit and healthy. Then, let’s get them all happy. [77]
Amazing how many people confuse wealth and wisdom. B uilding W ealth · 91 BUILDIN G JUDGMENT There’s no shortcut to smart. B uilding J udgment · 93 JUDGMENT If you want to make the
maximum amount of money possi- ble, if you want to get rich over your life in a deterministically predictable way, stay on the bleeding edge of trends and study technology, design,
and art—become really good at something. [1] You don’t get rich by spending your time to save money. You get rich by saving your time to make money. Hard work is really overrated.
How hard you work matters a lot less in the modern economy. What is underrated? Judgment. Judgment is underrated. [1] Can you define judgment? My definition of wisdom is knowing
the long-term conse- quences of your actions. Wisdom applied to external problems is judgment. They’re highly linked; knowing the long-term consequences of your actions and then
making the right deci- sion to capitalize on that. [78] In an age of leverage, one correct decision can win everything. 94 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T
Without hard work, you’ll develop neither judgment nor leverage. You have to put in the time, but the judgment is more import- ant. The direction you’re heading in matters more
than how fast you move, especially with leverage. Picking the direction you’re heading in for every decision is far, far more important than how much force you apply. Just pick the
right direction to start walking in, and start walking. [1] HOW TO THINK CLEARLY “Clear thinker” is a better compliment than “smart.” Real knowledge is intrinsic, and it’s built
from the ground up. To use a math example, you can’t understand trigonometry without understanding arithmetic and geometry. Basically, if someone is using a lot of fancy words and
a lot of big concepts, they probably don’t know what they’re talking about. I think the smartest people can explain things to a child. If you can’t explain it to a child, then you
don’t know it. It’s a common saying and it’s very true. Richard Feynman very famously does this in “Six Easy Pieces,” one of his early physics lectures. He basically explains
mathematics in three pages. He starts from the number line— counting—and then he goes all the way up to precalculus. He just builds it up through an unbroken chain of logic. He
doesn’t rely on any definitions. B uilding J udgment · 95 The really smart thinkers are clear thinkers. They understand the basics at a very, very fundamental level. I would rather
understand the basics really well than memorize all kinds of complicated concepts I can’t stitch together and can’t rederive from the basics. If you can’t rederive concepts from
the basics as you need them, you’re lost. You’re just memorizing. [4] The advanced concepts in a field are less proven. We use them to signal insider knowledge, but we’d be better
off nailing the basics. [11] Clear thinkers appeal to their own authority. Part of making effective decisions boils down to dealing with reality. How do you make sure you’re
dealing with reality when you’re making decisions? By not having a strong sense of self or judgments or mind presence. The “monkey mind” will always respond with this regurgitated
emotional response to what it thinks the world should be. Those desires will cloud your reality. This happens a lot of times when people are mixing politics and business. The
number one thing clouding us from being able to see real- ity is we have preconceived notions of the way it should be. One definition of a moment of suffering is “the moment when
you see things exactly the way they are.” This whole time, you’ve been convinced your business is doing great, and really, you’ve ignored the signs it’s not doing well. Then, your
business fails, 96 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T and you suffer because you’ve been putting off reality. You’ve been hiding it from yourself. The good news
is, the moment of suffering—when you’re in pain—is a moment of truth. It is a moment where you’re forced to embrace reality the way it actually is. Then, you can make meaningful
change and progress. You can only make progress when you’re starting with the truth. The hard thing is seeing the truth. To see the truth, you have to get your ego out of the way
because your ego doesn’t want to face the truth. The smaller you can make your ego, the less conditioned you can make your reactions, the less desires you can have about the
outcome you want, the easier it will be to see the reality. What we wish to be true clouds our perception of what is true. Suffering is the moment when we can no longer deny
reality. Imagine we’re going through something difficult like a breakup, a job loss, a business failure, or a health problem, and our friends are advising us. When we’re advising
them, the answer is obvious. It comes to us in a minute, and we tell them exactly, “Oh that girl, get over her, she wasn’t good for you anyway. You’ll be happier. Trust me. You’ll
find someone.” You know the correct answer, but your friend can’t see it, because they’re in the moment of suffering and pain. They’re still wishing reality was different. The
problem isn’t reality. The problem is their desire is colliding with reality and pre- B uilding J udgment · 97 venting them from seeing the truth, no matter how much you say it.
The same thing happens when I make decisions. The more desire I have for something to work out a certain way, the less likely I am to see the truth. Especially in business, if
something isn’t going well, I try to acknowledge it publicly and I try to acknowledge it publicly in front of my co-founders and friends and co-workers. Then, I’m not hiding it
from anybody else. If I’m not hiding it from anybody, I’m not going to delude myself from what’s actually going on. [4] What you feel tells you nothing about the facts—it merely
tells you something about your estimate of the facts. It’s actually really important to have empty space. If you don’t have a day or two every week in your calendar where you’re
not always in meetings, and you’re not always busy, then you’re not going to be able to think. You’re not going to be able to have good ideas for your busi- ness. You’re not going
to be able to make good judgments. I also encourage taking at least one day a week (preferably two, because if you budget two, you’ll end up with one) where you just have time to
think. It’s only after you’re bored you have the great ideas. It’s never going to be when you’re stressed, or busy, running around or rushed. Make the time. [7] 98 · T H E A L M A
N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T Very smart people tend to be weird since they insist on thinking everything through for themselves. B uilding J udgment · 99 A contrarian
isn’t one who always objects—that’s a conformist of a different sort. A contrarian reasons independently from the ground up and resists pressure to conform. Cynicism is easy.
Mimicry is easy. Optimistic contrarians are the rarest breed. OPTIMISTS CONTRARIANS 100 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T SHED YOUR IDENTITY TO SEE REALITY Our
egos are constructed in our formative years—our first two decades. They get constructed by our environment, our parents, society. Then, we spend the rest of our life trying to make
our ego happy. We interpret anything new through our ego: “How do I change the external world to make it more how I would like it to be?” [8] “Tension is who you think you should
be. Relaxation is who you are.” —Buddhist saying You absolutely need habits to function. You cannot solve every problem in life as if it is the first time it’s thrown at you. We
accumulate all these habits. We put them in the bundle of identity, ego, ourselves, and then we get attached to them. “I’m Naval. This is the way I am.” It’s really important to be
able to uncondition yourself, to be able to take your habits apart and say, “Okay, this is a habit I probably picked up when I was a toddler trying to get my par- ent’s attention.
Now I’ve reinforced it and reinforced it, and I call it a part of my identity. Does it still serve me? Does it make me happier? Does it make me healthier? Does it make me
accomplish whatever I set out to accomplish?” I’m less habitual than most people. I don’t like to structure my day. To the extent I have habits, I try to make them more deliberate
rather than accidents of history. [4] B uilding J udgment · 1 0 1 Any belief you took in a package (ex. Democrat, Catholic, American) is suspect and should be re-evaluated from
base principles. I try not to have too much I’ve pre-decided. I think creating identities and labels locks you in and keeps you from seeing the truth. To be honest, speak without
identity. I used to identify as libertarian, but then I would find myself defending positions I hadn’t really thought through because they’re a part of the libertarian canon. If
all your beliefs line up into neat little bundles, you should be highly suspicious. I don’t like to self-identify on almost any level anymore, which keeps me from having too many
of these so-called stable beliefs. [4] We each have a contrarian belief society rejects. But the more our own identity and local tribe reject it, the more real it likely is. There
are two attractive lessons about suffering in the long term. It can make you accept the world the way it is. The other lesson is it can make your ego change in an extremely hard
way. Maybe you’re a competitive athlete, and you get injured badly, 102 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T like Bruce Lee. You have to accept being an athlete is
not your entire identity, and maybe you can forge a new identity as a philosopher. [8] Facebook redesigns. Twitter redesigns. Personalities, careers, and teams also need redesigns.
There are no permanent solutions in a dynamic system. TENSION IS WHO YOU THINK YOU SHOULD BE. RELAXATION IS WHO YOU ARE. LEARN THE SKILLS OF DECISION-MAKING The classical virtues
are all decision-making heuristics to make one optimize for the long term rather than for the short term. [11] B uilding J udgment · 1 0 3 Self-serving conclusions should have a
higher bar. I do view a lot of my goals over the next few years of uncondi- tioning previous learned responses or habituated responses, so I can make decisions more cleanly in the
moment with- out relying on memory or prepackaged heuristics and judgments. [4] Almost all biases are time-saving heuristics. For important decisions, discard memory and identity,
and focus on the problem. Radical honesty just means I want to be free. Part of being free means I can say what I think and think what I say. They’re highly congruent and
integrated. Theoretical physicist Richard Feynman famously said, “You should never, ever fool anybody, and you are the easiest person to fool.” The moment you tell somebody
something dishonest, you’ve lied to yourself. Then you’ll start believing your own lie, which will disconnect you from reality and take you down the wrong road. I never ask if “I
like it” or “I don’t like it.” I think “this is what it is” or “this is what it isn’t.” —Richard Feynman It’s really important for me to be honest. I don’t go out of my way
volunteering negative or nasty things. I would combine 104 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T radical honesty with an old rule Warren Buffett has, which is
praise specifically, criticize generally. I try to follow this. I don’t always follow it, but I think I follow it enough to have made a difference in my life. If you have a
criticism of someone, then don’t criticize the person—criticize the general approach or criticize the class of activities. If you have to praise somebody, then always try and find
the person who is the best example of what you’re praising and praise the person, specifically. Then people’s egos and identities, which we all have, don’t work against you. They
work for you. [4] Any advice on developing capacity for instinctual blunt honesty? Tell everyone. Start now. It doesn’t have to be blunt. Charisma is the ability to project
confidence and love at the same time. It’s almost always possible to be honest and positive. [71] As an investor and CEO of AngelList, you’re paid to be right when other people are
wrong. Do you have a process around how you make decisions? Yes. Decision-making is everything. In fact, someone who makes decisions right 80 percent of the time instead of 70
percent of the time will be valued and compensated in the market hundreds of times more. I think people have a hard time understanding a fundamental fact of leverage. If I manage
$1 billion and I’m right 10 percent more often than somebody else, my decision-making creates $100 million worth of value on a judgment call. With modern B uilding J udgment · 1 0
5 technology and large workforces and capital, our decisions are leveraged more and more. If you can be more right and more rational, you’re going to get nonlinear returns in your
life. I love the blog Farnam Street because it really focuses on helping you be more accu- rate, an overall better decision-maker. Decision-making is everything. [4] The more you
know, the less you diversify. COLLECT MENTAL MODELS During decision-making, the brain is a memory prediction machine. A lousy way to do memory prediction is “X happened in the
past, therefore X will happen in the future.” It’s too based on specific circumstances. What you want is principles. You want mental models. The best mental models I have found
came through evolution, game theory, and Charlie Munger. Charlie Munger is Warren Buffett’s partner. Very good investor. He has tons and tons of great mental models. Author and
trader Nassim Taleb has great mental models. Benjamin Franklin had great mental models. I basically load my head full of mental models. [4] I use my tweets and other people’s
tweets as maxims that help compress my own learnings and recall them. The brain space is finite—you have finite neurons—so you can almost think 106 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A
V A L R A V I K A N T of these as pointers, addresses, or mnemonics to help you remember deep-seated principles where you have the under- lying experience to back it up. If you
don’t have the underlying experience, then it just reads like a collection of quotes. It’s cool, it’s inspirational for a moment, maybe you’ll make a nice poster out of it. But
then you forget it and move on. Mental models are really just com- pact ways for you to recall your own knowledge. [78] EVOLUTION I think a lot of modern society can be explained
through evo- lution. One theory is civilization exists to answer the question of who gets to mate. If you look around, from a purely sexual selection perspective, sperm is abundant
and eggs are scarce. It’s an allocation problem. Literally all of the works of mankind and womankind can be traced down to people trying to solve this problem. Evolution,
thermodynamics, information theory, and com- plexity have explanatory and predictive power in many aspects of life. [11] INVERSION I don’t believe I have the ability to say what is
going to work. Rather, I try to eliminate what’s not going to work. I think being successful is just about not making mistakes. It’s not about having correct judgment. It’s about
avoiding incorrect judgments. [4] B uilding J udgment · 1 0 7 COMPLEXITY THEORY I was really into complexity theory back in the mid-90s. The more I got into it, the more I
understand the limits of our knowledge and the limits of our prediction capability. Com- plexity has been super helpful to me. It has helped me come to a system that operates in
the face of ignorance. I believe we are fundamentally ignorant and very, very bad at predicting the future. [4] ECONOMICS Microeconomics and game theory are fundamental. I don’t
think you can be successful in business or even navigate most of our modern capitalist society without an extremely good understanding of supply-and-demand, labor-versus-capital,
game theory, and those kinds of things. [4] Ignore the noise. The market will decide. PRINCIPAL-AGENT PROBLEM To me, the principal-agent problem is the single most funda- mental
problem in microeconomics. If you do not understand the principal-agent problem, you will not know how to navi- gate your way through the world. It is important if you want to
build a successful company or be successful in your dealings. It’s a very simple concept. Julius Caesar famously said, “If you want it done, then go. And if not, then send.” What
he meant was, if you want it done right, then you have to go yourself and do it. When you are the principal, then you are the owner—you 108 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R
A V I K A N T care, and you will do a great job. When you are the agent and you are doing it on somebody else’s behalf, you can do a bad job. You just don’t care. You optimize for
yourself rather than for the principal’s assets. The smaller the company, the more everyone feels like a prin- cipal. The less you feel like an agent, the better the job you’re
going to do. The more closely you can tie someone’s compensa- tion to the exact value they’re creating, the more you turn them into a principal, and the less you turn them into an
agent. [12] I think at a core fundamental level, we understand this. We’re attracted to principals, and we all bond with principals, but the media and modern society spend a lot of
time brainwashing you about needing an agent, an agent being important, and the agent being knowledgeable. [12] COMPOUND INTEREST Compound interest—most of you should know it in
the finance context. If you don’t, crack open a microeconomics textbook. It’s worth reading a microeconomics textbook from start to finish. An example of compound interest—let’s
say you’re earning 10 percent a year on your $1. The first year, you make 10 percent, and you end up with $1.10. The next year, you end up with $1.21, and the next year $1.33. It
keeps adding onto itself. If you’re compounding at 30 percent per year for thirty years, you don’t just end up with ten or twenty times your money—you end up with thousands of
times your money. [10] In the intellectual domain, compound interest rules. When B uilding J udgment · 1 0 9 you look at a business with one hundred users growing at a compound
rate of 20 percent per month, it can very, very quickly stack up to having millions of users. Sometimes, even the founders of these companies are surprised by how large the
business scales. [10] BASIC MATH I think basic mathematics is really underrated. If you’re going to make money, if you’re going to invest money, your basic math should be really
good. You don’t need to learn geometry, trigonometry, calculus, or any of the complicated stuff if you’re just going into business. But you want arithmetic, probability, and
statistics. Those are extremely important. Crack open a basic math book, and make sure you are really good at mul- tiplying, dividing, compounding, probability, and statistics.
BLACK SWANS There’s a new branch of probability statistics, which is really around tail events. Black swans are extreme probabilities. Again, I have to refer back to Nassim Taleb,
who I think is one of the greatest philosopher-scientists of our times. He’s really done a lot of pioneering work on this. CALCULUS Calculus is useful to know, to understand the
rates of change and how nature works. But it’s more important to understand the principles of calculus—where you’re measuring the change in small discrete or small continuous
events. It’s not import- ant you solve integrals or do derivations on demand, because you’re not going to need to in the business world. 110 · T H E A L M A N A C K O F N A V A L R
A V I K A N T FALSIFIABILITY Least understood, but the most important principle for anyone claiming “science” on their side—falsifiability. If it doesn’t make falsifiable
predictions, it’s not science. For you to believe something is true, it should have predictive power, and it must be falsifiable. [11] I think macroeconomics, because it doesn’t
make falsifiable predictions (which is the hallmark of science), has become corrupted. You never have a counterexample when studying the economy. You can never take the US economy
and run two different experiments at the same time. [4] IF YOU CAN’T DECIDE, THE ANSWER IS NO. If I’m faced with a difficult choice, such as: → Should I marry this person? → Should
I take this job? → Should I buy this house? → Should I move to this city? → Should I go into business with this person? If you cannot decide, the answer is no. And the reason is,
modern society is full of options. There are tons and tons of options. We live on a planet of seven billion people, and we are connected to everybody on the internet. There are
hundreds of thousands of careers available to you. There are so many choices. You’re biologically not built to realize how many choices there are. Historically, we’ve all evolved
in tribes of 150 people. When someone comes along, they may be your only option for a partner. B uilding J udgment · 1 1 1 When you choose something, you get locked in for a long
time. Starting a business may take ten years. You start a relationship that will be five years or maybe more. You move to a city for ten to twenty years. These are very, very
long-lived decisions. It’s very, very important we only say yes when we are pretty certain. You’re never going to be absolutely certain, but you’re going to be very certain. If you
find yourself creating a spreadsheet for a decision with a list of yes’s and no’s, pros and cons, checks and balances, why this is good or bad…forget it. If you cannot decide, the
answer is no. [10] RUN UPHILL Simple heuristic: If you’re evenly split on a difficult decision, take the path more painful in the short term. If you have two choices to make, and
they’re relatively equal choices, take the path more difficult and more painful in the short term. What’s actually going on is one of these paths requires short- term pain. And the
other path leads to pain further out in the future. And what your brain is doing through conflict- avoidance is trying to push off the short-term pain. By definition, if the two
are even and one has short-term pain, that path has long-term gain associated. With the law of com- pound interest, long-term gain is what you want to go toward. 112 · T H E A L M
A N A C K O F N A V A L R A V I K A N T Your brain is overvaluing the side with the short-term happi- ness and trying to avoid the one with short-term pain. So you have to cancel
the tendency out (it’s a powerful subcon- scious tendency) by leaning into the pain. As you know, most of the gains in life come from suffering in the short term so you can get
paid in the long term. Working out for me is not fun; I suffer in the short term, I feel pain. But then in the long term, I’m better off because I have muscles or I’m healthier. If
I am reading a book and I’m getting confused, it is just like working out and the muscle getting sore or tired, except now my brain is being overwhelmed. In the long run I’m
getting smarter because I’m absorbing new concepts from working at the limit or edge of my capability. So you generally want to lean into things with short-term pain, but long-term
gain. What are the most efficient ways to build new mental models? Read a lot—just read. [2] Reading science, math, and philosophy one hour per day will likely put you at the upper
echelon of human success within seven years. B uilding J udgment · 1 1 3 LEARN TO LOVE TO READ (Specific recommendations for books, blogs, and more are in “Naval’s Recommended
Reading” section.) The genuine love for reading itself, when cultivated, is a super- power. We live in the age of Alexandria, when every book and every piece of knowledge ever
written down is a fingertip away. The means of learning are abundant—it’s the desire to learn that is scarce. [3] Reading was my first love. [4] I remember my grandparents’ house
