structures in more depth in the next two chapters—on Redefinition and Mechanization. 6. Other Belief Forms Once you grasp the fundamental idea that form—structure— determines
believabilitv, then all sorts of opportunities open up to you. You realize that simply by the arrangement of i/our claims, you can add to their believabilitv. For example:
Contingency Structures—such as "If. . . then . . .", or "Wis your...then...." Repetition of Proof: Echoing—such as "These experts found. . . . These experts found. . . . These
experts found. . . . " Promise—Belief—Promise Variation. Where every sentence of promise is followed (ideally) with another of proof, or verifi- cation, or documentation. So that
the reader never has the breath- ing space to question. Paragraph Parallelism. Where the same word structure used in an accepted statement is then picked up exactly, and used to
borrow acceptance for a fresh claim. T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: GRADUALIZATIOX 151 There are manv more, of course. Some are words, some are chains of
reasoning, some are merelv the physical arrangement of the copy on the page. All have the same objective. To gain continued acceptance. To prevent rejection. To build conviction.
Belief is the goal. Now let us look at some other methods of reinforcing it. 10 THE FOURTH TECHNIQUE OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: REDEFINITION How to Remove Objections to Your Product
Time and time again, you are going to have to sell a product that has built-in handicaps. That— along with its promises and its functions—also has certain aspects to it that
actually repel the prospect. No product, of course, is perfect. If only for the reason that he must pav money for what you have to sell, your prospect starts with a basic minimum
of resistance against buying your product. But this resistance is intensified by certain drawbacks in some products, often to the point where—unless you take definite ac- tion in
your ad to redefine them—these drawbacks will actually kill your sale. Let us now look at the three general categories of drawback, and then at the three types of redefinition that
eliminates them. First, of course, there is the product that is (or that sounds) too complicated—too hard to use. 153 154 F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: R E D
E F I N I T I O N Second, there is the product that is not important enough— whose basic appeal doesn't have a statistically broad enough market. And third, there is the product
that just costs too much. Its price is so much above the price of other products in its class that people simply turn away when it's mentioned. It's amazing how many products fall
into one or all of these categories. Fortunately, the same mechanism—redefinition—helps you deal with all three. Redefinition is the process of giving a new definition to your
product. It says that the product is this rather than that. Its ob- jective is to remove a roadblock to your sale—if possible, before the prospect even knows it exists. Perhaps the
classic case of redefinition is that of Lifebuov soap in the Thirties. Lifebuoy was a good soap that did a good cleaning job. But it had one overwhelming drawback—a horrible
medicinal odor. Since the odor couldn't be removed without removing the cletamng power, the problem became one of redefinition. Put sim- ply: how do we change this odor from a
liability into an asset? The answer, of course, was the famous B.O. campaign. The prospect's attention was focussed on the odor of his own bodv— an odor which he was told would
drive away people (and which does). He was then told this odor must be eradicated—not with an ordinary soap, which was not powerful enough to do the job but with a soap with the
odor-destroying power to make a long- shoreman acceptable at a society ball. Lifebuov was this super- powerful soap. And the overwhelming proof—that von could smell the moment you
opened the wrapper—was the strong medicinal odor built into every cake. This is the simplest, and often the most effective kind of re- definition. A simple concept-judo. A complete
reversal. Turning a liability into an asset, with a single idea. Wherever you can use this flip-flop method, do so. But most F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: R E
D E F I N I T I O N lOO problems of redefinition are more complicated, and demand more complicated means of dealing with them—using many of the de- vices we have just examined in
the process of Gradualization. Let us now turn to these devices, and see how they can pre- sent an entirelv different image of the product to the prospect than vou would have
imaginetl, had you not thought them through beforehand. 1. Simplification Our first category is the overcomplicated product—the prod- uct that sounds too hard. To see how to
replace this image with a more favorable one, let's look again at the Television Repair Book ad that we discussed in the last chapter. As vou remember, the original ad for this
product failed be- cause it promised "Do your own TV repairs" in its headline. This was considered too difficult by the average set owner (even though the ad said "It's easy, its
simple, it's quick" in the next paragraph). Therefore—since the ad confronted the prospect with the fact that he would have to make repairs before it made those repairs easy and
simple and quick—he simply- turned the page and tuned the ad out. The second ad did not discuss repairs. It discussed break- downs and expenses. And, as we have seen, it spent its
first sev- eral paragraphs showing that these breakdowns and expenses did not have to occur at all, if the sets were given the proper care. Up to this point, the ad has talked
about the prospect's world—and compared it with a far more promising world where expert care produces trouble-free TV viewing. Now the two worlds must be joined through the
product. This joining is called by the pitchman, "the turn." It is a transition of great delicacy. It must be accomplished without a jar. In this ad, it begins in this paragraph:
And most important, these experts have discovered that vou do not have to be a handyman or a mechanic in 156 F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: R E D E
F I N I T I O N order to coax this performance out of vour set! Here's why. . . . We have already seen how the repetition ( . . . these experts have discovered . . . ) and the
paragraph parallelism tie this state- ment into the stream of belief that has been built up before it. Now, however, we are going to look at this same paragraph from another point
of view—to see how it provides the first step in eliminating any fear of making your own repairs. Notice, of course, that the very fear of the average owner. that he is not a
repairman, is here brought out in the o p e n - specifically stated—but now framed as a promise. Notice too that there is no mention of the word, "repair," at this point. It is
still too early at this point. Though the average own- er might be willing to accept the idea that he could "coax" better performance out of his set, it would still be too much to
ask him to believe that he could make repairs on that set at this point. This leads to the final step. The ad must now redefine what the reader thinks of when he hears the word
"repairs." It must now lay a new foundation of feet—showing that almost all the repairs the owner will have to make are actually only minor ex- ternal adjustments. It now proceeds
to do this, in the following three paragraphs which we have already studied in the last chapter, and which we will now look at again to see the second process of p e r s u a s i o
n - redefinition—which is also occurring in them. Here are the paragraphs again: Five Minutes a Week for Perfect Reception. These TV experts have discovered that vour TV set is a
great deal like vour body in this respect—that it gives you warning signals before it has a major breakdown.' For'in- stance, after your set was installed, 'it probably plaved per-
fectly for the first week. But then it began to suffer from the vibration, the jarring, the interference of other electrical ap- pliances in your home. The picture might suddenly
begin to flop over or flicker—lines may appear on vour screen. F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: R E D E F I N I T I O N 157 Now—and this is important—if you had
the knowl- edge to quickly make a few minor adjustments, on the out- side controls of vour set. then vou could correct those symp- toms. you could keep that set playing perfectly,
and you could prevent major breakdowns in exactly die same way thev were prevented in these manufacturers' tests. If you do not have this knowledge . . . if you do not make these
adjustments, then your set will weaken, you will get a consistently bad picture, and you will have to call a repairman. Now, what occurs in these four paragraphs is actually a re-
definition of the term, "repairs" in the reader's mind. This is done in three separate, but integrated, wax's: 1. By immediately comparing the television set to the human body, and
therefore minor maladjustments in the set to warning signals given off bv the body before it becomes seriously ill. By "making this comparison, the copy relates the intricate,
technical working of a television set to something as commonplace and familiar as the running nose that warns you of an approach- ing cold. Because of this comparison, some of the
mystery of the set is explained away; and the owner gains a new feeling of con- fidence in dealing with it himself, as something he understands. And, at the same time, this
comparison distinguishes be- tween the relatively rare major breakdowns, and the far more frequent minor maladjustments, which he can now treat himself as easily as he'd take a
cold tablet to stop his running nose. 2. 'By continuously describing these minor maladjustments as 'warning signals" and "symptoms" rather than "breakdowns" or "repairs." This
makes them sound easily corrected—-before real trouble, which might require technical skill and complicated tools, can develop out of them. 3. And finally, by stating outright that
these minor adjust- ments can be corrected by "making a few minor adjustments, on the outside controls of your set." Therefore, "repairs" are redefined as "adjustments." Troubles
on the TV screen are redefined as 'warning signals" or "symp- 158 F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: R E D E F I N I T I O N toms." And "repair calls" or
"breakdowns" are carefully segregated into the least-likely-to-occur 5% of all possible TV troubles. Therefore, with this redefinition in mind—with this reorgan- ization of facts
accomplished by the copy—there is no longer any reason for the average set owner not to make his oivn minor ad- justments, rather than pay a repairman to make them for him. The
objective has been accomplished. The ad can now go on to specifically state how much monev the owner will save by making these adjustments—and where he can buv the book that tells
him how. In exactly the same way, whenever there is a process which is difficult. . . whenever there is a product which is hard to use, or difficult to apply—the copywriters first
task is to simplify that application in his prospect's mind. This holds especially true for new inventions which actually simplify processes which formerly were too difficult for
the av- erage prospect. A new breakthrough is not merely accepted be- cause its manufacturer says so. Its claims for ease and simplicity must be proved, in the ad, or the reader
will simply shrug his shoulders and say "it's just another copywriter gone wild." Such a situation is one of the most frustrating experiences you can have. Here is a product which
vou know is far easier to use than anything ever introduced in this field before—because you've used it! But no matter how loud you scream EASY in your ads, people just seem to
ignore vou. What do you do? The answer is twofold: 1. Redefine (as this chapter shows vou). 2. Mechanize the new simplicity (as you'll see in the next chapter). Remember,
innovation without acceptance is valueless. The more people know that something is difficult, and the more rev- olutionary (and therefore different) your product is—the more
resistance you will meet from them in accepting it. You must, therefore, lay a base for acceptance by redefining the entire field for them, before vou bring in vour product. F O U
R T H T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: R E D E F I N I T I O N lb9 Let's look at one more example of such breakthrough ad- vertising, and see the solutions the copy offered
that made the product a success. One of the great ads of all times, of course, is the Sherwin Codv ad. Though most advertising men are familiar with the ad, they do not realize
that the course itself was a tremendous de- parture for the times—far easier and simpler than anything else that had gone before. But the prospects for such a course were
absolutely con- vinced that good English was too hard for them. They had tried to learn it before, and had failed. Therefore, any new course that could be successfully sold to them
would have to redefine En- glish for them . . . redefine mistakes in English for them . . . and certainly redefine the process of turning; bad English into good English for them.
The Codv ad is a masterpiece of Gradualization. It should be memorized—not merely studied—by every copywriter. How- ever, within it, in four paragraphs, is contained another
master- piece of breakthrough redefinition—from hard to easy with a few simple ideas—that goes like this: Onlv 15 Minutes a Day. Nor is there verv much to learn. In Mr. Cody's
years of experimenting, he brought to light some highly aston- ishing facts about English. For instance, statistics show that a list of sixty-nine words (with their repetitions)
make up more than half of all our speech and letter-icritin<i. Obviously, if we could learn to spell, use and pronounce these words correctly, we would go far toward eliminating
incorrect spelling and pronunciation. Similarly, Mr. Cody proved that there were no more than one dozen fundamental principles of punctuation. If we mastered these principles,
there would be no bugbear of punctuation to hamper us in our writing. Finally he discovered that twenty-five typical errors in grammar constitute nine-tenths of our everyday
mistakes. When one has learned how to avoid these twenty-five 160 F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: R E D E F I N I T I O N pitfalls, how readily one can obtain
the facility of speech which denotes the person of breeding and education! When the study of English is made so simple, it be- comes clear that progress can be made in a very short
time. No more than fifteen minutes a dav is required Thus the complicated becomes simple—the hard becomes easy. This is the first use of Redefinition. Now let's look at the second:
2. Escalation H e r e you are dealing with a product which works, and which is acknowledged to be easy enough to use—but which simply does not have an appeal broad enough to assure
it of a mass market. Your job here is to escalate your product. To give it more importance in your prospect's eves. You do this again by Redefinition. You broaden the horizon of
benefits of the product. You redefine the role that the prod- uct pla\ s in the prospect's life. You widen the area of reward that your product yields to the prospect—showing him
that it enters into dozens of vital situations every day, paving off for him where- he might least expect it. For example, let's look at another ad for another English course forty
years later. By now people are not as sensitive to their punctuation or grammar. Now the negative aspect has lost its appeal; people want good English as a persuasion tool to win
over other people. So good English must cease to be an end in itself. It must be redefined, to become instead a means to a more important end—one which is desired by far more
people. And, since the positive aspect must now be dominant, that part of good English which lias the greatest value for persuading people—vocabulary— must now be featured. F O U R
T H T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: R E D E F I N I T I O N 161 Here is the ad: Revolutionary new Word Power Machine makes you a master of English overnight. Automatically
gives vou a power-packed vocabulary— to make your ideas crackle with excitement . . . to hold oth- ers spellbound with the power of vour speech and your written word. Automatically
spots embarrassing errors in grammar, spelling, pronunciation vou didn't even know you were making. Clears them up at once. Frees vour mind from worrv . . . lets you feel at ease
in am- company . . . gives vou the blazing new self-confidence vou need to make any- body like you—to win people over irresistiblv to your point of view. . . . This approach
redefines the benefits of the product, shifting them from a less desirable area to one that will generate more sales appeal. But this use of escalation—to increase benefit
appeal—is only one of the ways it can serve vou. Another is to increase the im- portance of the product—showing that something the prospect wants very much hinges directh upon the
performance of your product. For example, in an ad for spark plugs, this fact was pointed out to the reader: Yes. You pay $2,000 . . . 83.000 . . . $4,000 for your car. And a
single 99c part robs i/ou of the real power and en- joyment that car should give you. Or here, in an advertisement for a speed math course: If you want to get ahead f a s t . . .
if vou want a posi- tion of real importance and responsibility—then a knowl- edge of this kind of super-fast, super-accurate mathematics is 'AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY for your future!
Or escalation can be used to show the prospect that your product is not something to be put to work just once or twice a 162 F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: R
E D E F I N I T I O N week—but that it will be needed, and used, by him almost e v e n waking minute. Here's how this was done, in a single sub head- line, in an ad for a course on
handling people: Your Entire Life is Spent Trying to Get Others to Do What You Want—Without Fricti Oil: You must agree with this statement. And therefore you must redefine the
importance to yourself of a technique which allows you to accomplish the all-pervading task more easily, more ef- fectively and more rapidly This is the second use of
Redefinition—escalation. Now let's look at the third. 3. Price Reduction Here you have the product which, quite simply, costs too much. Your job is to make that price seem less.
You do it by a very simple act of redefinition, like this: Why does the product cost too much? Because it's being compared icith other products in the same field. And how do you
whittle away, psychologically, at this price? Bij switching the com- parison, and relating it to some other, more expensive standard. For example, here is an enormously successful
mail order ad for spark plugs, which sold for $1.49 each, or one and a half times the standard for the field, and twice as much as the dis- count price. Did the copywriter
therefore sav that "Thev mav cost a little more, but they're worth every cent of it." Of course not. He made them cheap, and he did it in these two paragraphs of psychological
redefinition: Up to now these extraordinary SA FIRE INJECTORS were practically made by hand and would have to sell for as high as $5 each. But we knew that 30 or 40 dollars was
more than the average driver could afford—so we decided to get the price down so low that these injectors would pav for themselves 12 times in one year of driving. So here is F O U
R T H T E C H N I Q U E OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: R E D E F I N I T I O N lb.3 inv astonishing proposition. If you will check your cars per- formance before and after you install your
SA Fire Injec- tor System and then tell your friends and neighbors about them, here is what I am prepared to do for TOIL You can have a set of SA FIRE INJECTORS for the year and
model of your ear for only a fraction of their value. If you act now they are only SI.49 each. . . . Do you see how he does it? Do you see how many times he does it in these two
short paragraphs? As a last review of re- definition—because its techniques are so important to you—let's just list the individual phrases that build up. again and again, the
feeling of value and bargain. Here they are. Did vou catch them all? "practically made by hand . . "would have to sell for as hi^h as So each . . ." "30 or 40 dollars . . ."
(Notice that he repeats the hand-made price twice. First he gives it to vou per plug; and then jor the entire set. Thus the new comparative price is reinforced; you practically
wince at the $40 figure since vou want the plugs by this time. And you're going to feel pretty good when he brings in the now-lower figure in the next paragraph.) "pet the price
down so low . . ." (Here is the magic word, "low"; now legitimatized in your exes by the description of the hand-made set in the phrases that preceded it.) "that these injectors
would pay for themselves 12 times in one year of driving. . ." (Not only value, but reward. Not only low-priced, but gas-saving. And again, the comparison to a higher figure—this
time the money you'll save on gas.) "astonishing proposition . . ." (Now the price becomes so low that the mere statement of it may cause you surprise. It may sound slightlv cornv
as we dissect it here, but it is incredibly ef- fective in the context of the ad. And most of it—perhaps all of it—is never consciously noticed by the prospect. He simply re-
alizes that he feels that a bargain is being offered to him.) "If you will check your car's performance. . . and tell your 164 F O U R T H T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U
G H COPY: R E D E F I N I T I O N friends and neighbors about them . . ." (The introduction of a con- dition—an action you must perform—in order to get the now- low price. Used
before in the last chapter in a different context: here we see how the same device works again to substantiate. with equal power, the feeling of value.) "prepared to do . . ."
(Again the connotation of favor, of al- lowance, of discount.) "You can have . . ." (Not, "You can buy." He is letting vou have the plugs at the low price. Again, he is doing vou a
favor. You are getting a bargain.) "only $1.49 each . . ." (The classic modifier. The tenth bargain- phrase in these two paragraphs.) Notice how similar Gradualization and
Redefinition are. No- tice how each operates below the surface of the conscious mind. Gradualization by its structure—by its arrangement of facts and phrases. Redefinition by its
rearrangement of perspective. Each is an extremely subtle and powerful wav of building belief. Each deserves much more study than we can give it in this book. Let us now turn to
some equally powerful but more appar- ent mechanisms that also build belief. 11 THE FIFTH TECHNIQUE OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: MECHANIZATION How to Verbally Prove That Your Product Does
What You Claim As we have observed repeatedlv, good advertising copy exists simultaneously in two different places. Part of that copy is words on a page. Or sounds carried by radio
waves. Or pictures and sounds coming out of a television set. But the other part of that copy—the crucial part—takes place in your prospect's brain. It is the series of
reactions—planned re- actions and anticipated reactions—that your copy causes in his mind and his emotions. Actually, when your prospect reads your copy, he is engag- ing in a
silent dialogue with you. You are feeding him ideas and images and emotions, in a planned pattern; and he is feeding back to you reactions to these ideas and images and emotions.
You hope—you plan—that these reactions will be favorable. 165 Ibb F I F T H T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: MECHANIZATION That they will be controlled reactions. That he
will see the im- ages you are projecting. That he will understand and agree with the ideas that you are advocating. That he will share the emo- tions you are suggesting he feel,
and even embellish and inten- sify them. But also, at the same moment, vou must be aware of the fact that—included among these reactions—are also a number of inevitable
anticipations, or demands, or questions on his part. And you must answer these questions or vour copv will fail. What are these demands he is going to make from time to time on
your copy? Basically they fall into three classes: 1. Demands for more information, more image, more de- sire. You have whetted his appetite; now you've got to satisfy it. He is
saying to vou: "Tell me more." 2. Demands for proof. He knows he wants it; now he wants to know that it's true. He is telling you: "Oh veah? Who savs so?" 3. Demands for a
mechanism. He knows he wants the end result; now he wants to know how you're going to give it to him. He is saying: "How does it work?" To write good copv, you have to play a dual
role. At the same time, you have to be copywriter and prospect. You have to develop an almost foolproof sensitivity to these inevitable reac- tions. You have to know the exact
point that they are going to come in. You have to anticipate them. You have to switch copv direction, fill in the wanted material, at the precise point that your prospect loses
interest in one theme and demands the other. This is one of the most difficult parts of writing copv, and the exact spot where many good ads break down and lose their prospect.
And—since such anticipation points occur several times in a single ad—you will find yourself working over the same para- graph of "unimportant" copy hour after hour. All vou know
is that at this point something went wrong—at this point vour prospect is dissatisfied. We will discuss these problems of copy direction . . . antici- pation points . . . etc. in
Chapter 14, on Interweaving. At this F I F T H T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: MECHANIZATION 167 point, however, let's look more eloselv at the third demand: the demand
for Mechanism. Verbal Proof This is the vital question: "Hoiv does it work0" Your prospect is asking you here to give him a mechanism. He likes what vou promise—he wants what vou
promise—but he has to be con- vinced that your product can aetuallv give it to him. You have to demonstrate vour product, in words, logically, so that he can understand exactly H O
W it gives him the end re- sult you promise. Since the beginning of advertising, of course, the eopv that furnishes this information—that provides this mechanism—has been called
"Reason YVhv" copv. Claude Hopkins was its master. But there have been few great selling ads of anv period that do not use it to convince their prospect that their product actually
works. In fact, the basic question vou must ask yourself, about this device, when you sit down to write a piece of copy, is not, "Should I use it?" Or "Should I build a mechanism
into this copv?" But simply: "How much?" How much mechanism does this copv need? This, of course, depends—as so many other things in vour cop}'—on the State of Awareness of your
prospect. Is he familiar with the mechanism by which this product works? Does he accept it? If so, then this part of your job is done for vou. Other advertisers have spent their
money to make this mechanism familiar to vour prospect. Stage One: Name the Mechanism You ma}' now take advantage of their investment bv simply naming the mechanism, and going on
to beat them with your price or other features. For instance, in the conventional camera ad, to back the 168 FIFTH TECHNIQUE OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: MECHANIZATION headline claim, all
that you'd have to do is name your mecha- nisms, like this: TAKE FOOLPROOF PHOTOS WITH THE XENOPHON 1750 With Electronic Light Setter. . . Push-Button Zomar Lens . . . Magazine
Load . . . Only $135. Here, the three mechanisms which insure the perfect pic- tures are simply named, and not described at all. The prospect is already familiar with the way they
work from the other ads he has seen, and any further detailing of their nuts and bolts would simply bore him. Therefore, you name them in as bold type as possible, and go on to
compete with your price. Most catalog copy and retail copy needs to assume only this abbreviated form. It deals with products which are already known, and whose mechanisms are
already understood and accepted. Therefore, any further wordage on these points would only be wasted. But now we come to that vast array of products whose mech- anism cannot simply
be named. Why? For two basic reasons: Stage Two: Describe the Mechanism 1. Because the prospect doesn't understand their mechanism And 2. Because everybody else has the same
mechanism, and the same promise, and the same price. And the market is getting tired, and you need a new way to compete. Let's look at the simplest case—case #1—first: Here your
mechanism is not so well known, or not known at all, and you can't simply name it. You have to go into more detail; you have to describe it. So you have the classic situation of
Promise—Reason Whv. You build a strong, quick promise—and then you follow up with the reason why you can deliver that promise. F I F T H T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY:
MECHANIZATION 169 This one-two punch of promise and reason whv is as old as advertising itself. Here, for instance, is how Rinso used it in 1926. First thev give the promise, like1
this: Who else wants a whiter wash—with no hard work? How would vou like to see vour wash come out of a simple soaking—whiter than hours of scrubbing could make it! Millions of
women do it everv week. Thev've given up washboards for good. ThevYe freed themselves forever from the hard work and reddened hands of washdav. Now thev just soak—rinse—and hang
out to drv! In half the time, without a hit ol hard rubbing, the wash is on the line—whiter titan ever! Notice how the original promise in the headline has been taken and
intensified in these first thi'ee paragraphs of copv. The promise is repeated, in different words and from different per- spectives, over and over again in those first three
paragraphs. But notice too that—as the copv builds desire—it also builds a growing reaction on the part of the woman reading it. This re- action can be expressed in one word:
"Hoic?" This promise sounds better and better . . . it begins to sound too good to be true . . . now she needs reassurance fast. So the whiteness claims stop. The copv shifts
direction—and now begins to sell the mechanism, like this: Dirt floats off—stains <jo. The secret is simplv Rinso—a mild, granulated soap that gives rich, lasting suds even in the
hardest water. Just soak the clothes in the ereamv Rinso suds— and the dirt and stains float off. Rinse—and the wash is spotless. Even the most soiled parts need onlv a gentle rub
be- tween the fingers to make them snowv. Thus clothes last longer, for there's no hard rubbing against a board. Notice, first of all, that this mechanism—the suds that float off
dirt—is sold just as hard as the whiteness storv it is brought in to prove. The first rule of mechanism copv is that it is not 170 F I F T H T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH
COPY: MECHANIZATION scientific discourse. You must never allow it to become dull, or merelv factual. You must load it with promise, load it with emo- tion. Every word in good
copy—including mechanism copy— sells. Only in these paragraphs, the copy is selling a secondary claim (dirt floating off) that proves the primary claim (a whiter wash). But
still—it sells. Secondly, of course, you'll immediately notice how simple the mechanism is in this 1926 copy, as compared with the same field today. In those days it was enough to
mention the facts that the suds floated off the dirt; the reader accepted, as an evident truth, the fact that they would do so. Today, of course, in our much more sophisticated and
ex- ploited market, she would no longer do so. Todav vou would need far more mechanism. You would have to explain more, promise' deeper, perhaps even invent a miracle ingredient to
do the work for vou. Stage Three: Feature the Mechanism Which brings us to case #2 and the difficult problem of what to do when vour market is highly sophisticated . . . when prom-
ises sound alike . . . when price competition becomes suicidal? This takes us back to Chapter 3, where we discussed market- sophistication from another perspective. Here we
discovered that mechanism—strong mechanism—saleable mechanism—is not onlv a way to build belief, but may actually become so important to the success of your product that you must
put it into the headline. These headlines are all mechanism headlines: "FLOATS FAT RIGHT OUT OF YOUR BODY." "FIRST WONDER DRUG FOR REDUCING." "RUN YOUR CAR WITHOUT SPARK PLUGS."
"SHRINKS HEMORRHOIDS WITHOUT SURGERY." "TOMMY ARMOUR SAYS SMACK HELL OUT OF THE BALL WITH YOUR RIGHT HAND." F I F T H T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: MECHANIZATION 171 And
hundreds more. Even/ one of them offers i/oti a new way to get what i/ou've been wanting. A NEW7 WAY: a new mech- anism; a new chance to satisfy your desire—even if everything else
vou've tried has failed vou. Mechanism, therefore, can he inside vour ad, to prove vour main claim, or on top of the ad. elevated bv the state of your market to becoming the main
claim. If people assume that thev know how vour product works. or if vour claim is so new that thev don't care, then all the mech- anism you need can be summed up in a word or a
phrase. If people are not quite sure how it works, describe the mech- anism—in selling language—until thev have enough reason-whv to believe vou. If you have, however, an
exceptionally strong or dramatic mechanism, or if you want to establish definite superiorih" to other competing products, then sell hell out of that mechanism. We'll see some
expert examples of how to do this in our next chapter, on Concentration- when we're sliown how to compare your product with the rest of vour field. On the Importance of Mechanism
When You Want to Convince Your Reader That You're Giving Him a Bargain One of the sad truths of our time—and profession—is that our readers do not always beliexe the truth when we
tell it to them. Everv copy writer has had. at one time or another, a per- fectly marvelous product that just couldn't be sold—because people wouldn't believe that it could do what
he knew it could do. In the same way manv manufacturers, and their agencies, are startled when thev cut a price—advertise the reduction—and see no increase in sales. What happened?
No one believed them. A price cut—like a product advantage—is only as good as vour words, and vour strategy, makes it. 172 F I F T H T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY:
MECHANIZATION Price cuts must be justified. There must be a reason for them. A mechanism behind them. Without such a mechanism— without such a reason-why you should give this
bargain—you are going to get only a fraction of its real sales power. The great master of price-cut mechanization was Robert Col- lier. His book—The Robert Collier Letter Book—is
one of the great classics of copvwriting know-how. Here is just one example of how Collier made his price-cuts, not only believable, but dramatic: Before the Price Goes Up! Dear
Sir: A short time ago one of the old, reliable mills that makes the finer qualities of woven Madras for shirts began sending out S.O.S. calls. They had kept their plant going
steadily for months, thinking that the usual demand would easily take care of their excess output. But, with the weather so generally unseasonable, the usual demand didn't
materialize. And there thev were, heav- ily overstocked—and needing money. If we would take all their surplus stock of the finer grades of woven Madras, amounting to a quarter of a
mil- lion yards, they offered to let us have them at wav below any price we had ever paid for shirtings in all our years in business—at far less than they could make the materials
and sell them for today. We took them—the whole quarter-million yards—at a tremendous savings in cost. . . . A Bargain You May Never Get Again. . . . Let me point out the
difference between this logical. carefully-prepared introduction to the price slash, and a simple. bare announcement of that slash. Here, the copy writer not onlv emphasizes
bargain over and over again, but brings in qualiti/ as a counter-desire time after time. He thus uses a mechanism within a mechanism: (1) the unseasonable weather causing (2 1 the
factory to become overstocked resulting in the primary mark- down—to build belief upon belief. F I F T H T E C H N I Q U E OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: MECHANIZATION 173 Here the copv
starts with the mechanism, and onlv goes into the bargain claims six paragraphs later. Again, he has taken the Creative Gamble: in this case, that he could hold the reader's in-
terest for those six paragraphs. And. because of this gamble, lie reaps ten times the believabilitv for e v e n word he said about the bargain-value of his offer from that point
on. 12 THE SIXTH TECHNIQUE OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: CONCENTRATION How to Destroy Alternate Ways for Your Prospect to Satisfy His Desire As vou know, in the final analysis, no
successful copy ever sells a product. It sells a way of satisfy- ing a particular desire. And its power to sell ultimately comes from the intensity of that desire. If the desire is
commercial—that is, if it is shared by masses of people, and if each of these people want that satisfaction enough to pay the price required for a mechanism to satisfy it—then it
is highly probable that many firms will try to deliver that mech- anism, or product, to them. The almost universal condition of commercial life is compe- tition. No one who sells
am'thing, of course, can avoid it. As you write, one eye is fixed on your market, and the other on your competitors. We have described in this book several different ways of 176
SIXTH T E C H N I Q U E OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: CONCENTRATION beating competition. Let's stop for a moment and review them: First, of course, is superiority of product. This is the
ulti- mate weapon in the war for the consumers dollar. If you pro- duce the best product, your advertising has a hundred times the chance of success than if you produce only a fair
product. Most great ads have been associated with great products. Most great copy claims come from the assembly line. If vours does not. if your copy is better than your product,
then send it to vour client instead of your prospect, and tell him to make it a reality. But even the best product needs equally as effective cop\ to induce people to try it.
Otherwise, the excessive cost of get- ting the first purchase may drive the product off the market, be- fore the repeat sales can build up high enough to earn- it through. So we
come to our second weapon to beat competition—su- periority of promise. A stronger promise, that evokes more de- sire. A wider promise, that causes more people to buv. A more
believable promise, that brings in the skeptics as well as the sus- ceptible. This entire book has been a blueprint for developing such promises. Third, we have the weapon of
product-role. The role the product allows its consumer to plav. The personality, the identi- fication, the prestige, the status, the excitement vou can bring out of your product,
or graft onto it. Fourth, we have response and reaction as a competitive force—the ability to one-up the competition: to escalate claims when necessary; to shift mechanisms; to
invade new markets. And fifth—the technique we will discuss in this chapter—is direct attack. Direct attack—the mechanism of Concentration— differs completely from the other four
methods we have discussed above. All these techniques have the common element of ignoring the competition. They concentrate on your storv, ,/our proniises^/o//;- benefits, your
