Believe Your Claims Before You State Them As we have learned before, for the purpose of persuasion, the human mind may be divided into three dimensions—three great rivers of
emotional force that determine the reaction to your ad, and therefore its success or failure. The first of these dimensions is Desire—want, yearning, mo- tivation—with specific
goals and/or cures in mind—with the prospect begging to be shown how to obtain them. It is the copy writer's job to make sure the path to these goals goes through the product—and
to make sure that the prospect can visualize every drop of satisfaction that their achievement will give him. The second dimension is Identification—the need for ex- pression and
recognition—unformulated, unspoken, at least par- tially unconscious—searching for symbols, definitions and embodiments. It is the copv writer's job to crystallize these self- 130
T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATION definitions and emboch' them in his product—so that the product may be used, not only as a source of
physical satisfaction, but also as a symbolic extension of the personality of the prospect for whom it is intended. Until now, this book has been concerned with these first two
dimensions. They have determined the selection of our headline. and our illustration, and most of the content of our ad. But—important as they are—desire and identification alone
are never enough. By themselves, they can never produce the full reaction the copy writer must have if he is to achieve the maxi- mum success with his product. No matter how
intense the desire. no matter how demanding the need to identify, both these reac- tions must be fused with a third great emotional force—Belief— before they can produce the final
overwhelming determinant of action—Absolute Conviction. It is this fusion of desire and belief—this conviction—this certainty—this feeling in the prospect of being right in his
choice— of being assured of what he has been promised—that the cop,/ writer seeks as his ultimate goal. And it is to this third dimension of the human mind—the Belief that produces
this certainty—that we now turn. What Exactly Is Belief? It is perhaps the most complex fusion of thought and emo- tion in the human mind. It is, first of all, your prospects
mental picture of the world he lives in—what facts make it up, how it works, in what direction its truths and values lie. But these accepted facts, truths, values and opinions are
only the raw material of belief. Even more important is the vast amount of emotional security he derives from these beliefs. It is the wonderful feeling of comfort and reassurance
of living in a world that has meaning, where there are answers to be had. where somehow the facts all fit. A world that he can understand and depend on, that he can predict, that
will stav together and T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: GRADUALIZATION 131 not blow up in his face tomorrow morning or the morning after that. Do not be misled
for even a moment. The need to believe— and the need for secure beliefs—is just as powerful an emotional force as the strongest desire for physical satisfaction, or the most urgent
search for expression. Most adults have done their basic learning of these beliefs when they were children. At that time, and in that dependent stage of their lives, they laid down
the primary channels of be- lief that their minds would follow for the rest of their days. They were forced to do this, in order to understand the world, to gain its approval, to
trust and master it, and to develop themselves into self-sustaining adults. To ask them to shatter even one of these alreadv-established lines of belief—to plunge into uncertainty
again—to be forced to reassemble their beliefs in new, untested ways—is to ask them to become children again. And—unless they are "frightened be- yond belief," unless their entire
conceptual world has crumbled around them—thev simply will not do it. The basic rule of belief, then, can simply be stated as this: If vou violate vour prospect's established
beliefs in the slight- est degree—either in content or direction—then nothing you promise him, no matter how appealing, can save your ad. But, on the other hand, and even more
important: If you can channel the tremendous force of his belief—either in content or direction—behind only one claim, no matter how small, then that one fully-believed claim will
sell more goods than all the half-questioned promises vour competitors can write for all the rest of their days. This channeling of belief is so power- ful that, if properlv
directed, it will even support othenvise-absurd claims. It is simply a question of whether you are going to paddle upstream or down. Whether vou are going to work against the tide
of established belief, or with it. As far as advertising is concerned, then, belief is immutable. 132 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: GRADUALIZATION It cannot be
changed. It must be complied with at everv step. Every one of the statements you make in vour ad must fit in with your prospects version of "the facts" at that precise mo- ment. It
is not the function of your ad to change those facts. But it is its function—and one of its great sources of strength— to extend them. To build a bridge of belief between those
facts as they exist in your prospect's mind today—and the ultimate facts your prospect must believe if he is to accept your claims. This process of starting with the facts that
vour prospect is already willing to accept, and leading him logically and comfort- ably through a gradual succession of more and more remote facts—each of which he has been
prepared in turn to accept— is called Gradualization. It is the third Process of Persuasion. Mind you, this process of Gradualization has nothing to do with the offering of proof,
or reason-why explanations, or testi- monials or documentation. Each of these mechanisms of belief adds to the power of your ad, and we will explore each of them in turn in the
chapters that follow. In Chapter 11, we will discuss the verbal demonstration that your product does what you claim—Mechanization. In Chapter 12, we will discuss the destruction of
alternate ways of satisfying that same desire—Concentration. In Chapter 14, we will discuss the offering of authorities and proof, the reassurance that your prospect has made a
wise c h o i c e - Verification. All these devices build belief. But by far the most funda- mental of all—though the most inconspicuous—is Gradualization. For Gradualization
determines—not the content of your ad—but its structure, its architecture, the way i/ou build it.' We have already seen that it is the'dominating desire of your prospect that
determines the content of vour ad. It is his long- ings for identification and self-expression that, in most cases, de- termine your illustrations. But it is the facts that he
believes in and accepts, and the way that he passes that acceptance along from one fact to T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: GRADUALIZATION 133 another, that
determines that ad's development—the arrangement of your claims and your images and vour proofs, so that there is a step-bv-step strengthening—not only of your prospect's desire—
but of his conviction that the satisfaction of that desire will come true through your product. The Architecture of Belief In essence, then, the theory of Gradualization is based
upon this fact: That every claim, everv image, every proof in your ad has two separate sources of strength— 1. The content of that statement itself; and 2. The preparation vou have
made for that statement—either by recognizing that preparation as already existing in your prospect's mind, or bv deliberately laving the groundwork for that statement in the
preceding portion of the ad itself. And, because of this fact, we can strengthen the power of each of these statements in two separate ways— 1. Bv increasing the intensity of its
content—by making greater promises, bv portraying more dramatic images, by offer- ing more compelling proof; and/or 2. Bv changing the place or position or sequence in which that
statement occurs in the ad—by strengthening the ground- work for belief in that statement by the material which precedes it—and therefore increasing the intensity of belief given
to it— the immediate acceptance of its content, without question, when the prospect encounters it in vour ad. Make no mistake, it is this acceptance that we are looking for.
Effective advertising, like effective literature, is built—not of words—but of reactions. We put down on paper an architecture of words. If these words are effective, they evoke,
in turn, an ar- chitecture of reactions in our prospect's mind. We are creating a stream of acceptances, with a definite sequence and content and direction, and, if we are
successful, with a definite goal—the 134 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: CRADUALIZATION absolute conviction in your prospects mind that he must have your
product. This is the essence of building your ad. We now turn to the techniques of its accomplishment. A New Definition of Awareness We now know that Gradualization is the art of
starting your ad with a statement that will be immediately and entirely ac- cepted, and then building a chain of subsequent acceptances upon this first statement. The purpose of
this chain of acceptances is to lead your reader to a goal conclusion, which he will then ac- cept, but which he would not as readily or as thoroughly have accepted without the
preliminary statements. This quest for acceptance begins, of course, with vour head- line. This all-important first statement that you make—this meet- ing place between your story
and your prospect—must not only be capable of awakening interest and desire, but of being ac- cepted at the very first glance as being true. Interest and believability—these are
the two requirements that determine your headline. We have already discussed these requirements in Chapter 2, on the State of Awareness of our market. We can now redefine this
State of Awareness as readiness to accept. And we can now say—especially in the Fifth Stage of Awareness—that the effectiveness of your headline is as much de- termined by the
willingness of your audience to believe what it says, as it is by the promises it makes. This is the reason that you cannot always use the most pow- erful claim in your headline.
Or even the very problem that your product solves. Because without supporting evidence already ex- isting in the mind of your prospect to prepare him for that head- line claim, he
just won't believe it. Either he'll believe that it's exaggerated or false, or he just won't believe it applies to him. T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY:
GRADUALIZATION 135 In either case, too many of your prospects turn away without reading on, and your ad fails. This fact—that your most powerful claim does not always make vour
most powerful headline—is a paradox that many copy writers still cannot accept. Mail order advertisers, however, have a simple wav of proving it. When a power-claim headline
doesn't work—for reasons either of Awareness or Sophistication—they immediatelv split it against a second head, with far fewer claims in it, but far more likely to be believed.
Then they build a belief- bridge from this second headline, to the same exact claims they had featured in the first, but now anticipated by careful prepa- ration every step along
the way. A Detailed Example Let us take such an ad—that we have already glanced at in Chapter 2—and break down its structure step by step. What we are looking for here is not
content, nor promises, nor claims; but the way these promises and claims arc arranged in the ad, to help each one of them gain full acceptance when it is encoun- tered in turn by
the prospect. This ad was written in 1951. Its purpose was to sell a Tele- vision Repair Manual. Theoretically, every TV owner who was having anv trouble with his set (and almost
all of them were at that time) was a prospect. But, before the prospect could be turned into a customer, he had to believe two things: 1. That he could save money by making his own
TV repairs; and 2. That he was capable of making them. Both these statements were matters of fact. The average TV owner certainlv could save money if he had made his own re- pairs;
and about 80% of those repairs were simple enough for him to make himself. But the overwhelming majority of prospects simply didn't 136 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T
H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATION realize these facts. Most of them thought of themselves as non- handymen, even in relation to far simpler devices than a televi- sion set. And, in
1951, the TV set was considered a complicated mechanical monster, far beyond their poor powers to understand let alone correct. These two factors blocked the use of the obvious
power- claim headline for this product. Such a headline was written and tested—"Save up to $100 a Year on Your TV Repairs!"—but it failed to make a profit. The obvious was
unsuccessful. Power alone could not move the product. Two tasks faced the copy writer in revising this ad. First, he had to reach all his prospects in this market, and not just
those among them who considered themselves handymen. And second, he had to convince all these non-handymen prospects that their sets weren't really such fragile, complicated
monsters after all, and that they themselves could easily correct most troubles that arose. Once these two statements were believed by the prospect and only then—could the previous
headline claim of "Save up to $100 a year on your TV repairs" be brought in at full power. Let us see, acceptance by acceptance, how this new ad built to that point: The headline,
first of all, would have to be a general state- ment, crystallizing and exploiting the universal resentment against the high TV repair bills, the $60-a-vear TV service contracts
that were then in existence, and the outright thievery that occurred in only a small fraction of the TV repair shops, but that had stig- matized the entire industry. From
there—from this universally- accepted resentment—the ad could then build toward the two goal conclusions listed above. Let us see how this was done, state- ment by statement. Here
is the new headline: "WHY HAVEN'T TV OWNERS BEEN TOLD THESE FACTS?" T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: GRADUALIZATION 137 No claim. No promise—except that of
disclosure. But here is an implication of foul plav, which echoed the existing suspi- cion in the TV owner himself. Here is a crystallization and out- right expression that the
average owner felt toward being taken. Facts have been withheld. This is something he can agree with! Thus, having achieved its first acceptance by its suspicion- headline, the ad
reinforces that effect by an inclusion-question. It asks a questions which, in form, seems to limit the market; but which, in content, actually assures the correct answer by the
over- whelming majority of it: "Was i/our set purchased after the spring of 1947?" 95% of television owners would answer Yes. Thus the ad has built two acceptances in its first two
sentences. It has started a Habit of Agreement in its reader. It now exploits that agreement by making its first definite promise in the third sentence: "Then here is the full,
uncensored stonj of how yon can avoid those $15-$20 repair bills—avoid those $30-$60 a year service fees—and still get the perfect, movie-clear pictures you've dreamed about!" H o
w Belief Was Built Into the Opening This is the ad's first claim. Its content alone is extremelv powerful. But that powerful content—which otherwise might drive many readers awav
as being just too fantastic to be believed— has been given extra belief—has been loaned, as it were, extra belief—not only by the first two sentences that preceded it—but by these
deliberate constructions in the statement itself: 1. By the grammatical construction, "Was your. . ." in the second sentence, and "Then . . ." in the third which by its very form
generates belief. It does this by implying exclusion. It says that the promise will come true only in certain cases; that it will only work for television sets purchased after
1947; that the ad cannot make this promise for sets purchased earlier. Thus it adds 138 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E OF B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: GRADUALIZATION credence to
whatever statement follows it. Yon can feel this added believability yourself by taking out the lead-word "Then" from the sentence and reading it again. Immediately, it loses half
its force—force added to the content of the statement by the grammatical-bridge tying it in to the first two acceptances. 2. The second attempt at adding believabilitv is bv the
de- scriptive nature of the promise. It is not onlv a promise of re- ward (the money saved), but a catalog of almost-universal symp- toms (repair bills and service fees). Since the
overwhelming majority of set owners are suffering from these problems, their descriptions evoke two more "Yes—I have them" reactions from the reader, and carry these reactions over
to the save-monev claims that immediately follow them. If these descriptions were eliminated, the money-saving claims would be much weaker: "Then here is the full, uncensored story
of liow you can save $15-$20—save $30-$60—save $90-$ 100 on your' TY set—and still get the perfect, movie-clear pictures you've dreamed about!" 3. And finally, even though the
causes of the set owner's problems are specifically described, the cures for them are de- liberately left ambiguous. The fact that thev will save otherwise wasted money, that they
will get improved reception, is included— how they will do this is not. The mechanism bv which these goals will be accomplished is left out. It is left out because the reader has
not yet been prepared for it. If he were to learn, at this mo- ment in the ad, that he had to make repairs on his set to save this money, the average reader would turn the page. So
he is given specific symptoms, that he will agree he has, and specific savings by eliminating them, that are certainly logical to expect. He may or may not accept all these three
claims in the sentence completely; but the strength of their promise, the two or three or four acceptances that he has already given, and the implied disclosures still remaining in
the body of the ad, should be enough to carry him on, to this next paragraph: "How many times this week have you had to get up to fix T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH
COPY: GRADUALIZATION 139 a jumpy TV picture? . . . How many times have you had to put up with ghosts? . . . How many times. . . ." Here again is reinforcement of belief—the
description of universal symptoms—the coaxing out of a stream of agreements. "Yes . . . Yes . . . Yes"—he must answer if he has had trouble with his set. A habit of acceptance is
being built inside him. Trust is being formed, layer by laver—as each question poses a test, and each ves answer proves to the reader that the ad is talking about him. Already the
ad is beginning to weave its pattern of promise and belief and then promise again. Now, with as many as seven or eight agreements behind it to establish a firm foundation of
belief, the ad moves on to its next great promise: "90% Of These Breakdowns Are Unnecessary!" "All of these breakdowns may have seemed tragic to you at the moment they happened—but
here is the real tragedy! Do you know that the same exact set that you now have in your front room . . . has been playing in manu- facturer's test rooms for months—and playing
perfectly!" Goal Conclusions The ad is now laving the1 basis for the first of its two goal conclusions—that TV sets are not fragile—that they have amaz- ing endurance if they are
properlv cared for. Only when the reader accepts this fact, can the ad go on to its second conclu- sion—that whatever minor breakdowns do occur can be easily handled bv the owner
himself. But the ad is still five paragraphs awav from any mention of the owner touching his set. First it must establish the depend- ability of the set; and it does this bv two
methods. At the start, in the following two paragraphs, it gives graphic descriptions of the manufacturer's own tests used to establish this dependability: "These sets have been
subjected to 'Breakdown Tests' that would seem incredible to the average owner. They have 140 THIRD TECHNIQUE OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: GRADUALIZATION been tamed on for 24 hours a
day—7 days a week 4 iceeks a month. Some of these sets have been naming with- out a moment's pause for as much as 17 months. "These sets have been tested against almost every con-
ceivable type of viewing hazard. . . up to 120 miles away from the station . . . against the interference of an entire warehouse of electrical appliances . . . in special,
steel-ribbed buildings, which ordinarily would produce several distinct ghosts. "And in almost every one of these cases, these sets have produced perfect, movie-clear
pictures—without major breakdowns—for as much as one full year! Here are some of the reasons why:" Then, when the reader has fully visualized the impact of these test reports, the
ad now turns to expert authority and log- ical construction to reinforce this belief. Notice in the next few- paragraphs how the ad picks up the already-accepted condition. "If
your set were properly cared for, as these sets were . . .", and uses that now-established condition to prove the series of state- ments that follow it: "What TV Experts Have
Learned About Your Set!" "If your set were properly cared for—as these sets were cared for in these tests—it need break down only once during the entire year! In other words, you
may actually have to call in a repairman only once during the entire year You can save the $30-$60 'service fees you are now- paying—and you can save most of the SI OS 15 repair
bills." "If your set was properly cared for. if can actually give you perfect, movie-clear reception the other 364 days a year. It can give you this perfect reception without
special 'elec- tronic equipment—without the help of a repairman—up to 100 miles away from your station." Notice that in these two paragraphs, the ad returns to the claims made in
the third sentence—repeats them almost word for word—and then gives logical proof, in logical form, for each of them. As we have pointed out before, these claims—"you can avoid
those $15-420 repair bills—avoid those $30-$60 a year service T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: GRADUALIZATION 141 fees—and still get the perfect, movie-clear
picture ijou've dreamed about!"—were stated in the third sentence without supporting proof at that time; but with strong implication—"Here is the full, un- censored. story . .
."—that such proof would follow. That proof is now submitted, in an extremely formal and log- ical structure. Thus the ad again weaves proof into promise—re- peating previous
claims in a new context of full documentation, where it could only suggest that they would be proven before. Notice also that this logical proof—"If your set were cared for. . . it
need break down only once a year. . . you need call a repairman only once a year. . . you save the service fees and most repair bills."—is, in itself, solidly grounded in the
test-proof pre- sented in the paragraphs before it—"being subjected to Break- down tests . . . against almost every type of viewing hazard . . . and produced perfect pictures,
without breakdowns, for as much as one full year" Thus a chain of proof upon proof is constructed— each new statement repeating the heart of the proof before it. Thus the ad has
now proved—bv using the Mechanism of In- tensification—by repeating the same theme-content seven differ- ent times in seven different wavs—that vour TV set is dependable. The
Ultimate Objective This was the first goal-conclusion. At this point the reader is convinced that it is true. The ad is now ready to go on to prove the second goal conclusion: that
the owner can correct minor breakdowns himself. It begins this proof in the verv next paragraph, in this way: "And, most important, these experts have discovered that you do not
have to he a handyman or a mechanic in order to coax this performance out of your set! Here's why" Notice that it is in this paragraph that the entirely-new (to the reader)
assumption—that vou can fix your own minor break- downs—is first introduced. Yet its novelty is deliberately con- 142 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY:
GRADUALIZATION cealed; it is presented as though it were simply another rephrasing of the bv-now already accepted dependability conclusion. There is therefore no break in the
logical flow of proof. Acceptance is built into this entirely new statement in these four different ways: 1. By paragraph parallelism. By framing the statement as the last of a
series of similar paragraphs—all the others of which have already been accepted—instead of physically setting it off as a new point with its own sub head and a different
construction, as the reader would ordinarily expect. 2. By the lead word, "And," a tie-in phrase, which indicates that the sentence accompanying it is the same as those that have
gone before. 3. By immediately following "And" by a second tie-in phrase, "most important," which again implies that the remainder of the statement is part of the series that has
gone before. 4. And finally, by repeating the phrase, "these experts have discovered," which echoes the identifying subhead at the begin- ning of the series, and carries on the
acceptance-momentum of the series as a whole. All these deliberate constructions combine to give this short, but vital, transitional paragraph the acceptance, and therefore the
believability, of all the careful planning that has gone before it. They allow the reader to make what otherwise might be a jar- ring transition from already-established proof to
an entirely new promise with a minimum of effort. Now the ad builds its final step—showing that the only re- pairs that the average owner will have to make are actually minor
external adjustments on his set. Notice how it integrates this new- extension of its previous thought into what has gone before bv starting with the phrase, once again, "These
experts have dis- covered . . . " Here are the next three paragraphs: "Five Minutes a Week for Perfect Reception." "These T\r experts have discovered that ipur 7T set is a great
deal like your body in this respect—that it gives T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: CRADLALIZATION 143 you learning signals before it has a major breakdown. For
instance, after your set was installed, it probably played per- fectly for the first week. But then it began to suffer from the vibration, the jarring, the interference of other
electrical ap- pliances in your home. The picture might suddenly begin to flop over or flicker—lines may appear on your screen. "Now—and this is important—if you had the knowledge
to quickly make a few minor adjustments, on the outside controls of your set, then you could correct those symp- toms, you could keep that set playing peifectly, and you could
prevent major breakdowns in exactly the same way they were prevented in these manufacturers' tests. "If you do not have this knowledge . . . if you do not make these adjustments,
then your set trill weaken, you will get a consistently bad picture, and you will have to call a repairman." The second goal-conclusion of the ad has now been reached. At this
stage of the copy, the reader now knows: f. That his set is dependable enough to ayoid major break- downs during by far the greatest majority of the time he will play- it; and 2.
That if he obtains the proper knowledge, he can correct minor breakdowns himself, and help prevent the gradual forma- tion of major breakdowns, by making a few simple adjustments
to the outside controls of his set. Therefore, the stage has now- been set for the final conclu- sion—the pay-off conclusion—a conclusion with all the inevitable logical force of a
syllogism—that: 3. The owner should obtain this knowledge—make these minor adjustments himself—and therefore save the money he is paying today for sen-ice contracts, and save by
far the greatest majority of the money he is paying for repair bills. Here is how this final conclusion is phrased by the copy: "It's as simple as that. You pay a repairman—not for
his work—but for his knowledge. If you had that knowl- edge yourself—then you would not have to pay him at all." 144 T E C H N I Q U E OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: CRADLE A Restatement of
Our Basic Theory We have taken a great deal of space to analyze, in exact de- tail, one ad, and the structure of believabilitv that underlies the effectiveness of its claims. We
have done this for two reasons: 1. To show how the goal-conclusion—the introduction of the product claim itself—may be made far more effective if it is de- layed till the prospect
has been prepared to accept it. And 2. To show how this full acceptance—this willingness to be- lieve without question-can gradually be built up, layer by laver agreement by
agreement, by use of the proper structure.' ' Let us now state formally some of the rules we have dis covered in this analysis, and some of the devices vou can use time after time,
to create the maximum structural believabiliti, tor each of your advertisements. Here are the basic principles: Gradualization is the art of stating a claim in such a wav that it
will receive the greatest possible acceptance and/or be- lievabilitv from your prospect. Belief ultimately depends upon structure. Just as desire de- pends upon promise, so belief
in that promise depends upon the amount of preparation that promise has been given before vour reader is asked to accept it. One fully-believed promise has ten times the sales
power of- ten partially-believed promises. Most copy writers try to strengthen ads by piling promise upon promise. What thev usually get for their troubles is greater sales
resistance from their prospects and trouble from the E T C . They could far better invest the same time in strengthening the believabilitu-structure of the original justifiable
promise. Now, how do you strengthen this believability-structure* What are the devices you can choose from to add believabilitv to any promise, in any ad? T H I R D T E C H N I Q U
E OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: GRADUALIZATION 145 Here are at least a few of them. Once vou get the feel of using them, you'll probably develop a whole armorv of vour own. 1. The
Inclusion Question Designed to permit immediate identification with vour storv. To show the prospect that you're talking about him—not about someone else who would answer No to the
question. Therefore, once he's identified with the questions—once he's made his first agreements with you and placed himself in the Yes-answer group— then your recommendations will
have special meaning for him. This is perhaps the most direct wav of building agreement at the beginning of the ad. It's used everv day. For example, in this advertisement—highly
successful—for a book called The Art of Selfishness: ASK YOURSELF THESE NINE QUESTIONS 1. Do you find it increasinglv difficult to cope with the world around you. . . . 2. Is your
business or career a source of annoyance and frustration. . . . 3. Are you tormented by inadequacies, fear and em- barrassments in your sex life. . . . And so on. 2. Detailed
Identification Another device used at the beginning of the ad, to establish immediate, and deep, agreement between the reader and the copy. Here, instead of asking questions to set
up your Yes-train, you detail symptoms or problems that are your prospect's reasons for desiring your product. Thus, again, your reader knows that vou are talking about him—that
vou "have been there vourself"— and therefore that your recommendations will help answer these problems, his problems, that you have catalogued so well. 146 T H I R D T E C H N I Q
U E OE B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: CRADUALIZATIOX For example, in this ad for a course to improve the prospect's child's grades in school: Let me explain. I don't care whether
your child is six years old or twenty—boy or girl—in grade school high school or college. It makes no difference how badly that child is doing in school today—how difficult it is
for him to concentrate . . . how poor his memory mav be . . . how- much a prisoner he is of crippling mental habits . . . how terrified he mav be of mathematics, or grammar, or
social studi es, or even the hardest science course. Of course, here—as in the Inclusion-Question—vour copv must be accurate. You must know enough about the reader's problems to
make every word you write ring true. If vou don't, you'll shatter your believability-net, and he'll simply' turn the page. So—before you write—research. Learn to know vour cus-
tomer. This is alwavs the essential first step, in anv kind of copv 3. Contradiction of Present (False) Beliefs Again, used at the beginning of the ad. And again used to prepare a
foundation for strong claim-statements that the reader might never accept raw. Here, you come bluntly out and say, "I know you think this is true; but I'm going to show YOU it's
false." Best used, of course, in conjunction with strong authority strong enough to contradict present (unpleasant) beliefs, and get away with it. For example, in an ad for
cosmetics invented by a famous plastic surgeon: From this moment on, forget everything you have ever heard or read about what age "must do" to your appear- ance. Forget anything
you have ever believed about how "old" you must look at thirty . . . forty . . . fifty . . . or even sixty. . . . T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY:
GRADUALIZATION 147 Here vou are not looking for agreement as much as you are for a loosening of previous beliefs. You are saying that the old limitations are passing, and your next
paragraph should be your first introduction of your positive claims, in somewhat the same way that this ad goes on: Because—starting with this moment—you are about to enter into a
new world of beautv! A world where ordi- nary fruits are transformed into anti-wrinkle cosmetics. Where a. . . . And so on. 4. The Language of Logic So far, the devices we have
discussed have been used to build belief at the beginning of vour ad—to serve in the crucial transition from vour headline to the stream of intensified prom- ises that vou are
going to use to close the sale. We have discussed the process of intensifying desire in Chapter 7. We now turn to the simultaneous, and equally im- portant, task of maintaining
belief in each new statement as you present it. Here again, your objective is to build belief at the same exact time that vou build desire. To do this, you interlace each new
promise tcith language-signals that show that it logically follows from everything that has been proved before. And that it there- fore can be believed without hesitation. What are
these language-signals? They are, of course, the vocabulary of logic. They are the words we use when we reason: when we argue; when we prove our point in anv discussion, and force
others to agree with us that we are right. They are among the most powerful words in the English lan- guage—for the verv simple reason that they give the flavor of conviction to
the promises into which we weave them. These words have been used for centuries in court, in politics, 148 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: GRADUALIZATION in
science—even in that most-loved form of American fiction, detective stories—to show others that proof has been offered. that reason has been used, that one statement logically and
in- evitably follows from another. Therefore, after centuries of conditioning, the words them- selves—regardless of the content of the statements to which thev are attached—now
carry conviction. Therefore, thev should be woven throughout your ad, wherever thev logically apply. For example, let's look at some individual lines, in a num- ber of different
ads. Let's see how each of these words (which I'll italicize) gives a tone of reason and logic to those sentences in which they're incorporated. For example, in the famous Sherwin
Codv ad: Why do so many find themselves at a loss for words to express their meaning adequately 0 The reason for this deficiency is clear. . . . Most persons do not write or speak
good English simply because thev have never formed the habit of doing so. . . . Or, in this ad for a book on how to manage difficult people: Take, as an example, the man who
hahitualhj refuses to follow your instructions. There is a basic, underlying rea- son for this. Mr. Given shows you how to find that reason and then explains the means of
correcting it. The whole solution can be surprisingly easy once you hate realized the underlying causes. . . . Or, for a book on learning how to learn: . . . but simply by putting
your LOCKED-UP LEARN- ING POWERS to work—today—as easily and logically as this. . . . ' " ' And so on. There are dozens of such phrases for vou to use. Among them are: "This has
been proved In/ thousands. . . ." "Sound impossible? Not at all. It's actually as simple. . . ." T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: GRADUALIZATION 149 "Here's whtj.
. . ." "And, most important of all. is the fact that. . . ." "Therefore . . ." "This was, without a doubt, the most thorough. . . ." "Thev discovered—in case after case—that. . .
." This, again, is the language of logic. It is a language equally as filled with emotion as the language of desire. Interwoven into your promises, so subtly that the reader never
even notices that it is there, it gives vour claims the invaluable air of conviction. 5. Svllogistic Thinking Now we go from the language of logic to the mechanisms of logic. This
is the role that reason plays in your ad. This is the moment when you prove that your product works, through the mechanism of logical reasoning. For example, in one of the most
successful automotive ac- cessory ads of all time, the copywriter wanted to prove that his spark plug was superior to the ordinary plug—even though it costs twice as much. Since
the point of difference was simply that his plug delivered a larger spark, the copywriter built up his case in this way: Your car runs because gasoline is fed into the cylin- ders
where a spark causes it to fire. This action causes the gas to explode . . . this explosion pushes down the piston. Now here is the important thing to you. The larger the spark is,
the more powerful the explosion. The more pow- erful the explosion, the more power you get from your gasoline. Poor explosion means wasted gas—loss of power, poor getaway, bad
starting, a sluggish car. Good explosion means more miles per gallon—more horsepower; a more exciting car to drive! Notice the power of these three simple paragraphs. Power derived
as much from their underlying formal structure as from 150 T H I R D T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: CRADUALIZATION their claims. One statement inevitably leads into
another. Even- word is logical. There is a constant process of equation: spark to power, power to performance. Size equals power—and his plug delivers the largest size. Such
structure—and the copv based on such a structure— develops the feeling of inevitability. The reader feels that the product must work. He has not onlv been told it works; he has
been shown proof that it works. Such structure—though hidden behind the words it clothes itself in—is actually a physical entity. You can seek it out of hun- dreds of ads, if you
look beneath the words themselves. You can trace it, codify it, and then repeat it. Once learned, it becomes a powerful tool in selling hundreds of products. We will explore these
