case actually have no names. ^ Because of this fact, I've had to invent names for them. Some of these names convey their meaning at first glance, such as In- tensification. Other
names I've put together out of two or more ordinary words, such as Gradaalization, to try to convey an idea that has purposely been left ambiguous when you first encounter it. And
in still other cases, such as the Identification technique discussed in this chapter, I've used terms you' already know and stretched their meaning. Identification here, for
example, means more than the cus- tomer's process of identifying with a product personalitv, or even with a group of prestige users of that product. Here, in this new context I
have given it, it means at the same time the active process by which the copy writer capitalizes on this need for SECOND T E C H N I Q U E OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: I D E N T I F I C A
T I O N 109 identification by building its realization through his copv into his product. The stress is always, in all these techniques, on the word ac- tive. These are the
activities vou must accomplish . . . the pro- cesses vou must utilize . . . the psychological effects vou must achieve to give your copy the maximum possible strength. It is this
active, deliberate, ongoing process—this building of effects— that I have tried to convey bv these terms. The Roles Your Prospect Desires What, exactly, is this process of
Identification? Quite simply, it is, first of all, the desire of your prospect to act out certain roles in his life. It is the desire of your prospect to define himself to the
world around him—to express the qualities within himself that he val- ues, and the positions he has attained. And how do you utilize this longing for identification when you write
your copy? In two ways: First, bv turning your prod- uct into an instrument for achieving these roles. And second, by turning that product into an acknowledgement that these roles
have already been achieved. Every product you work on should offer vour prospect two separate and distinct reasons for buying it. First, it should offer him the fulfillment of a
physical want or need. This is the satis- faction your product gives him. And second, it should offer him a particular method of fulfilling that need, that defines him to the
outside world as a particular kind of human being. This is the role your product offers to vour prospect. It is the non-functional, super-functional value of that product. And it
is built into that product—not bv engineering—but by merchan- dising alone. For example, only the poor man today buvs food for its physical satisfactions alone. The average
American today selects 110 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: IDENTIFICATION his food. Selects foods that he believes are modern, because he wishes to be up-to-date.
Selects foods that are non-fattening, be- cause he wishes to be youthful and slim. Selects foods that come from every country and reflect every taste on earth, because he wishes to
be cosmopolitan, adventurous and sophisticated. This man no longer buys food for food alone. He has gained. or he has been given, a whole new vocabulary of wants. He now buys, not
only objects, but roles. His life becomes devoted to a quest for acknowledgements—"up-to-date" . . . "youthful" "slim" . . . "cosmopolitan" . . . "adventurous" . . . and
"sophisticated" in this one instance alone. And because of this multiplication of wants, this man gives you hundreds of new ways to focus his attention, to stimulate his desire, to
build up that desire to the point of purchase. Even- new role that he covets—every new longing-for-identification that he develops—gives you one more mass desire that you can har-
ness to your product. What are these roles? Where do they come from? How do they operate? How do you put them to work for your product? First of all—the roles themselves. There are
two kinds. There are roles that define character. And there are roles that express achievement. Let's glance brieflv at each: 1. Character Roles Usually expressed by adjectives, or
adjectives-turned-nouns. For instance—"progressive" . . . "chic" . . . "charming" . . . "bril- liant" . . . "well-read." They are a part of the personality of vour prospect. They
belong to him. His task is to pick out the ones he values most, and to develop them. And then to turn the spot- light of other people's attention onto them, one after the other.
Attainment of these character roles—masterv of them—is not enough. Once they have been mastered, thev must then be acknowledged, valued and admired, or thev are worthless. Here
again, your product can serve your prospect in three SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 111 distinct ways—beyond its physical
satisfactions—in this constant search for self-definition. First, it can help him achieve mastery of his chosen character roles—such as a book on philosophy, if he wishes to be
thought of as well-read. Second, it can help simplify condense or speed up this mas- tery—such as a Speed-Reading Course. And third, and most important, it can serve as a symbol of
that mastery to invoke the acknowledgement or admiration of his friends—such as a shelf to house both books. You must realize that every one of these values goes far be- vond the
physical satisfactions of the products themselves. They are supra-functional, and therefore add an extra incentive for pur- chase. The book on philosophy might not have been
purchased if the prospect wished onlv to satisfy his academic curiosity, and did not also wish to enlighten his friends in conversation. The Speed-Reading Course might not have
been purchased if the prospect wished only to absorb more information in a shorter pe- riod of time, and did not also wish to use that information to get ahead in both his business
and social life. And certainly the book- shelves would not have been of the same fine quality-, finish and luxury if the prospect had onlv wished to use them as a store- house, and
not also as a showpiece. At least half of all purchases made today cannot he under- stood in terms of function alone. It would be absurd for a man to spend $5,000 for a
150-mile-an-hour sports car for functional reasons, when he onlv uses it to drive to and from work on con- gested, 35-mile-an-hour parkways. His willingness to spend this money
onlv becomes rational when vou take one further fact into consideration—that this 150-mile-an-hour top speed, this hand- gear-shift, this fantastic cornering ability all give him
as their owner the role of "sportsman"—and very probably "successful sportsman" at that. Every product can benefit from this role-giving power. But there are many products where
this ability of character-reinforce- 112 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E OE BREAKTHROUGH COPY: IDENTIFICATION ment—whether built into that product by design, bv society or by
advertising—far outweighs in sales value the built-in perfor- mance of that product. In such products, it is the role-giving func- tion that sells, and not the performance. One
further fact distinguishing these character roles. Since they are not created by society but by the prospect himself, and since they are almost never claimed openly but only hinted
at. implied and prompted, therefore they can never truly be tested or measured, and they are ambiguous. They are subject to error. And, more important, they are subject to fantasy.
Great areas of these character roles literally exist in the sub- conscious. They are never given definite words. They are not stated or discussed, but subtly expressed in symbols
and images. Only rarely does the prospect even define them to himself. And even more rarely does he test them against the outside world, to see if they are actually true.
Therefore, your prospect is far more reach to believe in the character roles you assign to him, than he is to believe in either your product's performance claims, or the
achievement roles it may offer him. If the character role is flattering, such as "viril- ity," and if it is subtly expressed in a non-verbal image-svmbol, such as a test pilot
smoking a cigarette, than the prospect can easily persuade himself that the same action, smoking, performed on the same product, the cigarette, conveys to him at least some of the
implied virility of the genuine possessor—in this case, the pilot. There is no direct claim made in the advertisement. No ver- balization to be passed on by the conscious, rational
mind. No test situation called for where the prospect must prove that the role is valid. Acceptance is easy painless, non-demanding. This is not true of a performance claim, which
must be jus- tified in terms of concrete results to our friends. Nor is it true of an achievement role, which must stand up to the harsh reality of our position in everyday life.
This superb ease-of-acceptance, this consolation-without-cost feature of the character role is its SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 113
great ^trgrigth, and the reason why it should be used to supple- ment the verbal claims in every ad. 2. Achievement Roles These are the status roles . . . class roles . . .
position roles that are created by every society on earth, and offered to the men and women who can earn them. In a civilization as complex as ours, there are literally hundreds of
them—usually expressed bv nouns, with the nouns serving as titles. For example, for men, there are—"Executive" . . . "Home Owner" . . . "$20,000-a-year-Man" . . . "Five Handicap" .
. . "Man- On-His-Way-Up" . . . "Block Chairman" . . . and dozens more, em- bracing every activity of our lives. For women, the primary achievement role to be won is "Wife," and
from then on—"Fashion Setter" . . . "Career Woman" . . . "Good Mother" . . . "Civic Leader" . . . "Power-Behind-the-Throne" . . . "Patron of the Arts" . . . and on, and on. The
list, for both men and women, is endless. Each of these roles is an achievement to be won, and held, and—most of all— displayed. Here display is vital—because none of these
achievements is obvious. Quite the opposite, they are immaterial and invisi- ble—mere titles, roles, bundles of privilege. They do exist—thev are real—and once they are gained,
thev have great potential to alter our lives. But that potential must first be translated into physical symbols of success, for everyone around us to see. And the easiest and most
universally acknowledged symbols of success in America today are the products we can buy. Prod- ucts that are purchased—not by any stretch of the imagination for their physical
function alone—but for the definition they give us as their possessors. In America today we are known—not only by the company we keep—but by the products we own. The most obvious
example is the newly-wed woman. Her first act in her new role as "Wife" is to receive a physical gift, 1 1 4 S E C O N D T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY:
IDENTIFICATION which has absolutely no function other than to define her—the wedding ring in which she is married. Weeks before this, she has literally been shedding closets-full
of clothes—clothes that still fitted her physically, but not socially—in order to replace them with a new material personality, her trousseau. Her sheets and linens are new. Her
furniture and carpeting are new. Even the very roof over her head, todav, in our societv. must be new. Because she is literally a new woman—her new role has transformed her—and she
must express that transfor- mation in everything she owns. The same principle applies to every aspect of all of our lives. Every social role that we achieve in life is immediately
translated into those possessions which we believe express that position most clearly. And as we acquire these possessions throughout our life. what we are doing is constructing
for ourselves a "material per- sonality," that we carry with us wherever we go, and whose func- tion it is to define us, instantly, to whomever we meet. The "Man-On-His-Way-Up,"
for example, trades in his Ford for a Buick, and, when he becomes an "Executive," trades in his Buick for a Cadillac. The "Career Woman" needs an entirelv different wardrobe than
the one she owned as a "Housewife." And when the man of the house gets a raise, the house either grows bigger, or prettier, or more filled with status-definers of every
description—or the house itself is discarded, to be replaced by one more befitting the new character of its possessor. How to Put These Longings for Identification to Work for Your
Product Thus products become more than products. In addition to their physical functions, they take on new immaterial functions as status definers. They announce our achievements,
define our role in life, document our success. All products may benefit from this power to define. But in particular, when you have a product that does the same job as its SECOND T
E C H N I Q U E OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: IDENTIFICATION 115 competitors, and is so priced that price is no longer a factor, then the prospect's choice will almost overwhelmingly
depend on the difference in role that your product offers him. And it is vour job to create this role for him in your ad. The performance of this job—the process of building these
character and achievement roles into vour product, to be used bv vour prospect—is the process of Identification, our second mechanism of persuasion. And just as the wish for this
identification by vour prospect is a special form of desire—the desire, not for satisfaction, but for recognition—so the method vou use to put it to work for your product follows
exactly the same pattern of discovery and mag- nification that you would use for anv other desire. First, your job is to discover exactly what kinds of character and achievement
roles vour prospect is readv to identify with vour product—what kind of roles he will reject for that prod- uct—and which of the accepted roles is the most compelling. And then you
must present those chosen roles in such a wav— so vividly and so intensely—that the role vou are projecting will become virtually irresistible. Once again, it is vour market itself
that presents vou with both your opportunities and vour limitations. And it is vour own personal skill as a copy writer that determines how effectively vou side-step those
limitations, and how fullv you realize the po- tential of vour opportunities. First of all—the limitations. Above everything else, of course, you cannot force your market to accept
an unrealistic identifica- tion. People assign certain characteristics to certain products. These characteristics may arise out of the product itself—its struc- ture or
performance, its historv, its cost to produce or sell. Or thev may stem from the role or roles that it plavs in their lives today—or that similar products play in their lives—or
that these products plav in the lives of other people, whom thev have seen, heard or read about. These characteristics may be true or false, superficial or 116 SECOND T E C H N I Q
U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N profound, flattering or libelous. But as far as your product is con- cerned, they are as hard as rock—and just as
determinative. They exist. They are facts. They cannot be changed. If vou try to break through them and establish a contradictory image, vou will learn that they form the walls of
a prison. But if you decide to build on to them—to use them as a foun- dation for sharper, coordinated images, which may be even broader and more appealing—then, if necessary, you
can turn those ap- parent limitations into the strongest selling points in your ad. Not every product needs this technique, of course. Speak- ing in terms of identification
potential, there are two kinds of products. One is the product with built-in prestige—the sports car, the swimming pool, the diamond bracelet. These rare and expensive products
already embody the identification appeals most Americans want. They actually symbolize these appeals success, achievement, adventure, self-indulgence, exclusivity—so unques-
tionably that they can be used to weld these same values onto other products. But these other products—by far the overwhelming major- ity of the products you will be given to work
with—have no such built-in prestige. It is up to you to create their prestige for them. And you must do this by building on the characteristics they al- ready possess—by using
these accepted characteristics as a bridge—between the product. . . the image it already has . . . and the prestige-filled image that you want to wind up \vith. We now have all the
tools we need to build identification values for our product. We realize that identification longings are a separate and immensely powerful form of desire—a de- sire, not for
physical satisfaction, but for expression and recog- nition. These longings for identification are two-fold. We all wish to express our character, and we all wish to gain
recognition for our accomplishments. But we cannot do this openly—verbally. We cannot go around boasting how virile we are, or how rich we are. So we svmbolize SECOND T E C H N I Q
U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 117 these prestige claims. We express them in terms ol products— and we buy products that express them. As Americans, living
in our culture and our century, there are certain character roles and certain achievement roles that we value more than others. The most general and compelling of these are: the
wish to be virile or feminine—the wish to be exciting, unique, fun-filled and adventurous—the wish to be friendly and well-liked—the wish to be important, influential and correct—
the wish to be modern and up-to-date—and. above all, the wish to be successful, to make something of our lives. These are the roles most Americans buv. In some splinter markets,
other, contradictory roles mav apply. But, in the mass, these are the characteristics that will turn the prospects from one brand to another. The Primary Image of Your Product
There is a critical point that separates the process of build- ing identification from the process of building desire, namely, that the product you are given has its men
personality at the moment you are given it. It has its own characteristics. And these char- acteristics may contradict what most Americans want—or simply not include them—or simply
not include as many of them as you want. For example, a cigarette is not, by itself, a symbol of success. But vou realize that if you could make it a symbol of success, you could
sell many more of them. Nor is a piston ring, by itself, a svmbol of virility—even though that virility image, if vou could create it, would sell manv more piston rings. And,
though house- hold appliances are not, at first glance, symbols of femininity, women would buv manv more of them if thev could somehow be made feminine. How do you do this? In two
steps—the first of which is to identify the primary image that each of these products already has in the mind of your prospects. For instance, a cigarette is 118 SECOND T E C H N I
Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: IDENTIFICATION virile in almost everyone's mind. And a piston ring is precision- machined and full of mechanical beauty to almost every man. And
household appliances are time-saving, by virtue of tlie ven functions they perform. These are the primary images of the products vou are called on to sell. These are the accepted
images that thev alreadv have in your prospect's mind. Your job now is to use 'these alreadv- accepted images as raw material, as a starting point to construct new, double, triple
and quadruple images, that draw in more of these most-wanted roles into your product-personality, and mul- tiply its identification appeal. You do this in two wavs: First, by
changing the intensity of your primary image. Bv emphasizing and dramatizing that primary image, if it is alreadv acceptable. Or by toning it down, if it is negative or neutral.
For example, the male virility naturally associated witli cigarettes is a definite sales aid, even with women. The sheer physical act of smoking—of "playing with fire"—of
"breathing fire"—has been for centuries an assertion of manhood and of daring. But Marlboro took this image of virilitv- and intensified i t - deepened it—in three ways. First,
they presented men who were. in themselves, virile. Second, they presented these men in situa- tions or occupations that demand virility. And third, thev took the further "Creative
Gamble" of affixing to these men's hands one of the most primitive symbols of virilitv- known to history—the tattoo. A single dominant emotion—virilitv-—symbolized three ways. The
impact of repetition reinforced through variation. Far more powerful—far more eye-catching—far more appealing than any- one of these images could have been by itself. So far, there
has been no difference between this technique and the intensification of desire we discussed previously. Al- though we are speaking here in visual terms, the mechanics are exactly
the same—the intensification of an already-existing emo- SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 119 tion in your prospect, through a
series of reinforcing images ex- pressing the fulfillment of that emotion. With certain, naturally-favored products, this process of in- tensification may be all that is
required—though even Marlboro, as mentioned below, goes beyond it. But—and this point is im- perative—though the process of intensifying desire for your prod- uct ends here, the
process of building the proper identification for your product—of building prestige for that product—only- be- gins here. For the primary image of vour product may not be favor-
able. It may be negative—contradicting the roles most people want to play. Or it may simply be neutral—a wallflower prod- uct—offering most people no emotional reaction at all. In
both these cases, your first suggestion may be to simply discard these primary images altogether, and substitute more fa- vorable ones. This has been done in countless
advertisements. And it doesn't work—for a very simple reason. Because people just won't believe that a product is what it isn't. You cannot con- tradict accepted images or beliefs
in advertising. This is not ad- vertising's role. Nor is it really necessary. In order to overcome these unfavorable images, you simply incorporate them in a larger, overall
image—lower their emo- tional intensity—and use them as readily-accepted bridges to lead your prospect into far more compelling appeals. How to Build New Images Into Your Product
This is a single process, but it is made up of two steps. First, as mentioned above, a change in the intensity of your primary- image—in this case, subordinating it even though you
retain it. And second, using it as a logical link to bring in any number of more favorable images. One of the most striking examples is the Chesterfield ad of 1926—"Blow Some My
Wax"—fully examined in Chapter 3. 120 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: IDENTIFICATION Here is pure identification advertising—dealing with an unfa-
vorable image of two generations' standing—that cigarettes are a "man's product." Although the objective of the campaign was to make smoking, and smoking situations, more
acceptable to women, it would have been impossible to do this bv picturing the woman alone. The idea that women would practice this Mas- culine act in private, or with each other,
was inadmissible. There- fore the man must be retained. The accepted image must be acknowledged. But he undergoes two vital transformations. First, he is sub- dued. His figure is
darkened, almost blended into invisibility with the background. And his position in the picture—his posture— the arrangement of his hands and face as the light plavs over them—all
direct the attention of the viewer past the man him- self and into the focal point of the picture, the woman sitting be- side him. Thus he becomes a mere suggestion of man, leading
the viewer into a far more appealing overall image—that of a hand- some young couple, alone together on a moonlit beach, height- ened emotionally with the carefully-blended-in
suggestions of escape, intimacy, and a sense of shared daring. Because the primary image is there—because the smoking is done by the man—the viewer, even a well-brought up woman of
the 1920s, accepts the situation. But this acceptance, once established, goes far beyond that primary image. This feminine viewer is also willing to accept the romance of the
overall scene— including its emotional undertones of escape from the conven- tional rules and boundaries, and its feelings of relaxation and liberty. She is now willing to project
herself into this scene. And in accepting the scene as a whole, she is finally led to accepting the climactic words, "Blow some mv way," as being a perfectly natural and acceptable
action for her to take, with all its implications for her conduct in the future. This, then, is the process of identification—of building pres- tige for your product. To weave
favorable social and character SECOND T E C H N I Q U E OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: IDENTIFICATION 121 images into the personality of your product, in order to reinforce and even
dominate those primary images that your product al- ready has. There is onlv one limit to the number, or the range of fa- vorable images that vou can add to that product
personality. Sim- ply that you must always include the primary image as their base. They must emerge from that primary image, and thev must be logically consistent with its
broadest definition. For example, to return to Marlboro, once vou have devel- oped the primary image to its peak of intensity then there is ab- solutely nothing to stop vou from
weaving other powerful appeals into this base. Connotations of success can be included bv the model's clothes, such as the tuxedo worn in the first ads, or bv the possessions he
holds. Adventure and excitement can be sug- gested by the situation you picture him in, such as on a boat, in a plane, riding horseback, etc. Romance bv a voung girl, mvsterv and
affairs of great importance bv a dark background or a brief- case, culture and intellectual achievement bv a rare book or an antique telescope. As a matter of fact, many visual
symbols, bv themselves, com- municate several different roles of great appeal at the same time. For example, the single image of ownership of a fine painting mav express, not only
success, but also cultural breeding and in- tellectual accomplishment. Such multi-image symbols perform two vital tasks for vour product. They broaden the size of its market bv
grafting on new emotional appeals—social and character identifications that reach into the fringe areas of that market—that intrigue people who would not be sufficiently swaved bv
the pure functional values of your product. And second, bv adding in these manv-sided emo- tional images, thev deepen and intensify the emotional attraction felt for your product
bv all the men and women who make up that market. Perhaps this can best be shown bv taking a hypothetical example, of a product with strictly neutral primary images, and 122 SECOND
T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N developing, and weaving together, a network of far stronger emotional images for it. Let's start with piston
rings, and assume that a new tvpe of piston ring has just been developed, that lasts longer and there- fore saves oil and gas. Our body copy, of course, develops this saving theme.
We have exploited the functional advantages of the product as far as possible. We are now ready to reinforce these benefits by expanding the product's social and character appeals.
We start by taking inventory. We have a prodiret—piston rings. It has only a few primary images—mechanical, precision- made, unseen. Nothing exciting here. It also has a primary
sit- uation—replacement, and always by a mechanic, and usually onlv when there's trouble. These primary images are either neutral or negative. But they're all we have to work with.
They, and they alone, must form the foundation, must set the direction, for every other appeal we bring into the over-all image we are constructing. So we know that we must deal
with the act of replacement, and that the replacement must be done by a mechanic. These are our limitations—but once we observe them, we turn them into the starting point for the
true emotional message ice want to broadcast through our ad. We take each of these primary ele- ments, and glamorize, dramatize and emotionalize them to the brink. The car
itself—what kind of car shall it be? Certainly not a beat-up family sedan. Why not a Mercedes SL-300—a $12,000 sports car with its distinctive grill-work sides, and all the emo-
tional extras of power, speed, skill-in-handling, plus sophistica- tion, success and downright excitement. Now the garage—what should it look like? A sports-car shop, of course.
Neat, clean, precise. With high-power equipment gleaming chrome and steel—hanging on the walls, ready on the shelves, being installed on other sports models in the background. The
mechanic is not young, not old, simply mature. Rugged, SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 123 knowledgeable, precise. He's sure
of what he's doing—there isn't a wasted motion or a wasted tool anywhere about him. The owner of the car is young, wiry, yirile, but he too has been around. (Put into words, these
images must take on a mea- sure of disbelief, which we express by saying they're "corny." However, expressed in visual terms, where they can be symbol- ized, and therefore implied
rather than named, they enter into our minds unnoticed, and we accept them without question. Ver- bal terms—words and sentences—can be used to imply images of identification; but
these are different tvpes of images, and must be conveyed in a different way. We will touch on this verbal image building again, as related to excitement and mood, in Chap- ter 14.
The owner is not a professional driver, but he races the car for sport (we know this bv the roll-over bar over the back of the seats). He loves this car (its perfect shine, its
gleaming chrome engine, its complete absence of even a spot of dirt). He too is precise (the chronometer on his wrist). And he carries his suc- cess with a complete casualness (the
absence of anv special driv- ing outfit—just slacks and a sport shirt). And what about the relationship between the two men? Knowledge complementing skill. The expert in one field
advising the expert in another. Comfort, understanding, teamwork—lead- ing to mutual achievement. And what are thev doing? Replacing rings, of course. But not because the old rings
have developed trouble (nothing in this car would be left unchecked long enough to have developed a flaw). But because this mechanic is installing these new rings in this car as
high-performance equipment, exactly as he would in- stall a supercharger to increase its horsepower. Everything about the picture—its camera angle, its compo- sition, its lighting,
the angle of the men's heads and arms as thev examine the rings—develops the emotion of precision and the excitement and drama of discovering new performance through greater and
greater precision. 124 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F B R E A K T H R O U G H COPY: IDENTIFICATION It is a picture, a situation and a mood that invites partici- pation. The reader
may not notice every emotional detail that you have developed; but he will sense the excitement and plea- sure that you have built up. He will wish to share in this world. And he
will buy the product that gives him this world—that of- fers it as a bonus to all its functional and physical satisfactions. On the Limits to the Images Your Prospects Will
Identify With I must insert a warning here. Although these identification - images are immensely powerful when used correctly, there arc also strict rules and limits to their use.
And, if they are used in- correctly, they can be disastrous. Many campaigns have collapsed because they have asked their market to identify themselves with an unbelievable image.
For example, the deodorant-soap campaign of several vears ago that used an elite, society image to sell the mass market. The men and women who composed the market could not make
the jump between themselves and the characters pictured in the ad. And they not only refused to believe the suggested identification. but the disbelief spread to the performance
claims themselves. and killed the sales. The key to avoiding such mistakes, of course, is the struc- ture of the word, unbelievable. What makes an image—or a claim, or an
idea—believable or not believable? We shall discuss this question thoroughly in the next few chapters. However, in rela- tion to image-building, the answer lies in two points: 1.
What do people already believe about the personality of your product? Do they believe, today, that it has the character traits that you say it has? And—if they do—can they identify
themselves, their lives, their present position in society, or their next step up in society with these traits? If the answer to both these questions is Yes, then you can SECOND T
E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 125 use the image exactly as you've conceived it. If, however, either one of the answers is No, then vou must
move on to the second step: 2. What other primary image do I have to use as a believability-bridge to connect what my prospect already believes with what I want him to believe when
he finishes my ad? If he doesn't believe that mv product has those desirable character traits, then I have to start with what he already believes. I have to use these images as a
base, and build up to my desired over- all image, as we discussed before. And, in addition, if mv prospect believes that my product does possess these target-traits, but doesn't
believe that they re- late to his life, as it exists in either the present or the future, then again I have to use a bridge-image. I have to insert a first- seen image that he can
immediately identify with, and use that acceptable identification as^a hook to hang my target-image on to. For example, in the Marlboro ad, men who would never identify themselves
immediately with a yachting costume or an opera hat, accepted the image completely after it was introduced by the acceptable virility concept of the male model smoking the
cigarette. If you demand that your prospect jump across a believability- chasm, vour ad will fail. If, however, you build a bridge of ideas or images across that chasm—starting on
his side—then he will let vou lead him almost anywhere. On Saleable Identifications Springing From the Physical Product Itself We mentioned in Chapter 2 that for the purposes of
prepar- ing an advertisement, everv product can be considered to be two products. There is the functional product—what the prod- uct does for the consumer. And there is the
physical product— what the consumer actually gets. In tapping mass desire, we put 126 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH COPY: IDENTIFICATION aside the physical product, and
concentrated on functional per- formances. Now, in searching for image-sources to build pow- erful identifications, we re-examine the physical product itself lhe physical product
can be broken down into three sem lc rate areas: 1. Its appearance; 2. Its components and structure; and 3. The technical background from which it emerged Each one of these areas
has image potential. In each one of them you may find strong primary images that already exist Or m each one of them you may be able to graft on related images that will greatly
increase the sales of your product For example, the appearance of'vour product. As you re- ceive it, that product's appearance is probably determined by func- tion. Lets say that
the product is mechanical, like a car In this case, its appearance will be a combination of what it has to do (ro 1 on a highway, carry six people, shelter them against wind and
rain, etc.), and the cheapest practical way of doing it. Out of this combination of performance and^ economy comes the raw shell of your c a r - i t s basic functional appearance.
It is at this point that you start to build in the images. You do this in two ways. First, you exploit the dramatic pri- mary images that already exist in the extreme forms of your
prod- uct. For cars, for instance, you borrow from the glamour c a r s - the severe streamlining and stabilizing fin of the racing c a r - t h e hub caps and wheel wells of the
sports c a r - t h e exhaust ports and roof line of the custom car. And you blend their feeling of excitement and power and distinction into the family sedan But this is only the
first step. Once you have exploited the already-existing primary images in your product-if there are any-you then begin to weave in other images that have ab- solutely nothing to
do with the necessary physical structure of your product. And you alter the appearance of your product to accommodate and express these images. ' ' SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F
BREAKTHROUGH COPY: I D E N T I F I C A T I O N 127 For example, many products are chemical rather than me- chanical. They are liquids, powders, sprays, granulates, etc. There- fore
their physical appearance, to the manufacturer, is completely arbitrary. Outside of the need to hold them together and shield them against wear, their physical package can take any
shape you wish. Here, of course, there are no primary images arising from functional appearance at all. All the images that you wish to shape into vour package must be borrowed.
And where do you borrow them from? From the background of your product. Or from its components. Or from the values of society as a whole. For example, the product's background. One
of the most bril- liant packaging concepts in years was Johnson & Johnson's Mi- crin. Here was a mouth wash—a liquid—sold in drug stores and supermarkets—whose effectiveness far
exceeded any similar prod- uct ever sold before. How were thev to convey that effectiveness to the consumer at a glance? They simply took the physical shape of glass containers
that are found only in doctors' offices and operating rooms, and tran- scribed that exact shape onto an over-the-counter product. Use this shape to house an ice-blue liquid, that
in itself suggests med- ical cleanliness, and you have a product that says instantly, "This is doctor's-liquidNThis is medicine. This works." Here the background of the product is
symbolized in the product's container. So effectively that the container itself be- comes the finest image-illustration that the agency could use in creating their ad. Where the
background of your product con- tains elements that inspire excitement, drama, quality or heliev- ahilitij to your prospect, then those elements should he expressed either in the
product itself, or in its package, or in its ad. The same hypothesis holds true for the components that make up your product. If vour product has electronic components, for
example, it should have an electronic flavor to both its appear- ance and its advertising. Shoiv the radar installations, guided mis- 128 SECOND T E C H N I Q U E O F BREAKTHROUGH
COPY: IDENTIFICATION siles, jet aircraft that use the same parts. Life for the average man is dull, completely lacking in adventure. Offer to let him partici- pate in the frontier
explorations of our world, and vou have welded a tremendously potent appeal onto your product' 9 THE THIRD TECHNIQUE OF BREAKTHROUGH COPY: GRADUALEATION How to Make Your Prospect
