he can afford to trade it in every year. It offers him novelty: Power steering five vears ago—elec- tric door locks todav. Three-tone paint jobs vesterdav—iridescent paints now.
The thrill of being the leader, the pace-setter, the proven pioneer. And man\- more. Some of them hidden, never admitted, discovered only recently bv motivation research. Dozens of
VZ MASS DESIRE: T H E FORCE THAT MAKES ADVERTISING WORK different performances, built into the same product, each of them reaching out and tapping a different desire—a distinct
public. And yet your ad can feature onlv one of these performances; can effectively tap only one mass desire at a time. Your headline is limited by physical space. You have onlv
one glance of the reader's eye to stop him. He is preoccupied- he is not looking for your product or your message—the span of his attention will admit only one thought to penetrate
his indif- ference during that glance. If your first thought holds him. he will read the second. If the second holds him, he will read the third. And if the third thought holds
him, he will probably read through your ad. Every product gives you dozens of keys. But onlv one will fit the lock. Your job is to find that one dominant performance squeeze every
drop of power out of it in your presentation—and then convince your reader that that performance and that satis- faction can come onlv from your product. The next four chapters
will show von how to locate that one dominant performance, and how to fasliion it into vour headline. Once you have written that headline, then even other perfor- mance contained
in your product simply reinforces and docu- ments that main appeal, in exactly the same wav as the physical product facts listed above. 2 YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS—HOW TO
CAPITALIZE ON IT W H E N YOU WRITE YOUR HEADLINE You have now completed the first two stages in writing your ad. You have defined the mass desire that makes up your market—for
example, the desire to lose weight, shared by millions of women all over America. And you have se- lected the one performance in vour product that satisfies that de- sire most
deeply—for example, a liquid meal in a glass, delicious, filling, already measured for you. as easy and pleasant to drink as a chocolate malted. This definition of vour market, and
the selection of the prod- uct performance most likely to capture that market, forms the core concept, or theme, of vour ad. You now know where you are going to start—with your
market; and where you are going to end—with your product. The bridge between these two—their meeting place—is your ad. Your ad always begins with your market, and leads that 13 14
YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS market inevitably into your product. The beginning of vour ad— your headline—is the first step in this process. Therefore it con- cerns itself
entirely with your market. It mav never even mention your product or its performance. It is based entirely on the an- swer to these three questions: 1. What is the mass desire that
creates this market? (Which we have already discovered.) 2. How much do these people know today about the way your product satisfies this desire? (Their State of Awareness.) 3. How
many other products have been presented to them before yours? (Their State of Sophistication. The answer to question 1 gives von the nation-wide force that creates your market. The
answer to questions 2 and 3 gives you the location of that market in relation to vour product. Your strategy for exploiting or overcoming the answers to these last two questions
will give you the content of vour headline. Let's first re-define the job we are going to ask our headline to do, and then see how each of these last two questions tells us what
that headline should—and should not—saw Your Headline's Real Job There has been much confusion about how much of a sell- ing job your headline should be required to do. Actually,
your headline does not need to sell at all. It does not have to mention your product. It does not even have to mention vour main ap- peal. To demand that a headline should do any
of these is to place the full selling burden on approximately 10% to 20% of the total physical space of your ad . . . that physical space taken up by the headline itself. Your
headline has only one job—to stop your prospect and compel him to read the second sentence of your ad. In exactly the same way, your second sentence has only one job—to force him
to read the third sentence of vour ad. And the third sentence YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS 15 —and every additional sentence in your ad—has exactly the same job. It is simply
common sense that the more of vour storv vou can force your prospect to read, the more thoroughly you can sell him. To attempt to do the same selling job in ten words, instead of a
hundred, or a thousand, is to shoot craps with vour clients money. You might as well bnv only enough space to print vour headline, and use the rest of the budget for repeat
insertions. It is the copy writer's job to force the prospect to read his client's full story—not just a skimmed version of it. Only to prospects actively seeking the client's
specific brand-name prod- uct, and in a case where you can offer them a special price re- duction, can your headline do the full selling job. To attempt a complete selling job with
anv other kind of headline is simply to admit defeat. What Your Prospect's State of Awareness Demands From Your Headline We have already assumed that the only reader you are look-
ing for is the prospect for vour product. That means that he shares a defined desire with thousands, and perhaps even mil- lions, of other people all over America. But how much
aware is that prospect of that desire? How close is it to the surface of his consciousness? Is he aware only that a problem or need exists, or is he aware if they can be satisfied?
And if he is aware that a means of satisfaction exists, does he realize that it lies in your iiroup of products, or specifically in your product by name, or more specifically in
your product at a given price? The answer to these questions will help you determine the State of Awareness of your market—their present state of knowl- edge about your product and
the satisfaction that your product performs. It is at this precise point of awareness that vour head- line begins. 16 YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS In its natural development,
everv market's awareness passes through several stages. The more aware your market, the easier the selling job, the less vou need to sav. Let's go down the aware- ness scale step
by step. We'll start at the Most Aware—the most mechanical selling job—and proceed to more and more difficult problems, requiring more and more creative solutions. 1. The Most
Aware The customer knows of your product—knows what it does— knows he wants it. At this point, he just hasn't gotten around to buying it yet. Your headline—in fact, vour entire
ad—need state little more except the name of your product and a bargain price. For example: "Revere Zomar Lens, Electric Eve Camera—Formerly $149.50—Now Only $119.95." The
remainder of the advertisement can summarize quicklv the most desirable selling points. Then add the name of a store, or a coupon, and close. This is the typical department store,
discount store, mail- order-bargain-catalog type of advertising. It takes advantage of the full weight of all the advertising that has been done on the same product before it. Its
addition—its news—is the price—or a free gift—or instant delivery—or proximity in the neighbor- hood. Its prospect is fully aware—he has all the information he needs. Here the copy
writer is nothing more than the merchan- dise manager's phrase-maker. The price is the most important part of his headline. There is nothing creative about his job, and he should
receive the lowest possible scale of pav. 2. The Customer Knows of the Product But Doesn't Yet Want It Here, your prospect isn't completely aware of all your prod- uct does, or
isn't convinced of how well it does it, or hasn't yet been told how much better it does it now. YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS 17 Here—in the approach to this market—is the
great bulk of all advertising. Here you are dealing with a product which is known—which has established a brand name—which has already- linked itself with an acknowledged public
desire, and has proven that it satisfied that desire. Here vour headline is faced with one of seven tasks: (a) To reinforce your prospects desire for your product: (b) To sharpen
his image of the way vour product satisfies that desire; (c) To extend his image of where and when vour product satisfies that desire; (d) To introduce new proof, details,
documentation of how well vour product satisfies that desire; (e) To announce a new mechanism in that product to en- able it to satisfy that desire e\-en better; (f) To announce a
new mechanism in vour product that elim- inates former limitations; (g) Or to completely change the image or the mechanism of that product, in order to remove it from the
competition of other products claiming to satisfy the same desire. In all seven cases, the approach is the same. You display the name of the product—either in the headline or in an
equally large logo—and use the remainder of the headline to point out its superioritv. The body of the ad is then an elaboration of that superiority—including visualization,
documentation, mechaniza- tion. When you have finished weaving in everv strand of vour product's superiority7, your ad is done. Here are sample headlines presenting solutions to
all seven of the problems of this state of awareness: (a) To reinforce your prospect's desire for your product— bv using: ASSOCIATION: "Steinway—The Instrument of the Immortals."
"Jov—The Costliest Perfume in the World." 18 YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS EXAMPLE: "Which Twin Has the Toni?" "Hair Coloring So Natural Only Her Hairdresser Knows For
Sure—Miss Clairol." SENSORY SHARPEN I \ 0 : "Tastes like you just picked it—Dole." "The skin YOU love to touch—Woodbury" ILLUSTRATION: (Anyone of the thousands of superb pictorial
ads in the food, fashion, cosmetic, jewelry and similar industries. Perhaps best summed up by Life Saver's classic headline. "Please don't lick this page.") (b) To sharpen your
prospect's image of the way your product satisfies that desire (Much like the sensory shaipening illustrated above; but concentrating here on the physical product itself, or on the
mechanism bv which it works): "At 60 miles an hour, the loudest noise in a Rolls Royee is the electric clock." "The amazing story of a Zippo that worked after being taken from the
bellv of a fish." (c) To extend his image of where and when your product satisfies that desire: "Anywhere you go. Hertz is always nearby" "Thirst knows no season"—in a winter ad,
at a time when cold drinks were only consumed during the sum- mer—"Coca Cola." (d) To introduce new proof, details, documentation of how we,11 your product satisfies that desire:
"9 out of 10 screen stars use Lux Toilet Soap for their priceless smooth skins." YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS 19 "Jake La Motta, 160-lb fighter, fails to flatten Mono paper
cup." "In Boston, the #1 tea-drinking citv, the #1 tea is Salada." (e) To announce a new mechanism in that product to enable it to satisfy that desire even better: "Hoovers new
invention washes floors and vacuums up the scrub water." "Worlds only dog food that makes its own gravy— Gaines Graw Train." (f) To announce a new mechanism in i/onr product that
elim- inates former limitations: "You breathe no dustv odors when YOU do it with Lewvt." "A new Zenith hearing aid—inconspicuous beyond belief." (g) Or to completely change the
image or the mechanism of the product, in order to remove it from the competition of other products claiming to satisfy the same desire. Here we are dealing with the State of
Sophistication of our market—the amount of exposure they have already had to simi- lar products. Every product during its life history encounters this problem. All of Chapter 3
will be devoted to some of the ap- proaches to its solution. We now move on to the less aware markets—with their more difficult copv challenges, and their greater demand for the
unpre- cedented. 3. How to Introduce N e w Products The prospect either knows, or recognizes immediately, that he wants what the product does; but he doesn't yet know' that there
is a product—your product—that will do it for him. 20 YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS Here the problem is two-fold. First, to pinpoint the ill- defined, as-vet-uncrvstallized
desire that is slowly spreading through great masses of people all over America. And second, to crystallize that desire, and its solution, so sharplv and so dra- matically that
each and every prospect will recognize it at a glance. The three steps in the process are simple. Name the desire and/or its solution in vour headline. Prove that that solution can
be accomplished. And show that the mechanism of that accom- plishment is contained in vour product. However, starting with a market in this still-amorphous state of awareness, and
continuing with each of the more difficult chal- lenges to come, the execution becomes more and more important than the mechanics. Here the eopv writer contributes more and more to
the value of the product in the public eve, and to its total volume of sales. Here the innovator comes into play. Here the ratio of salary of copy writer to production supervisor
shoots up abruptly. For this is the domain of the idea man. What are the attributes he needs 0 First, analysis. As a copy writer vou will find it necessary to define the particular
market most receptive to vour product, its location in relation to your product in terms of awareness and sophistication, and the driving emotional forces that have created both
that market and the potential for the sales of vour product within it. Second, intuition, which may be described as the ability to sense a trend at its start, gauge its force and
direction, deter- mine the precise moment when it burgeons into a profitable market. And third, verbal creativity, as discussed in the next three chapters, and throughout the rest
of the book. The ability to give a name to the still-undefined. To capture a feeling, a hope, a de- sire, a fear in words. To create a catchword or a slogan. To focus emotion, and
give it a goal. Let us see how great writers in the past have taken these YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS 21 amorphous desires, and brought them into razor-sharp focus in a
single statement in their headline: "Light a Lucky, and vou'll never miss sweets that make you fat." "Who else wants a whiter wash—with no hard work':"" "How to win friends and
influence people. "To men who want to cjuit work some day. "When doctors feel rotten—this is what they do.' "Now! Run your car without spark plugs'' "Who ever heard of 17,000
/>/<>om* ironi a single plant 0 " And dozens more. Here, amorphous desire has been crys- tallized in the headline. Then sharpened and expanded in the first few paragraphs;
satisfied and documented in the body of the ad: and focussed inevitably on the product throughout. Sometimes the simplest statement of the desire is the best. "How to win friends
and influence people" needs no verbal twist to increase its impact. At other times, the desire itself must be reinforced by fresh proof that it can be achieved, "When doctors feel
rotten—this is what they do". Or by mystery, "Now! Run your car without spark plugs!" Or by wonderment, "Who ever heard of 17,000 blooms from a single plant?". The next two chap-
ters will discuss, first, the strategy of determining when to use a fresh approach; and second, how- to sharpen that first statement of desire with verbalization. 4. H o w to
Introduce Products That Solve Needs The prospect has—not a desire—but a need. He recognizes the need immediately. But he doesn't yet realize the connection between the fulfillment
of that need and your product. This is the problem-solving ad. It might be thought of as a special case of the desire ad mentioned above, since the tech- 'Z'Z YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE
OF AWARENESS nique of writing it is so similar. H e r e you start bv naming the need and/or its solution in your headline. Then dramatize the need so vividly that the prospect
realizes just how badlv he needs the solution. And then present your product as the inevitable solution. Again, this type of ad runs from the most naked statement of the need
alone, to the most complicated verbal twists to bring it to the peak of impact. To start at the beginning, the most ef- fective possible headline for your particular problem mav be
as simple as this: "Corns?" Here, only the problem itself is mentioned—nothing more. Or it may be necessary to state both problem and solution im- mediately: "Stops maddening
itch." Many headlines in this category promise the removal of pre- viously unconquerable limitations. They are especially popular in catalog selling: "Lets portable transistor
radios play on ordinary house- hold current." And many combine all three elements—the problem, its so- lution, and the removal of the usually expected limitations: "Shrinks
hemorrhoids without surgerv." There are headlines which promise substitutes for unpleas- ant or expensive tasks: "Now! A ring and piston job in a tube!" YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF
AWARENESS ^o And there are headlines which promise to prevent a future problem, before it can occur: "Look, Mom! No cavities!" But many times the problem is not so clearly defined,
not so obviously on the surface. You may know the general area of the problem—for example, people's embarrassment at speaking poor English. But you may not be sure of which avenue
is the most effective in reaching them. Here the emphasis of a single w o r d—the emotional sharpening of an already easily-identified image—provides the answer: "Do YOU make these
mistakes in English0" And, where the solution to the need has been promised before—where the direct statement of the solution has lost its force and freshness—then verbal twists
are needed to restore that novelty: "How a bald-headed barber helped save my hair." 5. How to Open Up a Completely Unaware Market And finally—the most difficult. The prospect is
either not aware of his desire or his need—or he won't honestly admit it to himself without being lead into it by your ad—or the need is so general and amorphous that it resists
being summed up in a single headline—or it's a secret that just can't be verbalized. This is the outer reach of the awareness scale. These are the people who are still the logical
prospects for your product; and vet, in their own minds, they are hundreds of miles away from accepting that product. It is your job to bridge that gap. Let me repeat what I said
when we first began to explore these five stages of awareness. Each of these stages is separated from the others by a psychological wall. On one side of that wall is indifference;
on the other, intense interest. A headline that 24 YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS will work wonders in the first stage-for example, "Dial Soap-90 a cake - w i l l fail
completely when addressed to a third-stage market where your prospect doesn't even realize that soaps can be made with built-in deodorants. And a third-stage headline- for example
"Who else wants a whiter wash with no hard work?" - w i l l be old-hat, no-news to todays housewife, who has been barraged by whiter-than-white advertising for twenty years To sum
up, then.- a headline which will work to'a market in one stage of awareness will not work to a market in another stage of awareness. Nor will it work, even to a market in which it
has been successful, once that market passes on to a new stage b ot awareness. Most products are designed to satisfy a specific need or desire. They are born into markets that are
m at least the third or fourth stages of awareness. They may therefore never be faced with the problem of an unaware market. However, many products actually pass out of public
aware- ness or out of public acceptance-at some time or other dur- ing their hfe histories. The desire they satisfy dries up, or other products serve it better, or they are branded
"old-fashioned " Again, we are dealing with a matter of statistics. When a product begins to slip . . . when volume falls off, even though ad- vertising budgets are increased . . .
when the name of the prod- uct no longer sells as much . . . when a direct statement of the product s function no longer sells as much . . . when a direct state- ment of the desire
or the need that the product fulfills no longer sells as much-then that product needs to be reborn, and its prob- lem is the problem of opening up an unatvare market Again, this is
the most difficult, the most challenging prob- em of a 1. There are few positive milestones to guide vou But fortunately there are some completely self-evident negative rules that
can eliminate many blind alleys, and set you face to face against your task. Planning a headline for a completely unaware or resistant market, then, is first of all a process of
elimination' Here are the first paths: 25 YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS 1. Price means nothing to a person who does not know your product, or want your product. Therefore,
eliminate all mention of price, or price reduction, in your headline or prime display type. 2. The name of vour product means nothing to a person who has never seen it'before, and
may actually damage your ad if you have had a bad model the year before, or if it is now as- sociated with the antiquated, the unfashionable, or the unpleas- ant. Therefore, keep
vour product out of the headline, and be extremely wary about'breaking the mood or disguise of your ad with a prominent logo. 3. And this is the hardest fact of all to accept. At
this stage of your market, a direct statement of what your product does, what desire it satisfies, or what problem it sokes, simply will not work. Your product either has not
reached that direct stage, or has passed beyond it. And vou cannot simply shift from one de- sire to another. You are not faced here with a problem of so- phistication, but one of
complete indifference, or unacceptabil- ity. Therefore, the performance of vour product, and the desire it'satisfies, can only be brought in later. You cannot mention them in vour
headline. ' So vou cannot mention price, product, function or desire. What do vou have left? Your market, of course! And the distinct possibility that by broadening vour appeal
beyond price, product function or specific desire, vou can reach the maximum limits of your full potential market; consolidate splinter appeals; and in- crease the sales of vour
product at a fantastic rate. Once you have accepted the challenge of writing this kind of ad, then vour product and its attributes fade into the back- ground, and'you concentrate
exclusively on the state of mind of vour market at this particular moment. ' What vou are doing essentially in this fifth stage is calling uour market together in the headline of
your ad. You are writ- ing an identification headline. You are selling nothing, promising nothing, satisfying nothing. Instead, you are echoing an emotion, YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF
AWARENESS an attitude, a ^satisfaction that picks people out from the crowd and binds them together in a single statement. In this type of headline, you are telling them what thev
are You are defining them for themselves. You are giving them the information they need and want, about a problem still so vague that you are the first to put it into words. Here,
above all, is the type of headline that never attempts to sell a product or a performance, but simplv tries to sell the remainder of the ad itself—the information that follows on
the page. The only function of this headline is to get the prospect to read the next paragraph. And this second paragraph pulls him into the third; and the third into the fourth:
and right on down the page, paragraph after paragraph. Meanwhile these paragraphs are building a steady progres- sion of logical images, from the first identification with'the
head- line, to a growing awareness of the problem or the desire to the realization that a solution is at hand, and to the inevitable focussing of that desire and that solution onto
your particular product. This, then, is the general strategy of dealing with an unaware market. The application of this strategy, when all direct methods have failed, has produced
hundreds of great headlines. It would be impossible to classify all of them, since each solution estab- lishes its own new pattern. However, there are definite landmarks and
directions we can distinguish. Here are some of them—start- ing with the general principle they used, then the problem thev solved, then the headline itself, and then the most
important structural paragraph of body copy: Giving Words to a Hidden Dream Problem: to expand the market for home correspondence courses beyond that obtained by "Earn more money"
and "Gain more skill" headlines. The solution: YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS 27 THE UNIVERSITY OF THE NIGHT The voung Lincoln, poring over borrowed school-books far into the
night—seeking in the dim light of bis log fire the transforming light of knowledge—eager to grow—eager to do . . . here is an example which has inspired the man who strives against
the odds of circumstances to make his place in the world. To-night, in cities and towns and villages . . . thousands of men will drop their daily labors to fight, beneath the lamp,
the battle that Lincoln fought. . . Up from the mines, down from the masts of ships . . . from all the places where men work, they will go home and take up their books because they
yearn to grow, be- cause thev seek higher training, greater skill, more re- sponsibility . . . Some of them are men who work in one field whereas their talents and desires are in
another. Some . . . are halted in their progress because they do not understand the higher principles of their business or profession. Some left school in bovhood because poverty
made it necessary . . . Fifty years ago these men . . . would have had no place to turn for the courses of study and for the personal guid- ance that they need. Thirty vears ago
there was founded a school to help them—a school created for their needs and circumstances— a school that goes to them no matter where they are—a school. . . Created in response to
a need, the International Cor- respondence Schools have developed their scope and use- fulness to the growth of that need . . . Exploiting a Hidden Fear Problem: To re-vitalize the
sales of a coffee substitute, long after health headlines and pep headlines and taste headlines had failed. Secondary problem: To overcome a slipping brand name, that was no longer
an asset in either the headline or the logo. The solution: 28 YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS WHY MEN CRACK.. . An authority of international standing recently wrote; "You have
overeaten and plugged vour organs with mod- erate stimulants, the worst of which are not onlv alcohol and tobacco, but caffeine and sugar . . . " You know them. Strong men.
vigorous men, robust men—men who have never had a sick dav in their lives. They drive. They drive themselves to the limit. They lash themselves over the limit with stimulants. Thev
crack. Often, the\- crash. You have seen them afterwards. Pitiful shells. The zest gone, the fire gone. Burnt-out furnaces of energy. "He was such a healthy-looking man " He was.
His health was his undoing. His constitution absorbed punishment. Otherwise he might have been warned in time. "For every action there is an equal and contrary reac- tion." You
learned the law in physics. It applies to bodies. For every ounce of energy gained bv stimulation, bv whipping the nerves to action, an ounce of reserve strength is drained . . .
But repeated withdrawals exhaust anv reserve. Physical bankruptcy. Then the crash . . . It's time to get back to normal, to close the drafts, to bank some of the fires... Avoid
stimulants. What is good for the bov is good for the man . . . Borrowed Energy Must Be Repaid! Two million American families avoid caffeine bv drink- ing Postum. And two million
American families are better off for it. . . Leading Into an Unacceptable Problem by Starting With a Universally Accepted Image Problem: To gain both publisher and prospect
acceptance for a woman's deodorant. A direct statement of the performance or product would not only offend, but would never be published. The solution: YOUR PROSPECT S STATE OF
AWARENESS 29 WITHIN THE CURVE OF A WOMAN'S ARM A frank discussion of a subject too often avoided. A woman's arm! Poets have sung of its grace: artists have painted its beautv. It
should be the daintiest, sweetest thing in the world. And vet, unfortunatelv. it isn't, alwavs. There's an old offender in this quest for perfect dain- tiness—an offender of which
we ourselves niav be ever so unconscious, but which is just as truly present. Shall we discuss it frankly? Many a woman who savs, "No, I am never annoved by perspiration," does not
know the facts . . . Of course, we aren't to blame because nature has made us so that the perspiration glands under the arms are more active than anywhere else. Nor are we to blame
because . . . have made normal evaporation there impossible. Would you be absolutely sure of your daintiness? It is the chemicals of the body, not uncleanliness, that cause odor.
And even though there is no active perspira- tion—no apparent moisture—there may be under the arms an o d o r . . . Fastidious women who want to be absolutely sure of their
daintiness have found that thev could not trust to their own consciousness; they have felt the need of a toi- let water which would insure them against any of this kind of underarm
unpleasantness, either moisture or odor. To meet this need, a physician formulated Odorono— a perfectly harmless and delightful toilet water . . . To Project a Hidden Desire Which
Cannot Be Put Bluntly Into Words Problem: To capitalize on research findings that smoking cig- arettes gives men a feeling of virilitv, importance, sexual strength. Any verbal
expression of these themes, however, would be in- stantly rejected as absurd and offensive. The solution: The MARLBORO TATTOO AD: With its virile men (cow- boys, racing car
drivers, sky divers, etc.) whose appearance alone 30 YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS projected more of an image of raw virility than any number of words could ever convev. Using
a C o m m o n Resentment or Unvoiced Protest to Capture a Far Greater Market Than the Direct Statement of the Solution of That Resentment Would Produce Problem: To sell a
do-it-yourself book on television repairs. Although all owners of TV sets were the potential market, only a small fraction considered themselves interested enough or ca- pable
enough to respond to a direct promise headline: "Save up to $100 a year on your TV repairs!" Most were afraid thev could not make the repairs themselves. Therefore, the market must
be broadened to include the nonhandvmen owners, bv exploit- ing the existing resentment against TV s e n i c e contracts. The solution: WHY HAVEN'T TV OWNERS BEEN TOLD THESE FACTS
Was your set purchased after the spring of 1947? Then here is the full, uncensored storv of how- von can avoid those $15-$20 repair bills—avoid those $30-860 a vear ser- vice
fees—and still get the perfect, movie-clear pictures you've dreamed about! How many times this week have you had to get up to fix a jumpy TV picture? . . . How many times have you
had to put up with ghosts? . . . 90% of These Breakdowns Are Unnecessary! All these breakdowns mav have seemed tragic to vou at the moment they happened—but here is the real trag-
edy! Do you know that the same exact set that vou now have in your front room . . . has been playing in manu- facturer's test rooms for months—and playing perfectly! These sets
have been subjected to "Breakdown Tests" . . . These sets have been tested against every con- ceivable type of viewing hazard . . . And, in almost every- one of these cases, these
sets have produced perfect, movie- YOUR PROSPECT S STATE OF AWARENESS clear pictures, without major breakdowns, for as much as one full vear! Here are some of the reasons why: What
TV Experts Have Learned About Your Set. If your set were properly cared for, as these sets were . . . it need break down only once during the entire year . . . If your set were
properly cared for, it can actually give you perfect, movie-clear reception the other 364 days of the year . . . And most important, these experts have discovered that you do not
have to be a handyman or a mechanic in order to coax this performance . . . Here's why: 5 Minutes a Week for Perfect Reception. These TV experts have discovered that your TV set is
a great deal like your bod}' in this respect—that it gives warning signals before it has a major breakdown . . . Now, if you had the knowledge to make a few minor adjustments, on
the outside controls of that set, then you could correct those symptoms . . . If you do not have this knowledge . . . then your set will weaken, you will have a constantly bad
picture . . . It's as simple as that. You pay a repairman—not for his work—but for his knowledge. If you had that knowl- edge yourself—then you would not have to pav him at all . .
.' Now suppose that you had a TV expert at your elbow 24 hours a day. Suppose that every time your set began to flicker, or jump . . . this expert would show you exactly what knob
on the outside of vour set vou could turn . . . Suppose that every time you were annoyed bv ghosts . . . this expert would show you a simple non- mechanical trick . . . Yes, and
suppose that even when your set went black, this expert could show you . . . All the Information You Need About Your TV Set! This is exactly what a new book, the TELEVISION OWNER'S
GUIDE does for you . . . 32 YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS Projecting an Ultimate Triumph That the Prospect Will Identify With Problem: To sell music lessons by correspondence
to a greater audience than would respond to a direct "Plav Real Tunes on the Piano in Five Davs" approach. The solution: THEY LAUGHED WHEN I SAT DOWN AT THE PIANO. BUT WHEN I
STARTED TO PLAY!— Arthur had just played "The Rosarv." The room rang with applause. I decided that this would he a dramatic mo- ment for me to make my debut. To the amazement of
all my friends, I strode confidently over to the piano and sat down. "Jack is up to his old tricks," somebody chuckled. The crowd laughed . . . "Can he really play?" I heard a girl
whisper to Arthur. "Heavens, no!" Arthur exclaimed. "He never plaved a note in his life. But you just watch him. This is going to be good." . . . Then I Started to Play. Instantly
a tense silence fell on the guests. The laugh- ter died on their lips as if by magic . . . I heard gasps of amazement. My friends sat breathless—spellbound. I played on and on and
as I plaved I forgot the people around me. I forgot the hour, the place, the breathless lis- teners. The little world I lived in seemed to fade—seemed to grow dim—unreal. Only the
music was real . . . It seemed as if the master musician himself were speaking to me . . . not in words but in chords. Not in sentences but in ex- quisite melodies! A Complete
Triumph! As the last notes of the Moonlight Sonata died awav, the room resounded with a sudden roar of applause. I found myself surrounded by excited faces. How mv friends carried
on! Men shook me by the hand—wildly congratu- lated me—pounded me on the back with their enthusiasm! Everybody was exclaiming with delight—plving me with YOUR P R O S P E C T ' S
STATE OF AWARENESS 33 rapid questions . . . "Jack! Why didn't you tell us you could play like that?" . . . "Where did you learn?" . . . "How long have you studied?" . . . "Who was
your teacher?" "I have never even seen my teacher," I replied. "And just a short while ago I couldn't even play a note." "Quit vour kidding," laughed Arthur, himself an accom-
plished pianist. "You've been studying for years. I can tell." "I have been studying only a short while," I insisted. "I decided to keep it a secret 'so I could surprise all you
folks." Then I told them the whole story "Have vou ever heard of the U.S. School of Music?" T 'ISKPQ A few of my friends nodded. "That's a correspondence school, isn't it'3" thev
exclaimed. "Exactly," I replied. "They have a new simplified method that can teach you to play any instrument by mail in just a few short months." . . . Projecting the Result of a
Problem in Such a Way That It Will Be Identified With by People Who Would Reject a Direct Statement of the Problem Itself Problem: To increase the sales of a mouthwash, not only on
a germ theme (which could be immediately accepted), but on the more universal social-offense theme, which would be rejected in its direct form. The idea of bad breath was too
insulting to be taken by the public "straight." The solution: OFTEN A BRIDESMAID BUT NEVER A BRIDE Edna's case was really a pathetic one. Like every woman, her primary ambition was
to marry. Most of the girls in her set were married—or about to be. Yet no one possessed more charm or grace or loveliness than she. And as her birthdays crept gradually toward
that tragic thirtv-mark, marriage seemed farther from her life than ever. She was often a bridesmaid but never a bride. 34 YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE O F AWARENESS YOUR PROS That's the
insidious thing about halitosis (unpleasant breath). You, yourself rarely know when vou have it. And even your closest friends won't tell vou. Sometimes, of course, halitosis comes
from some deep- seated organic disorder that requires professional advice. But usually—and fortunately—halitosis is onlv a local con- dition that yields to the regular use of
Listerine as a mouth wash and gargle. It is an interesting thing that this well- known antiseptic that has been in use for \ ears for surgi- cal dressings, possesses these unusual
properties as a breath deodorant... Projecting the Result of an Accomplishment to Attract People Who Would Be Frightened Away by the Work Implied to Achieve It Problem: To broaden
the market for home correspondence courses, beyond that possible with a direct statement of the im- mediate result—learning or skill. An attempt must be made to direct the
prospect's mind away from effort, to reward. The so- lution: "HERE'S AN EXTRA $50, GRACE—" '7'm making real money now!" "Yes, I've been keeping it a secret until pav day came. I've
been promoted with an increase of $50 a month. And the first extra money is yours. Just a little reward for urg- ing me to study at home. The boss saws mv spare time training has
made me a valuable man to the firm and there's more money coming soon. We're starting up easv street, Grace, thanks to vou and the I.C.S. . . ." The List Never Ends Every day new
solutions, new patterns are being created. Wherever the direct appeal fails, or loses its power, you should begin to explore a fifth stage headline. However, there are two vital
points to remember in con- nection with this problem. First of all, this type of headline is in- YOUR PROSPECT'S STATE OF AWARENESS 35 finitely more difficult to bring home to the
target than any of the other four types. You are far more likely to miss the mark on this headline, because you have far fewer guideposts to direct you. Your headline no longer
refers to i/our product, but it must there- fore refer even more strongly to your market. It cannot simply be a startler, or an attention-getter, or humorous, or cute. Nor can it
mask the fact that it has no headline behind a prettv pic- ture. Most copy writers use a fifth stage problem to write an empty headline, and are therefore simply wasting their
