Notice how the startling frankness of the first paragraph, which goes out of its wav to call the reader's attention to flaws in its product, serves as an intensifying contrast to
the positive claims of the second paragraph- -making them far more believ- able and therefore far more powerful to the reader who is now convinced that he is receiving a fair
report on this book. It is the juxtaposition ol these two paragraphs—one follow- ing right on top of the other-- that makes their combination so effective. Copvwriting. in nianv
phases, is the search for such juxta- positions. The last five chapters have been full of examples of them. I suggest that vou go back and read these examples again, and underline
the combination points—and junctures—where one claim blends into another, and either sharpens it, pours strength into it. or makes it more believable. So. one wav vou tie vour ad
together is to constantly build one claim on top of another— -alwavs seeking to make each stronger and more believable bv the combination. 202 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S This same
principle applies in a smaller way in our next device. Interweaving—How to Blend Emotion, Image and Logic Into the Same Sentence Let me mention at this point a thought that has
probably occurred to you several times over the past few chapters: The big trouble with analysis of the kind we've been doing in the second part of this book is that after a while
it begins to sound quite mechanical. You've probably thought that I'm sug- gesting that you abandon any kind of creative flow, and work like a sort of phrase-carpenter. Here you
put in a promise; there vou nail on a believability sentence; then cover both of them with a good strong identification. This is what it sounds like because it takes so long to
iden- tify each one of these devices and show vou how to work them. Because of this need for analysis—which always requires that vou cut individual elements out of the "life-flow"
of a growing ad— it sounds like you should actually be conscious of each device as you are using it to write that ad—even going so far as to name the device as vou weave it in. I
don't think I have to tell you that this mechanical approach is not my idea, and that it won't work. What I'm trying to do is exactly the same procedure that a golf pro uses when
he wants to improve your game. He doesn't just let you go out and plav. He stops you, makes you notice your hands, rationalize your grip. shift your fingers, get used to the new
feel of the club as you lift it this new way, and then take a few practice swings—all at the same time that he's telling you why you're doing it this way. When you're swinging for
the first few times, this new wav. you feel pretty awkward, and you're conscious of everv muscle in your arms. That's why he has you keep swinging—through one bucket. . . two
buckets . . . ten buckets of balls. Pretty soon, though, those arm muscles are going to feel comfortable in that new swing. And you're going to lose your T H E FINAL T O U C H E S
203 conscious awareness of them. At that point, what was mechani- cal before becomes intuitive now. But it's a new kind of intu- ition—far more, skillful and effective than you had
before. This is the kind of intuition I'm trying to build in vou. I'm trying to take you from Creatix itv #1 to Creativity #2. Both are intuitive states, where you write from the
full depths of vour emotions as well as your mind, and when 1 vou are no more con- scious of the mechanisms and devices that vou are employing to gain your effects, than you are of
the movements of vour fingers on the typewriter kevs. But, to get you from State #1 to State #2. 1 have to bring all these details to consciousness—and make vou awkward in a new
and more effective wav than vou were when vou first learned to write copy—so that you can take these insights and techniques and bury them inside your own talent—so that vou can
auto- matically employ them, without thinking about them at all. when vou want to express most powerfully vour ideas, vour emotions and vour sales philosophy. This whole process of
"New Awkwardness leading to New- Ability" is seen quite clearly in the very simple technique of In- terweaving, which I learned from a brilliant man bv the name of Walter S.
Campbell. Every copy writer should read Campbell's book, Writing Non- Fiction (The Writer, Inc., 1961). In the next chapter I'll list other books you should have. But this is
certainly one of the impor- tant ones that you can probably master in a weekend. Campbell is talking about reporting and not copy writing, but the structural principles are the
same. He savs that even in the most factual reporting, no sentence can be effective if it contains only the facts alone. It must also contain emotion, evaluation, impact—if those
facts are to be given meaning and importance to the reader. The same is true for every sentence you write of copy. That sentence should contain not only promise . . . not only
image not only logic—but as much of all three as possible. 204 THE FINAL TOl'CIII> Weave together your promise, vour logic, vonr emotion, vour image. Pack vour sentences full of
every one of them. Make them blend into each other, till its almost impossible to pull out the individual threads of the rich pattern of conviction and desire vou're weaving. For
example, go back to the fire injector ad in Chapter 12. and see how promise is interwoven in e v e n sentence of the be- lievabilitv copy where the injectors are being contrasted
with the old-fashioned plugs. In these two sentences, for instance: "With ordinary spark plugs you are using, or should he using premium gas (disadvantage) which costs from 4 to 8
cents more than ordinary gas (disadvantage), and despite this (disadvantage you're getting inefficient (disadvantage), wasteful (disadvantage 1 gas consumption (disadvantage)." Ill
this first sentence, which is part of a logical sequence of- fered as proof of superiority through comparison of performance characteristics, the copv writer has managed to insert
six disadvantage-images for the reader to remember the next time he considers buying ordinary plugs. Now the copv writer goes on to his contrasting sentence about the injectors:
"Willi fire injectors regular gas (promise) will give i/ou up to 8 miles more per gallon (promise), up to 31 more horsepower (promise), plus easier starting (promise) in all
weather (prom- ise)." Five promises in this second sentence. The packing in of image upon image to build an overwhelming effect. Or, as an even more complicated example, involving
the in- terweaving of almost everv copv element in the book, let's look at this sentence: "And, most important, (a mood-builder, indicating the value to the reader of the promises
which are about to follow) these experts (reference to authority to build believabilitv) liave dis- covered (more believabilitv through the use of the scientific idiom) that i/ou
do not have to he a handyman (the core-promise 1 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 2()o or « mcc/wmr (restatement of the core-promise) in order to coax (promise of ease) this performance
(promise, condensing all the claims of superior reception that have already been de- tailed in the previous copy) out of i/our set." Now, is this done consciously 1 /Not at all.
But the copy writer knew the principle of i n t e r n e t in-r . . . |1U(I experimented with it before . . . and had it stored axvax in Ins unconscious as one more tool to be
used—intuitiyely-to urain the effect he wanted, at the exact moment he needed it. Try it yourself. See how mam different emotions you can pack into a single sentence . . .
paragraph . . . sequence. See how much richer and more powerful xour cop\ becomes. How much more you can say in the same space. H.m xou be-m to build re- inforcement-multiplied i m
p a c t - i n t o more and more of your copy S e n s i t i v i t y - H o w to Give Your Reader What He D e m a n d s Step In Step Throughout the Copy Now; if you continue to pile
promise upon promise, identifi- cation upon identification, documentation upon documentation el- ement upon element, where do you stop, Where does it become too much? Where does
the reader become satiated or bored and want to go on to a new image or new promise, or even the close? At what point are you starting to oversell? How do uou catch yourself, and
switch off? We have already touched on this problem before in Chap- ter 11. I suggest that vou reread that discussion now. even though we re going to expand on it at this point.
Here you are reiving on your own powers of empathy You must be, at the same time, not only the writer of your ad but its reader. You must anticipate that point in the copy flow--
as it is transformed into a series of impressions in your readers m i n d - where he is going to sax-: "I've read enough about this. Give me this instead." 206 T H E FINAL TOUCHED
And then vou must shift the direction of the copv to meet his new direction of interest. In other words, what we are talking about now is the over- all structure of your ad. Not a
sentence, or a paragraph, or a se- quence: but the architecture of the ad as a ichole. Every ad has an architecture, as I'm sure YOU know. This is the over-all pattern of the ad,
including when and where and how mam- times you shift from one t \ p e of copy to another. It is the ability to recognize these shift points, and to change when YOU encounter them
from—sa\-—promise copy to mechanism copy to documentation copy to promise copy again, that makes vour ad stick together, or fall apart. This is an almost impossible skill to
communicate, since it relies so much on the feel of each individual situation. However. I can show it to YOU after it's occurred, in a series of four ads on the same general type
of product—books—and how each dif- fers from the others in the way large blocks of copy elements are blended in and out of the oyer-all sell. As IYe said before, I use mail order
as m\ example because mail order is the longest general form of copy, because it usu- ally sells the hardest, and because the techniques I'm talking about are usually outlined most
clearly in this type of copy. Let's look at our four ads, and see how each approaches the basic task of selling a similar product in a different way and with a different blend of
elements: Sample Ad #1 This is the friend-winning ad we looked at in our last chap- ter. IYe indicated each major block of copy, in sequence, by a letter of the alphabet; and each
of the shift points b\- a number. I am using as examples all direct-promise headlines. The promise in this headline is almost universal (A): that vou can make anybody like YOU.
(See page 208.) Instead of intensifying the promise immediately, however, as T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 207 many other ads in this category have done, this copv starts out by
restating the original headline promise (making anybody like you becomes popularity) and by defining the previously unrec- ognized fact that this popularity can be taught. (B). Why
was this done? For two reasons: (1) because this novel, almost paradoxical redefinition iCan popularity be purchased?) established an immediate point of difference between this
book and the dozens of similar titles that had come before it always a critical problem. And (2> because this ad's subject was a teacher, and the ad's whole believabilitv rested
upon the fact that so many large and respected corporations had paid this man so much money to reach these techniques to their em- ployees. This is established by the ads first
shift point and first tran- sitional sentence (1). This has hern proved by . , . leads directlv into the first documentation block (.'•. in which the corporations are named. Thus
we have the developing pattern of the ad as: Promise Definition Documentation . . . Right up to the next transition sentence (2), which brings in the first detailed promise block
iD). and which then echoes again the documentation (E) and price comparison. Now, after a brief transitional promise (F), the ad defines again the importance of the over-all
promise (G), backs it up with a third restatement of the documentation (H), and then states directly the price comparison and monev-back guaran- tee (I). Then, with the classic
transition (3), it goes on to devote the rest of the ad to a detailed cataloguing of the promise (f). A recitation of promises that are far stronger now—because of the preparation
of definition and documentation that has been laid for them, than they would have ever been had thev simply been put at the beginning of the ad without such preparation. IO It I»
estimated that Dr The B o o k That Took been paid over a million do Forty Y e a r s t o Write in the entire United States, only one man How to Reach People Who Really Count 1 { the
executives of such out porations as National Cash Sears, Roebuck & Co., The teaches these techniques. His name is Paul & Pacific Tea Co., North Am 1 P. Parker, L.L.D. He has
concentrated his How to present your ideas to superiors in a tion, Inc., General Motors C entire lifetime in one fietd—discovering the way that automatically wins acceptance. Kodak
Co., Crane Co.. DuPo best methods of winning people over to your How to overcome favoritism. tal Bakeries, General Mills way of thinking, without anugomring them. How to handle
objections. Stop people from Co., Borden Dairies, Coca- Or. Parker believes that that* methods are saying no. Make it eaty for them to say y e s . Co., StAndnrd Oil fA, Gor How lo
make a compliment twice as elfec- 210 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S Incidentalh', notice how the negative promises (K), and the full list of documentation (L), have been placed out of
the main stream of the ad where they can be read, or not read, by those that are interested in them. Sample Ad #2 An ad for a book on improving the power of vour mind. Again the
promise-headline (A), intensified by—this time—an elaboration of this promise (B). (See page 212.) Now, using its first transitional sentence (1), the ad moves into two paragraphs
of negative (C) and positive (D) redefinition. And then, with a single transition-word {Simph/—2), again elab- orates the promise, making it stronger and stronger and more and more
detailed, and at the same time giving it the believabilitv- tone of definition. This definition-tone is unchanged throughout (F), where promise is again interwoven with fact,
leading immediately into a transition (3) in which the tone is that of proof, but the con- tent is straight promise (G). Then this proof is connected (4) with the entire promise
catalog (H) which fills the rest of the ad. This ad—enormously successful—is one of the best examples of interweaving we have. There is so subtle a blending here of definition,
documentation and promise, that everv word of the copy soon takes on the aura of pure fact. Sample Ad #3 Now we move on to the straight-promise ad. This is the rock-em, sock-em
type, dominated by promise and mechanism- promise, which gains its power from the sheer momentum and relentlessness of its claims. (See page 216.) It again starts with the over-all
promise (A), which it im- mediately follows up with a second, elaborating promise (B). T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 211 Then it moves directly into its fundamental definition (C),
which it equates in a' single phrase (then t/oti could—I) with a greatly detailed promise (D), and then follows up with a beauti- fully condensed paragraph which consists of a
transition in (2) to a restatement of its fundamental redefinition (E). and out again (3) to the remainder of the ad. (F>. which is sheer promise and promise-mechanism from then
on. Here, documentation is disregarded entirely. The full weight of the sale depends on the power and momentum of the promise- train. Sample Ad #4 And finally, we have a beauty
book. Here, the main promise- headline (B) is preceded by the critical authority-reference (A) which: first, sets it apart from the other similar products it must erase from the
prospects mind: and second, brings in immedi- ately the key persuader of its author. (See page 220.) (C) block, while promise copy, also serves the simultaneous purpose of being a
momentum-builder—a technique we will dis- cuss in a moment. Using the different type faces and sizes as transitional ele- ments, the copy then introduces its crucial concentration
copy (D), in which it redefines what the woman can now expect from her appearance, and in which it outdates other approaches to giv- ing this fulfillment to her. After (1)
Because... comes the first promise-elaboration block. But there is no piling up of claim upon claim here. There is too much ingrained skepticism in this prospect—too much aware-
ness of other, previous claims that have disappointed her in the past. This skepticism must be anticipated, and answered. This is done, first (F) by agreeing with it, and then (G)
bv shifting the entire story onto the doctor for twelve paragraphs—bv far the longest reference to authority of any of our four sample ads. 213 214 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S Then a
transition (2) back to promise (H), which fills out the rest of the ad. See How the Structure Differs Let me say this. Although I have not pointed out everv tran- sition, nor everv
blending of different tvpes of copv, I have, 1 hope, given you enough material to see clearlv how ads differ in overall structure, as they differ in content, as the demands of
their material differ. They range from the simplest promise-elaboration (example 3), to the most subtle blending of all the various elements of de- sire, image, proof, definition
and what have vou (example 2), to the most complicated promise-and-proof. . . promise-and-proof reinforcement (example 4). Each problem demands a different structure. Each signals.
as you write it, that here—at this precise point—your copy has left your reader. You have gone on straight when lie wants to turn left. You are piling on promise after promise,
when lie no longer believes you. You are burving him under a sea of statis- tics, when he is convinced you are telling the truth, and wants you to make those delicious promises all
over again. This is what you feel when you are writing the ad. Probablv a kind of irritating confusion. A blockage. A sense that the copv has suddenly gone dead, and all you are
writing now is words. So you stop, and think, and look for a new direction. I hope. in this section, that I have given you a faint indication of what some of these directions might
be. What, on the other hand, can vou learn from analvzing the structure of your ads (or other writers') after vou have finished them? Primarily—what kind of ad you have written. Is
it straight promise? Too much documentation? Too little definition of the new world of possibilities vour product has created? Does it still sound too much like evervone else's
copv. Or T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 215 product? Could you put another brand-name on it, and not make any difference? Have you left anything out? Will this bare promise earrv the
sale? Or could you increase its impact bv paving its wav with some mechanism or believabilitv copv? How about a proof sec- tion? A use photo? A fuller description of the wav it
works? Mind you, this is not content alone that ice are discussing. If you take the same content, and give it a new structure, you are going to create a new ad. Trv it. See for
yourself. If vou're stuck sometime, throw awav vour headline, throw awav vour rough copy flow, and start off again ISO degrees away from where you started before. I want to repeat
this again: A new structure is a new ad. It brings out new ideas. Gives vour promises new sharpness, new flavor, new believabilitv and even begins to create whole new sec- tions
that you never dreamed were there in the product before. So we've come full circle. You start vour ad bv creating your headline. You develop your copv storv from that headline. But
if the copv story doesn't develop—if vou gradually find that the headline isn't really that good after all—then perhaps the very elements that are begging to come out of your
6-point type should be at the top of your ad. This is what makes this copv writing so interesting. You're always being surprised—with ideas from the most ungodly places. Just make
sure you've got vour eves open wide enough to catch all of them. Momentum—How to Draw Your Reader Deeper and Deeper Into Your Copy There are two other devices we should discuss.
Both of them help tie your ad together, though that's not their primary function. The first is Momentum. How to draw your reader into vour copy . . . keep him reading . . . making
sure he doesn't quit vou in the middle. 218 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S Copy's first job, of course, is to be read. If its not read, it can't sell. And if you take some time to make
your points—to in- tensify your desire, to build and rebuild vour believability, to re- inforce one claim with another—then you'd better make darn sure that you've put plentv of
momentum-builders into vour copv There are two types: 1. Actual momentum phrases; and 2. Incomplete statements, or teasers, that draw the reader further into the copy in order to
complete them. The first type, the momentum-phrases, are time-honored. They are used in almost any sort of persuasive or educational writing. You insert them in your copy primarily
in your transition- sentences, to keep interest from flagging, to indicate to vour reader the general type of material that's going to follow. They are "addy," but they work. Here
are a few examples, taken from the four book ads we looked at in the last section: "They paid up to $22.50 a person to learn priceless techniques like these:" "You can learn them
all, in your own home next week- end, without risking a penny. Here's how" "Here is the information you will find in this hook." "Let me explain." "All I ask from you is this."
"What you are going to do, in the very first hour that you receive the book, is this." "And yet it's only the beginning." "THEN put this simple trick to work for uou—that VERY SAME
HOUR" "For example—" "Read the thrilling answer below." ". • . to start with . . ." "Just wait till you try this." THE FINAL TOUCHES 219 And so on. These are actual invitations to
read on. H YOU write long copv, thev should be spotted throughout it. The second category of momentum-builder is much more subtle, and giyes YOU thousands of waYs to keep drawing
vour reader along after vour developing thought. It's based on the simple principle that if YOU make a statement that interests vour reader, and if vou purposelv and skillinllv do
not complete that statement, so that there is a question of how it can be done, then he will read on to find out more. In other words, YOU are continuallv throughout the copv: 1.
Creating interest in a specific point; 2. Raising a question in his mind about that point; and 3. Implying an answer to that question later in the copv. Here are some examples of
this technique: "And YOU will do it often using nothing more than or- dinarv tap water, vour own ten fingers, and the contents of vour garden and vour refrigerator." "But now. when
vou turn on the ignition, a modem miracle of engineering science comes to life underneath your hood!" "Yes! Here at last is the Engineering Miracle vou Ye been hearing rumors about
for months. The fantastic Power- Booster that Continental millionaires use to soup up the performance of .812,000 cars! The revolutionarv new Gas- Saver that actuallv gives
compact-car economv to Fords. Chevrolets, Plvmoutbs and dozens of other American cars now driving in Europe! The sixtv-second attachment that HAD TO BE BANNED from the great
European race- ways—because it gave so much added power, so much added efficiency to any car that used it—that the officials were forced to rule that it gave these cars an UNFAIR
AD- VANTAGE over those drivers who couldn't obtain it!" "How to Grow Thousands of Flowers—Without Dirty- ing Your Hands." "Here it is at last. Authoritative medical proof that men
in their forties and fifties and sixties can enjov a sex 220 999 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S life in many ways as satisfying as when thev were in their twenties—if they are only
shown how to combat the hid- den forces within their minds and bodies that literally drive them into impotent!/!" "Caught! 120 Fish in One Hour!" "Just picture the scene as these
college horticulturists began this amazing flowering test of roses. For here gath- ered in a test field were all the highly-prized queens of rosedom . . . rose blends that today
sell for as high as 83.75 for a single plant. Row upon row of roses . . . prize-winners in international competition . . . the best the world has to offer . . . AND THEN,
NEARLY-WILD STARTED TO BLOOM!" And so on. The objective here is to keep lite reader going— for one more sentence, one more paragraph, one more sequence. Notice, of course, that
every one of these examples not only pro- duces momentum, not only raises questions in the reader's mind that he virtually must read on to answer—but is also, at exactly the same
time, loaded with sell. Again, interweaving—making each element in the ad accomplish two objectives. No waste words. M o o d — H o w to Pack Your Copy With Drama, Excitement,
Sincerity or Any Other Emotion You Wish Now we come to the matter of words—and the color which words create. I have given you dozens of different examples in this book of selling
copy. All these examples had certain elements in com- mon—they were strong, successful, convincing and so on. But, at the same time, each of these copy blocks differed from the
others in one immediately apparent way—in the mood that each set, simply by the rhythm and words that the copy writer used to express his thoughts. Words and rhythms. They are to
the copy writer what line T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 223 and color are to the painter. They set the mood of your story— carry the emotion so subtly that vour reader never really
realizes where the excitement or the image or the conviction is actually coming from. For example, here are several of the passages we've looked at before. Now let's italicize the
mood-builders within them, that make each so different from the others: Objective: to emphasize color, beauty, excitement, visual image: And when that third precious ingredient
reaches those buds—then that very morning vou will open the door to vour house—AND YOU WILL BE BLINDED BY THE EXPLOSION OF COLOR THAT GREETS YOU IN YOUR GARDEN! . . . You will see
rose bushes weighted down by- masses of blossoms, of a richness and perfume and color you have never imagined before! You will walk past solid, blazing rows of chrysanthemums so
thick that you can't even see a leaf in between. . . . Notice that you don't even distinguish many of the separate images until they are called to vour attention. Notice also that
some of the words are primarily visual image-sharpeners (weighted down . . . solid, blazing rows . . . so thick you can't even see a leaf in between). While others convey, not
image, but emotion (pre- cious . . . that very morning . . . blinded . . . greets . . . you never imagined before). These words are emotion-definers. They tell the reader what to
feel about the images and ideas you are presenting to him. Their very essence is that they are so subtle that he does not see them . . . that thev do not call attention to
themselves, but simply flavor and evaluate the images your copy is forming in his mind. Certain classes of readers will notice these emotion definers. When they do, your copy
becomes either questionable or corny to them, and vou have lost them. Therefore, vou have to know al- ways whom you are writing for. What their level of sophistication is—in tone
as well as product-awareness. And vou may have to ^Z4 T H E FINAL T O U C H E S change your tone when you take the same ad from one class of media to another—down as well as up. Of
course, when everybody sees vour emotion words, then you've got a bad ad, and you'd better rewrite, fast. And don't forget the rhythms. Read the ad out loud. See how you can almost
scan it, as though it were close to blank- verse. This richness of rhythm parallels the richness of image— helps build the excitement and sensuousness of the mood. Now let's look
at another piece of pounding copv, and see how words and rhvthms add to the power and momentum that are put behind its staccato stream of claims: "This letter says that if you
could onlv liberate the exact same talent and intelligence and abilitv that vou have tied up inside you today—then you could: "read anything you wish, twice as fast as vou can read
it t o d a y . . . " "absorb facts like a sponge, and repeat them almost word for word years later . . . "flash through math, business, financial problems that have you stopped
cold todav. . . "hold people spellbound with the power of vour speech and your written word . . . "out-think others when you have to. tower over them in judgement, outshine them
completely in imagination . . ." Here again, there are two types of emotion-definers. The power words (liberate . . . hold spellbound . . . out-think . . . tower over . . .
outshine completely), which build a subconscious current of potency that permeates each individual claim as it occurs in the copy. And the frankness, man-to-man,
lets-let-our-hair-down tone-builders (this letter says . . . tied up inside vou . . . like a sponge . . . stopped cold) that say silently that there's no nonsense here, no
high-faluting phrases—just common-sense which can be absorbed bv anvone. And, of course, the machine-gun rhvthm. Short, choppy sentences. Verb . . . verb . . . verb. Claim . . .
claim . . . claim. Pro- T H E FINAL T O U C H E S 225 pelling the reader through the copy. Piling promise upon prom- ise, image upon image in an attempt to overwhelm him. Notice
especially the vast difference between these two highly-successful pieces of copy. Their vocabulary, the type of emotions they strive to arouse, the images they use, the models of
speech they borrow, the length of sentence and paragraph, the ratio of adjectives to nouns and verbs, etc. We could go on, of course. Go back to the Volkswagen copy, and see how
the emotional tone of sincerity is conveyed by the absence of adjectives, in all the places you'd ordinarily expect to find them. As well as whimsey. a continuous self-kidding,
which builds, first, a sort of corporate affection, and then trust. Try the fire injector ad again. Notice how the long, rather clumsv sentences give a feeling of ingenuousness and
reason to the copy Try to read them out loud. You can't. They don't scan; they have no definable rlrythm: they don't look like a "copy writer" wrote them at all. And, of course,
there is the same straight- from-the-shoulder phraseology, to reinforce this feeling of hon- est appraisal. All this, I repeat, is done unconsciously. You do not see it unless vou
look for it. And sometimes you have to dig very deep indeed to get every piece of it. Mood-building is deliberate on the part of the copywriter— unnoticed on the part of his
reader. As with so much of the rest of the ad, it lies underneath the surface, to do its work imperceptibly. EPILOGUE A COPY WRITER'S LIBRARY I have now given you what I've learned
about writing copy. It has taken many years to learn it— three more to set it down to my own satisfaction. I hope it will help vou in the onlv way that really counts: to do a
better job and make a little more money. There are, of course, manv many men in this industry who know far more about these techniques, and who can produce far better copy than I.
Mv excuse for writing this book is that they don't seem to have included—at least to my present knowledge— manv of the specific techniques which I've discussed with you here. Some
of them' have written books on the subject—great books—and I'd like to list them here for you. I think you should buy and read, every one of them, and then thumb through them again
everv year or so, just to catch what you may have forgotten. Here they are: Indispensable, of course, is Julian Watkins' great anthology: The 100 Greatest Advertisements, Moore
Publishing, 1949. 227 228 E P I L O G U E —A COPY W R I T E R S LIBRARY Claude Hopkins wrote a great book, My Life in Advertising, Harper, 1927. Make them dig it up for you. And
see if vou can't get some of the old Hopkins ads. John E. Kennedy (not F.) wrote a little pamphlet manv years ago called Intensive Advertising, which has just been republished by
Printer's Ink. Get it. It'll be the most profitable evening's read- ing you've ever done. J. K. Lasker, who worked with both these great writers, never wrote anything himself. But
he did give a series of talks before his staff one week, and Printers Ink has again captured them. They're called The Lasker Story. Robert Collier's Letter Book is published bv
Prentice-Hall. It's a gold mine. David Ogilw wrote Confessions of an Advertising Man, which you can buv as a paperback. Charming and wonderfully prof- itable. Rosser Reeves' very
short book, Reality in Advertising, is published by Knopf, and must be read several times before vou get everything out of it vou should. Milton Biow's book, Butting In, is
marvelous in the first half, repetitive in the second. And don't forget Campbell's book, Writing Non-Fiction. Or those by Caples. Young, Glim and Bedell. Or the motivation re-
search books bv Dichter and Martineau. Or the great book on layout, Visual Persuasion, bv Baker. Then there are the books on American society' todav—bv Mills, Riesman, Fromm,
Kardiner and all the rest. And the ar- ticles on the emerging trends in the media. And the media them- selves. And of course—your primarv source—the ads themselves. Keep reading.
Keep analvzing. Keep writing. Keep looking for the new idea—the million dollars hidden somewhere in that typewriter of yours. Always shoot for the moon—it's one of the few real
thrills left today!