lead is basically basically a prospect customer who has shown interest then you talk to them and they might end up buying your product or service. And then uh the fifth one is app
promotion. So if you are a company who has an app basically and you want to promote that let's say for example Amazon or Flipkart or any other e-commerce platform they launch in a
new market or they think that okay you know what we need to increase installs on our app or Uber Eats or any kind of delivery app or any any kind of app basically and they want to
increase installs on their app. So you have this particular objective where Facebook will try to promote your app right increase your installs and not just increasing installs.
Some companies for example if you have um Uber Eats or Food Panda app on your phone right and you have not been using it for a while now they can run campaign to only people who
already have their app to make them order again through the app right that's called re-engagement app campaigns and then the sixth one is sales or conversion based campaigns which
is like the most common one where um let's say if somebody has an e-commerce store and they want to sell a lot of products so they show ads to on Facebook people click on the ads
go to their e-commerce website and buy products and basically any kind of action on their website. So even for example the real estate example I gave let's say there is a real
estate company a developer who has launched a new project but they want people to go to their website download brochure or fill a lead form on their website. So any kind of action
you want to get on your website, you can run these kind of campaigns where you will select sales. Basically it is website actiondriven campaigns and some people use it for
retargeting. So for example, I know certain companies who do not run ads uh except retargeting which means they have an e-commerce store. Anyone who goes to their store through I
don't know which source and they leave products in the cart, they only retarget them. they show them ads only after you add something to the cart and do not buy. So these are all
examples of sales and conversion type campaigns. So I hope this is clear for you that what kind of advertise this was just to give you an idea. We will know all of them in detail.
This is just to give you an idea because if you are a super beginner you'll be like why do Facebook uh some advertisers run Facebook ads. You might have some examples but you'll be
like okay there might be other reason this is all. Okay, now with that done, I wanted to show you some of how do the ads look like. For example, if you see here, these are the four
types of ads you can run on Overview ad formats on Facebook Ads Facebook. When I say types of ads, it is the format. How will they look? Right? Now, the first thing you observe is
whether it's a image ad. Image ad means that the ad the main asset in this ad is an image. Now if you see that if you even scroll your Facebook or Instagram feed one out of maybe
four posts you see is an ad. Sometimes one out of five one out of six depends on a lot of factors. But if you just open your app Facebook or Instagram app you scroll you will see
every four or five post there will be one post which says sponsored. That means it's an ad right? It's an IB standard. They have to mention that which one is ad and which one is
not. This one is a video ad. Straightforward. Here you have this image. Here you have a video as an ad. Then we have carousel. Well, you will see basically multiple images which
you can scroll and you can check out. These are called cards each of them. So for example here this is an ad of a particular cosmetic product. Initially they are having showing a
human hand. Then you can see maybe the you can scroll right and see other products people use it um in a different way. And then this one is collection ads. Now this is not a
carousel because you see it's carousel will only appear like these standard cards. This is like a main asset. Then they have are showing different kind of product products. This
kind of ad format basically Facebook promotes for companies who sell different products and want to show different variations of the products. It can be a car company as well
showing different models or the same model in different colors. But these are the four types of ads basically you can run on Facebook. Right now what happens is this video ad
sometimes you'll be watching a particular video on Facebook and bit in between it'll say u ad will start in 3 2 1 and play the video. Right? That basically is a video ad. It's just
it's appearing in a different form. Right? So this ad will not appear like this if it appears on Instagram story or Facebook story. It'll cover the whole screen but basically it'll
be the same video right and Facebook keeps changing them. So some sometimes it'll just create a small video complete full screen half screen whatever doesn't matter but these are
the main four types of ads you see on Facebook. Now they appear a slightly different on Instagram which I will show you but that's all you need to know. On Facebook you run image,
video, carousel and collection ads. Now where do these ads appear? So because if I show you all the formats it'll be too much when we traffic them we will basically create most of
them and tell you when to use what. But this is just to give you an idea. Now when we run Facebook ads you need to understand Introduction to Placements one thing when we say uh
they have a reach of 3.9 billion obviously 3.9 billion do not go to Facebook alone right so when you run a campaign on Facebook ads you need to know where all it can appear this is
very important some people don't know it even working after 2 years on uh Facebook ads and then the client will be asking I saw my ad here why is it appearing there and they'll be
like I don't know so You need to understand that [clears throat] the ads when you create a Facebook campaign, you have a video ad. Let's say you have only one video ad or one image
ad, right? It can appear on four different type of products. Let's say one is Facebook, one is Instagram. I will explain them. But the all of them are called placement. So these
are called placements. So for example, Facebook infeed is a placement. So you have an option while you create a campaign that which placements you can say okay I want to show my ad
only on Facebook in feed which means when somebody is scrolling their feed my ads appear there that's only so you selected this as your placement right and you excluded all other
placements so just get familiar with placement now apart from the four uh categories ads might appear in Oculus as well so Oculus app the as I told Oculus was acquired by Facebook
but it's like 0.1% so I didn't even mention it here right but what are the four main categories of placements where the ads appear if you create a campaign on Facebook ads it might
appear on any of these if you do not exclude any of these so one is Facebook on Facebook you see ads in feed your scrolling you see in between like the previous example on your
explore in your Facebook app stories and reals if you are watching stories and reals on Facebook. Then in between you can see an ad which I'll show you how it all of them I'll show
you just this is just to get familiar don't get confused if you don't understand okay what is right column and what's not we'll explain all of them but you need to understand that
there are these kind of placements where the ads can appear search results you go to Facebook you search for let's say for example your friend sometimes in the search results you
will see an ad and inream video which I told you you're watching a video on Facebook and in between it'll show ad appears one and you have to watch an ad and then the video
continues. That's called instream video. Right corner is when you're on facebook.com website on a desktop on the right side you will see an ad which I'll show you. Same thing in
Instagram infeed right column um stories and reels uh search results messenger you can see these ads on Facebook uh messenger as well and then you will see these ads on audience
network which is third party websites and apps. So for example, if you create a campaign on Facebook and you let it run on all placements, you can go to let's say Candy Crush and
you see your ad there. It's quite possible. If you don't want that on apart from Facebook, Instagram Messenger, then you will have to exclude this placement. But it's quite
possible. You can go to bbc.com and see your ad there an image ad there. Any any kind of website which is not Facebook owned, right? So um that is called audience network. It's
called audience network because uh all the websites and apps who tell Facebook okay you know what you have authority to show ads on our Facebook on our website and apps they
basically put some code on their website and apps and Facebook shows ads there Facebook charges advertisers and takes a share and gives rest to them let's say for example if I run
a campaign on Facebook hypothetically and I target only partner audience network u placement [snorts] So let's say I spend $100 um dollars on this particular campaign and all these
$100 what Facebook will do is take $30 and 70 it'll give to all apps and websites where the ads actually appeared. So that's why it's called network because the list of all those
apps and u apps and uh websites who have given Facebook authority to show ads on their websites and apps is called uh Facebook audience network. If you want to know more about
this, you can even go to my YouTube channel. I have some videos there. I have fundamentals of performance marketing course where we discussed this. I have some videos on my YouTube
channel where I have discussed this in detail. Then we have um examples how Instagram because you saw the Facebook ads. Now on Instagram it might appear like this. You're scrolling
your feed. It might look a bit bigger and uh you have here book now shop. Now you can choose whatever. If it's an inapp ad by an app, it can say install now. Oh, it's here. And
then uh this is the ad which will appear between reals and stories, right? So this is how it appears on Instagram. We will know all of them in detail. This is just to give you an
idea. Then audience network ads. This is how they will appear. So for example, you are on Candy Crush or any other uh app score. you are watching cricket score, football score, you
will see an ad like this. Sometimes it'll cover the whole screen. It's called an interstitial. And native is something like this. It will you'll feel like it's part of the app.
Anyways, we'll discuss all of them in detail. And this is the right corner ad which I was talking about here. Uh you see right column, right corner ad. So this is the one. So if
you're on Facebook website apart if you're scrolling this is your feed on the right hand side you will see these ads they're called right column ads and then in messenger also you
uh one is you if because in Facebook messenger you will see these stories of your friends and I think since last year and if you watch these stories in between you can see an ad um
like this and then uh even if you are checking your messages in between you will see ads like this which say featured and you probably can see one you see have messages with your
friends and in between you see an ad like this and it can appear even here on if you're checking your messages history or whatever and then um apart from when I told you uh traffic
or conversion locations this is very important to understand so um when we talked about leads I'm giving you a lot of information but this is veryant important to understand a
holistic view. Once you have this holistic view and you understand I know everything where Facebook ads can lead me it you become very comfortable and then it's easier to learn
right. So if you see an ad on Facebook and if you click on it right one is let's say it says learn more or whatever one is it will take you to the lead form which will appear
within Facebook. Now apart from Facebook app these are all the six things where this can lead you right. So any ad you see on Facebook or Instagram or messenger if you click on it
you can configure your campaigns to take the user to any of these six properties. One is your website. So for example if I'm running a campaign for senator we run ads like selling
courses. I show a video or an image. Okay. In $20 you get uh this performance marketing fundamentals course. If a user clicks I want them to go to my website and buy the course
there. Right? Some people like Uber Eats they want people to go to their app. So if you click on an Uber Eats ad you most probably will go to their app and then uh website and app.
So for example in this case what happens is you can configure it. Okay. If the user does not have so for example you see an Amazon ad you don't have an Amazon app then you will go
to the Amazon website otherwise you will go to Amazon app if you have that on your phone then messenger as well so for example somebody will click on this ad and it'll open in a
messenger chatting with the company you might have observed because if you are a very small business let's say for example um you are a service provider you just started online
business um you're telling people okay I can do home delivery wash your car or to uh saloon or nail do nail paint for you or whatever spa your hair. You don't have a website. You
don't do all that technical stuff. So, you basically say, okay, anyone clicks on my ad, they should go to my messenger and basically message, hi, are you available today? I want to
book your service or whatever. That's possible as well. And same thing with WhatsApp because some companies deliver and they take orders on WhatsApp or whatever it's like a mini
small restaurant um like so they just deliver within the community they want people to go to WhatsApp and make order there because they don't have a website where you check in
check out add to your cart and whatever and then calls. So for example, if you are a real estate agent, you are you help people rent, get homes for rent. So you're like, okay,
because you don't have a website and all that stuff. Mostly it's used by small businesses. So okay, you have an ad. Okay, you want to rent in let's say Jle Towers. You click on it,
it directly makes a call to him and he'll pick up. Hi, whatever. So why I'm telling you this because we'll discuss all of them because I want you to have an idea of overalls. What
are the all the types of ads? What are all the types of uh placements where an ad can appear? What are all the types if somebody clicks on an ad? Because sometimes it goes to
WhatsApp, sometimes it goes messenger. I want you to know all of them in kind of get familiar. So these are all where you can configure your ad to take a user if they click. Now,
if you're curious about what um lead genen ads are, which I showed you um here, I guess um that why do people use Facebook ads? The fifth one, the fourth one was generating leads.
So, you'll be like what does it mean? You might have come across this. You see an ad, you click on any button, it opens a form like this. It asks for your name, phone number,
whatever you can configure. I just want to know name. I just want to know email address. I want to know name, email address, phone number, address, whatever. You can configure this
form. But the thing is if you click on this ad, it does not take you to any website. If you see the Facebook app is still open, it just pops up a form. You click on submit and
might have come across this kind of video. So that is all for this particular this first video and I hope you enjoyed it. Thank you so much. I will see you in the next one.