can go let's say let's say check out just kind of play around with it a little bit get some action some activi that will be tracked uh right now it is testing to see if anything is
being tracked there and it may take several minutes so we're going to wait a little bit until that turns green and shows us that it's tracking we'll say confirm we'll submit for
review all right once you see active on there we can go back to this other tab we'll say next we're going to copy and paste our website link so I don't want to do this too fast on
Shopify click on the little eyeball icon it'll bring you to your website and I can copy the link here back to this tab paste it in you should have your own UR URL you can paste and
of course we'll send test traffic we'll send some test traffic uh you can click around just make sure you know the pixels it's just testing to see the pixels on here and then going
back here it should say active that should happen fairly quickly if it doesn't you might want to go back a step and make sure that you fully completed this and it says active make
sure the pixel's actually working is what I'm saying now we can go to again the events manager we're going to say next for the final confirmation and uh setup is complete we're
good now I can just say uh finish and we're pretty pretty much good on this now remember I said we're going to go back to the ads Creating Ad Campaigns manager that's where most of
this video is going to take place so on the ads manager again link number two down below ads manager. facebook.com it should look something like this now that we're all set up so I
can now create our first campaign and remember we have three tiers campaigns at the top typically you'll have one campaign for a specific product or a specific store um and so for
this one I'm going to so I'll click on create I'm going to go to account overview need a couple extra uh details before we can actually start doing this one is going to be of
course a payment method so we can run this ad the second one is connecting to a Facebook business page again so you can run an ad on something so I'm going to look for my page
Karate Island Time Shares we'll say next we own that page so I can say next again I can agree and I can claim that page that way it's under this business that's something you may
have already done when you made your page or when you made your meta business Suite I'll say done and back in the ads manager we now have the email email address verified we have
the business page selected uh I could skip the payment for now we can add that later if we wanted to and we should be ready to actually run the ads so I'm just going to add the
payment method right now so all right so back to the ads manager we now have everything set up we have all the additional information we have our payment set up we have our page
connected we have our email verified we're finally ready to actually make the ads here and so you can see this is the same structure I talked about before we're going to start off
with campaigns and I'm going to click on create of course make sure one last you want to make sure that you are connected to the right business right here uh if you have multiple
just click on that and make sure it's the right one so the pixel's actually connected uh since we already did that work so let's click on Create and this first one again we're
going to go by auction we want this to be there's a lot of different ways you can run ads if you are looking for leads generated if you have a new app you're trying to do anything
with uh awareness if you're doing maybe political campaigns I'm going to be optimizing for sales that's my main objective here with this Shopify store so I'll say continue and
we're going to have a manual sales campaign Advantage Plus is like uh meta or Facebook's uh kind of like AI that does a lot of thinking for you you'll see that term throughout the
rest of this video um generally I like manual whenever I can I just to have more control and and ultimately it's going to help you build an intuition for what works and what
doesn't work when you have a little bit more of a finger on the pulse here although Advantage Plus can do some thinking for you which can be nice I'm going to say continue with the
manual sales campaign and you can see on the left side it's set up that little hierarchy one campaign one ad set one ad we'll have a bunch more in there in a second but we have to
start off with one of each so this sales campaign I'm just going to name it the products I'm going to call it perfect putt kit campaign campaign one in case we ever set up another
campaign if we have any special ad categories you will select them here that's going to be like real estate or credit or anything like that uh I don't have that just a regular
product so I don't need to declare anything there uh we can leave everything else down here the same except the catalog ads I am not going to be doing that I will enable the uh
Advantage campaign budget so this is going to be a CBO essentially campaign budget optimization which is going to have one budget for the top and then everything within this all
the different ads uh they will be run based on this budget it's going to allocate budget according to what is essentially working the best and actually converting the best so it's
a good way to uh kind of not spend too much money on ads that don't work and ultimately spend more on ads that do work so again you're going to choose your budget here for
something that you're okay to run for about a month or even longer um hopefully you can find some good ads within a couple weeks but really you want to have this you want to think
of this as money that you're investing into finding the right ad so I'm going to say $50 a day for a month something that I'm totally fine with doing uh to get the right ad to
eventually scale up after that patience is absolutely key right here we can schedule our budget if we know that hey you know during the day this is going to convert better or at
night it's going to convert better depending on what the product is I'm going to leave that off I'm fine with any time period and meta can decide that for me you can do AB testing
here we will be doing our own testing later so I'm just going to click on next and that brings us down to the new sales ad set so for this one I'm going to name it so the ads sets
are Creating an Ad Set really going to be focused more so on like the audiences uh so for this one I'm just going to call this add adet adset one and we can choose uh where the
conversion location is this is going to be on our website so we will have our pixel you can see the data set right there is connecting that pixel uh we're maximizing the number of
conversions that is our goal unless you're trying to maximize you know link clicks or or reach or page views but for a store for an online store it's almost definitely going to be
conversions that's really what your goal is the conversion event is going to be let's say we want an actual purchase but you could have as you see there many other things like uh
adding to your cart for the actual pixel what is it tracking well if we click on setup conversions um I would recommend just you know standard events if you click on that you can
choose what are you really selling so e-commerce and Retail that's going to make a lot of sense if you're doing education or whatever they might have some different uh events that
are being tracked but again this is going to make sense for most of the online stores out there purchase like I said is what we're really really trying to do here and we could say
go to test events just to make sure it's actually working and I'm just going to say done scrolling down we can choose our budget and our schedule we already have that set at the
campaign level so I'm not going to do a whole lot down here uh the audience controls if you want to change anything you could have you know some restrictions right there I think
the location United States is really all I'm targeting right here that's the only place I'm shipping at least and then the audience the Advantage Plus audience uh this is going to
essentially try to find the best audience for our ads meta already kind of does this anyway uh but if you want to like if you just want to say hey figure it out Do Your Own Thing
uh you know of course met is going to do that you could switch to original audience options and if you click on use original you'll see some options show up here like if you want
to choose the age group or the gender uh or the languages or you know interests and behaviors you can create all of that and so that's something that you totally can set up if you
have audiences that are saved from past campaigns you could also use those right here and that's going to be a little bit different than the Advantage Plus audience I don't think
it really matters that much which one you're doing a lot of beginners might find great success with just Advantage Plus audience unless you really know uh who you're going for in
which case you might want to select this down here the placements I think that looks fine I can see more options uh any other brand safety stuff looks good and we can say next now
we this now the third tier is Creating an Ad going to be the ad we will have multiple ads of course but this first ad I'm just going to call a video ad one this one I'm going to
use a video you could use you know a carousel of images or you know a couple other things like that so the identity you want to make sure you choose the right page you want to
choose an Instagram account as well I didn't connect one uh on this page so I don't have one set up but yours should appear right here if you properly connected a professional
Instagram account to your Facebook business page and your meta business twet uh going down here create ad we want to manually upload this I don't recommend the catalog ads I think
you know AI is pretty good but it's not quite there yet I think it's better to make your own ads and manually upload them uh we have several different formats like I said a single
image or video a carousel of you know multiple different images that you swipe through or a collection I'm going to go with flexible and down here we can uh upload the actual ad so
let's add some media I'm going to say add videos I have some I have some ads from my Tik ads tutorial I'm going to use here I'm just going to click and drag this one over generally
for meta ads you don't want them to be this aspect ratio a lot of them you probably prefer a square ad so it shows up better on Facebook uh if you're actually running it there or
on Instagram as well a lot of times it will perform better like that but hey you know what this is what I have available this is what I'm going to do for this video um but right
now it is uploading and processing so I can select it I can say continue now we have our video we're going to choose our primary text so you can add your primary text your headline
your description and this is something you're going iterate on and really test some different variations of you could use chat gbt to help come up with what the text is what the
best copy is here then we can choose the destination so you want to copy the URL to your actual product so going back to Shopify for example if we were using Shopify we can go to
products you'll see I should have one product on here I can select that I can actually click on that product rather and we should have a link on the right side we should have a
link on the bottom so let me just copy and paste that to a new tab make sure so I'm just going to paste the product page URL the display link is going to be order now you can
choose your call to action could just be order now for example and then double check everything looks good down here here you'll see the ad preview in Instagram and in your
Facebook feed and we can then say publish so now that we have that set up I want to make a couple copies of this within this ad set here so I can really test out the different ads
so I'm going to click on the three dots here just do a little quick duplicate here uh it'll be over here so we're going to call this video ad video ad 2 video ad 2 and we can
change anything you want about this I would recommend having a slightly different video maybe a different character by the way I have a full video on how I made these ads that's
just like made with AI so it's not even like uh it's not a real person even talking I mean it's a real person that's got voiced over by AI so it's really kind of impressive I think
um but you could film them yourself many different ways to make the ads so for this one let's just say I'm going to change the copy and we going publish this one I think you get
the idea of how you can go about changing all of these and making different ads and once once you're done we can just click the little X on the top left and you'll come back to the
dashboard so if we have these both running uh right now they're both processing so they're not actually delivering just yet but you will eventually see uh so let's go back to ads
reporting on the left side and you'll see some metrics about the different ads that we are running so you'll see an account you'll see the reach for each of them uh which is going
to be how many people uh individually actually got to see the ads the impressions are how many total views there are so if some people got view shown the ad twice you'll have two
impressions and one view for them the frequency is going to be that ratio there so how often on average is somebody seeing your ad so are they seeing it like two times 1.5 times
I'd recommend you want to be closer to one so you're not you know sending the same ad to too many people over and over again and kind of just wasting money you'll see the amount
spent uh the attribution setting and you can customize what this is actually showing as well so on the right side you can customize this table I would recommend including include
some other metrics like your cost per link click your cost per click all or your cost per click all your cost per thousand Impressions I think video views at at least 75% would be
very valuable and you can scroll through and see if there's anything else that is relevant to you uh maybe anytime there's like an offline application submitted or whatever if
anything else is something that you think could be valuable of course select that over here and that'll show up in your report reporting uh you know once Those ads actually start
running for one day 2 days 3 days and uh you know going back to campaigns here if we look at those ads so we'll go down to ads you'll see these are both going to be running so if
you find that you know you're running four to five different ads you know I'd recommend three to five ads at a time you should be running uh with this budget and then every you
know every maybe three four or five days go back and see which ones are really underperforming which ones are outperforming and just turn off the ones that are underperforming and
come up with a new variation to put in there so you're constantly iterating you want to have you know one or two ads that are your top performing and then the other two or three
that you're comparing against uh just keep changing those out to see if they're able to kind of replace the king of the ads and become your new standard ads uh that is going to be
like your control group that everything else is trying to beat in terms of especially your return on ads SP that's your main metric that you're probably going to be caring about so
that's a quick summary of how to set up Facebook or meta ads in general I hope you found this video helpful if you did consider liking and subscribing and if you have any other
questions about how to set up like a Facebook business page and Instagram business page I have links to those videos down in the description below thanks for watching I'll see you
you in those videos Most e-commerce stores are dead within 30 days. And it's not because they didn't use AI or they picked the wrong product. AI makes launching easy. Now, you can
have a store up and running in less than 20 minutes. But that's actually the problem. When everyone can build the same way, speed isn't an advantage anymore. So, in this video, I'm
going to show you how to build an e-commerce brand that actually lasts. Not just how to launch fast, but how to build something your competitors can't easily copy. Let's get into
it. All right. So, if you're completely new to this, e-commerce is just buying and selling products online. That could be Amazon FBA, Etsy, eBay, your own Shopify store, whatever.
There are tons of different ways to do this. Now, the brands that are actually making money in e-commerce right now, they're not doing what most tutorials teach. Most people think
it's about finding trending products or having the best AI tools. But here's what's actually happening. The successful brands, they're building something AI simply can't replicate.
Now, this video is using drop shipping as the starting point because it lets you test with essentially zero upfront risk. You list your products, your customer buys, your supplier
ships directly to that customer, and you never touch any inventory. That means that you can test if people actually want to buy it before you spend any money on anything. And
that's where most people mess up. They skip that part. Now, look, everyone's talking about AI and e-commerce right now. So, let me just be clear on what actually matters. Here is
what AI doesn't change about this model. One, customer psychology. People still buy to solve problems. Two, supply chains. Products still need to be shipped. And three, demand.
either the market wants it or they don't want it. What AI does change is how fast you can actually execute on this. So the store setup used to take at minimum two to three weeks.
Now you can have something professional and up in like 20 minutes. So the product descriptions, the ad copy, all that stuff, you can generate it super quick with AI. This stuff
works and you should absolutely use it. But there is a catch. When AI makes it easy for you, it makes it easy for everyone. So now you have thousands of the stores that are
launching that look basically identical, selling similar products using the same marketing angles. And that is where most people mess up. They use AI to launch fast, but they don't
build anything that actually separates themselves from everybody else. So no supplier relationships, no validated demand, no authentic content. So 3 months later, they're just
competing on price with a hundred other stores and their margins completely disappear. Now the brands that are actually making money, they use AI for speed on the stuff that
doesn't matter long term, but they do the manual work on the stuff that actually compounds. So supplier relationships, validation systems, content that doesn't feel robotic. That
is the difference between launching and lasting. So if you want to build something that lasts, step one is finding the right product. And most people completely mess this up. And
here's the thing, AI made it really easy to build a store. You can have one up really quick. But what I see happening right now is people launch without checking if anyone actually
wants what they're selling. And look, I'll be honest, I've done this. I've launched products that they looked good from, you know, hindsight. They seem like they would sell, but
they ended up getting me zero traction. And that's because I skipped validation and I rushed this process. And I really just wanted to jump the gun. So, let me show you how to do
this the right way. So, this is free and it takes about 15 minutes. The first thing that you want to do is pull out your phone, use Instagram as your research tool. So, I want you
to open Instagram and I want you to go to the explore page. page. I want you to start looking for creators in your niche. So, let's just say that you are interested in Pilates or
you want to sell Pilates gear. You want to be looking for Pilates instructors or Pilates content, people posting their workout routines, the whole community. Then, you're going to
want to engage with their content. So, what does that mean? That's really just liking their posts, saving them, watching the reels to the full extent. And what Facebook is going to
do or Instagram is going to do is it's going to be like, "Okay, this person really likes Pilates content because they're watching the full video. They are engaging. Let's show them
more of that." You can follow these creators. Doesn't really matter. But what happens is Instagram is going to start showing you more content very similar to these creators. And as
you keep engaging, the algorithm is going to start feeding you product ads targeted at that audience, the Pilates audience. So, your feed is going to become a marketing research
tool, showing you what brands are actively spending money on to reach those same people that are into Pilates. And as you start scrolling, I want you to look for product ads. But
more importantly, when you see these product ads, I want you to look at the comments. Are they tagging their friends? Are they having conversations? Are they discussing the actual
problem this specific product solves? Are they troubleshooting and helping each other? If you see that, you've got real interest. Now, if it's just likes with no real engagement
and you don't really see a community that could be formed around this product, then I want you to keep scrolling. The second thing, verify that there's actual demand. So, when you
find product ads on Instagram from companies in your niche or this said niche, go to their website. I want you to scroll to the very bottom of the page and find their Facebook page
link. Then click through to their Facebook page. Then go to the ad library. You guys don't know what the URL is. I will leave a link for you guys to easily access the Facebook ad
library below. This is going to show you every single active ad that this company is currently running. Here's what you're looking for. If they have ads that have been running for
30 plus days, that is generally a good sign. But what's even better is if they have a lot of different creatives. This is really just, you know, different videos, different images,
different carousels, different text copies, and multiple variations of that same product being advertised. And that means that they're actively testing and spending money on
Facebook ads. And if they're doing that kind of testing, they are obviously making money because nobody's going to run 10, 15, 20 different ad variations for a product that doesn't
work. They're not going to put all this time into something that isn't yielding them anything. But here is where you need to go deeper than most people. Don't just check and see if
it's selling. You need to know if you can build a moat around it. So before you commit to any product, I want you to run it through these four very important questions. One, does
this solve a specific problem for a specific group of people? Not just people who want to get fit, but you can think like new moms that are trying to rebuild their core strength
without going to the gym or getting a gym membership because they don't have time for it. Generally, the more specific the better. And if you can't define the exact group and their
exact problem, it's going to be really hard to market profitably. Two, can you make at least 30% margin after all costs? Most people forget about ad cost, shipping, potential
chargebacks, returns, and if you can't make at least 30% after everything, scaling is going to be brutal. Three, is there actual community engagement around the problem? So, you
can go to Reddit, you can go to Facebook, Tik Tok comments. Are people talking about this problem? Not just are people buying this product, but actual discussions about
frustrations and pain points? Because if there's not, you're going to have to create that awareness yourself, and that is expensive. And four, can you build something defensible?
This is a big one. Can you create content that competitors can't easily copy? Can you build supplier relationships for better pricing? Can you own a positioning angle that isn't
just we sell this too? Because if the answer is no, you're just going to be competing on price. So, I want you to check all four boxes. If you can't, I want you to keep looking.
And that's your first mo building before validating while everyone else is really just guessing. Now, once you've validated your product, you need to build your store. So most
people they spend weeks on this and they burn all their momentum. The store it really just needs to look professional. Everything else you can dial in once you are in fact making
sales. So I use Shopify and there's this tool right here that I've been using. I will leave a link below. Now here's why I actually like this one specifically because I'm
constantly testing the latest AI store builders. I try to be at the cutting edge and most of them they will give you the same template as everyone else and they'll tell you that
it's AI even though it's really not. This software actually looks at the real converting stores and it'll build something that looks custom. You're going to see what I mean in a
second. The stores come out looking insane. So, all you have to do is find a competitor store. Let's just say I wanted to sell this, I don't know, BlendJet. Just copy the link here
and I paste this in here. So, I'm going to hit clone store just like this. And here you just want to sign up with your best email and password. From there, press create account.
Then, you quickly just need to verify your email and then it's going to start creating your store. So you can see within a few minutes it has generated the rough draft of the story
and off of first glance it looks pretty damn good. So you can see right here we can change up the colors like this. We can also rebrand this with AI of course changing the product
name. All right. So the next step is signing up for Shopify. So we're just going to click create new store right here. It's going to prompt us to Shopify where we get the $1 per
month offer. So we're going to input that same email that we used earlier. Next. So, since we got access to the promo, it's going to be free for the first three days and then a
dollar a month for the next three months. Not going to find a better deal than that. All right. So, now I'm going to hit subscribe for $1. And then you do not need the grow or the
advanced plan. I would just go for the basic plan, which we're going to get for $1 anyway. And I can add all this information later. Skip for now. And then what we need to do is
head back to clone. It's going to tell us to basically just get our URL domain. So, we're going to go at the top. Simply just take this URL, go back, copy and paste. Now, connect
store. It's going to double check that we've already paid the plan. And then now we just need to subscribe to Shopify right here. All right. So, we're good to go here. We can exit
out of this. Head back to clone. And then we need to install Blockie. And then we have a 3-day free trial right here. Just going to approve this right now. All right. So, now once
we've installed Blockie, we go back over here, hit next. We've already done that. and then go to clone store. All right, so now that it's done, we just go to view my store. So with
us basically doing nothing, this is what the store looks like on desktop. It has all these drop downs and what it did is it scanned the competitor store right here. It figured out
what the key marketing angle was. It analyzed all the copy and it created for us our own version that looks extremely clean. And we can make all these adjustments here. So we can
change the title. We can change the text in here. We can hide certain sections. Now this is what it looks like on desktop. This is what it looks like on mobile. Looks really good
as well. This is the homepage. And then if we go here to the shop now, this is going to direct us to our product page. And so you can see we have the reviews up here. We have the
pricing. These are all things that you can change on Shopify. And if you read the copy like BPA free and say 15 plus blends per charge, then the images all go well. You can change
all these images if you'd like, but these are again just placeholders that give you an idea of how to, you know, properly structure it. Now, keep in mind all these images are going
to be pulled from the competitor. So, you're going to want to change them with AI or if you have your own product images. And so, this is what the clone dashboard looks like. Now,
if you want to add another product to this same store or if you just want to create another store entirely, you can do that. So, let's just say for instance, I wanted to clone this
store right here and pull all the copy. Simply just copy here and then we'll paste right in here. We'll clone the product. You can create a new store or you can add this to the
current store that we were working on, which was right here. We'll create a new store and it's going to go through that same process. All right. So now once we're here, we can
change the product name just like this. I'm going to go to continue. And you have the option to choose between various templates. And it'll give you a brief little preview of what
that template looks like. So let's just go with this one right here. And then for color scheme, just going to go with this blue. And then we'll go continue. And then right here, as
I mentioned, you can use the store images that we just selected or you can use AI to generate new images. Right? So, we'll just use the images that we pulled. Just crazy that we
can mock something up like this this quickly without it looking like generic AI. And the copy is so accurate. Love by craft enthusiasts. Beginner crochet made easy. And the images
on the page just fit so well and it makes it look like a fully legitimate store. And this just clears up one of the biggest bottlenecks that beginners had when they were starting,
at least I had, was getting a professional looking store live as quickly as possible so that we can focus on really getting people over to the store to convert. Now, the main thing
is that your store just needs to look legitimate enough for someone to trust you with their credit card and that's it. Now, a software like this far exceeds that. I mean, this
alone that we mocked up in, I mean, less than 10 minutes looks better than most stores that are out there with minimal effort on our end. We just clicked a few buttons and bam, we
have this. So, this is going to be super useful for those of you guys that aren't very techsavvy, yet you still want to get something live fast that doesn't compromise on quality.
All right, so your store is live. Now, you need to get a domain. Right now, URL probably looks something like mine does. We just look, it's going to be something like this.
XE0k81-ko.mmyshopify.com. It doesn't look good and it's not professional. So, we need to change that. We don't want people to have to get to our website based off of a URL like
this. So, what I do is I use domains right here. The thing is it just makes it extremely clear. So, if someone lands on, I don't know, crochet kits.store or blendjet.store, they
know exactly what they're on there for. It's obviously a store, so there's zero confusion. And as you can see, there's actual data that states that dots store domains tend to get
better traffic and they just overall rank better. But honestly, for me, the main thing is just the clarity. Now, when you're choosing the name itself, you're better off going with
something broad instead of too narrow. So, back to the Pilates example, something like a flow fit that is going to work for Pilates, yoga, CrossFit gear, whatever you end up
testing and you're not going to be stuck if you want to pivot to a different product. So, let me walk you through how to set this up. And it really only takes a minute to do. So,
all we have to do is type in the domain name. Let's just do example flowfitit.store. See if that's available. Nope, it's not. So, let's just do like flowfitness. How about that?
All right, that's not available, too. For the sake of this example, let's just do this. Flow fit co. Okay. Now, obviously, you don't want this to be your name. So, use AI, use Chat
GBT, whatever software that you use to come up with solid brand names that are going to make sense for your product. So, we just need to pick add to cart, proceed, and then right
here, you do not need privacy protection. And if you use my code, it's going to go from $29 down to 99. What an absolute steal. You're going to get your own domain for 99 cents for
the full year. An absolute no-brainer. All you have to do is press place order. And then once you place your order, all you have to do to connect this domain is simply go into
settings like this. You'll go down to domains and then simply connect your existing domain. Now, those of you guys that don't know, domains are usually anywhere from $15 to $20 a
year. But we're going to get it for a massive discount like this. And the domain is going to be the URL at the top of your website. It's really the branding so people know exactly
how to get to your Shopify store that we went and built out with clone. All right, so that's the connecting process. Your store is live. Now look, you could spend the next week
tweaking colors, tweaking fonts, trying to make everything pitch perfect. I want you to skip that because your store works, not only works, it looks better than most stores do
because we use the proper AI and that's all you need to do right now. You can work on all that once you are making sales. Because here's where most tutorials stop. They'll show you
how to build a store and then they're going to say, "Go run ads." But they skip the part that actually creates defensibility and that's your supplier strategy. And this is the part
that it's going to sound boring until you realize it's the only thing that actually protects you from your competitors. So, here's what I mean. Right now, you and a 100 other
stores can source the exact same product at the exact same price from the exact same supplier. You guys are all on equal footing. So, when you run ads and you start making sales,
your competitors notice, they copy your product, they copy your ads, they undercut your price, and suddenly you're in the race where nobody wins except the customer getting cheaper
prices. No, like the stores that actually last, they're not playing that game at all because 6 months in, they're paying 30% less for the same product. Their packages show up in
custom branded boxes and their shipping times are 5 days instead of 3 weeks. So, when your competitors try and copy them, they can't compete. They don't have the relationships.
They don't have the pricing or the packaging that creates organic content that gets people to engage. That is defensibility. Now, here's what everyone gets wrong. They think it's
complicated. They think it takes forever and it's really not. It's just knowing what to do at the right time and not making the mistakes that everyone else makes. Mistake one, they
wait too long. Most people run a product months with the same setup, the same margins, pretty much the same everything, and they wonder why they can't scale profitably. So, here is
what you actually do. Once you're doing around 50 to 100 orders a month, you reach out to spires directly. Not because you need them yet, but because that's when you have leverage.
You can show the order volume. you can prove that there's demand and start conversations about better pricing before you actually need it. Because most people, they'll wait until
they're desperate and then they have no negotiating power. Mistake two, they ask for the wrong thing. So when most people reach out, they'll just say, "What's the best price?" And
then they get quoted with whatever standard rate the supplier gives everyone. What you actually do is you frame it as a partnership. So instead of saying, "What is your price?" You
can say something like, "Here's what I'm doing monthly. Here's where I'm headed. I'm looking for a supplier who can grow with me. Better pricing as volume increases. Custom
packaging when I hit X orders. Faster shipping options. Now you're having a completely different conversation. You're not a random drop shipper asking for discounts. A business
they want to work with. And suppliers, they tend to prefer this. They'd rather have one reliable customer doing steady volume rather than 100 random orders. Mistake three, they
don't plan for packaging early enough. So most people, they wait until they're doing thousands of orders before thinking about custom packaging. and then by then they've already
trained their customers to expect generic shipments. What you actually do is you mention it early. So when you first reach out, you say custom packaging is a part of your roadmap.
You don't order it yet, but you're asking about the minimums, the setup costs, the timelines, the feasibility. And then when you are ready, you're not starting from absolute
scratch. You already know the cost. You've built the relationship. Then you can move a lot faster than if you had not. And here's why this matters. When customers get your package
and it looks like a real brand, they post about it. They create content for you. They keep the box. I don't know how many Apple I don't know how many boxes that I still have. This
is actually funny. I didn't even uh I just looked down. I don't know how many Apple boxes that I have that I I don't want to throw away cuz they just feel so valuable. Probably
should throw that away though. But it is nice. The content specifically is literally something that competitors cannot copy because if they were to copy your packaging, they would
just be advertising for you, right? If someone stole Apple's packaging, they'd just be advertising for Apple, right? No one's going to do that. They can source your products. They
can copy your ads, but they can't fake genuine customer reactions to a branded experience. This is your supplier mode. Better pricing, custom packaging, direct manufacturer access.
These take time to build, which means competitors, they can't copy it overnight. And the longer that you've been working with these suppliers, the better your terms are going to
get. The more money you spend with them, the better your relationship's going to get. That's the advantage that ends up compounding. Now, here is where most people think they're
done. They've got the product, they've got the store, the suppliers lined up. Now, you actually need people to see it. You need traffic. And look, there's really only two main ways
to do this. You've got organic and you've got paid. What does that mean? Organic is where you're posting content on Instagram, Tik Tok, YouTube. It's free, which is great, but
here's the thing. It takes months to build any real momentum, unless you're an absolute genius with creating content and you just know how to go viral. Also, you're basically just
hoping that the algorithm decides to pick you up. Paid is where you're actually paying platforms like Facebook, Tik Tok to show your content to people. It is faster. It's also more
predictable. And honestly, that is what most people starting out should use. And here is why this works. You create videos showing your product. You upload them to Meta. That's
