lot so you might even be able to double for like the max cart might be able to you know double how much someone spends um and you'll feel those pops so I think between those two
things but I think as a quick word of advice um you guys are in the beauty director consumer business you are a marketing company and so doubling down on Creative as a discipline
is what's going to separate you from like if you want to get to 20 million a year it's going to be you doing 10 times or 50 times more cre cretive in terms of what you're putting
out for output and so that means being having a better system for both capturing ugc and then repurposing ugc and so for us for context we spend 80% of our resources taking winners
and just reskinning them 80% and so you're getting all these new ads but the the real money is okay I have this one winner and um I had I'll give you a story I had an ad that we
called the kale ad so kale is our our GM right and he made this ad before he was the GM and it was this beautiful this perfect testimonial and he couldn't have planned it any
better he had like the gym behind him he had his wife with him he was like we were two months from shutting our doors you can see the gym full he's like and within four months it
was completely full 18 months I had it you know six months I had it completely outsourced by 18 months I sold the whole gym and I was losing money and I was working a full-time job
just to pay the bills at the gym and you know this many months later it was all great right now when we had that ad I made about a hundred versions of that ad so I made a black and
white version I did a sepia filter version I reordered the back end um we swapped out hooks I put different headlines I put different subheads I changed the fonts I did I ran it
with different ad copy I will use and abuse it until it doesn't work at all and so when you have your winners you usually just need to run them way longer way harder in a lot of
different variations so you can squeeze way more out of it feel good cool all right uh 1.8 Private Practice okay so the question what was the question on this you want to scale it
oh the the lead ma okay yes so right now you've ran your ads to application so opt-in application and that didn't work and then you go freebies to book a call and that's not
working because your call team sucks we running freebie to get people inside Facebook group okay and then having a trying to set the calls from the group okay we're have a lot of
capacity for the to set more calls to more sales so we wanted to do something that was more directly to book callip the process sure time so it works it's just expensive um okay so
I'll give you what I know from group funnels that run on school all the time and so there's four conversion processes from a group so one is that you add a free onboarding call to
the free group so every single person that gets added to the group gets an odd Morning Call as a bonus for joining the group on the odd morning call you then clarify where they
there label no problem over their past experiences oh I think you might be a good fit can I tell you about it Grant okay cool then you sell them into the into the other thing um
the second way is that you put uh five video series inside of the group that functions as a vssl but just broken up and so you introduce the opportunity your core Story the big
idea and then you do three stories which are going to be their biggest belief breaking points so big issue one big issue two big issue three which is typically Universe other
people in self and break down all three of those and then on the end you'll make your call to action which is the fifth video which is a little bit of Stack a little bit of Sizzle
and you make the CTA the third one is that inside of that group you'll do a weekly webinar where you provide value for the majority of the webinar and you soft toss the CTA your
sales guys and sets are on that webinar anybody who chats in there they can pull off if somebody's like oh man I got this question oh that was so valuable they immediately DM them
and pull them off the call and then they can set them right there the fourth way is that anybody who engages on recordings or posts inside the group grou likes comments or makes a
post the DM Setters go in and then set the call so it's four different ways that you can set from the group and if you're driving all your traffic there and it is working you just
probably need to train your Setters better and maybe have more of them yep all right uh 1.2 million VA so you want to start running ads for your VA business to get business owners
yes sir okay what type of va so it's a virtual assistant either primary secondary United States we can do estimates credit cards calls for service based companies estim so like
Home Services okay so you're looking for service business owners like ruing right to hire vas to do some of the leg work for their team okay so the good news is that Home Services
is pretty easy to Target um with ads I would probably also start on meta there um just cuz meta targeting really is probably the easiest Tik Tok is pretty good targeting too it's
getting much much much better but I would start with meta so Facebook and Instagram um and again the the funnels here are just really valuable thing for how many how many clients
do you have okay you have 70 clients and so what I would want to do is show how much money they save and how much more profit they make per roofer and I would just literally
explain it a lot of people won't know so be like the average roofer or the average home service person who has Tradesmen who are going out are spending this much per hour to have
the person do that do estimates do card checks do whatever the three main things that you do and that means that per person it's costing you $25,000 a year in labor all right now
the thing is is that for $500 a month we can replace this so take 25,000 and instead pay six per year so you get the spread you get $199,000 back per person and so if You' like to
see how we can help you implement this we will guarantee this result um and by day 90 if you haven't made at least five times the money that we've done we'll give you the rest of
the year of the vas for free that would be my offer the actual creative would be you breaking down the process and what you want to do is have some sort of visual proof that's like
this is what JN did and JN made this much you know saved this much money here's Stu and Stu saved this much and just say the size of the business so he's doing about $10 million a
year he's got 20 guys and this is what he was able to save so if these numbers sound at least interesting to you we'd be happy to hop on a call if you have a two call close you can
say you can leave your credit card home it's just to make sure it's a fit for us as much as it fit for you we only take roofers above a certain size so if you are smaller don't
worry we'll send you with some resources that can help you out for free but if you are above a size we might be able to help you out and either way it would be another call for us
to close so you can relax it's not a sales call cool so add with that kind of copy and messaging and then freebie thing that will also be a longer version of that with maybe some
writing that gives some graphs and some visuals or whatever and then you can have the thank you page scheduler uh for them to book a call still outbound dial all the people you
have some vas I'm sure they can do that call all the leads that opt in no matter what and the nice thing with that is that if your vas are good then they can be like I'm a VA I
could be doing this for you that would be my script okay yep do you have an email list yeah so if you have an email list of over a thousand I'm assume you do um you can take that
list and then put a look like audience and start there as you're targeting cuz that be the issue for you in the beginning yep and make that the headline like home service providers
okay uh 1.2 million in solar what now 7 plus row as things are working I'm going to tell you where are you I'm going to tell you to spend more all right so what's the problem
expanding like do I continue creating and tting ads or 8020 % the budget testing 80% yeah so Google already really experimented with this so the the technical one is the better one
is 70210 so 70% is doing the main thing so just the one ad that you have 20% is adjacent to that so as many different ways as you can think of you know versions of it that's not
that at so everything that I see as permutations of that I see as the 70 adjacent to that similar in style is the 20 10 is just wild ass ideas of maybe this would would work and so
that's how you allocate resources and I'm being super real so if you spend a whole day making ads so you spend eight hours that means you're going to do 1 hour 45 minutes on your
one idea and then you're going to spend two plus hours on adjacent ideas and then the entire rest of the day is on how many different ways can I make the same ad per and that's how
you allocate time it's the same way we allocate time when we make ads we look up all the top winners we start with all those we hammer out all that stuff because that's our real
work that's the bread and butter then we move one that way I said it in reverse in terms of order for the day but fundamentally I want to get the 70 done first the 20 done second
and if I've got time and I'm feeling energy I'll do the third all right so $1.2 million in Assisted Living Facebook and YouTube they're getting 20 to1 row as the thing that you
guys should do is spend more money because you have eight spots left in your assisted living and you're getting 20 to1 and you should be okay with doing that as long as you have
capacity if you know what your rate of filling people up is then you can dial the spend so that you can keep it so it's smooth now if you're losing money every month that those
things aren't full then I would crank it and then turn it off if you want the weight list thing I would know that I only need three people or four people on the weit list that they
have to pay in order to be on the weit list otherwise it's not a weit list it's just like telling someone to go away and then assuming they're going to you know care about you when
they when you call back even though they've already solved the problem uh because they're probably in a market and want to you move within a certain number of months CU someone's
in pain when I say pain it's a pain in the ass to deal with somebody who's you know you're trying to put into that and so that is what I would do if I were in your particular
situation and I would go get investors so you can open up more locations faster check all right ding ding ding all right so $10 million Executive Health the running YouTube ads are
getting 10 to one these guys are spending $1,000 a month to make $10,000 back even though they're doing a million-ish a month on their main business so that means 1% of their
revenue comes from their YouTube ads and the question is how do we scale the main problem is compliance and so they're in a health space and so a lot of the issues in health
sometimes wealth even relationship stuff is the claims that you make and being able to support them and so number one is there are firms that specialize in compliance Audits and so
I go like if we have an issue like one of our it happens all the time right ads get shut down because there's all these different automated things even if you're doing nothing
wrong so you go to these firms and usually just ask them what their approval rating is uh post compliance usually it's 90% Plus for the good ones it doesn't cost that much it's
like five or six grand and they'll go through the audit all the sites the audit all the the videos and collateral that you use so that then you can resubmit and they usually have
some sort of in internal Google kind of back door where they say hey we will make sure these people are compliant they relationship with Google and uh they can make sure that you
get pushed through so usually un as long as you're not doing anything completely racy which I'm guessing you're not um you should be fine great $10 million Roofing PPC so you want
to expand so you're spending $30,000 a month which row as 71 okay 71 row as $10 million a month Roofing doing PPC wants to expand and you're in a local market okay so if you're
trying to expand there first campaign I would run would be a retargeting across all platforms so I would be retargeting on gdn so Google Display Network I'd be retargeting on
Instagram i' retar on Facebook um I'd be retargeting on YouTube anyone who's done a site visit that'll be the first and easiest Riz that you can get because you've already paid for
it so consider that like the shadow funnel which is whenever you blow traffic through anything you should always have Global retargeting across all platforms because then you can
scoop up everything else and it almost always is positive roas so number one um number two if I had to pick another um platform I would actually do meta um because obviously PPC
have super high intent so the lead quality is going be lower on meta because it's Interruption based marketing rather than tent based marketing um because people aren't looking for
it when they're scrolling on Facebook but a lot of older people are on meta so Facebook especially but Instagram too Instagram's got the whole the whole gamut right and so people
who have roofs uh to fix and so I actually think it'll be fine that Facebook's aging up a little bit for you to run ads there and since the average ticket's so high in Roofing um
you'll probably good in terms of the funnel um typically like free audits or some sort of free thing is good enough um and you can talk to them about savings that they're going to
make if they fix the roof uh in terms of heating cooling all the other Jazz that you guys do um and you can basically do that for free you can send someone out you can do it
virtually and then probably two call close so set close after the freebie freebie is the first page call thing is the second page call all people who opt in for the freebie to
confirm the call that they did and if they didn't book set the call and then close on the call that's actually booked so if they book for Wednesday call them anyway today confirm
qualify if you don't have time to set it well you will have time cuz you're setting it set it and then close on the appointment on Wednesday so it can speed up the sales cycle
great real estate long-term rentals investment interesting stuff um so rowes is down trust is down unsurprising um and so the question that you have is how do you increase Ro and
build trust for this client so um there's two ways that I can think of so one is making content long term is what adds is what grows the organic audience it's what allows a lot of
people here to even have the business they have and you'd be surprised it is slower but over time it does compound and it becomes a pretty big stream and if you know how to run ads
and you can make content that's what makes you a weapon because it's like it's crazy when you can do both second thing um focus more on proof not on promise everyone makes promises
very people have proof so proof so if you think about this this is a little little sound bite for you your promise is not unique your proof is everyone in the marketplace promises
the same thing the question is whether they can back it up and that is unique to you and so if you want to have a more unique place in the mark in the market have more proof not a
different promise fundamentally like all gym owners want to make more money most business owners want to make more money or they want to save time or they want to save headache or
whatever it is like the promises aren't going to be that different the thing that will differentiate you will be the mechanism how believable it is which will be a function of the
proof and the the way that you're describing it if you're like oh we have this brand new personal training model where you do six personal training sessions up front and then you
get them into this and look at the economics behind it people stay way longer it's like oh that's a unique mechanism and it's like okay that sounds like it's different than what I
did but how do I know it works cool here's a hundred stories of people who were in your exact position that made it work right so proof is going to be the main thing now the other
way that you can build trust um beyond the proof is you I think group funnels right now work really really well I I think that they're going to I mean the reason I invest in school
because I think that um but group funnels are like routinely getting people from like $250 calls to like $40 calls and I'm seeing this like over and over again across Industries
and so the way that these funnels work I already talked about the conversion mechanisms earlier but you use the free group as a lead magnet so that becomes the lead magnet and the
nice thing is that it it functions basically like an email list with long-term nurture but it's way more engaging than an email list is um and so people who use the group funnels
uh right now just to give you a metric to this also for you for the groups it's 10% so the guys who do do a good job convert 10% of people who opt in uh to the group into their
their next level thing and so most people are able to close 30 to 50% of calls they get on and so you can Target getting on call with onethird of the people who opt in for the
group and closing between 30 and 50% so if you get on call with 30% and you close a third you get 10% of the group depending obviously there's some Flex on skill there um but
that's kind of just some benchmarks that you can that you can look at but those the three things so add more proof make more content consider a group funnel boom all [Applause]
right thank Intro – Inside Meta Ads Manager What's up you guys? In today's video, I'm going to walk you through the Meta Ads Manager as it is today, March 16th, 2026. And I'm going
to highlight some of the most important features that I think you should know about. I'm going to walk through setting up a campaign so you can see from start to finish, all the
little settings, and I'm going to explain all of them, what they do, and you know, the ones you should keep on, the ones you should consider turning off. And uh you know this is
more tailored towards beginners and maybe intermediate folks, but I think you guys will get a lot out of it. Basically looking into the ads manager through the eyes of somebody who
does this all day every day for many years. If you're looking to improve your meta ad skills, specifically around creative strategy, copywriting, and media buying, then you need to
check out Meta Ads Mastery. This is a group of serious advertisers where you can get Join my Meta Ads community daily support from seasoned advertisers who are actually in the ads
manager every single day. You can post a question and within a few hours get a indepth Loom video response from a seasoned advertiser who's in the ads manager every single day. You
also get access to three weekly live calls where we're discussing the absolute latest that is working across all the ad accounts that we manage. You also get access to my course
which outlines my entire process from A to Z from market research to creative strategy, copywriting, and elite media buying. And not only that, you can network with a ton of
amazing entrepreneurs from around the world. So, if that interests you, click the link in the description of this video and I'll see you inside. All right, you guys, let's jump
into it. So, I'm going to just walk through the ads manager a bit. I'm going to set up a campaign. I'm going to explain to you all the most important settings and things that I
think matter for you. So, uh, number one is making sure you have your columns set up in an appropriate Setting Up Your Columns way. So, if you're doing, um, e-commerce, then you
obviously need to be tracking metrics like your cost per result, you know, your rorowaz, uh, maybe your average, uh, order value, ads to carts, initiate checkouts, and things like
that. And if you're doing lead genen, then it's going to be more like, you know, complete registration or submit application or leads, cost per lead, and metrics like that. So, in
order to do that, you got to click here on columns, then click custom, and then basically you just click and choose the different metrics that you want, and they appear over here
on the right column. And then you can move these up and down. And the farther up it is on this column, the more to the left it is over on uh the actual ads manager. So, I'm just
going to scroll through this quickly so you can see kind of how I have mine set up. And if you want to copy mine, you're more than welcome. This is a great setup for e-commerce. If
you're doing lead genen, then you don't need any of the like ads to carts or rorowaz or anything like that, but everything else applies. No initiate checkout either. Cool. So, make
sure that your columns are all set up. Next is the breakdown tool. It's just super useful to break down your results by say Breakdown Tool like age, for example. You can see kind
of where you're getting your results and um even country. If you're advertising in multiple countries, you can check your placements and see where Meta is serving your ads. And
then don't forget about breaking down by audience segments. So if you go to demographics and then audience segments, you can break down to see how much you are spending on say new
audiences versus engaged audiences versus existing customers. It's really key to know like how much are these cold traffic campaigns doing? Uh how much retargeting are they doing?
So that's uh something really useful. Uh you can also break down if you go say to the ad level you can also break down by uh dynamic creative element. So you can actually go here
dynamic creative element and see which headlines which uh primary texts are actually working for you. I just need to expand the time frame here to actually see some data. But you
can see here some of these are showing up. Oh, this is a brand new one. Hold on. Restart that one. Another cool feature is you can, you know, put a check mark and then go to
breakdown and you can go to dynamic creative element and see the texts that are working for you, the different primary texts that are working, different headlines, and that's
really useful to start narrowing down on the messaging that's really working for you. So, that's just something pretty key to know. And a new feature that just uh I think came out
not that long ago is going to be this conditional formatting. So if you click on columns and then Conditional Formatting conditional formatting, you can actually set up rules here.
So this is a digital product client. Their break even return on ad spend is 1x. So I can simply make rules here. So if anything is below a 1x or below break even, I can make it
red. If something is above say 1.7x rorowaz, that would be considered really good for me. So I could have it as green. And then anything in the middle I can set it to uh you know
yellow. But you can actually set these up to be all different uh metrics. So if you want to uh set up a color scheme based on your amount spent or your CPA or your cost per result
uh or any of these other metrics, you can do that and it helps you know make the ad account more visually easy to understand and you might be able to make decisions easier and
faster. So I think those are some really key features there. A few more obviously is the calendar feature. The main time frames that we make decisions off of is going to be the
last seven Calendar Feature days. However, we do look at say maximum for the full story, 30 days for you know a longer story. 14 days for a more recent but still kind of longer
time frame. 7 days we make our decisions. Last 3 days for the trajectory of where this thing is heading. yesterday for recent results and then today for where is it at right now.
So I will look at all those different time frames. Uh but then really primarily make my decision off of the last seven days, maybe last seven days, including today um to make those
decisions. But something that's really useful is this compare feature. So you can click compare to the last. So let's Compare Feature say I just wanted to compare the last seven
days to the previous last seven days. I can do that. And what happens is these columns here, you can actually expand them. And uh so you can click up here. So we can see that for
example. So when you click expand you can see here that from the last 7 days to this 7 days my rorowaz has come down on these two campaigns. So that's obviously not a good thing.
These are actually brand new. So they don't have anything to compare it to. Um but let's say maybe last 30 days we can see some more data. It's really useful to see kind of like
the the change over time. So maybe let's look at cost per landing page view. You can see here on this specific campaign, I'm seeing a 30% increase in my cost per landing page view.
That's something to note like what what's going on there. So maybe I'll come in. I'll take a look. Let's see how's my my cost per result. My CPA on both of these have gone up
dramatically over the last seven days. So that is something to look at. Right. Right. So, um, this little compare feature is really useful. I highly recommend that you use it.
Another good one is exporting your data in your ad account as a CSV or XLS. And Exporting Your Data you can actually upload your data for different time periods into say Claude and
have it analyze what's going on in your ad account. And I wouldn't say it's perfect, but it can really illuminate uh some things that you might have missed just by looking at the
data yourself. So, you know, I don't really make my decisions off of AI, obviously. You know, I've been doing this for a very long time and I've picked up on the patterns myself,
but if you're newer, it does it can be useful to get some insights from Claude. I I think Claude is the best one at this. You know, they're coming out with or they've integrated
Manis now. It's worth taking a look at. I wouldn't base my entire strategy off of uh say AI tools like that, but you know, I think that's where the future of this is going and I
think it can, you know, be really useful in certain cases. So, uh definitely consider exporting your data, uploading it into cloud, having it analyzed, and have it spot trends for
you. And u you know, it's what these large language models are best at. So, all right. Okay. Those are some of the main features that I wanted to show you. Uh, a couple more. Make
sure you go to advertiser settings Advertiser Settings and you just make sure that everything in here is looking correct. So, number one, it's going to be your creative features.
These are these features that Meta will automatically opt you into. And it will spend up to 5% of your daily budget on basically training their algorithm to put all this AI
nonsense on top of your ads. So, you might see something that has a check like this will be checked and then there will be another screen just below this that says like AI test
that you're opted into. Uh, one sec. I'm going to find one that actually has it here. So, you can see right here, this is my personal ad account. You can see I've unchecked this.
I've already opted out of 13 different things here. I but on what day is this? June 9th they opted me into translating media and I don't even see where I can opt out of it. So just
make sure that all these are unchecked for you. Uh very important. You see it's it says on but I'm going to uncheck it there. There we go. Now it's off. So just be very careful
with that. Inside of uh advertiser settings, it's important that you upload your audience segments. So, inside of audience segments, inside of engaged audience, I will add my
website visitors. Um, and I will actually exclude purchasers. So, I'll make a custom audience like this. I'll click website. Next, I'll do all website visitors for the longest time
period possible. And then I will exclude let's say purchasers. And then you can name it you know 180day website visitors exclude purchasers 180 something like that. And that is
going to be probably the cleanest way to show meta who your engaged audience are but not your purchasers not your existing customers. So I put those in here. And then in here um
you'll actually put in your customers. So you can upload your Claio lists. You can upload your Shopify purchase list. So if you go to website, you go here, you go to purchase, you
can do 180 days, right? And you could add that in there. It's a dynamic list. If you don't have a e-commerce store with a with dynamic audiences like that, you can just upload a
CSV of all your customers and that would suffice. But you would want to update those periodically so it's you know fresh data. So um that is audience segments. It's very important
that you have that so you can use the breakdown tool to see how much money is being spent on your existing customers on your engaged audience and on new audiences. Um because you
know these cold traffic campaigns they do some level of retargeting automatically. So, you want to make sure that uh that you know you may want to do more retargeting or less
retargeting depending or you might want to have some exclusions or stuff like that to try to reach net new people. Which reminds me, that's basically all I wanted to talk about in
here. Back to the ads manager real quick. Let me turn off this compare feature. It's going to be compare attribution. Compare Attribution Okay, so let's quickly talk about compare
attribution. You click columns, compare attribution, and then here are the different attribution windows that Meta has and incremental attribution. So this is very important. The
standard attribution window is 7-day click, one day view. So what does that mean? That means if somebody clicks on your ad within a 7-day period and then goes on to buy something
from your website, that ad is going to get attributed credit for that sale. And if somebody sees your ad within one day, doesn't click it, but just sees it, and then goes on to buy
something from your website, Meta will credit that ad, your uh that sale. So, that's the standard attribution window. 7-day click, one day view. So, what happens if somebody clicks
on your ad 8 days ago and then buys? That ad is not going to get credit. And Meta will credit the last ad that you actually clicked. Okay? So, that is generally how attribution
works. Now, um it's really interesting to take a look at kind of how um these ads are performing and if you're getting a lot of say one day view attributions. Okay, why are one day
view attributions important? Well, a lot of people argue that one day view attributions are, you know, meta just taking credit for uh your sales. So, it's maybe a warm person or
somebody was very likely to buy anyways. They just go ahead and uh flash the ad up. Meta knows they're about to buy. They flash the ad up and then your ad gets credit for that ad
when they buy, right? Was that incremental? Meaning, did them flashing the ad up just within that 24-hour period actually cause them to buy the product or service? Debatable. A lot
of people say that no, Meta is just stealing uh credit for the sales. So, that's uh really interesting to keep an eye on. And then also, you know, seven-day clicked, it's more, we
would consider that more of a higher intent action. They actually clicked on your ad and then they went on to buy. One day click is going to be probably the highest intent. That's
like they same day they clicked your ad, they bought, right? That's going to be the highest intent, most likely to be incremental. Okay? So, there's a lot of debates on what you
should do here. I think there's arguments for both sides. Personally, I like to use 7-day click, one-day view. I am okay with uh accepting those one-day view conversions because it
is still data that my ad account is going to get uh which is going to train my ad account. It's also going to train the adset to find more and more people like them. So, you know,
in in an environment where the ad account is really starving for data. I do like to give it as much data as possible. Now, that's not the best for every person. So, if you really
want to exclude one day view, that is perfectly reasonable to do. I just, you know, in a lot of cases, I have repeat customers or um an ad account that really needs the data. So, I
will leave that on one day view in. However, I will use this feature that I'm about to show you to keep a close eye on those one-day view conversions and if I see a lot of them,
then I will take it out. So, uh that is something to note. Some people do one dayclick attribution and that's going to be like every day is new. So the ad set is just optimizing on
24 hours worth of data. It's the shortest window and that's tough. You know, you can you know, I feel like you're really putting the the algorithm in a box and not giving it as
much data context as as you can when with a 7-day click one day view window for example. U so Meta is trying to solve this attribution problem because um you know obviously if you
just have one channel you just have YouTube or excuse me you just have Facebook um then you know it's not that big of an issue you know all your traffic's coming from one place but
the second that you start running organic Google YouTube Snapchat whatever Tik Tok then it this becomes extremely confusing or clavio you know emails it gets very confusing as to
what actually was incremental what caused these sales. So, it's important that you keep an eye on this. And so, Meta tried to solve this problem with incremental attribution. So,
it's their advanced attribution model that basically predicts whether the ad was incremental to the sale. Did the person buy because of the ad? Okay, the the meta ad. You can use
this to see if your ad was incremental to the sale. Did the ad cause the person to buy? So, what I like to do with this compare attribution is I'll do 7-day click, one day click,
one day view. You can even do one day engage view. I'm not super concerned about 28 day click. And I'll turn on incremental. And then we take a look to see here what do we have.
So, I'm going to sort by amount spent. That's a habit, by the way. I really recommend that you do sort by amount spent at all times. We always want to be looking at what's spending
the most in our ad account and then go down from there. But you can see here on this specific campaign, we spent $3,300. 76 conversions. 22 of them were one day view conversions.
I'm aware of this because we are doing a lot of email flows and stuff like that. So, it's very possible that these were not incremental, but we also have 36 one-day click uh
conversions. So, that is something you know those are very likely to be uh incremental. 54 7-day click conversions and then 41 purchases that Meta considers to be incremental. So,
this is something that's very useful to just keep an eye on like what's actually going on, like how many of these sales that Meta are taking credit for, how many of them actually
contributed to uh the sale. Now, this isn't perfect, but it's something to note. Okay? And then, you know, we can also start to break down on our audience segments and really start
to get a little crazy with, you know, what what's going on in in our ad account and just like really drill down on the data. So, that's everything outside of the, you know, the
creation window that I wanted to show you. So, that's basically everything in the ads manager section that I wanted to show you. Now, I want to dive into a sales campaign and just
walk through all the different settings. Most of this will apply to lead genen, too. So, uh, if you're a lead genen person, feel free to stick around. It's very useful for you. Uh,
so let's dive into it. I'm going to turn off all this stuff here and let's create a sales campaign. So, sales campaign. Boom. Create A Sales Campaign with Me Immediately it opens
up this window. Okay. So here generally uh what I'm doing is I am just naming the campaign the day it starts. So today's the 16th. I usually start the day after. And then I just
name it something that is clear to me what it is we're testing, what it is we're doing in this campaign. Every campaign should have a purpose. Okay, I'm turning off this advantage
plus catalog. Uh I'm not trying to do a catalog. I don't usually use this catalog feature at the campaign level. You can also turn it on at the ad level and it's more flexible.
It's easier to use in the ad level. That's just something to note here. Terms of the uh buying type, I don't really use uh reservation. I've never used it personally. I've always
just used the auction. Cool. So, now we're going to scroll down and look down to campaign budget versus adset budget. I have videos that go into this in detail. So, uh I'm not
going to really talk about the nuances between these two, but basically at a very high level, if you have a campaign budget, you're setting the budget at the campaign level, and
then Meta is going to um basically decide how much each one of those adsets is going to get in terms of the daily budget uh on a daily basis. So, all the adsets are competing for
spend. Meta is going to algorithmically choose which adset gets that spend. adset budgets. You decide how much each adset gets. So let's say if you had a $100 a day at the campaign
level and you had say five adsets, those five adsets are all fighting for that $100. If you had an adset budget, then each of those five adsets you could set $50 for each and they
would each spend the $50 a day. So that's the difference there. So here is your campaign bid strategy. Generally, I would say 70% of my strategy is going to be highest volume or
value. Um, this is basically meta automatically bidding for you in the auction. Whereas, if you do cost per result goal, rorowaz goal or bidc cap, those are going to be what we
call manual bidding. These are great for scaling further. So, if you find something that works, you can try to start using bid caps, cost caps, or even rorowaz goal to just squeeze
more juice out of what's working. But in most cases, um, I'm using highest volume. I just don't I don't necessarily feel the need to be day trading in my ad account every day. But
this is something that I have been experimenting with and I do want to I do think it's powerful. I do think it's extremely valid. A lot of people are like all in on the manual
bidding stuff. Um, I just don't find it to be as predictable and as stable as highest volume. So AB test, I actually don't use this at all. I do all my tests manually. Um, I just
generally don't like to use it. I don't think it's uh that intuitive and I just like to set up my tests in a more manual way using adset budgets or campaign budgets, different
campaign per test or adset budgets, different adset per test. Cool. So, these are your audience segments that you set up earlier. Now, let's talk about the adset level. So, in Ad
Set Level the adset level, you have these new multiple settings here. I never really use these multiple ones. I want one person to go to one place to do one thing. Um, when you
start letting the algorithm decide if it's going to go to a website or a call, it's just a bit strange. So, I'm always using single website. Uh, if I'm doing lead genen, I'm doing,
