Facebook ad campaign structure and how we've adjusted this because there are significant differences now to what we used to recommend, then I recommend you check out this video
because I go through it all and I talk about how you want to start, which businesses want to stick with the one campaign, one ad set um setup versus the alternative options and
when you might want to change that as you go through your meta ads journey. Let's go check. Intro Stop running Facebook ads until you do this. I've managed over a billion dollars
in Facebook ad spend over the last 5 years, and I've developed a system to run profitable Facebook ad campaigns with any budget, whether it's spending $100 or $10,000 a day. If
you're not using the system, you're losing money every day on your ads. So, I'm going to reveal it to you so that way you can scale your Facebook ads without having to guess or
waste money. Have a really good compelling offer First, you need to fix this before you even touch your Facebook ads. You need to first have a really good compelling offer. When
you have a really good compelling offer, the algorithm works harder for you. And without it, your CPM skyrocket and your CTR stank. Everyone's running Facebook ads, including your
competition. But what separates you from them? Is it your creative? A lot of people can modify their creative. Is it how you're running your ads? Eventually, people learn the
tricks out there. But if you don't have a really compelling offer that's better than your competition, it's harder to get really cheap CPMs and get your CTRs to skyrocket. Strong
offers solve one urgent problem. When you're trying to create a good offer, you need to think about how you can solve one urgent problem. You need to highlight outcomes, not
features, and differentiate with a unique value proposition. A killer offer makes everything cheaper and easier because it gives Meta's AI a clear reason to find your ideal buyer.
Next, Copy winning ads do this to copy winning ads to give yourself a head start. There's something called Meta Ad Library, and you can use this to search competitor brands. It
identifies longunning ads and analyzes their hooks, angles, and messaging. All you have to do is just look that, click play, and you can see what's working for them. The longer the
ad's been running, that means there's a higher probability that the ad is generating a positive ROI. Because why would companies keep spending money if an ad is losing them a ton
of cash? And you want to do this for not one competitor, but ideally three or more competitors. And that way, you can figure out what's working for people in your space and what's
not. This way, you can stop guessing, and that way you'll start generating conversions way quicker with your ads versus throwing up a lot of duds. What I like doing is remixing
proven formats. And this gives you a head start and saves thousands of wasted dollars on testing. So, I'll take what's working for competitor A, what's working for competitor B,
and what's working for competitor C. I then take the best parts and it gives me ideas on what I should do within my own Facebook ad to generate the sales. Create your ads like this
if Create ads like this you want them to work forever. There's a proven three-part ad formula that I love using: hook, value, and CTA. When I film ads, I film multiple versions of
each part. So, multiple versions of the hook, multiple versions of the value, which is mainly the body, and multiple versions of the call to action. That way, I can see which
elements are working the best. See, meta punishes stale creatives. Eventually, you have audience fatigue, and you'll notice that the costs go up. When you have multiple variations,
what you find is not only does it help protect your performance, it keeps your CPMs down overall. So, I like creating three to five hooks per ad, two to three bodies, and several
CTAs. And then I remix them weekly. And Meta also finds a winning version through AV testing. I then take that data based on what's working for Meta, and it gives me ideas on the
hooks people prefer within my industry and what they don't. So that way, I can create more of the stuff that's converting well and less of the stuff that's not converting as well.
Try Try trending ads these trending ad formats that often outperform traditional Facebook ads to get ahead. Look, raw lowfi content like Tik Tok style clips or selfie videos or
behindthe-scenes footage often outperforms highly produced ads. Look, polished ads feel salesy and UGC feels native and natural and it earns trust because people feel that it's
authentic. You can use a mix of UGC carousel mini stories and emotionled graphics to win in the feed without looking like traditional ads. Use AI to optimize Most people are
sabotaging the Facebook ads before they even launch because they aren't doing this. Meta wants you to stop using outdated interest stacks and instead rely on AI to optimize based
on conversion data from your pixel. Pixels track browser activity, but iOS 14 plus blocks much of that, crippling your results unless you fix it. And when you install both Facebook
pixel and conversion API, it's crucial for server side tracking and allows Meta to learn exactly who's buying. Finally, if you Pixel conditioning don't implement this, your ads
won't target the right people. You need to understand something called pixel conditioning. You want clear conversion data that teaches Meta's AI to optimize harder and faster. When
Meta sees conversions, real purchases, real leads, it aggressively hunts for more just like them. But bad or missing data trains the system in the wrong direction. High converting
Facebook campaigns aren't about hacks. They're about feeding the algorithm with what it needs to scale smartly and profitably. And if you really want to do those funny, highly
produced videos, kind of like Squatty Potty or the one that great marketing.ai has where the two people dress up as Mario and Luigi. You could do that. And it's worked really well
for many businesses like Squatty Potty or Lumi, the deodorant company. You can end up doing that, but you got to get clever. And a lot of times those videos don't actually convert.
So you'll spend a lot of money and most of the times you end up wasting it. But sometimes when you find a hit, like the Mario and Luigi video, it can work really well and boost
your conversions. And another bonus tip, if you want your ads to convert better, what we found is people who have a strong personal brand that are in the ads tend to see better
CTAs and lower cost to acquire a customer. And if you want to build a personal brand, check out this video that I created that teaches how I built a $10 million
personalIntroduction: The Power of Facebook Ads 3 billion people use Facebook every single month that is a lot of potential eyes for your business but here's the thing your
Facebook ads won't work without the right strategy so I'm going to break down the latest strategies and tactics to achieve Facebook ads success so by the end of this video you're
going to have a step-by-step plan to create launch and optimize your own profitable Facebook ad campaigns I'm not just going to show you how to run ads but also how to optimize
them for your budget yes even if it's a small one [Applause] there is a lot of money to be made on Facebook ads and anyone can learn how to do it successfully with a little time
and practice as Mark Zuckerberg once said the biggest risk is not taking any risk so let's dive in and start creating some ads the first thing you need to do is create a Facebook
page and set up a business account once you do open up your ads manager and click create ad a little tip when choosing your first product to push try to use your bestselling
product or the one with the highest profit margins this way you can mitigate some risk there are three Campaign Levels Explained levels in every Facebook ad campaign first there's
the campaign then the adsets and then the ads first in the campaign here is where you define your goals such as engagement lead gen sales or your budget next is adsets this is
where you can set up targeting bids placement your schedule and also sometimes your budget as well lastly is the actual ads this is the copy the images or the videos you use
basically the creative aspect you can actually have several ads running at the same time for testing purposes now let's build a campaign to begin you will have Setting Up Your
First Campaign to set your objective first so if you're on a small budget go for leads or sales if you have a bit of a budget to play with you can start with brand awareness or
traffic and then retarget from there next choose your campaign setup and don't be afraid to trust meta and use Advantage Plus shopping campaigns and audiences this allows meta to
do what it does best especially if you have a small budget and you don't have a lot of room to play around with and there's also going to be less details to worry about in the
beginning next set your budget you can give a daily budget or a lifetime budget so how much should you be spending you should spend at least one times your product price every day
in order to get sufficient data but spend two to three times your product price if you can but if you're on a budget or you have a high ticket product just spend what you have it
could honestly be as low as $3 a day just to get something running in the beginning but know this the more money you give Facebook the better results and data it's going to get for
you now what about Targeting Your Audience targeting with targeting you have the option to go broad or Niche first if you don't have a lot of data on your buyers it's good to focus
on only one interest at a time and test how effective it is start Broad and then narrow things down as you go broad targeting lets Facebook optimize your campaign with the best
audiences plus large your campaigns can actually be more cost- effective you can also use advantage and it's going to help you choose the best audience for your product
alternatively if you already know your ideal prospects based on customer purchase data that you have then it could benefit you to go super Niche and then pour your money into that
group of people only you need to consider their location their interest and their age among other data points if you're unsure of which one to choose you can ab test this and run
two of the same campaigns one to a niche audience and one to a broad audience then see what does best once you have a winner run with that one I will say this though trying to run
Niche ad campaigns without proper customer data is like throwing darts blindfolded you're going to hit something but it's probably not the Target now how long should you run your
campaign run the testing phase for about 1 to 2 weeks once you find a winning ad run it for 3 to 4 weeks and then evaluate the Impressions if it works well and it's Evergreen you
can keep running it but but make sure to keep your creatives fresh there's something called The Learning phase Facebook needs to learn about what works so try not to adjust any
important details on your campaign until it has finished the learning phase you can always duplicate a campaign if you want to make adjustments so let Facebook learn on your
campaigns while they're active so it can properly optimize things for you meta does need conversions to learn what works and the learning period time frame is based on conversion
volumes so if you make a thousand sales per day it could learn in 2 hours but if you get five sales a week it could take a month to know if that ad is getting good results let it
run its course you know you're in the learning phase if your delivery column says learning now let's talk Creating Ad Creatives about ad creatives these are incredibly important
you have the choice to boost content that you've already made or you can create your own ad creatives you could be amazing at targeting but if your ad creatives suck they won't
work you can create these yourself or you can hire UTC creators or even an agency to do this for you you have the option to run videos photos carousels and collections make the ads
feel organic like a post from a friend especially for videos something that's going to stop people from scrolling and keep them engaged you also want to use a hook to get their
attention show people how your product actually solves their problem and do not forget a call to action people need to be told what they must do to get what they want for
conversion campaigns it would be something like click the link below to shop now or click here to get 10% off you need to have this in your creative asset or in your copy if you're
struggling with content ideas use the meta ads library to look at live ads look at how long they've been running and how well they're doing you really want to analyze the ones that
have been running a long time ideally for several months and then figure out why they're working and then create ads with the same format don't completely copy them but use the
format and make it your own this way you can actually use someone else's testing to make a successful ad you need to combine effective targeting engaging creatives and a good
landing page experience you can also use tactics like limited edition discounts free shipping product bundles and more to get your customers attention now let's talk about
budgeting Budgeting and Bidding you can set your budget on a campaign level or on an adset level if you choose to use Advantage plus it's going to set your budget on a campaign
level choosing a budget on your adset level will give you more control over how spefic specific adsets are delivered it's good to use campaign budgets for testing and adet budgets
once you know what is working the spending limit is not a hard cap Facebook may go over a little bit they're going to tell you below how much they're going to go over but you're
going to need to be a little bit flexible also start small until you know that your campaigns are profitable and then you can scale from there if you have a small budget just copy
what works in your industry already now here are bidding strategies first is spend based bidding this is about spending your budget and getting the highest value possible Facebook
is going to try to optimize your entire budget goal-based bidding you set a cost or value that you want to achieve such as cost per result or a row as goal that means return on ad
spend goal there's also manual bidding here you control how much you bid across ad auctions bidc caps are good for advertisers who have an understanding of predicted conversion
rates and can place the right bid you can set the maximum bid which is how much you're willing to spend in a day and the minimum bid which is the lowest amount you're willing to
spend in a day if you want to keep your spending low and control your costs Facebook recommends using cost per result bidding such as cost per sale for example quick question for
you what is your biggest challenge when it comes to running Facebook ads leave it in the comments down below now let's talk about A/B Testing AB testing the best thing to do in the
beginning is to test testing is going to be your best friend in this process you're going to want to AB test different ad creatives test different audiences and even test your
landing pages we want to find what works and then pour our ad spend into that you're not going to know exactly what works for you until you start testing however you should only be
testing one variable at a time this way you can actually understand what's causing the most success to run an AB test you can either duplicate your ad your ad set or your campaign
and then change the factor that you want to test alternatively you can click the AB testing button and then select what attribute you want to AB test now let's talk about ad
tracking Ad Tracking and Optimization and optimizing you will need to track the success of your campaigns with a pixel if you're wondering a pixel is basically a Tracker that
monitors conversions views and actions on your website or wherever you're sending your leads to so to set up a pixel go to events manager then connect data sources then web and
enter your url next install the pixel code on your website Pages or you can do it using your pixel ID and make sure your ad campaign is attached to the right pixel so what are the
key metrics that Analyze Key Metrics you should be paying attention to First there is CTR this stands for click-through rate you want to aim for a 1 to 3% click-through rate next
is Raz which stands for return on ad spent this tracks how much revenue your ad generates there's also CPA which means cost per action then there is conversion rate this is the
percentage of users who took your desired action after interacting with your ad for e-commerce 2% to 5% is standard frequency is the average amount of times a person in your target
audience saw your ad during a specific time period lastly is CAC which stands for cost to acquire a customer this is all very important data to understand fun fact you can actually
track this data right in your Shopify dashboard all you got to do is connect your Shopify account with your Facebook ad account so if you want to check that out I've actually
linked a free Shopify trial down below okay here are some tips Scaling & Maximizing Your ROI for scaling and maximizing your Roi use lookalike audiences to find new customers that
share the same characteris with your best performing audiences such as your top purchasers subscribers or your highly engaged users you can also use incremental budget scaling so
try to increase your budget 20 to 30% every 2 to 3 days on campaigns and AD creatives that are going strong already make sure you're adding new ad creatives every 2 to 3 weeks to
keep things fresh while still using the format that works best for your Niche you want to scale up and start running more of what's working once you know what works it's all about
volume this one is really important make sure to retarget users who clicked on your ad but didn't convert retarget people who viewed your product or put it in their cart but didn't
buy psychologists say that people typically need to see a product seven times before they buy retargeting is a very effective tool once you've done it enough people will not be
able to forget you now you know that Facebook ads are a powerful tool for advertising online and you now have the tactics you need to run successful campaigns now go get out there
and start your first campaign make this year the best year yet I'm Chris mccollins thank you so much for watching learn with Shopify if you like this video please give it a thumbs
up and leave a comment down below WE Post weekly videos on all things business so subscribe if you don't want to miss out I will see you guys on the next one bye [Music] Intro All
right, guys. I am blown away. Okay, there is a secret tool. I'm going to call it a secret tool. There's just a tool that not many people are talking about that's in Claude already.
It's a Claude connector if you're using Co-work. And this is going to change the game for those of us who are running Facebook ads. Now, I'm going to share with you why and how to
set it up, what it is, how to use it, because I have not seen a video on this yet. Okay, so let's just jump in. Okay, cool. So, I'm here in Co-work and the tool that I want to
share with you is in customize. Just go to customize, go to connectors, and then add a new connector. This is where you can add all of your softwares, all the things that you're
using. And I want you to browse and type in Microsoft Clarity. Microsoft Clarity Okay, Microsoft Clarity. I saw this on the connectors and my mind was like, boom. Okay, let me tell
you what Microsoft Clarity is. Okay, so Microsoft Clarity is a a software that you can install on your websites on your funnels and it does free heat maps and it also does
recordings of sessions. Okay, if you're running paid ads to a landing page to an offer, so many people just optimize the ads. That's part one of a funnel, right? Part two is the
funnel, the actual pages, where they go, do they drop, why do they drop, headline testing, and all of this is CRO. CRO stands for conversion rate optimization where we can start to
make changes to the actual funnel to get better data, better metrics and better cost per lead, better OS. Okay, so this is free. Okay, and the cool part is you can talk to it
directly. So let me show you what the inside of this looks like. All right, so this is Microsoft Clarity and right now I have a heat map uh structured and this is based off of 53
sessions. I just installed this, so it's going to be more. But you can see over here where are people skimming, right? The red is like where the most attention is. And then least
attention is in the middle. So for me, it's the headline and then the bottom over here is the FAQ. People are actually going through the FAQ. They're opening it up. They're reading
it. That is really good data for me to make sure, okay, these need to be stronger. Okay. And then part two of this is it does recordings. Like this is an eight minute recording
from somebody today, right? I can push play inside of here. Okay. And it will go through the entire journey of what that person did when they loaded the page. This person came from
YouTube. I've got my UTM parameters in there. And I can see any clicks that they made. Looks like this person just, you know, maybe loaded the page and didn't do anything. That's
fine. But you can see that across the board for all the different ones. if they're bouncing, if they spent a minute with you, 20 seconds, 2 minutes, 40 seconds. All of these are
recorded here. Now, where does this fit with Claude? Well, because of this, you can just talk to Claude and ask it where are people dropping off on my landing page, right? And if
you used UTM parameters, UTM parameters are where you add certain parameters to the URL to to track where they came from, which you should all be doing. I I made a video about this
on Hyros, but you can essentially just put I'm going to do this for you like very very high level here. All right, so I just pulled it up. So again, these are all of the UTM
parameters that I use for my organic stuff. Paid ads have their own UTM parameters. That's the whole video for another day. Go check it out. But inside of here, all you have to do
is like if you wanted to do your website, all you do is put in the website at the top question L equals whatever you want to put. Okay? So for me, I have Instagram, I have YouTube,
I have all those things. And all this does when I push enter here is it just keeps it in the URL. And then if I opt into something, right, then on my go high level account, it
shows, hey, this person came from Instagram because I just used questionnell equals Instagram. There's other ways to do UTM parameters. By far, this is the easiest for me. So I
have all my platforms, YT, Instagram, threads, Facebook, email, LinkedIn, Twitter, and school. Those are the main ones that I use. And again, once they fill out a form, that gets
imprinted onto their account. And I can essentially say, hey, I can ask Claude or I can ask even go high level now. You know, what was the journey look like for people who had
question L equals YT? Where did they bounce? Where did they click? Where did they fall off? How much time did they spend? Where did they go on the page? I can ask all of that to
Claude. Again, Microsoft Clarity is free. So, why would you not be tracking this? Okay. If I go to my dashboard, it has all of the stuff that has been tracking. Average time spent,
scroll depth, the number of sessions, and then I have the different referrals. Again, this is based off where they're coming from. And then I also can track and just see um based
off of the pages they're on etc. So all of this and if there's an error like loading the page I know real time immediately with what I've set up in here. This is next level. Okay.
And How does this fit into Claude again how does this fit into cloud is all you have to do is like once you sign up with this right it's free. All you have to do is just embed that
into your header tracking on your go highle page. So I use Google tag manager for all of my tags. So everything that I use from like Chyros, the pixel, this Google tag manager
essentially conduc like combines it all into one main snippet of code and that helps with load speed. But I've got them all in Google Tag Manager. Now every time that loads, I can
track the user and what they did on my website. So coming back to Claude, you can ask it really good questions. So, like for me here, it was like I also loaded in my ad data and it
started to tell me where people were hopping off uh again based off of where they came from, which was super valuable. And one of the things that I found from the funnel we have
right now is that people were dropping off in my [snorts] current funnel. Like, they were dropping off right here and they weren't filling their information in. So, because I had
that data from Microsoft Clarity, I actually made a two-step opt-in form to try to test and see, okay, if I break this up and make it easier for people to fill this out, would they
fill it out? So, I'm going to go and fill this out just to show you. Okay, so um I put my information in here. I push continue. And now I have a pixel conditioning question inside
of here. But on the other page, it was all loaded together. So my thought is if I can reduce friction on the front end then give a second question on the back end will that improve
my conversion rate and I can even with this using claude as like the the backend for HTML I can have the form submitted just based off of this first area here if I wanted to. So
coming back to claude how do we use this? I'm going to pull up another doc. So we can ask it questions like this. Show me the biggest drop off that happens between the headline and
CTA on my landing page. I could literally copy this, right? And with the MCP server, it's going to do a real dive real time. I'll just let it go and we'll come back here once this
is ready. All right. So, just quick uh check in here. I was having an issue with the server loading. So, made it a new one. I dropped it back in there and it goes, "Hey, um before
I dive in, let me get a couple more information. Where is it going? What page do you want me to analyze?" I said, "The main opt-in page." And then what time range should I put 7
days? So, I was like, "Got it. Let me go ahead and start working on it." So, we're just going to wait around a little bit longer. And then we will let you know what it says. Okay.
So, it just pulled that data. So, then it says here the ads page. So, this is one page. This is another split test page going uh on both of them. But one of them had a 29% average
scroll rate. It told me where they dropped off. 78% of visitors never scroll past 25% of the page. And then 112 of the uh 432 actually clicked the button of like get the resource
now. And now if we look at this one over here, this was around 26% clicked and that was about the same as the other one. And then it also tells us dead clicks. So this is where
people are trying to click on something where like they click on it and nothing opens. So again, this gives you information of like, man, 45 people clicked on a accordion thinking
that it would like open up the testimonials results. That gives me more information. You know what I mean? So really, really neat. And then the drop off is between headline and
first scroll. So that's that's what I got here. Now there's a lot of other questions you could ask it too. Uh and I'm going to do one that's going to be comparing traffic based on
behavior source. So I think this will be super interesting is I can just drop this in. How do uh let's say paid ad visitors behave differently than YouTube visitors on that funnel.
Okay? And it'll tell you and it's so fascinating, right? Like to me it's so fascinating because again this all gives me really good data of do I need to make separate landing pages
for the different traffic sources because my YouTube landing page could be optimized for people on YouTube. My paid ads landing page could be optimized for people that are coming
from paid ads and I would never know without this data. Okay, again it's a free heat map, free recordings. It analyzes all the recordings that it has and gives you a summary and
you can just ask it, hey, what's the biggest bottleneck on my funnel? What should I do next? And then what we like to do here at at our with our business is once a week, I
typically do one split test per funnel. So Monday through Friday, I'm running a split test. And then whatever I see in terms of the results will dictate the next split test we do
so I can keep optimizing my funnel in addition to making more ads. Again, I think so many people just focus on ads, ads, ads. I got to make new ads. But if your landing pages and
your funnels aren't converting, you need something to have eyes inside of the funnel. And this is a super easy way to do it. And you're not just looking at like most most funnel
builders will just give you the opt-in rate on both pages. It's like, okay, well, this one clearly won. Well, why did it win? The only way you're going to know is by having a heat
maps inside of here. Okay. All right. And while this is loading, let me just share this with you guys on other things that you can ask it. Okay. These are just ideas for you,
right? Again, drop off points. Where are people going and just dropping and leaving the page? Okay, maybe you want to update that page. We just prompted this one to compare traffic
sources. It's doing that now. Again, uh dead clicks kind of actually happened above, but it's like where are people clicking this? not clickable. In case you have a button that's
broken or they click on an image or that looks like a video and nothing pops up, well, you could put a pop-up right there, right? And then the other like two big ones are going to
be mobile versus desktop breakdown. Again, you could track it and say what's what's the conversion rate on desktop verse mobile and where are people dropping off? Again, updated.
And then what's the difference between converting people who convert and people who don't convert, right? You might notice that we up front a lot of paid ads, but sometimes with
paid ads, you'll get people that click the ad and then they cancel immediately and maybe it loads and it's like a one second click. So to me, I'm like that's not a good lead. Like
where are they coming from? And if you use UTM parameters too, you could say like what type of ads, like what placement are these ads actually being on? Like is it stories? Is it
reals? Where are all is all this traffic coming from that's just leaving in 1 second? And then me can go I can go back into Facebook and say I'm gonna exclude Facebook reels
because Facebook reels is getting me a ton of clicks but they're all averaging for one second per page view and I don't want that. But Instagram stories over here on the other side
is you know on the average view duration is 20 plus seconds. That's a great platform. I can start to exclude placements based off of what the data shows me. All right. So let's
come back over here and this is going to be again comparing the sources of YouTube versus paid ads. And this is fascinating and I I figured this was going to be the case. YouTube
visitors converted 3.2 times the rate of paid ad visitors. Almost a 60% conversion rate versus a 20% form submission rate. Makes sense. They're watching videos like this. And
Claude will actually do a full breakdown of everything and make it look really pretty for you to be able to analyze and share with your team, too. This is how many paid ad visits
we had. This is how many YouTube visits we had. The average length, the average scroll depth. again, YouTube. Again, that's why I'm a huge bullish on like make long form and do ads
together, but we can see the difference between both of these. So, really, really fascinating. Highly, highly suggest you guys getting this tool, plugging this in, and using it.
And uh yeah, I hope this video helps. If you guys like this, smash the subscribe button for more videos like this. And if Join my free Skool comminity you guys want help learning
how to launch and scale Facebook ads in 2026 and beyond, I'll have a link down below to join my school community where I walk through how to set up ads the right way. We have three
different funnels that we have people go through and you'll go to a funnel that looks like this. And guess what? There'll be a heat map on that page and I will be analyzing what
you do. Okay? So go check it out and if you guys have any questions of me, hit me up inside the school group. All right? Peace y'all. Yeah, there. Okay, start there. This is the
hook. Yeah, pan down. Okay, today we're talking about the three things that we do every day in marketing that got us from $500 to blah blah blah blah. We're almost at $20 million a
year now. We're just a couple of steps away. And I was thinking about this in the shower and I was thinking if I could boil our actions down into three things with marketing, what
would those three things be? [Music] So since the start of the business, we have only ever done three things in our marketing. This is really a recipe for going from $500 to $20
million. Just focusing on these things time and time again, getting better at them, and drawing the audience closer and closer and closer through these three types of content.
We're going to go through each one and then we're going to pull it all together at the end. So, um, the other part that's going to happen is you're just going to have to come with
me in the day. Like, you're just going to have to flow with me in the day. So, it's not all going to be sitting down and being in front of a whiteboard. I'm going to be teaching
you this on the fly as I go through the day. [Music] So, you're going to sell me this record player later, huh? Well, I'm trying. The best one you've ever had in there. Best one.
All right, I'm coming in. You coming in? Yeah. [Music] So, what we're looking at here is a state-of-the-art diagram of a calendar month. Your marketing strategy, whatever you're
doing, no matter how small you are or how big you are, you're going to have to fill these days with content. Content meaning emails, social ads, blah blah blah blah. What type of
content do you put into your marketing strategy? Meaning, what are you actually executing and scheduling to make your business hum to give yourself the highest chance to connect
with people and then to convert people? That's what we're talking about. What we want to do for you is make this really simple. So, the first thing that you're going to think about
in your content, and we're all thinking about it all the time, is sales. So, there's going to be in our state-of-the-art diagram throughout your calendar for social, for email, for
everything, you're going to have sales content that drops here. The thing that you're aiming for at all times is the sales content. It's not what you're doing the most of, but it's
always what you're leading up to because that's when you're profiting off the relationship that you're building. You want to keep this stuff as simple as possible. Percentage off,
free shipping, buy one get one, bundle and save, dollar amount off. So, number one, keep it simple. Number two, create a reason why you're running the sale, which is almost as
important as the offer itself. This is appealing to the logical part of the brain of your audience. If we see an offer and there's not a good reason why, we don't quite logically
justify it. It's only half of the story that you need for good sales content. What it does for the customer is they feel something and then second they need to justify it in their
mind so that their emotions and their logic is in alignment and then that's when they will usually buy something from you. So great reason why we've got some examples calendar date
over ordered stock woke up feeling frisky. The third step to good sales content is a respectful cadence, which means you don't want to send too many sales campaigns. You don't want
to do too much sales content because otherwise your audience is going to feel like they're being clubbed in the face with a bat that says sales on it. They're just getting clubbed
in the face and they're like, I'm out of here. I don't want to deal with these guys. All they do is keep asking me for money. So, you want to tow the line between what's optimal
for your business in the short term and what's optimal for your business in the long term. We've found that doing two offers a month is great. You have offer reminder and then
you're not going to do another one until down here. What do you put in here? Like what type of content do you put throughout the rest of the time in the calendar so that you can
build relationship? And I think the easiest way to do that is [Music] So in between sales stuff, that's when you want to drop your educational content. Education equals value.
Value to your audience equals useful. Useful means connection between you and customer is increasing and that's giving you authority. When you have authority and people look to you
for answers, that's when you start to develop trust. And trust is what you need for a transaction. And the easiest way to do that is to think of all of your educational content as
a list. A listical is a list. It's like Buzzfeed used to do back in the day where it was seven ways to raise your son so that he doesn't become a communist or whatever. Three steps
to XY Z, whatever it is. If you think about that from a creative point of view, you don't have to title your stuff as a listical, but it allows you to outline in a sequence which
makes sense to the audience, which keeps you creating on a straight line. If you're um educating somebody on your manufacturing process, again, it's a sequencing of events. If
you're teaching somebody how to shoot a basketball, you know, get your legs balanced, bend down, strain your elbow, flick your wrist, it's it's a listical, but all you need to
think about as a brand is like what are the problems that your brand solves? And now what does the audience need to know before they see your product as the best possible thing to
solve the problem that they have? And that's where the edu comes from. That's why you give away free game to your audience because you're building their knowledge of what they need
so that they see value in your product and they see you as an authority and they trust you. Transaction becomes easy. So now when you have your edu content plugging out before your
offer, your offer converts that much better because the edu content pre-frame them. Okay, so the next thing the next thing we're going to talk about is the ignition to everything.
What was your best performing Helsinki ad? It was a founder ad. Yeah, it was a story of my experience with selling prints and it educated people. It It ripped it up, man. It It
killed it. [Music] What's up, Big G? Hey, [Music] looks like low car. [Music] Mark saying that it's a tax right off if it's here. Y rematch. Yeah. Cool. Next time we'll do a um
next time we'll get a 2-minute section of you. I'll just ask you some questions about running the running the business. [Music] You know, storytelling is a real cheat code. It is
the absolute best skill that you can learn if you want to make your business grow. We talked about offers. We talked about education and listicles. And the beautiful part about
