you know, either instant forms or a landing page. So either website or instant forms performance goal, we have maximum number of conversions and maximum value of conversions. These
are the only two ones that you know that you should really be using. Maximum number of conversions, that's the algorithm is going to try to get you as many sales as possible. Uh if
you do maximum value, it's not going to try to get you as many sales as possible. It's going to try to get you the most valuable sales possible. So if you're an e-commerce brand,
then bigger AOV orders, basically. uh but you know generally is trying to find you. What it says here is we'll show your ads to people most likely to generate higher value for your
business. So basically higher AOV. Here's your pixel. You choose your pixel here. Conversion event. I always choose purchase or if I'm doing lead genen, I'm always doing like the
deepest stage in the funnel as I can. Uh I, you know, if I'm not getting enough volume, I may move up the funnel sometimes, but generally I try not to. um cost per result. If you
wanted to do that, you could here. Um it's not letting me now because I don't have it set right here. If I would have chosen this here, it would let me do it here. Excuse me. Here.
Value rules. This is going to be basically a um it's a new feature and it allows you to bid higher for certain uh demographics or age groups and stuff like that. So you can see I
can choose age, gender, device, mobile operating system, location or placement. And let's say for example, I wanted to bid more on um like a an older audience. I could do that. And
then I can increase my bid by say 100%. And then now this ad set is going to target or bid higher for these uh age ranges. It's a useful thing. I personally like to do this now
more than limiting my age range. I don't like to limit the algorithm that much these days. Uh attribution model. You can do standard or incremental. This is a brand new feature.
It's out. It's been out for I don't know 6 months or or so. But basically, if you do incremental, this is going to try to uh it's going to use a newer attribution model that its
goal is to predict whether the ad causes the sale or not. So, it's going to try to make the ads cause the sale and not take credit for any of these uh like one day view conversions
and stuff like that. So, generally, nine times out of 10, I'm using standard budget and schedule. Generally, best practice, set this up for a day in the future. Start it early in
the morning uh local time for the ad account. Uh but also keep in mind the time zone that you are working in audience. So notice we have advantage plus on here. You can also notice
up here on the top right since we're using campaign budget the budget advantage plus setting is on. Audience if you have this on that means advantage plus audience is on.
Placements is down here. We'll talk about that in a second. So audience um generally I am not messing with this anymore. I used to a lot but nowadays the algorithm is really really
good. It finds people based on your creative and your copy. So um what I like to do in most cases is just leave this completely alone. Just choose the right um countries that I
want to include and then literally don't touch it at all. Like I don't do minimum age really. In some cases I might but generally I don't. Um, I don't really mess with this. Like,
if you have good ads that are very clear and specific, they will find the right people automatically. So, I try not to mess with that. Um, now, if you want to do some exclusions,
you can add that here. So, for example, if you wanted to exclude purchasers, you could exclude them right here. Um, generally, I don't do that. It just really depends on the
situation. If it's something that like you're selling something that people can buy multiple times or you know you want to have past customers comment on your ads for example, I
won't exclude them. And you'll notice that it doesn't really spend all that much uh in most cases towards your existing customers. Um you know unless you're doing some explicit
retargeting. So um this is advantage plus audience. So generally it's just going to use AI to find put the ad in front of the right person. Now you can give it suggestions. So in
detail targeting if you wanted to give it suggestions you could. But again this is a suggestion. So it's going to expand past whatever you put in here. Now I personally don't use
interest all that much with um with advantage plus on. Now in some cases I do. Let's say if you know broad is not working, I might try this and throw some interest in there and try
to point the algorithm in the right direction. I think that is useful. Um, but you know, it's not my go-to anymore. I rather just, you know, be more clear and specific in my
creative. So, when I do want to do interest, let's say broad is not working at all in an ad account. Maybe it's a brand new ad account. It just it can't find its way. Then I will
do this. I'll click further limit the reach of my ads. I'll click further limit. Continue. And then here is where I will actually limit the dem demographics a bit. Uncheck this.
And then now I have turned off advantage plus. So this is the old algorithm. It's going to treat your inputs in here much more like a parameter than a uh say a suggestion. So it's
not going to expand past what you put as much. So you know when I use interest generally I'm doing it like this. Now, you know, I would say that this this works um especially on
smaller ad accounts, but ultimately I'm trying to move towards just not limiting the algorithm at all, just giving the full rain to the algorithm and let it do its thing. Um, you
can also add, you know, if you wanted to do lookalikes in here, for example, you can add your look alikes in here. Um, I really only do this if broad is not working, though. Um,
that's really it for the audience section. One last little uh bit is the only other time I turn off advantage plus audience is if I want to do retargeting. And so let's say I
wanted to do retargeting. Um, what we do is, you know, we just set our country. We set it to uh just 18 to 65. This still looks like it's on for a second, but then I'm going to add
my retargeting audiences. So, let's just say I wanted to add my like engagers, for example. You have to uncheck this. And then you'll see it turns off again. Advantage plus is off.
And then you have to make sure that it says narrow. Uh if you have this use as a suggestion, it's going to expand past these warm audiences into cold traffic. So, it's not really
retargeting if you have this on this this check. If this is on, you see it says broad. It's going to expand past. It's going to start here, but then go past. But if you uncheck it,
it's truly going to just only show your ads to my Facebook engagers, followers, and uh whatever custom audiences you put in here. So, that's really important to note. Generally,
I'm not messing with genders that much unless it's like a it's like super clear only women buy it or only men buy it. Even still, I I don't because it will usually spend towards
the right gender. Anyways, uh languages I'm generally not doing it if it's English, but if I'm doing other languages, I do put the specific language that I'm working in. Ads
transparency, you don't really have to worry about uh unless you're advertising in certain countries like uh Taiwan, I think, and some other countries, you actually do have to put
who the ads are coming from. So, you click there and choose your u your business or you might have to fill out some information and then put it there. Now, placements. The only
thing that I really I normally do advantage plus placements and I just leave it alone. But you can do the breakdown like I showed you earlier and see if there's a specific
placement that's like giving you the best results and then you can only do say Facebook and Instagram. You can exclude certain placements. Audience network is garbage. Um generally
that's where all the bots live on meta. So I try to exclude that uh whenever I can. So now, like I said, most of the time I'm doing I just leave it on. Um, however, if I notice
that I'm getting bot traffic, I will exclude this one. Um, I'm not really doing a lot of manual placements these days. Like, I just find that Meta gives you a better CPM if you
don't limit the algorithm. I just like to leave it all on and I get the lowest CPM. CPM is your market rate. If if you don't know, that's your market rate for advertising your cost
per,000 impressions or to get on a thousand phones. So, um you can see here it's starting to warn me. Now, that brings another good point. These recommendations, 99% of them don't
really give you better results. Like it says, oh, you can get better results, 9.5% better results if you turn this on. It's not always the case, okay? So, just follow your gut,
follow what works, follow the data, and just ignore like literally all the recommendations in the ads manager. Ignore the meta reps. Um, they don't know what they're talking about.
Just be very careful. Uh, and just follow your gut and the data and you're going to have a lot better time. Um, so yeah, generally I'm not messing with any of this stuff, okay? I
just I will do uh automatic placements and I will just kind of leave it at that. Just like that. All right. And then once I'm done here, I will just name the ad set exactly all the
settings that I chose. So I know it's at a glance, it's very clear what it is. So, you know, in this case, you can see, let's just say hypothetically I was optimizing for max
value. Um, it looks like I'm doing retargeting here. Super hypothetical example. I probably wouldn't do it like this, but just for um just for the sake of this example, you can see
I'm I'm optimizing for maximum value. Um and I'm doing retargeting here. And then maybe I'll say advantage Ad Level plus placements. This means middle of funnel retargeting. I'm
basically just retargeting all my Facebook and Instagram engagers. All right, let's get to the ad level. This is this is uh the fun part. This is where the AI enhancements come in.
Um uh cool. So here you just choose your page. Nice and easy. So create ad. This is nine times out of 10 what I'm using, but you can also use existing posts, which is really nice.
Um notice I just unchecked multi-advertiser ads. That's just out of a habit. Uh, essentially what this is is if you've ever been scrolling on Instagram reels, for example, you'll
see like a block of four ads. That's going to be what that is. It's it's going to cram and crop your ad into the space with other ads that are of a similar business. You know, Meta
argues that you'll get in front of more high intent people that are looking at ads. I just don't like my ads getting cropped and put in the same space as another ad. I don't like
roommates. You know, I prefer to just have this off. So, that's generally what I do. I uncheck that. So, let's say we're using an existing post. You can come down here, select
post, and then you can choose from your Facebook posts, your Instagram post. This is what a lot of people refer to as like boosting posts, but this is like the more legit way of
doing it. Okay. Um, you're actually running a sales campaign, but just using existing content from your Facebook or Instagram. Um, now another thing to know, which is, you know, I
didn't mention, but it's very important, is partnership ads. So you can hire creators to like post content for your business and then you know basically run their content from
their Instagram or Facebook as ads and the beauty of that is it will actually tap into the organic reach of that partner. So it is a super powerful uh thing. Uh you can click
select partnership here and you can invite people. So, if you click add partnership up here, you can actually search like literally anybody on Instagram um and then send them a
request. It comes to them in their um Instagram notifications. Once they accept, you can actually run ads as them or in partnership with them. What they need to do is they post a
piece of content. You just grab the URL from that piece of content, either the Facebook post or the Instagram post, and then you can run it as an ad and it will show. Let's just
for example um you can see it will look something like this. Uh hold on. It will look something like this where it's like your business and another business are working together
and it it has this like social proof aspect too of it being two businesses working together on an ad. So that's something very important to know. Once you have a partnership in
place like they've accepted it, you click add code here and then you just drop the URL in here of the post and then it will populate and you can run it as an existing post. So
that's basically all you need to know about using an existing post. Uh aside from that, you just, you know, you pick the post. You got to pick a call to action button. So let's
just say uh shop now and then you put your URL in here. Um couple other things. So when you use an existing post, you cannot edit the primary text in the ads manager. So, um,
actually you need to edit the post before you, you know, you run it as an ad. So, make sure that that is all in order before you do that. Um, what else? Couple other things.
Browser add-ons. I don't really use this. I've messed with WhatsApp a little bit, but again, I want people to just take one action on my ad, so I don't like to distract them with
other options. So, I generally have this off. I don't use this. Um, the promo stuff I again I don't really use it that much. I don't like to use it. I think it's a bit distracting
and it's like a popup on the ad is not great. Advantage plus creative enhancements. I'll just save you the time and tell you turn all this stuff off. Generally, these bottom two,
maybe I'll keep them on, but a lot of the times I'm turning all of these off. I find them to you lose control of the way your ad looks and feels and it just generally does not help
the performance from my experience. Creative testing. This is a brand new feature. I don't use it. Down here, I'll put my UTM parameters. Uh, which is how you can it adds basically
a slug to the end of your URL. So, if somebody clicks, you know, you can choose the, you know, campaign, ad set, and ad ID here. These are dynamic, and they'll be updated by these
uh the names of your campaign, adset, and ad in the slug. So, you know like where things are coming from. So, that's very useful. Good to know. good to use. That's everything for
setting up a existing post. So now let's go to excuse me, let's go to creating an ad and we'll wrap this video up here shortly. So here manual upload is what you want to choose. If
you're running uh catalog ads or people often refer to them as DPAs or dynamic product cataloges, you can choose this and then just choose your catalog set and then you can use
those like carousels with your products inside. It's really useful for e-commerce. Um in this case, I don't have it. In this specific ad account, I don't have a catalog. So, I'm
just going to move to a different ad account here so you can see what it looks like for a dynamic product catalog because that ad account didn't have a catalog. But if you uh you
choose catalog, so in this case, I do have it turned on on the campaign level. You can see I chose the catalog here. And then once I'm down here in the ad level, you can see I have
chosen the website URL. And then here I have my bestseller uh product catalog. And you can see over on the right, it's going to scroll through all the different products. Very
useful feature. You can edit just one primary text here, call to action button. And you can see I have all my enhancements off. So dynamic product cataloges are very powerful. I
highly recommend them for e-commerce. Yeah. Let's continue on to a manual campaign and we'll look at uh dynamic product cataloges later. So, you have to set your your URL here. Uh
this personalized destinations, click edit, turn all this crap off. It's not useful. Um optimize website destination. This will send your traffic to random pages on your website.
Don't recommend that. Shop Uh this is if you want to send people to basically like an Instagram or Facebook shop be you know instead of your website. They deprecated checkouts or
they took away the ability for people to check out uh recently on that. So I don't think that's worth it. Browser add-ons. I don't like that one either. This is just going to um
add some additional ways to contact you like WhatsApp or like calls and stuff. So I don't recommend that either. Here's your you're going to, you know, set up your creative. So,
this page is like the bane of my existence. You got to turn this off. Uh I don't like to use the promo codes that often. You know, sometimes I do for um certain e-commerce, like if
you're doing like a 10% email or something, but I don't know. I just rather people I don't want meta like doing a popup before people get to the website. Like it will load your
website, but then have a popup in front of it. And it's kind of I rather just use my native popup. Um, branding. This is for the AI features to create creatives for you based on
like your branding. So, I don't use this site links. This is uh a terrible feature in my opinion and it will add little links below your ad and it will go to, you know, different
parts of your website. So maybe it'll send people to the privacy policy or to um you know other places that you don't want to send people. So I generally like to turn this off. So
if you want to turn everything off, you just got to come up to edit sources, take off the source URL and then hit next. Then you can choose your creative. Make sure that you are
paying attention to you know choosing original one by one, vertical or horizontal. Um, this is going to be square is going to be for your, you know, your feed placements on like
the phone or Instagram. Vertical is going to be for like reels and stuff like that. And then horizontal is like the right panel on a desktop. You know, your search results and
stuff like that. So, I like to make my creatives be 9 by6 with all the content inside a one by one square. Do need to pay attention to the safe zones to make sure that your ad's
not getting covered up by anything. Um, so generally I leave it like this. Next, primary text, that's going to be the long text on your ad. Headline, that's going to be a short,
punchy uh text. And then description, I usually do like urgency, scarcity, those types of things. Shop now is going to be uh your call to action button. I don't use any of these.
Image generation, this video generation is literally brand new. It's still in beta, as you can see. I don't use it. Enhancements, I literally turn everything off. I don't recommend
using most of them. I would say hover over the little eye and read them for yourselves and see what makes sense for you in your situation. Okay. So, you can see up here test is
going to be at the top of the ad. the the primary text is generally the at the top of the ad on a Facebook feed and the bottom main text on an Instagram post. Headline is going to
be, you know, below an ad on Facebook and it is kind of like the bolded text. On Instagram, it doesn't even show up. Uh, and description is going to be this bottom text underneath
the bolded text. On a Facebook post, on a Facebook ad on Instagram, it doesn't even show up. So, the main thing that I optimize for is like the first sentence of the primary text,
uh, and the headline. Those are the main things that I care about. I try to make the first sentence of the primary text like a very punchy attentiongrabbing thing, and then I draw
people in to the longer copy. I like to put my long copy in the primary text, short punchy copy and headline, and then uh like just tags, you know, like limited time offer or
limited availability, those types of things. Enable text per person. I do try to turn this off. So, you click try it out. Relevant comments. You have to turn off basically all of
these in order to get uh enable text per person. What this does is it'll flip-flop your text, your primary text, your headline, your description, uh, dynamically, which is not
smart if you are using, you know, if you're writing your copy properly. If you're doing nice long form copy in the primary text, short punchy headline and headline, and then a tags
in the description, you start flipping all that stuff around, you lose control of your ad. So, I like to turn that off. You have to turn off all the enhancements in order to do
that. Call to action button. I never use this AB feature. Um, and then the parameters. So, that is basically everything I wanted to cover. This video is a ended up being longer
than I expected. Um, but I hope that was valuable for you. There's obviously a lot going on inside the ads manager and it's always changing. So, if you're looking for a place to
stay on top of all this stuff, I recommend that you join my group. Thanks so much, and I'll see you in the next one. All right, you guys. That's it for today's video. If you got
value from that, please drop a like. It really helps the algorithm, helps me out. Uh, send the video to somebody that you think would benefit from it, and I'll see you in the next
one. Take care. In this video, I'm breaking down the new way that we're running Facebook ads in 2026 that is absolutely crushing it. Me and my agency are working with nearly 100
brands ranging from six, seven, and even 8 figures a month. And in the last few months, we've all seen Meta completely change their algorithm. So, by the end of this video, you'll
know exactly what's changed, the exact systems that we're using, the features, the settings that have changed so that you can copy and paste this into your ad accounts and your
businesses to actually scale profitably in 2026. So, starting at the very top here, the most important thing we need to understand when we're starting an account or if we're
building on a very large account already is the core of the account we want to happen in a single prospecting CBO campaign. Prospecting CBO when we go inside the campaign settings
is focused on a campaign budget and typically has a highest volume or value campaign bid strategy. There are some cases where we're running cost per results or bid caps, but for
the most part, highest volume or value is where we're focused. We also want to make sure audience segment reporting are fully set up. This is something that was introduced two
years ago and I'm still seeing accounts that don't have this done properly. Now, inside this prospecting CBO, you'll notice on my screen here that I have a whole lot of adsets. We
have 68 different packs of adsets, some of which are paused, some of which are active, that have run over just this month alone. The big takeaway that I want everyone to have here
is that every time we launch new creatives, we launch them in a new pack. And you can see I literally name this broad pack 68, new creatives. I date the exact date that the
creatives were launched. And then we also add in whether they're videos, statics, if there's anything special going on. This is all the way down the board for every single pack
that we create all year. This creates a hyperco competitive environment in our ad account. It forces the ads to compete against one another so that they fight for our budget so the
best ads rise to the top, get the most amount of spend, and get you the most conversions. Now, here's where the trickery begins. This is the new versus the old. A brand new feature
that came out in the middle of 2025 that was nowhere near ready to come out was value rules. And now I'm really bullish on value rules because they've gotten better and better in
just the last couple months. Value rules essentially are a new feature that allow us to create rule sets for different optimization systems based on outcomes that Facebook can't
see like lifetime value. What we have to do to create these is click create a new rule set and then we could actually define by different criteria. And just to give everyone a very
simple example of this, let's say you know on your back end that when men buy your product, they're 50% more likely to come back and buy a second time versus women who, let's say,
are less likely to come back. So, what you can do is click on gender here. Select your gender. In this case, we'll go men. And we will increase our bid by that specific criteria to
either bid higher or lower. A fantastic example of where I'm seeing this work really well right now is locations, specifically full countries. This is allowing us to group together
more and more countries in the exact same campaign and downgrade the bid. I'll give an example here. If you're bidding in the United States and a bunch of other countries, and the
United States being one of the biggest consumer markets is eating up a lot of that spend and low on your return on ad spend, then you could just go ahead and decrease the bid here
by something like 10%. You don't need to listen to my exact recommendation for 10%, 50%, 90%, whatever. Just do this in small increments and see how it impacts your spend. We have
seen this be tremendously helpful in balancing out our return on ad spends. This is one of the most granular rules that goes completely against the ethos of full automation. This
is great for us advertisers. Now, the second part of the adset settings that is fully changed and is completely changing in both my strategy and functionality is first Facebook
introduced percentage value. What this allows you to do is set a as percentage value maximum or minimum ad set budget. This is so perfect for CBOS where one adset is hogging up all
the spend cuz now what we can do is we can change the daily average maximum or minimum to a certain percentage. This means that as we scale, we don't need to worry about this being
a hard number. It'll just be 10% or 30% or 40%. On the contrary, because this is now available, a lot of our accounts are having maximums and minimums. So, we're kind of creating
these little CBOs within the CBO. Now, the way that we're using this is we're setting average daily minimums in dollar values equal to one time the target CPA. So, if my target CPA
is $50, I'm literally entering $50 in here. We're only doing this for ranges of seven maximum 10 days. And then after that, we're removing this. So, we'll just literally unselect
it like so. And then allow the campaign to run freely. This really just ensures that all creative has a fair chance. I think this is very helpful. and it's been around for a while,
but now with the introduction of the percentage on the other side, we have more toggles to play with, which I think is very helpful. Perhaps the biggest addition, which is the
single addition that I am most happy about in basically all of 2025 heading into 2026. In April of 2025, Facebook introduces incremental return on ad spend. Now, any new adset on
the highest volume strategy, specifically running a performance goal of maximize number of conversions, can go down to their attribution model and click standard or incremental. If
you select incremental, you'll now see your attribution setting is incremental. What incremental means is that it's only focused on conversions that happened because of Facebook.
This means that it doesn't care about sliding in at the last second and showing an ad to someone who is going to purchase anyway. This is truly a model defined for acquiring net
new customers for the business. The coolest part is even if you don't use this strategy like in the account or campaign that I'm showing right now, which is using traditional 7-day
click one day view, what you can do instead is go to your columns, go to compare attribution settings, click incremental attribution, and click apply. And once you do this, you're
going to see your drop off in total number of purchases, which we can see here is 1,474 to,300, which is the incremental purchases. This is a really good ratio that I have in front
of me from nearly 1500 to 1300. It's a very small drop off from 7-day click to incremental. Some brands are going to see a huge huge drop off. And if you do, that might be one of
your signs to actually run more incremental conversions on its own as the primary objective for Facebook. Now, as we move to the ad level, the big question comes up. What about
Andromeda? Andromeda was probably the biggest shift in the algorithm that we've seen in probably the last 5 years plus. And it makes a staple point for us to make sure that we're
changing our creative strategy. And that's exactly why every big brand in the world is increasing their creative volume, their total output. You can see Gap here at the beginning
of the year was running 135 or 145 ads. By the end of the year, right now, active in their account, they're running 6,546 active ads. If we go to a brand like Gruns that was
actually known for running a ton of creative at the beginning of the year, where they started the year with,00 active ads, they ended this year at 7,580 active ads. And the
craziest part is you could go down the list and put in any successful brand and you won't see one single brand decelerating in creative. Take Nike for example, was starting the
year at 1,200 ads. They ended the year at a whopping 23,000 ads. Or Maidwell, who actually just started the year with somewhere around 6050 ads. At their lowest, they only had a
total of 21 ads active. They ended the year with 653 active ads. The list literally goes on and on. You cannot find a single successful brand that decelerated their ad volume. And
that's because the algorithm changed. How it used to work is you would set your audience and you would select a bunch of creatives that you want to be delivered to that audience.
You'd usually group that in an adset or a campaign and then you'd go on your merry way and know that these creatives are being attacked or hit on this audience. But what changed so
drastically with Andromeda is that it now works in a concept driven way where you have a single concept which acts as the targeting mechanism to find the audience. So instead of
having a bunch of audiences with groups of creatives like so what you now have is a variety of different concepts and these concepts all go out to serve to different audiences. So
what naturally happens is one concept might be capable of getting you a 3x return on ad spend at $50,000. But concept two might be able to get you a six return on ad spend but only
spend $3,000. And then concept three might only be able to spend $100, but might get you a 9x return on ad spend. Now, old school Facebook would have said, "I should try to spend
more money here. I should try to spend more money here." New Andromeda says, "All of these are valuable. Keep this one active. Keep this one active. And keep this one active." As
long as your baseline is over a 3x, allow them all to spend. This is not a bidding war like it used to be. So, what are you supposed to do potentially as a small business owner or
even a medium-sized brand that's trying to scale rapidly? How could you possibly compete with something like Maidwell who went from 50 active ads to 600 or Nike that went from
1,200 to 23,000? Sounds absurd. It's actually not too complicated. It's just a repeated system that scales in time. Let me show you exactly how it works. So, the first thing we
need to understand is what is a concept. What I have on my screen here is a few examples from Yeti. This is going to differ from brand to brand, but I'm hoping I can get that point
across really quickly for you. You can see each of these three concepts have slightly varying themes. They might carry the same fonts, the same offers, but they're different. They
feel different. Think about it like this. You know for a fact that there's one of these three that you individually react better to. I could tell you very simply concept number two
I would react the best to it where I don't really react well to UGC and very boring statics I also don't react too well to however some people are different some people actually
only buy by seeing UGC which we have down here and some people only buy by seeing products on flats like very boring backgrounds while each of these vary in iterations because we
have different iterations the concept is generally the same and who reacts to A over here versus B versus C is all going to be pretty much similar in audience. So our new job on
Facebook is not to constantly create new concepts which everyone is saying to do that does not actually work. Our new job is to find a concept and when that concept works run it
until the wheels fall off. A concept just like I'm showing in AB and C here can be reproduced over and over and over and over and over and over again. The point of all of these
concepts is that you can create iterations of these concepts. They don't need to be massively different every single time. Anyone that's telling you they need to be massively
different every single time, I want to give a really honest warning. They're probably trying to sell you creative services. You don't need different concepts every time. Here's
just straight proof of that. Take the example we were just using earlier, Made Well. Do these look like they're similar? Of course they do. There's three ads, four ads, five ads,
six. The list goes on and on. They're all iterations. Every major brand, there's Nike right here with four right in front of me, another two, three, these are all just iterations.
And it's not only acceptable, but it's actually optimal. This is what I recommend for the accounts that we run. So, don't think you need to reinvent the wheel every single week.
Now, what you do need to do every single week to grow your account every single week is again not that complicated. You start with launching creatives every single week. You wait 7
to 14 days. You just give those creatives some time. You analyze those creatives based on incremental attribution, which we went through earlier. You brief the winners, meaning you
try to figure out what are the core components of my winning ads. How can I create more of them? Just like the examples I showed you. And then through an outside source like Magic
Brief or Facebook Ads Library, which are both completely free for doing this, you source your competitor concepts. You steal from your competitors. You think, "How can I make that
for myself?" You take that template. You take that concept and you go ahead and you create a bunch of ads. And then guess what? You launch that creative and you do that every
single week over and over and over and over again. That's how you compete with the biggest brands. Now, if what I've just shared is opening up your mind to what's about to happen
in 2026, then I want to advise you on two very important things. First, the exact system that I shared with you is what we do all day every day at the Moonlighters. So, if you are
a fit to work with us and you actually want to scale your brand, click down below to apply. It takes a minute. Worst case, you take a 15-minute call and we're not a fit to work
together. best case, you're one of the 100 plus brands that we've worked with in just the last year alone, scaling profitably. And two, if you're not quite at that size where you
need agency level services, I've just reopened the doors to the Facebook ads blueprint, which is my paid ads community in school. This is where you get access to me, my team,
basically all my friends and resources. You can click the link down below. Introduction हमारे तीन अलग-अलग इंडस्ट्री के क्लाइंट्स का रोआज़ 2X से 5X कब पहुंच गया पता ही नहीं चला। एंड
हमने सबके ऐड अकाउंट्स में सिर्फ एक छोटा सा चेंज किया। ज्यादातर बिजनेस ओनर्स और मार्केटर्स ना मेटा पर एड्स रन तो कर लेते हैं लेकिन इस एक छोटे से फीचर का यूज ही नहीं कर रहे हैं एंड
जिस कारण वो बहुत ही सारी चीजें मिस आउट कर रहे हैं। तो आज मैं वही सेम चीज डिकोड करने वाली हूं। और इस चीज का यूज़ करके आप भी अपने रोआज़ को शूट अप कर सकते हो विद नो टाइम। तो टाइम
बिल्कुल वेस्ट नहीं करते हैं। स्टोरी के साथ स्टार्ट करके एंड करेंगे। जहां पर मैं पूरा प्रोसेस भी बताऊंगी कि आप एक्चुअली में इसे कैसे कर सकते हो। तो लेट्स गेट स्ट्रेट इंटू द वीडियो।
अब देखो आज के टाइम पर अगर आपका Why are ads not giving results? छोटा बिजनेस हो, बड़ा बिजनेस हो या फिर आप कुछ भी चीज ऑपरेट कर रहे हो तो आप इन्फ्लुएंसरर मार्केटिंग क्रिएटर के साथ
कोलैबोरेशन जरूर से करते हो। भले ही आप वो किसी माइक्रो क्रिएटर के साथ कर रहे हो। वो मैक हो या फिर 1 मिलियन फॉलोइंग वाला हो। अब यूजुअली यहां पर सबसे बड़ी गलती क्या होती है? आप उनसे
वीडियो तो बनवा लेते हो और ज्यादा से ज्यादा उस वीडियो को कैसे यूज़ करते हो? पहले या तो आप उसे अपने Instagram पर एज अ कोलैबोरेशन पोस्ट कर देते हो ताकि उनकी ऑर्गेनिक रीच आपके वीडियो
पर दिखे एंड दूसरा या तो आप उस स्पेसिफिक वीडियो को उठाकर अपने एड्स पर रन करते हो और यह दिमाग में सोच कर चलते हो कि उसकी अच्छी ऑर्गेनिक फॉलोइंग है तो इससे मुझे अच्छी सेल्स या फिर
अच्छी लीड्स आएंगी। पर यहां पर आपको ना इसका बैक एंड समझने की बहुत ज्यादा जरूरत है। आज के टाइम पर ना इंडिया में क्रिएटर्स की कमी बिल्कुल भी नहीं है और मल्टीपल लोग हैं जो कंटेंट
क्रिएट कर रहे हैं। अब आपकी जो ऑडियंस है वो डेफिनेटली हर एक क्रिएटर को तो नहीं जानती है ना। मान लो आपने किसी एक क्रिएटर से वीडियो बनवाई जिसके 20,000 फॉलोअर्स हैं और उसको ऐड पर रन
करना स्टार्ट कर दिया। अब कई ऐसी ऑडियंस आपकी होगी जो जानती ही नहीं होगी कि वो क्रिएटर है कौन? तो जो दिमाग में आपका माइंडसेट था कि यह ऑर्गेनिक वीडियो अच्छी परफॉर्म की है तो एड्स में
भी अच्छी परफॉर्म करेगी। वो पूरी तरीके से डिनाई हो जाती है बिकॉज़ आपकी ऑडियंस उस क्रिएटर को जानती नहीं है। और ऐसी सिचुएशनंस में जो बड़े-बड़े ब्रांड्स हैं ना वो सिर्फ एक चीज का यूज
करके बहुत सही तरीके से एड्स रन कर ले जाते हैं। अब मैं आपको एग्जैक्टली शोकेस करूंगी वो कैंपेन स्ट्रक्चर जिससे हमारे क्लाइंट का रस भी बहुत ज्यादा अच्छा हुआ है। देखो What are
Partnership ads? यहां पर बेसिकली हम एड्स मैनेजर पर आएंगे। आपका जो भी ऑब्जेक्टिव है वो चूज़ कर लो और आप जैसे नॉर्मली अपना कैंपेन सेटअप करते हो जो भी आप ऐड सेट लेवल पे चेंजेस करते हो
वो सारी चीजें कर लो एंड हम जो मेजर चेंजेस करेंगे वो करेंगे अपने ऐड लेवल पर। यहां पर आपको एक ऑप्शन दिखता है पार्टनरशिप ऐड का। अभी जैसे आपको स्क्रीन पर जो एग्जांपल्स दिख रहे हैं ना
जो ऐड चल रहे हैं इन कोलैबोरेशन विद द क्रिएटर उसे हम पार्टनरशिप ऐड कहते हैं। इसका मतलब यह है कि आपका बिजनेस और वो जो क्रिएटर का अकाउंट है उसके साथ मर्ज हो के ये कोलैबोरेटिव ऐड रन हो
रहा है। अब देखो इसका सबसे बड़ा फायदा क्या होता है? आप क्रिएटर्स के साथ कोलैबोरेट करने में कुछ मार्केटिंग में स्पेंड करते होगे और उसे आप सही तरीके से यूटिलाइज नहीं कर पाते हो। आप
किसी भी क्रिएटर के साथ काम कर रहे हो। मान लो आप कोई नॉर्मल 4000 5000 फॉलोइंग वाले के साथ भी यूजीसी वीडियो बनवा रहे हो तो आप उसे एज अ पार्टनरशिप ऐड भी रन कर सकते हो। अब उससे फायदा
क्या होता है? आपका बिजनेस और उनका अकाउंट साथ में उस ऐड में दिखता है और सामने वाली ऑडियंस दोनों पर क्लिक करके उनके अकाउंट पर जा सकती है और यहां पर आपको सबसे ज्यादा बेनिफिट मिलता है
उनकी ऑर्गेनिक फॉलोइंग का जहां पर वो जाकर देख सकते हैं कि यह बंदा जिसने वीडियो बनाई है यह है कौन? तो सपोज करो आपका नया बिजनेस है। आपके ज्यादा Instagram पर फॉलोवरर्स नहीं है। आपको
ट्रस्टेबिलिटी गेन करने में थोड़ी बहुत डिफिकल्टी हो रही है। तो आप इस टाइप के एड्स रन करके अपनी ट्रस्टेबिलिटी और क्रेडिबिलिटी अपनी ऑडियंस के सामने बड़े ही प्रॉपर्ली इनक्रीस कर सकते
हो। अब पार्टनरशिप एड्स होते क्या है? ये तो आप समझ गए हो। अब दूसरा क्वेश्चन आता है कि पार्टनरशिप ऐड रन किए कैसे जाते हैं? अब देखो यहां पर आपको पार्टनरशिप ऐड का ऑप्शन दिख तो रहा है
लेकिन इसे आप सही तरीके से How to Run Partnership Ads यूज़ कैसे करते हो? उसके बारे में बात करते हैं। सबसे पहले इसे आपको स्विच ऑन करना है। अब आप ना पार्टनरशिप ऐड दो अलग-अलग तरीकों से
