duplicate anytime you have ads that don't do anything in your CBO. You just duplicate that adset into the zombie campaign. You turn it on and you let Facebook see if it cooks. And
we just let this run in the background. Some of your ads won't get any spend. Some of them will get spend. We've noticed that this can add anywhere from like 10% in spend to
sometimes 20% in spend just by having this zombie cost per result goal. And just in case you guys are wondering like the reason why it's called zombie is because it like revives
your ads. And what we've noticed as well is sometimes ads will just randomly pick up in a different month. So for example, we might have been running an ad that in the CBO in the
322 campaign, the main campaign that didn't get any spend and didn't really get any performance in like January and then we've dripped it in the zombie campaign. We just left it
there and then like 2 months later it just started performing in the zombie campaign. were like, "Oh, sick." And so it's just a way, it's kind of like a fail safe for those of you
that are high volume creative or making a lot of creatives and they're not getting spend in your CBO, you can just set this inside of its own campaign and just set it and forget it
and not have to worry about it. And then obviously the difference between this one versus the is that when you duplicate an ad over from your main 322 campaign into the zombie
campaign, you will turn this off inside of your main campaign. Okay? And the reason why we're comfortable with turning it off inside of our main campaign when we're dripping into
the zombie is because it's not working. We've called this a losing ad. So like, all right, we're going to turn this off in the main campaign and we're just going to leave it in the
zombie one. Whereas if you're duplicating an ad into your testing and scaling that means the ad is working and so you want to leave it running. Now, obviously, the only instance
where you potentially would turn it off is if you have a spend winner that's getting way too much spend and it's taking performance. Again, if you haven't watched the why do bad
ads get spend video, I'd highly recommend watching it. Probably going to film a part two on that as well. But essentially, that's the only time you would turn it off. But
otherwise, the rule of thumb is that if something is hitting KPI inside of your main campaign, and obviously if something's a breakthrough in your main campaign, like leave that on
and let it cook. Now, the next campaign type that we have is the raw content campaign slash the spam campaign. This is for those of you that maybe run like Tik Tok shop or you have
a big affiliate network or for those on the Ecom Bounty program. If you know, you know, soon to be available to those involved, uh, and you've got a ton of ads getting thrown into
your account, we would recommend handling these in a raw content campaign, especially if you don't have sufficient budget. I'm going to talk about some of the FAQ, like how many ad
concepts you can test. Again, I'll give you guys this formula and really try to break this down, but essentially the raw content campaign, the only thing that has changed here is
rather than using the typical setup here where we would have, let's just say, 1, two, three individual ads, what we're actually doing now is we're just consolidating this into a
flexible ad. And so, this would just be flexible ad number one. And Meta has this weird glitch where you can't actually like type multiple times in a row. I don't know why it does
that, but this would just be flexible ad. And inside of here, what you're going to do is you're going to create ad and then you're going to go down and you're going to select
flexible. And then by selecting flexible, it's going to allow you to select multiple images or multiple videos. So this is like Meta's new version of a DCT. And so the reason why
we're doing this is just because it allows Meta to be like less stressed and like less overwhelmed with content. So rather than having three individual ads, we just pop inside of a
flexible ad and we just let it rip. And inside of this raw content campaign, again, this is only for those of you that have like tons of content coming in from like affiliate or
creators or if you're on Tik Tok or whatever and you just want to spam test a bunch of stuff. We would recommend that, hey, you've got your flexible test or your spam test or raw
content test. Number one, you're going to quickly duplicate this. And I know this is UGC video. This again, it's not UGC. This is essentially anything that is just excessive
content or what I would say nonstrategized content. And so just to quickly define that, you essentially have strategized content where like someone thinks through the ad, thinks
through the brief, and has someone execute it, whether that's UGC or just, you know, like a AI voiceover video or a static ad. That is strategized content. And then on the other
side, you have non-strategized content, which is for those of you that are like just pumping out random AI stuff or have again a bunch of Tik Tok affiliates or a bunch of creators
just making a bunch of content for you. And you're not strategizing. You're not really thinking about it. It's just content coming in that you want to test. Then you would put this
inside of a raw content campaign. And again, this would essentially be, you know, raw content test number one. And you would put three of them or if you have four of them or five
of them or six of them. Again, you can put up to 10, but ideally it's under one concept, you would have all of that just inside of this one flexible ad. And then again, you have
raw content number two. And what's nice about this, if like a creator sends you like four videos or five videos or you have an AI tool make five images for you under one concept,
again, you just pump it all into a flexible ad. You can still add the two primary text and the two headline text just following the 322. But in here, the idea is that you're not
overwhelming meta as much with individual ads. You're just essentially putting flexible ads in here. Now, again, as we've talked about these flexible ads, you can't actually see
the breakdown of the ads. And so, what we have found that you need to do is you need to if you do see an ad starting to get a bunch of spend, say you filter by spend and this raw
content campaign has an ad that is actually cooking. If you want to do learnings on it and you actually want to see what is working, you're going to preview this and you'll just go
and view it on the Facebook ads platform or Instagram platform to see what specific variant is actually working and then you can process learnings on it. Now, that's not always
100% accurate, but essentially that's the best thing that you can do. At the end of the day, at least you'll know that this content that again you're just putting in another
campaign kind of similar to the zombie strategy where again you're just not really thinking about it. You're just kind of setting it and forgetting it. And then if something starts
working, you can study it. And then from there, again, do some strategized ads, do some iterations or variations of whatever is working in the raw content campaign or of whatever
is working in the zombie campaign. And then you can launch those new iterations back into your main 322 campaign. And so that's the simplest way for me to like split things up.
Essentially, on one side, you have like strategized content. All of that strategized content that you're really thinking through and go and doing high intent with, you should put
that in your main 322 campaign. Whereas the spam content or just like, "Hey, I got a bunch of videos or I got a bunch of images or I'm not really thinking about this." You're going
to launch that in your raw content campaign. And then, of course, zombie campaign is for any of the ads in the 322 that don't work. You're going to put those inside of your zombie
campaign. Now, I have had the question like, "Oh, what if ads don't work in raw content? Should I put that in zombie?" I wouldn't recommend it, but at the end of the day, if you
want to, go ahead. What I'm really focused on with this raw content campaign is just like hoping something hits, [laughter] and if something hits, I'll do learnings on it and do
iterations. But that is essentially all of the campaign types that we run. Again, the 3:2 main acquisition campaign, the scaling campaign, the zombie graveyard campaign, the raw
content campaign, and then the final one is the promo campaign. Now, I have talked about this a ton in other videos. If you haven't seen my $10 million in 90 days video, I would
highly recommend watching that cuz it breaks down what broad, what warm 60, and what hot 90 is. But this is only for limited time promo. So, this is not like an evergreen campaign
that we run. Just because you're here, I'll pull it up. But for example, warm 60 is just filled with specific custom audiences like Facebook engagers, IG engagers, and video views.
That is warm. Hot 90 is website visitors and add to carts and initiate checkouts. Again, there's a whole list of them in my other videos. And then broad is obviously just broad,
okay? It's just a broad ad where you just let things rip. And then inside of each of these adsets, you're going to upload your specific sales ads. So BFCM here stands for Black
Friday, Cyber Monday. So that's obviously a limited time sale, at least for us. I know there's still brands that run Black Friday ads in the middle of March, but hey, do what you
want to do. And my point is is we will launch our sales specific ads in a separate campaign. So that's really the only other campaign type that we have. All right, so hopefully
that all makes sense. Now, if we look on our doc here, again, we did define winners and losers. Breakthroughs, very simply put, are ads that allow you to scale. Spend winners are
ads that suck up majority of spend in your account. Again, I am working on the specific percentages for each category of brand because I want you guys to understand that if you are
spending less than 100K a month, you're likely going to see spend winners and breakthroughs suck up anywhere from like 60 to 90% of spend. Okay? So, if you're spending 2K a day,
you might see a breakthrough ad or a spend winner suck up of that $2,000 a day like $1,500 a day in spent. Whereas, if you're spending a million dollars a month, and I'll just go
over here. let's just call this, you know, 50 to 90% of spend on that individual ad. Where if you're spending a million plus a month, like for some of our brands that we manage,
you're probably only going to see like 10 to 30% of total spend just because of the fact that you're at more scale. And if you guys want a pro tip from like what I've seen between
100K a month or like less than 100K per month in spend and a million plus per month in spend, there's just way more winning ads. That is literally all the difference. So, if you
made it this far in the video, there's a amazing piece of advice for you. Like if you want to scale further, just make more winning ads, right? Simple. Just, bro, just make more
winning ads, bro. It's that easy. Obviously, that's why Evolve is as big as it is because a lot of people in there are trying to figure out how we do that for our brands. But
genuinely, like, if you want to scale further, it just comes down to having more winning ads. And so, in this instance, again, breakthroughs and spend winners for us are probably
only going to consume anywhere from 10 to 30% of that total spend because again, here we're spending 30,000 plus a day, not $3,000 a day. And so these percentages that the ads will
suck up are going to be smaller the more scale that you're at. But obviously 10% of a million a month is quite a lot. That's 100K, right? That's more than you're spending if you're
only spending 100K a month. KPI winners, it doesn't matter what spend is. Obviously it's less than 50% or less than 10% if you're at more scale, but it's just hitting KPI. And then
loser is, you know, not getting spend and not hitting KPI. So those are the easy definitions that I can have for you. And again, breakthroughs allow you to scale your daily budget.
Okay? So again, if you are spending $2,000 a day and you launch an ad that sucks up a bunch of spend and it's hitting KPI and it allows you to scale your ad account, well, guess
what? You've just hit a breakthrough. And now the final thing that I want to wrap up with is just how to manage the campaigns. And so here really quickly we have the number one
question that we get asked all the time and I believe I answered this in the previous week's Q&A but essentially it's how many total ad concepts can I have active at one time
inside of this 322 campaign. Okay. So if we actually pull this up you'll notice here that I have ad test number one ad test number two offer test number one landing page test
number one. So I have four different actual adsets active. Now, our rule of thumb, I'm going to go ahead and type this out for you guys just because I really want this to be clear,
is as follows. Example, if you're spending $100 a day, let's just say you have a $20 target CPA. So, target CPA, for those of you that know what that is, is essentially what you're
trying to hit for you to actually be profitable. So, let's just say you sell a $40 product. Your AOV is $40. Well, guess what? If you have a $20 CPA, you're at a 2x rorowass. Let's
just say that's your target. Okay, great. Now that we know your target CPA, you're going to take your total budget that you're currently at and divide it by your target CPA. So
$100 a day in budget divided by my target of 20 equals five. So what that means is is the max amount that we would recommend that you run is five active concepts at one time.
Because as you start to spam creatives inside of your 322 campaign, you're going to essentially overwhelm Meta or stretch your budget too thin. if you are at a smaller budget and
as we've even seen brands and the rule of thumb is like hey if you're above $1,000 a day you know you're fine but even then we've seen brands at $1,000 a day with let's just say
like a $100 CPA target and so for them they should really only be running 10 adsets at a time right even on a $1,000 a day budget because again Meta needs to validate and these ads
need to get enough spend or just at least Meta needs to have enough spend to be like hey is this going to work okay and that's what Meta does. So, what you'll notice is that Meta a
lot of the times, well, let's just say it's spending majority of budget on this adset here. Let's say out of my $200 a day budget, it's spending $100 on this. And then it's
basically taking that other $100 and potentially spending, you know, 50 a day on this and maybe 40 a day on this and 10 a day on this one. Well, again, Meta is just trying to see
like, hey, I think this one that's getting $100 a day in spend, aka 50% of my total budget cuz my budget is $200 a day. Meta thinks this ad set and the ads inside of here have the
best chance to get you the lowest target CPA or get you the lowest cost per purchase and get you the highest rorowaz, but it's still going to put some spend on some of these other
ads just to see if it can scale. But I want you guys to think about this from a logical perspective where if your target CPA is $100 and you're spending $100 there, $200 a day and
you only have one adset just getting enough spend to basically get one purchase at your target. meta is going to be pretty strapped. Okay? And that's why it's important for you
guys to understand this rule. And if you guys want to understand this because I get asked this all the damn time in Origins and like I just tell people to use the search bar
because I've answered it so many times. But again, if your target CPA is, let's just say $50. You're spending $100 a day. They're like, "Wait, so I can only run two adsets, right?
This would equal two, right? Because 100 divided by 50 equals two. So this means two adsets. I've got more creatives. Like like what do I do?" Well, in this instance, if you want
to just keep five as like a threshold, then just launch five. Like, at the end of the day, guys, we're using this as a guideline. It's not the Holy Bible, okay? You don't have to
follow it. I don't want to get into religious views, but you don't have to follow it exactly as we say. This is just our guidance for you. And the reason why I'm now taking time to
explain a little bit more is to help you guys understand like this is why we do this because one, meta needs to be able to test And two, if your budget is being spread across,
again, if your target CPA is $50, you're spending $100 a day. Say you have like eight adets that are active and on average, each adset is getting like $30 a day in spend out of
these eight adsets, every single day, these ads aren't even getting enough to like hit your target. So, like that's why you're probably going to go a day with like no purchases or
maybe two days with no purchases because the ads are not even getting enough budget, okay, to even get you a purchase. So, you have two options. Number one, either increase your
budget so Meta has more budget or number two, you need to be more patient. And so that is the process. Again, we recommend like if you're at smaller budgets or you're in in an
instance like this, you can launch up to five. Like I don't want you guys to be like freaking out like, "Oh, the reason why my ads aren't working or the reason why I'm not getting
results is because I was running eight ad sets when Spencer told me to run a max of five." Like, that's probably not the reason why. Cuz at the end of the day, if you made a good
enough winning ad, it would just suck up all the budget. Anyways, I'm actually pull up an example of an ad that pulled $25,000 in a single day of spend. Let me go ahead and show
you guys this. So, again, just to show you guys, for those of you that are coping, this account was spending $11,000 a day. And you can see the ad that I have selected, although
it's blurred, was spending $2,000. If we go to the next day, February 22nd, this ad sucked up $25,000 of the $28,000 that it spent. And it absolutely ripped it. Look at this, guys.
25 or $28,000 spent at a 2.6x. 6x inside of our 322 campaign and look how many other ads were active at the time. There was a ton of them. And so my point is is that if you create
an ad good enough, it will pull the spend regardless of how many adsets, regardless of your budget. So please just take that as proof. With that said, again, we tell you guys to
follow this as a rule of thumb. So that way you don't just overwhelm the hell out of Facebook because in the early stages, it doesn't actually really know what is going to be a
good ad. So, it has to spend some budget and it needs some time to figure it out. A lot of you guys will launch ads and then 2 days later be like, "What's going on with my
performance? Why don't I have any, you know, what's happening with this?" Right? It's like, "Well, you need to just like give Meta some time. So, just be patient when you're at
smaller budgets." Now, the next thing that I'll address right away is we do not set minimum budgets in our CBO. We've tested it. We just didn't see an uplift from it, so we just
stopped doing it. The next thing is again, we test ads for a minimum of 4 days. Usually with most of our accounts, we'll test up until 7 days, but usually you'll see breakthrough
ads appear or spend winners appear within the first 3 days of the ad going live. With that said, there have been some instances where day four, day five ads have taken off. So,
with that said, as long as you let the ad run for 4 to 7 days, you're good to do that. And then again, if you want to cut it early, I would definitely recommend putting it inside
of your zombie campaign or putting it inside of your campaign if it's a KPI winner. And then from here, the final one is how to know when to turn off ads. Again, watch the why do
bad ads get spend video. I don't really have enough time to cover that today. We're already over an hour plus. So, I just want to make sure that you guys again use all the
resources that are there for those of you that suck away at the end. You're an absolute legend. Thank you for hanging out with me today and I hope you got a ton of value and I hope
that you're excited to execute some of these strategies. But again, the most important thing for those of you that are probably at the end of this watching this that maybe aren't
spending few,000 a day or $10,000 a day or $20,000 a day because those guys probably clicked off by now. I want you to understand that it really just comes down to the creatives,
guys. It comes down to the creatives. It comes down to the offers. It comes down to your brand positioning. It's the things that are outside of the ad account. If there's one thing
that I can please, please have you guys take away from this video is to not get all caught up in 322 this and breakthroughs and and zombie graveyard campaigns and all this fancy
stuff that you know I'm talking about for some of the bigger guys. I just want you guys to focus on everything that you control outside of the account because that is what will
make the difference and that is what is going to make you the most amount of money. Okay, so get off the best Facebook strategy hamster wheel. I know it's really hard because it's
like there has to be a button somewhere for me to click to make more money, but they just don't exist. I don't care what all these other creators throw out there. I don't care what
they tell you. I don't care what title or what thumbnail [laughter] they throw at you or how new it is. Like I want you guys to understand like that is creative. You know how you
guys are fiends to click on these new Facebook ad strategy YouTube videos and the best Facebook ad strategy YouTube videos and the post Andromeda, you know, newest update. Holy
cow. Click this one button video. That is what you need to do to your customers. Okay? Take inspiration from how you get sucked into that and apply it to your brand to get your
customers sucked in. Okay? That's what I want you to focus on. All right? So hopefully this is like the last media buying video that you watch for this year and you can come back
in 6 months or sometime next year and see if there's an updated strategy. And that's why I literally make these videos like once a year because guys, it doesn't make that big of a
difference. All right. So, with that said, again, I hope you enjoyed and I hope you are fired up to go focus on ads and offers and positioning and and landing pages and everything
else other than media buying after this video. But again, I hope you do take this strategy, you apply it, and then you just lock in on actually being able to get the most out of
this strategy. And the way that you get the most out of it is by focusing on everything outside as I've said for the hundth time. So, with that said, if you are interested in our
new community that is less than 100K per month, you can check out Origins. It's going to be the second link down below. And for whatever reason, if you're doing above 100K per
month and you're still watching this video, you could check out Evolve, which is going to be the first link in the description. Thank you so much for taking time to watch this
video. In this video, I'm going to show you the exact Facebook ad strategy that doubled one of our clients revenue and grew another from sub $100,000 months to $150,000 months,
both within 30 days. First, I'm going to show you exactly how we set up the campaign. Then, I'm going to walk you through how to structure your creatives and give you a proper
testing framework. And to be honest, this is where most people mess up, and it's actually the most important part. And then, at the end, I'm going to give you five creative types
that I've seen are absolutely killing it. in all of our clients ad accounts right now. And here's the thing, we're well aware of Meta's new Andromeda update. The way we structure
all of our clients ad accounts has completely changed. The algorithm now craves so much more volume and creative diversity than ever before. So, the strategy that I'm about to show
you is built specifically for Facebook ads in 2025, this Q4. And I know this because my company makes thousands of creatives for brands just like yours every single month. We're
not just talking theory here. This is exactly what we do for our clients in the agency. So, let's jump onto my computer and get into it. All right. So, now that we're into my
computer, I just want to let you know that this campaign is going to be a prospecting CBO. We're going to be using only broad audiences. And we're going to be excluding all
existing customers. And how we're going to be doing this is structuring around creative batches, not individual ads. And the reason for that is because each new batch will go into
a new learning phase, not the entire campaign itself. And the goal of this campaign is strictly to find new winners. So what we're going to do is start with the sales campaign.
We're going to leave all of this alone and we're going to be doing a campaign budget. Like I said, this is a CBO. The next thing we're going to do is go to the ads set and we want
to go here where we have show more controls. And then we're going to click on this right here that says exclude custom audiences. And then here you're going to need to go in and
exclude your previous purchasers. And then each ad set is going to be batchbased. So, you can name these however you like, but you could do this maybe batch number one and then the
next one batch number two, batch number three. And I know that that wasn't super in-depth, but that's the point, right? It's not supposed to be hard to run your ads. Just remember
CBO, under each ad set, go in and exclude your customers. And then underneath each ad set, we're going to be having anywhere from 15 to 30 creatives. So, of those 15 to 30
creatives, we want to break them down like this. We want to have three different angles per customer profile. And of those, we want to have five different creative types. So, let's
just say as an example, I run a sleep aid supplement company and my customer profile is people who want to improve their sleep. The first angle I could take is people who have
trouble falling asleep. The second angle I could take is people who wake up over and over in the middle of the night. And the third pain point or angle that I could take is people
who have poor sleep quality or wake up in the morning still feeling tired from the night before. And then underneath these angles, we could have, you know, founder le VSSL, us
versus them creative, social proof and reviewbased creative, etc., etc. And then what we typically find when we structure our campaigns this way and when we structure our adsets
this way is of these 15 creatives that we're testing, we have an extreme diversity of angles, but we also have an extreme diversity in the types of the creatives that we're doing.
And this is perfect for Meta's new algorithm because let's say that in angle one only creative type one and two work. And in angle two, nothing works. And then in angle three, you
only have one creative type that works. Now you know something and you can continue to create a ton of creative volume around these things that you know and understand while
simultaneously still going in and testing many new angles just like this. And the reason that we like to test with the CBO and the campaign structure is extremely simple is because
the CBO is unforgiving. It doesn't care what ad you think is going to work. You're giving each ad an equal opportunity to get spend in the campaign. So every single week, week over
week, you're adding new winners into your ad account. After you launch your campaign, you're going to have 7 days to analyze performance. Essentially, you're just going to do three
things. First, you're going to identify above target performers. So, of those 15 creatives that we launched, how many of them are above your target rorowaz or your target CPA or
whatever KPI you're optimizing for? And then once you've identified your above target performers, there's really two different routes that you could take. You could graduate your
winners into a scale campaign with a very similar setup, or you could just vertically scale your CBO and continue adding volume to this campaign. If you don't spend tons of money,
5, 10, $20,000 a day on Meta. I would say just keep it simple. Consolidate everything into one campaign. You don't need to over complicate things. But, you know, if you want to get
fancy and you're a more experienced media buyer, um, you could throw together an ASC campaign and graduate your winners into that and vertically scale that one. And then third, and
most important, you need to continue testing new concepts. So, now that you understand exactly how to structure your campaign, how to structure your adsets, and how you should be
structuring your creative test, I'm going [music] to give you a few of my favorite types of creatives. And if you start testing with these and those five or six creatives per angle
within those ad sets, I promise you are going to find winners. This is going to work like a charm. If you follow these exact creative types, so the first one is going to be problem
solution ads. The idea behind this is that you're going to agitate a painoint and then [music] solve it. And this does work for both statics and VSSLs, but I already have a couple
VSSLs on here. So, I would recommend doing these as statics if you're going to follow this video to an absolute tea. And the reason why this works is because people are buying
solutions, not products. Come on, guys. It's 2025. A white background product shot is not going to cut it anymore. And I like this one as an example. This is actually a creative
that we made because obviously if you've ever taken powdered creatine before, you know it's an awful experience. And this simple line of text right here absolutely hits home and
nails on that emotion of how bad of an experience taking powdered creatine really is. And then obviously we provide the solution right there. The second creative type and guys I
need you to listen to me for this one is founderled VSSLs. This says founder story VSSLs. Just take it as any VSSL with you as the founder. If you can properly speak to your ideal
customer, if you are able to communicate with them effectively, you have to be making founder VSSLs, this is by far the best creative type to run. So you can run anything with a
personal narrative from you why you built the company. Or you could even just run any creative that you already have some verified messaging from previous VSSLs or UGC scripts and
you can absolutely just film that yourself. This is 100% the highest converting format for every new brand that we work with. And because it just comes off extremely authentic, you
build tons of authority and connection with your audience. And this creative is probably the number one best creative that you can run because this works for way more than the KPIs
that you're going to see in the ad account as well. This is just massive for your [music] brand. The next one, and this is my personal favorite because it's just really easy and it
works extremely well, is going to be social proof ads. So, any reviews, any testimonials, any UGC review style content that you have, such lowhanging fruit, so easy to do. You can
literally just do exactly what this one does. Take a review off your website, throw it on a picture with a product of yours, and this is just going to kill in the middle of your
funnel. Everybody's been scammed on Meta. Nobody trusts any brand anymore. It's super easy to just get over the hump, have your customers trust you, and it's just going to do
volumes for you in the middle of your funnel. So, the next one is us versus them ads. And I know guys, this is not rocket science here, but I do want to include it. If you have any
problem solution product or if you have any innovative solution in your niche, this is just also super easy, lowhanging fruit. You can really play on people's fear or emotions like
we did with this one. Everybody knows energy drinks have tons of fear about them. This is also a client creative. Um, everybody always talks about fake sugar, jitters and crashes,
whatever. Super easy. I don't really need to get too into that one, but this is definitely another good type of creative. Another one that I really love, and I will preface this by
saying this probably has the highest degree of difficulty, is prospecting VSSLs. want to keep these very story driven and with broad audience appeal. [music] And the goal of this
is to take someone who's never heard about your brand and maybe never even heard about your product and turn them into a buyer. So, this is the old like OG format that we used to
use. Obviously, I'm not going to say that formats are tried and true anymore when the real meta now is just absolute creative variation and tons of creative diversity. But if you
don't already have a creative like this in your ad account, I would 100% recommend you try it. [music] First, start out with a very emotional and thoughtprovoking hook. Then get
into storytelling. This is usually going to be, I don't know, 3 to 10 seconds long. This is going to be somewhere like 10 to 30 seconds long. And in the storytelling, again, you
want to make it very personal, like a personal experience or something. And you don't need to necessarily reveal your product, but you can go into talking about the problems or
things like that. Then you want to get into unique mechanism problem and unique mechanism solution. And I can scroll back up and use this creatine gummy for example again for this.
So the unique mechanism problem in the creatine industry is obviously chalk. It tastes like bad. I don't want to say cuss words. Then the unique mechanism solution is obviously the
gummy. So that's just an extremely simple, easy way for me to explain what that means. Essentially, it means all the other products in your niche, highlight what's bad about them,
and then highlight the key differentiating factor between you and the other products. Then after that, these are super simple, just risk reversal and testimonials. Risk reversal is
like, you know, 30-day money back guarantee or, you know, free shipping, free returns, something like that. And then also testimonials. The testimonial section is key and you want
to try to address any objections in the testimonial section. So, for example, if people have like a big question about your product, you want to answer that in the testimonial
section. Like maybe if you're in apparel or hat brand or whatever, how does the product fit? Things like that. In your testimonial, you could say, "Oh my gosh, it's the perfect
fit." Blah blah blah. If you're in, you know, I don't know, some certain supplement company, if there's like a very key thing that a lot of customers have, like a key question that
they have, you want to address that in the testimonial section. Because if you've gotten them all the way hooked, they listen to your entire story. They listen through all of this
and all this. The last thing that could get them over the hump is speaking to their exact pain point. [music] And there are common pain points that you can find in Reddit threads,
Amazon reviews, your own reviews, competitor analysis in their comment section. This is where you address all of those objections. And I said, like I said before, why this works is
because it turns completely unaware scrollers into buyers. And again, I do want to preface that this is probably the highest degree of difficulty of all the creatives that I showed
here, but when done correctly, one of these can pull six figures in spend, and we've created multiple of them that have done exactly that. The next one is going to be offerbased
ads. I know that this is very simple, but also another thing that I want to point out is not just offer-based ads, but something that is removing price objections upfront. So, this
is another client of ours. this is a fairly expensive product and an objection that we were having or a trend that we were seeing is as they came and saw the price the conversion
rate on the website was really bad even though they'd done a lot of CRO um and the website was good. So what we did is we essentially started addressing price objections in the
funnel. Um and these are middle of funnel creatives but what this did was we raised the conversion rate without doing any extra work on the website because people were aware that
they could use um buy now pay later layer options on the website. So I hope that was valuable for you. If you made it to the end of the video comment 3D in the comments below. If
you have any questions just leave them there. And remember a brief summary guys. We're going to run one CBO. For every ad set, we're going to put 15 to 30 creatives in there.
[music] And then of those 15 creatives, we're going to do three angles. And then of those three angles, we're going to do five to six different types of creatives. So, the goal of
setting up your campaign that way is again creative diversity because of the new Meta Andromeda update. And again, like I said, we do run a creative agency. So, if you don't want
to do all this stuff yourself, just click the link below. There's a link to our website. There's like a 15 to 20 minute video on the website where I explain exactly how we do what
we do. And there's also a bunch of case studies and testimonials there as well. So, hope you guys enjoyed it. Don't forget to subscribe and comment 3D in the comment section below.
You've watched the tutorials. You've set up the campaigns. You're testing creatives. You're adjusting budgets. You think you're doing everything right. Some weeks you're crushing.
Other weeks you're completely down. And you just can't figure out why. Me and my agency have managed over $70 million in ad spend in just the last 12 months for 7, 8, and even 9
figure e-commerce brands. And the difference between the accounts that consistently scale month over month over month and have gains year on year versus those that are stuck is the
predictable systems that we've put in place. Most people take Facebook ads like a perfect recipe. They think that you could just add good creative in, structure your account
properly, hit your settings the way that they're supposed to be followed based on a tutorial that they watched. Maybe throw in a couple hacks here and there based on what's
actively working right now. But then what they forget to do is update that recipe based on the feedback loop that they're actually getting from their ad account. They then follow a
new YouTube video with different creative, a different structure, and different settings, effectively resetting their account. And then along the way, they found a couple new hacks
that they're going to try to deploy across the account. They reset their account, and the cycle repeats over and over and over again. The problem isn't that you're using the wrong
tactics. It's not that the hacks don't work. It's not that your structure is bad. In most cases, the cycle you have is one of resetting over and over again when the real cycle that
you need to achieve is a system that allows you to continue to produce the three core components over and over. You need consistent inputs, a process for those inputs that create
