steady outputs. See, a real system has three core blocks. Inputs, process, and outputs. Now, when it comes to Facebook ads, the inputs are fairly simple. Creative, structure, and
settings. These are the three core inputs. And of course, there's other little nuance things, but most fall into these three core buckets. Now, the outputs are pretty obvious. For
the most part, we're going to be talking about conversions here. Whether that's leads, whether it's results of any kind, conversions, rorowaz, revenue, it doesn't matter. We're
just focused on conversions being the primary output. There's also secondary outputs like awareness, reach, and impressions. These are building the halo effect of your full brand.
And then there's a hidden output. Now, I say this is hidden because most people actually categorize this as an input. But in reality, it's both an input and an output. And that's
creative. See, you get creative learnings the more you spend, the more reach you get, the more conversions you get, the more impressions you have. And then those creative learnings
need to inform the inputs. So, this effectively works like a proper flywheel. Now, we all know that once you have good creatives, you want to produce more of them. I think that's
pretty obvious. How do we make sure our creative and all of our inputs are actually resulting not just in outputs, but in optimal outputs? Let me take you through a real example of
what happens when you actually have a proper feedback loop to actually execute that process properly. Now, on my screen is an example of a client that we're actively working with
over the last 12 months. When this client started working with us, they were spending $66,000 a month at a 1.85 85 return on ad spend, driving $123,000 in revenue. Every single
month all year long, spend increased and revenue increased. In the fourth quarter at peak, we spent $641,000 to drive $1.2 million in revenue. We then sustained that million in
revenue in December. And then evergreen month since has been also $327,300,000. And this month's not over, but it's going to land right around 300,000 when it's all said and done.
Our return on ad spends have been sustainable, meaning we haven't seen big fluctuations and we've increased spend nearly every single month. This fourth quarter, I'm expecting
things to be even bigger than they were last year because we've repeated the same cycle, followed the same process over and over and over again. Every time we launch new ads, we
wait a period of time. We analyze those ads. We create more winners. So, let me show you what this looks like in a real account. What I do is I look at the last 30 days of data. I
go to my column sets. I go down to compare attribution settings and click incremental attribution. What I'm looking for is the best overall rorowaz and high incremental return on
ad spend and high spend. High spend meaning good delivery. Facebook likes the ad. Decent enough return on ad spend meaning it's over my target. And then I'm cross-checking that
average return on ad spend with my incremental return on ad spend. What I don't want is an ad that's bottom feeding because then it's actually going to create more engage and more
existing customers. I actually want to focus on new top offunnel customer ads and we specifically look at incremental attribution for that. What I'm then doing is I'm taking my
best performing ads and I'm reproducing as many as possible. And what most brands find when they go through this process is they find unique concepts. You're going to group your
concepts or your ads into piles. Those ads generally target audiences. Because of this, once we find something that's successful from our ads manager, so going into our ads
manager, pulling those out, we're then going to go as deep as possible on those creatives. For example, if I was Nike and this image right here was an ad that I found to be
successful, it had high delivery, high return on ad spend, and it was high incremental return on ad spend, then instead of reinventing the wheel every single time, what I would do
is I would go as deep as possible on this one ad and create a dozen iterations on this one single ad. This is what allows ad concepts to extend longer. And when you follow this
basic system, you actually never run out of ads. You're constantly reproducing new creative. That process on your side matters a lot. So now that you get the highle framework,
let's break this down into rules. This is the process that I follow that I would recommend everybody follow. First, we follow the rule of 10,000. This is a very simple rule. for
every $10,000 per month in ad spend, that is equivalent to how many ads you want to upload per week with a minimum threshold of two. That means if you spend $100,000, divide that
by 10,000, getting you 10, you should be uploading 10 ads per week. If you're only spending $100 per day, that would get you to $3,000 in ad spend. And then therefore, you should
be at the minimum threshold of two new ads per week. You could even go a little bit further. If the creative flywheel is hard to produce, run four ads every two weeks. Just break
it down into units. Second, group your ads in packs by avatar and concept. This is going to help you stay really organized to actually understand what's working, which is very
important, and it's also going to keep the signal to meta really clear. Third, we go horizontal first with a lot of new concepts, a lot of different things, and then once something
works, we go vertical. We go really deep on the thing that continues to work. This is the flywheel beginning to happen. Fourth, schedule an upload day. This is going to be your
deadline when ads need to be ready and it's going to be the day that you upload your ads. This should be consistent every week or if you're on the smaller brand side, every other
week. Fifth, schedule an analysis day. Obviously, you're going into your ads account every single day. If you're not, oh my gosh, go to the moonlighters.com/apply to see if you're
a fit to work with us because you need someone actively monitoring your ads. But as long as you are, have a day when you schedule your deep dives. This is when you're going to be
looking at the creative side of things to understand what new creatives you need to produce for the upcoming week or two weeks. By following these five steps, you effectively close
the bottleneck of creative and really ad accounts being the issue. You could then look at different things in your business to close the gap. Conversion rate, site speed, landing
pages, product offer, you name it. Just know that if you're following a strict process on the Facebook end, things are going to get better. You're not resetting yourself every two
weeks. You're following a real system. And if you want to see the biggest lever inside of your ad account that you could pull right now, which we've just hinted at already,
creative strategy is key. Click this video right here where I go through my entire creative strategy, not just the frameworks we broke down, but actual examples and how to steal
from your competitors and also how to analyze your own ads to make sure you're producing the right creative for yourself. That's all for today. As always, I hope you got a lot of
value out of this. If you have questions, let me know in the comments below. I will see you in the nextIf you think you need hundreds of thousands of dollars to succeed with
Facebook ads, I've got good news for you. You absolutely can succeed with a small Facebook ads budget. And in this video, I'm going to show you how. So, let's start by quickly
defining what a small Facebook ads budget actually is. So, I would classify a small Facebook ads budget as anything less than $3,000 per month. So, $100 or so per day. And I
totally get that for a lot of people watching that, they would be like, that's a small Facebook ads budget. I can't spend that or anywhere near it. I totally understand. I started
my business with no money. I couldn't have spent anywhere near that. I started working with clients that couldn't have spent anywhere near that. So, I know for a lot of people that
would not seem small, but when you've had the experience that I've had running campaigns with as little as $100 a month right at the beginning all the way up to clients that are
spending multiple millions per month, 3,000 or less seems like a good line to draw and a good classification because there are things that need to change in terms of your strategy
and how you approach things. things we're going to go through in this video. If you are spending less than that within a small budget, I classify a tiny Facebook ads budget as $600
per month or less. So, $20 or less per day, which is also where a lot of businesses start. I certainly started in the tiny budget category, upgraded to small budgets, and we've
gone on to to much larger things since. But the important thing to know is that you can succeed with a small or a tiny budget. But there are changes you need to make. you need to
do things differently than what might be the default way of doing things and conventional strategy that you may well have seen. So let's uh let's run through those now starting
with the first point which is don't helicopter parent your ad campaigns. So a lot of you will already be familiar with this but meta ads when you create a new campaign or a new
adset or make an adjustment to your campaign adset will go through the learning phase. Now during the learning phase, Meta is going through really fast iterations of tests to try
and get you the best result. So if you set up your campaign for sales, for example, Meta is going to test who within your target audience should actually see your ads to get you
the best results. And some of those tests might go really well, you get great results, and some of those tests might go really poorly and you get terrible results. They're going to
test what should ad impression frequency look like? Should we do lots of ad impressions to each individual user in a short time period or should we space out those ad impressions?
Which of the ads within your adset should be put in front of people? Which placement options perform best? What time of day is the best advertise? What day of the week is the best
advertise? So, all these variables that Meta is going to test to try and get you the best results possible, sales, leads, whatever it is you've optimized your campaign for. So,
that's happening all the time. Meta's constantly testing, but they're testing much more aggressively during the learning phase. Like I said, when you first launch a campaign,
adset, etc. So your results during that time period are very volatile. You can have great results, poor results. They're all over the place. If you make a significant adjustment to
a campaign ad set, so for example, you create a new ad, you change some of the settings at the adset level, potentially even change some of the settings at the campaign level. You
will re-enter the learning phase. The learning phase lasts typically, let's say, 24 to 48 hours, but it is dependent on conversion volume. So the more conversions you generate, the
faster Meta is able to learn because they have more data and the shorter that learning phase will last for. So if you're working on a campaign that's generating thousands of sales
a day, the learning phase can last hardly any time at all because you really quickly have a lot of data. Meta's like, "Right, got it. Made the adjustments, new ads, understand it.
We tested it. We worked out this is the way to go and we're off." The smaller your budget, typically the lower number of conversions you're going to generate, the longer it is
going to take for you to exit the learning phase. So, if you are helicopter parenting your ad campaigns, you're constantly in there, constantly making tweaks and adjustments. You
keep reentering phase, you're not allowing matter time to optimize and get you the best performance possible. So, what I typically recommend advertisers do is try and set an
optimization schedule. So decide I'm going to adjust my campaigns no more than once every seven days or 10 days and you need to extend that time period because you are operating
with a small budget and you are going to typically be generating lower conversion volumes. Now you might set that schedule and realize actually we could adjust more often this we
are getting good data within those time periods or you need to extend it and go the other way. That's going to depend on your business. even within small budgets. If you're running
an ad campaign that's designed to generate leads via a lead magnet, you're going to generate many, many more conversions than someone who's selling a high ticket service will. So
again, you need to adjust the time frame accordingly. There is no oneizefits-all when it comes to time frame. One of the most common questions I get asked, and I always say it's
based on conversion volume, is how often you should be making adjustments. It's not a we do it every seven days across the board. Some campaigns generate thousands of conversions a
day. Some campaigns generate six conversions a week. Well, the campaign that generates six conversions a week, it might take a month to know if a new ad is performing well. Whereas
the one that's generating thousands a day, it might take three hours. Like literally, I'm not over exaggerating there. That can absolutely be the case. So, you need to adjust the
time frame according to conversion volume. One of the easiest ways if you're like, right, how do I know what's right for me? Is to use a statistical significance calculator. Free
online tool. You enter in your numbers and the calculator will tell you ad A is indeed outperforming ad B with a 90% statistical significance. Right? And then you can go about
making decisions. That doesn't mean that you can't do any work on your meta ad campaigns in between those gaps 7 days, 10 days, 14 days, something like that. Because you could be
producing new ad creative ready to go. You could be analyzing the data, drawing conclusions, and thinking, right, okay, this ad had a really good hook rate versus this ad had a
much better return on ad spend. Let's take this hook and put it the sort of analysis I talk about in other videos of of how you go about improving performance. You can be doing
that, but when it comes to actually physically making the changes, try and limit yourself. Don't constantly tinker. Okay. Second point I want to talk about is to really really get
specific about your ideal customers and create ads that are only designed for them. Both from an ad copy messaging standpoint but also in the creative. If you've got a small
budget, you don't want to be an also ran against businesses that have much larger budgets and are going for much larger market share. The way you compete with those bigger
businesses that have much larger budgets is you say, "We're not going to touch 99% of this market that technically could buy our product or service. Instead, we're going to be
hyper specific for this 1% or sometimes even less. that we can tailor everything towards and we can serve them better than the bigger company that is trying to sell cross market
because we can tailor our offering but also we can market to them in a way that really resonates with those people. It's a much better way to stand out to niche down and to
approach things that way. A lot of smaller businesses which are typically the ones operating with smaller budgets they're nervous to do that because they feel like they're missing
out on potential sales but that's poor thinking. Much better to think about it the other way. you are much more likely to stand out in comparison to the competition which have
significant advantages. They're spending a lot more than you. They probably have more brand recognition. A lot more of the market may have bought from them previously. So you have
loads of things to overcome. They probably have larger budgets for content creation and ad creative and production. They might be working with influencers like you are up against
it against those bigger businesses. How can you win in that scenario? By being more specific. It's why they say there are riches in niches, right? So how do you go about doing
this? So if you have a customer base already, you've been running ads or you generate customers from other ways, then you can do analysis on those customers and work out which
customers are worth the most to you, which either buy again the most or stick around if you're on some sort of recurring or subscription model, which stick around longest. Those
will typically often be the ones that give you the less headaches as well. There might be customers that you can make money from, but they're just a nightmare. We don't want to
work with them. And go through those and and be like, "Right, you know what? out of this entire market, we've worked out that this subsection is the best. Those are the people
we've worked with. Let's re-engineer our marketing messaging. It's just all about them. Talk about the things they care about. Talk about the problems they have specifically, which
might differ from the rest of the market, and then really narrow it in. One of the biggest reasons small budgets fail on meta isn't targeting, is the creatives. Because testing
properly requires variations, and variations cost money. A single UGC video from a creator, hundreds, if not thousands of dollars. an agency to consistently produce and test new
creatives, thousands, if not tens of thousands of dollars per month. And that's before you even know if the ads convert. If you're working with a small budget, that math just
doesn't work. Holo flips that part of the equation. You just paste in only your website URL, and it analyzes your brand voice, positioning, and visuals. Then generates ready to
publish ads, social posts, and email campaigns. But what makes this powerful for small budgets is the variations. Instead of giving you one creative, it can generate batches of
different hooks, angles, formats, and layouts in seconds. You can tweak the size, swap visuals, adjust colors, change the messaging, translate it into another language, or even
turn a static image into a video without starting from scratch each time. No prompts, no Canva marathons, no waiting weeks on freelancers. And here's why this matters for small
budget advertisers. Meta rewards iteration. The people who win aren't always the ones spending the most, they're the ones testing the most. If you can create 10 to 20 creative
variations quickly without spending thousands on production, you suddenly have leverage. Instead of spending your budget on creative production, you can spend it on actual ad
testing. What used to take hours or cost thousands now takes minutes. For solo founders and small teams, that removes the biggest bottleneck in Facebook ads. Producing enough
creatives to find a winner. If creative costs have been holding you back from testing properly, Holo is definitely worth looking at. There is a link in the description and a
discount code if you want to try it. So, one of the classic scenarios you'll often see with a lot of businesses that go through that process of analysis is they will work out, we
only want to work with high net worth individuals because they spend the most, they give us the least headaches, they're the best either on a B TOC or you could do the equivalent
with B2B, right? We're only going to work with companies over X revenue. And how would you therefore go about talking to to those people? Well, like I just said, think about the
things they really care about from a benefit standpoint. Think about their pain points as well. So if you are looking to target only the high net worth individuals within your
marketplace, don't emphasize the price competitiveness of your product service in comparison to your competition. That's not who you're going after. They don't care about that as
much. Instead, emphasize, say, the time saving or the convenience or the status associated with having a product or service of this quality or of this brand. things that they are
much more likely to be interested in. You buy this once, you don't have to bother with it again. You don't have to worry about it. And and that's going to be different from the
rest of the market that might be far more price sensitive or might be interested in different things. So, for example, us as as an agency, we do I mean we specialize because we
specialize in meta ads, we specialize in Google ads, we're not like full service and everything else. So, we do this niching within our own service offerings, but within that we
will work with a broad range of of different types of businesses. we work well service and SAS and ecom and all sorts, right? We now have a large enough team to have specialists
within each one of of those fields. But if we were operating with a smaller budget, if we were newer, what we could do is look at all our clients and be like, you know what,
e-commerce businesses that generate more than $10 million a year in revenue typically are our highest value customers. So then we would re-engineer our marketing. You'd see someone
like me just creating videos specifically targeted at e-commerce businesses over a certain size. All our ads would be updated specifically to speak to those people. It would be in
the messaging. It' be what do they care about? They care about scale. They care about maintaining return on ad spend as they scale up. They're not interested in things like lead
quality. Doesn't apply to them. So, we wouldn't be talking about lead quality in our advertising. So, you see how how we would tailor it if we wanted to further niche down in those
instances. And hopefully, you can apply that to your business as well. If you go over specific and find that your ad just aren't reaching right people, you can always broaden back
out. But in my experience, most businesses, particularly those operating with small budgets, are far too broad as opposed to too niche. Next is to copy what already works best in
your industry. There are likely bigger players with bigger budgets that have spent a fortune testing and working things out. You can analyze what they are doing, draw conclusions,
and save yourself a ton of time, a ton of money in experimentation by modeling from what they have demonstrated works best. How do you do that? One of the easiest ways is to use
the meta ads library, a free tool, and I'm going to show you how to do that. Right. So, I'm here in the meta ads library. Just Google it. Come right up. And the way this works is
you select your location, you select your category. So, if you operate within a special ad category, select that. Otherwise, you can select all ads. And then I'm going to use
myself as the example here. So, if I enter Ben Heath in here, we can see all the ads that that we're running. And you can check these out if you're interested, by the way. And you
can see the details. You can see the primary text. You can see where they're running. You can see the videos themselves, the headlines. You can click through to the landing pages.
You've got all the information that that you would want to to take a look at to see see what they're doing. So, what you want to do here is think about the competitors that you
know are advertising well. You see their ads pop up often. They look good. You just know based on the size of the business, their marketing is really switched on. You think this is
a good company to to model from based on your own interaction. Then you come through to Meta Ads Library. You search for them and then what you're looking for are the ads that have
been running quite a while. So for example, if you were to do this with us, you could see that these ads up here at the top, these have been running since May 2025. So not far off
a year as of the recording this video, 9 months or so as of recording this video. Now, I can tell you right now that these ads are performing well. I know that because this is
these are our ads. But we would have turned them off if they weren't. And that's basically true for just about every advertiser that you would look at. If they've been running an
ad for if they only launched an ad last week, you don't know that thing's working. They might just be experimenting. If they've been consistently running an ad for more than say 6
months, particularly if it's longer than that, that ad is almost certainly working for them and you could look to model from it. Now, if you're looking at bigger competitors, more
successful competitors, which is what I'd recommend, sometimes you won't be able to replicate what they've produced. You might be like, "Okay, they've been running this ad for a
year and a half, but it's a partnership ad with an influencer in the space. We couldn't afford to work with them." You might be able to, by the way, people always think that
influencers cost a lot more than they do. They're wrong. But in that instance, maybe you can't replicate what they're doing, but just keep going. Keep looking at more competitors,
keep finding other options, and be like, "Oh, we can do that. That's a interesting product demonstration video. That's a UGC video. They've actually got some static images that
seem to be performing well for them. Let's go ahead and use that." And you can look to model from what works and replicate that. save yourself a ton of time and budget and test
that way. You have limited budget with a small budget to test. And also the emphasis on testing becomes less important because what you're really looking to do with a small budget,
what I think you should be looking to do with a small budget is establish proof of concept. Can we generate leads? Can we generate sales? Yes. And then get that campaign as quickly
as possible to be as profitable as possible because that will fund reinvestment. If you can get that campaign to produce a 4x return on ad spend, well, you can then reinvest more
into your ad campaigns and scale them and try and maintain that rorowass or improve it and grow your business and acquire a lot more customers. It very much wants to be seen as a
stepping stone that can be profitable and can work to higher budget levels if you want to succeed, grow a business and all that sort of stuff. Moving on to another piece of advice
that is very important for advertisers operating with a small budget and that is no brand awareness. I don't want you to be running awareness campaigns. I don't want you to be
running engagement campaigns, traffic campaigns. I want you to be running leads or sales campaigns that are direct to offer, directly selling what it is that you advertise in order
to get leads, in order to get sales so that you can generate a shortterm return on your small budget, which like I said in the previous point, will allow you to reinvest. I've
heard so many advertisers, particularly when they're new to advertising, say things like, "I just kind of want to get my business out there. That doesn't really mean anything. It's
like you just want to get your business out there. Why? You want to get your business out there because you want leads, you want sales, you want that coming in. Well, much better
to go directly for those things instead of running an awareness campaign and just sort of magically thinking that's somehow going to end up coming back to you in the long term.
There is one very specific exception and that's my only present content campaign only applies to specific businesses typically those offering a very involved uh purchase so high
ticket service something consulting expertise-based something like that I've got videos on that in case you want to check that out that does use either an awareness or engagement
campaign structure but it is a very different thing we're doing it for different reasons and we're often advertising that alongside our conversion campaigns sales or leads and if
you're a small business I would be even less keen for you to focus on the only present content strategy and instead go for what it is that you really want. Get that return so that
you can reinvest. Meta's optimization systems and how the campaign delivers is completely literal. If you say you want sales, Meta is going to do its best possible to get you
sales. If you say you want leads, vice versa. If you say you want traffic, they're going to find really clicky people. Those people won't necessarily go on and convert. Brand
awareness is much better for larger companies, often larger companies that don't have a direct path to conversion. So, if you think of like Coca-Cola running ads, for example,
well, no one's like clicking through on an ad to then come through and buy like it's it's top of mind. So, that next time you're in a restaurant, next time you're in the
supermarket, you buy Coke products. You get one out the fridge because of the reminder, you drink it now, that creates a space so that next time you're more likely to buy more. So,
the businesses that run brand awareness on meta ads as well typically fall into that category where there's much less of a direct lead to the conversion. not something we want to
mess with as smaller businesses. Another tip that I've really encouraged small budget advertisers to do recently and found a number of business have a lot of success with this is
to use your organic content on Meta typically on Instagram as basically free testing for ad creative. Now, this requires you to create content and it will be more valuable if you
already have a bit of an organic audience than if you don't. But because we talked about before, you don't have much budget for budget for testing. That's why we are modeling from
other businesses that have done a lot of testing. But this is another great way to do it. You can, for example, produce Instagram reels, put those out there, and then the ones that
get significantly more engagement than others. You can take those, add a 5 10 second call to action to the end, and run that as an ad. You could do the same with static images.
Which ones get a lot more reaction? Use that in your ad. Maybe add some text overlay, accompany it obviously within the ad structure, headline, etc. in order to get people to to
take action. And it won't always translate. So sometimes things perform really well organically and it just doesn't translate to ads. But often they do. And often it's a really
good way to find extra ideas easily produce ad creative kind of two birds one stone situation. We got some organic content and we got some ad creative out of this. And it could be
an easy way to iterate and test and find what works. You may even find that something works really well organically doesn't necessarily do well as an ad. But you're thinking,
"Yeah, but we can use that concept or we can use that hook in that reel in our ads going forward. We just need to change the rest of it to be more focused. To do this well, your
organic content needs to be closely related to your ads and what it is you talk about." I would hope that would be true anyway because [clears throat] that's going to help drive
business outcomes, leads, sales, revenue, etc. But that's just an important caveat to to quickly mention. If you're watching this now on a small budget and you can think, "Yeah,
I've posted quite a bit of organic content." Take a bit of time and go back through and find the ones that have done well and just chuck them into an ad campaign. Like I said,
maybe stick a call to action on the end and see how it does. And real quick, we've created the perfect offer for Facebook and advertisers with a small budget. We call it Facebook
Ads Mastery. It's a school community complete with exclusive educational material. We also do live calls and Q&A with me and my team members. If you're interested, there's a link
in the description. The next point is going to sting for some of you and that's to be willing to spend more on conversions than what you're currently willing to spend. Most
beginner Facebook and Instagram advertisers, those operating with a small budget typically have unrealistic expectations of a what's possible, b what they should expect, and c what
will allow their business to grow. Part of that is because there are many people within this space that will overpromise. It's one of the reasons why if you see, for example, the
case studies on our website, the results screenshots that I put out on my Instagram stories, we cover a range. We will show the businesses that we're able to get a 20x return on ad
spend for, which is just incredible and that's amazing and everyone wants that. But for some businesses, that is completely impossible. We will also show businesses that get a 3.2x
return on ad spend, but have done so at scale and that's really profitable and a successful outcome for that business. It's not the massive headline attention grabbing, but it's
done well and it is it is success and it works for that business and it allows them to scale and do the things that they want them to do. I've spoken to many beginners that will
say things like, "Oh, I want a 10x return on ad spend." And typically, if someone is talking in those terms, they don't understand the dynamic well enough. So, often I've had to
tease that out of them. So, I might say, "What are you willing to pay to acquire a customer?" Which is one of the most common questions. If you ever want to Q&A with me, that's
almost certainly one of the things I'm going to ask if I want to to delve deeper with you. And often people say, "I don't know." So I'll sort of work it back through with them.
Okay. What are your customers worth? My customer is worth $2,000. Okay, excellent. So what are you willing to pay to get that customer? And someone might say, I don't know, $100,
$200. And I go, "Okay, so you're telling me that you wouldn't be willing if you had a magic machine and you could put $400 in it or $500 in it and it just spits out a $2,000
customer. You wouldn't do it." and they nearly always go, "Oh, no. Yeah, no, I would. Yeah, yeah, no, that I can make that work." Obviously, this is going to be dependent on
margins. Some business can be much more aggressive. Like, for some business, a 1.5 extra return on ad spend is fantastic because let's say they're selling software or info and
there's no cost of goods associated with selling the thing and they want massive scale and they can do it. There are businesses where they spend 10 million a year and they make 15
million direct from sales from those ads and they've got 5 million profit because there's hardly any costs associated and that's a successful business outcome. There are obviously
others that need a much larger return on ad spend because they do have cost of service deliverable or they have cost of goods in order to to make it work. But I've I've seen a lot
of ad campaigns where okay, the $2,000 customer is what my customer is worth to my business. In my mind, I'm only willing to pay $200 for a customer. Therefore, I convert one in,
let's say, 10 leads, so I'm only willing to pay $20 per lead. And then they cap out and they can barely scale and they think, "Oh, the campaign's not working. I've got $25 a lead."
You actually run through the numbers, you're like, you know, $25 a lead is really profitable for you, right? Advanced meta advertisers and the businesses that do the best, they
don't typically generate the best return on ad spends because as you scale, your return on ad spend will decrease inevitably. It is harder to acquire. It is more expensive, I
should say, to acquire your 10,000th customer than your 50th customer because there's always a proportion of the market that is just so keen and loves whatever it is that you sell
that they kind of buy everything and you can gather up the people, but there's not many of them. The more you scale, the the harder that is. But there is a tradeoff that a lot of
businesses understand where they think I don't mind if my return on ad spend drops. If my overall profit number, not as a percentage, as a number, is significantly better. That's a
better business outcome. Much better to generate a 4x return on ad spend spending a million a month than a 10x return on ad spend spending $10,000 a month. you make a lot more
money at the lower return on ad spend number because you've achieved scale. So really have a think about what could you be willing to pay to acquire a customer. I give you some
examples. I want to go even further for some businesses. There are many many businesses where initial customer acquisition is lossmaking. Many of the biggest most successful
businesses that is true. Almost anything finance related, banks, they pay way more to acquire you than they make from you initially. Mortgage companies often the same. Insurance,
they are playing a game of we will turn you into repeat revenue over many years most likely and will end up with a fantastic return on ad spend, but it might take 6 months or more
for us to pay the initial cost of customer acquisition in the first place. And those are some of the biggest most successful businesses in the world that operate this way. lots of
business in that category. It's actually one of another advantage that bigger advertisers have is typically they have more cash reserves and they can afford to be more aggressive
on their customer acquisition than smaller businesses. So I think that a lot of small budget advertisers have this idea of like I'm at a 2x rorowass. If I could just get to a 10x
rorowass, I'll be like the big boys and you're like actually some of the big boys might be operating at a 2x rowass. They're just doing it much better in terms of retention and
customer um reactivation than you are. So it works for them in in a way that a 2x row doesn't work for you. I'm not saying you have to lose money as a small budget advertiser.
Often you need profitability to be able to reinvest, but you might be fine with a four or 5xass. You might not need a 10x ROAS to make it worth your while. My next recommendation
is to reduce the number of variables. So we want to concentrate and consolidate both from your resource capacity mentally, time within your business, but also within your ad
account so that we consolidate that conversion data and meta has the best possible chance of getting out of the learning phase and then optimizing your campaigns to get you the
outcome that you want to get. So I typically recommend that you focus on one offer only. If you sell a big range of products or you have multiple service offerings, which has sold
the best, which do you make the most money from? focus in on that exclusively. Don't have lots of different campaigns. Don't have lots of different adsets. You want to consolidate
that down. So, let's say we had five adsets and we're generating 20 conversions a week. Well, that's four conversions per [clears throat] adset on average. Much better to have the
one adset and have those 20 conversions going through the one adset. Like I said, much more like to get out the learning phase. Much easier for Meta to be able to optimize and draw
conclusions and then put your ads in front of the right people and get you the results that you want. If you don't have historical data around which offer is most profitable, which
sells the best, take a best guess. What are your competitors focusing on mostly? What do you have the best margins in? You can always adjust once you've got up and running. But
fewer campaigns, often just one campaign, one adset is the way to go. You can always look to scale and add complexity later on. In fact, if you do want more information about
