story is you can put stories into both of those things which amplify the effectiveness of the offer and sale or the listical and the education. So having said that I'm just going
to give you a little rundown on how to tell a story. When I was uh studying screenwriting I did a master class from Aaron Sen and he taught me that story is just three things. It's
intent, obstacle, and resolution. What we do is we have our big mission in the in the future, which is our overall brand narrative. That's the TV series as a whole. And then
anytime we send an email or anytime we send a piece of content or even an ad, that's an opportunity for us to tell a story as it relates to our mission of solving these problems
for these people. The way that I've broken down intent for you to steal and for you to get right away is you can say a phrase like we set out to give you XY Z. That XY Z might be
natural hair products. Whatever that mission is, we set out to do XY Z is the intent. The next phrase is but this annoying thing got in the way. That's the conflict. That's the
obstacle. You set out to do a bikini brand, but when you got overseas, you realized that things were too expensive. So then we get into resolution. So we had to sacrifice XY Z. You
are you following or is this off? Yeah. Yeah. So So we had to sacrifice ABC because giving you XY Z is so important to us. Now this is these are the stories you just tell time and
time again. Before we go jumps, get an over shoulder of this, but just know that I've got the basics of story here. And then I've got like some building blocks of story. I'm not
going to go into them because it's out of the scope of this video, but you can just see the building blocks that you can use in your stories. Brand values, mission, product values,
enemies. If you think about these things and you double click into them for yourself, you'll start to mine for resources that will be the building blocks of your stories moving
forward. And then I've got this vin diagram which is basically just mission, values, problem, solution. And in the middle, that's where your truest impact will have when you're
talking about your mission, your values that are being tested, and aligning that with the pro problem solution of what your brand actually sells, the products, which are always a
solution to a problem. That's when you start cooking. That's when you get to the next level. Hey. Hey. Do you think storytelling is the most powerful vehicle for us in terms of
content? I mean, look at the results. [ __ ] yeah. Are all the founder ads you're making at the moment story based? How much is it spending a day at the moment? Your ad, your
founder story? I don't know. Should I roughly? I actually all I know is that it's take taken the majority of the spend. So how much we spending a day? Almost 30 grand. You happy
about that? You don't seem thrilled. I say happy about it. But I'm making more [Music] Okay, so now we're going to wrap it all up. You know what you want is the glue to wrap up the
sales, the listicles, and the stories. And that glue is made up of two different things. The first one is relevance for your audience. Relevance is just whatever's useful,
whatever's interesting, whatever's important to your audience. The next part of the glue formula is this story that you're telling bringing people closer to your brand and your
product. And if you're doing all of those things, it just becomes a matter of repetition. So, you want to get out your little calendar thing and you want to think about maybe doing
two specific offers a month. And then in the leadup to those offers, what education are you dropping and what stories are you telling that are going to bring people closer and
preframe them for that specific offer? If you can do all of that stuff, then well, that's how we've built our brand. So, um, there's nothing magic about this. It's just how good
can you get at this game? How good can you get at telling stories about dropping content about edu? If you can get great at it and you can make stuff that's relevant to your
audience and you can make stuff that brings people closer to your brand, connects them, the game's over. You win. [Music] You could be making thousands of dollars a month just by
posting simple sentences on Facebook. I know it sounds crazy, but there's already thousands of other creators doing the exact same thing. They're not creating videos. They're not
posting reals. They're posting text posts, photos, and memes on Facebook and getting paid thousands of dollars. And in 2024, Facebook quietly paid creators over $2 billion from its
content monetization program. And what's amazing about Facebook is you do not need a massive following to do this. And like I said, you don't have to be a video creator to do this.
You can do this with image posts and text posts. In simple terms, here's how Facebook's content monetization program works. The more engagement and reach that your posts get, the
more they'll pay you per post. So, the more you could get people to like, comment, and share your post, the more Facebook is obviously going to push out your post, and then the
more you're going to get paid. In order to see good results, you need to be posting multiple times a day, at least 5 to 10 times per day. And I know that seems daunting because who
the hell has time to post 5 to 10 times per day. But in this video, I'm going to show you how you can leverage AI, specifically ChatGBT, to help you create these posts for
Facebook. And with this strategy, depending on the type of content you make, you could create a 100 posts in minutes. And my favorite way to do it is with ChatGBT and Canva. All
right, so let's jump right in. All right, so I want to start out showing you a few examples of popular Facebook pages and posts to give you some ideas of what types of content that
you could actually post on Facebook. All right, so here's a popular page that I found, 52,000 followers. So, this is the type of content that you'll see Kevin posting. You'll never
stress about money again. This was posted 7 hours ago, over 600 likes, 59 comments. 15 hours ago, a job offer with higher pay is coming. 10,000 likes, 700 comments. I know he made
decent money with that post. 20 hours ago, you soon make more money. Okay. 1,500 likes. You get the idea now. So, he's posting a lot of motivation and goalbased posts. And you can
see it's mostly graphics. And all of this stuff can easily be made in Canva. And of course, he's posting multiple times a day. It seems anywhere from three to five, sometimes more.
And again, I think that's the sweet spot. The more you post on Facebook, the better chances you have of gaining more reach, of gaining more views, because Facebook doesn't care how
many times you post. They'll let you post a 100 times a day if you can do that. But in the beginning, in the beginning, I think posting three to five times per day is a good sweet
spot. All right, here's another example. Philip Michael, again, more motivational type stuff. And what's unique about his post, he, you know, obviously uses his face here and then
he adds a tweet style graphic to it. You're rare. Stop acting like you're regular. You know, this was posted 4 hours ago. Got 2,000 likes, 6,500 likes, 18,000 likes. I mean, he's
getting a ton of engagement, a lot of shares, a lot of comments. So, this is the type of metrics that you want to see and what is going to make you the most money. So, 18,000
likes, 1400 shares. Like, comments and shares are what make the most in this content monetization program when you're creating image posts like this. All right, here's another guy,
Jeff Moore. Again, the motivation niche is definitely really popular. So, this is what he does. He creates this kind of style uh post that looks like a tweet again. Now, this was
posted just 1 minute ago, 1 hour ago, 1 hour ago, 2 hours ago, 4 hours ago. So, he's posting multiple times a day, creating these posts very easily. I bet he's using AI to do all
this right here for him. 14 hours ago, I mean, he's posting at least like 20, 30 times a day. I I bet. And these types of posts are so easy to make with AI. All right. So, here's
what I'm going to do to create similar posts to this one right here. So, I'm going to go on this page and I'm going to screenshot a couple of the posts here. All right. So, I
screenshotted a few of his posts and then I'm going to go into chat GBT and I'm going to attach all of those screenshots here. All right. And then the prompt I wrote, create a
table with one column containing 100 motivational quotes, similar to the screenshots I attach here. Do not add numbers to the quotes. I want the quotes to be somewhat related to
money, career, relationships, life, etc. up to two sentences. All right. And then chat GBT is going to do its thing here and create quotes that are similar to the images that I
attach. All right. Now, I have 100 unique quotes that I can use to post on Facebook. Now, of course, go through these, make sure they resonate with what you want your page to be.
You can always adjust these and go back into chatbt and say, "Hey, make these changes here." And then it'll go ahead and make those changes for you. But this is a great start. Now,
I'm going to show you how you could go into Canva and then create a hundred unique posts that you could post onto your Facebook. All right, now I'm in Canva and I went to the
search under templates and I typed in tweet. So, it's going to give you all these different types of templates that you can use. Now, keep in mind, I do have the pro version of
Canva. So, some of these that you see, you might not be able to use if you have if you don't have the Canva Pro. And honestly, in order to do what I'm about to do, you do need the
pro version of Canva. But I want to show you exactly how you can do it because I think it's 100% worth it if you're creating these types of designs often. All right. So, I'm just
going to pick a random one here. And then I'm going to hit customize this template. All right. And then I'm going to make some changes here so it's unique to me. All right. So, I
made this template more unique to me. Obviously, I added my name, my photo, but you could do whatever you want. Add a different background image. Just go through all the templates
or create your own. All right. Now is the cool part. So on the lefth hand side you go to apps and then search bulk create then I'm going to hit enter data manually clear table go
to chatbt and copy all the quotes that it generated for you and go back to canva paste. All right now you can see all of the quotes are right here then go here click done. All
right so now you have to select an element in your page then connect it to a data field. So that's why I wrote text right here. So, I'm going to click on text, go to these three
dots, go to connect data, then hit this, hit continue, generate, then it says view designs right here. Click on that. Look at that. Now, I have a 100 unique posts that I could post
to Facebook. I mean, look how great this looks. This is exactly what this guy is doing right here. I don't know if he's using Chat GBT and Canva, but it looks like he's doing
something very similar because of the type of volume that he's putting out. So, doing this allows you to create hundreds of posts in minutes. So you could post, you know, 10, 20,
30 times per day if you really wanted to. And you can also use this bulk create feature to do the same thing with videos. By the way, if you want stock photos or stock videos, go
to pixels.com, pixels.com. You can click on videos and you can find some vertical videos that you can use for your post and do the same thing uh that I just did here in Cam. And
then go into the meta business suite on your Facebook page or Facebook profile. And then you can easily schedule these posts in the Meta Business Suite. So take a half hour, take
an hour, upload everything into the Meta Business Suite, schedule the time and date that you want these posts to go out, and then they'll go out automatically. So you don't have to
log into Facebook every time you want to make a post. Now, of course, this isn't the only way that you can create posts for your Facebook page. Maybe you want to start a news
channel or a sports channel. Post content that's relevant to you and your interest because if you're not interested in the content that you're posting, you're going to get burnt
out and you're going to get bored. But I wanted to show you how easy it can be to create hundreds of posts that you could post on Facebook and eventually get paid for it because
the content monetization program is one of the best ways to monetize your content on social media right now. And the name of the game is being consistent. Post every single day,
multiple times per day. It's not going to happen overnight, but the more consistent you are, the more followers you're going to get, the more views you're going to get, the more
engagement you're going to get, and then eventually Facebook will invite you to the content monetization program so you can start getting paid. I have a 61page ebook called How to
Grow and Monetize Your Facebook Content. I made it affordable so everyone could go check it out and learn how to make money posting on Facebook. So if you guys want to check that
out, go to the link in my bio and make sure you subscribe for more videos like this. Thanks for watching. [Music] This is easily one of the most important trainings you're going to
watch. The new Andromeda update for Facebook is super important and if you're doing drop shipping, you have to understand this if you want to be successful. So, today I'm going to
show you how you can create 100 drop shipping ads in 30 minutes or less using AI and it's 100% Andromeda proof. So, before we begin, if you want to see numbers like this, $5,000 in
a day, $5,000 in a day, or even $30,000 in a week, you're going to want to pay very close attention and maybe even watch this video back two times. All right, so let's jump
straight into it. So, what is the new update with Andromeda? Basically, Facebook doesn't like you creating a ton of different variations. They want to see concepts instead. So, not
only am I going to teach you the new update and how to separate yourself, I'm also going to teach you in just a moment towards the end of this video, how to actually set the
campaigns up so you can be successful. So, back to this variation versus concept. What is the difference between the two? Well, most of us when we talk about drop shipping and
creating variations or split tests, we normally change one or two things like the ad headline or maybe like a picture or two. This is considered a variation. The problem with this
is that Andromeda now can analyze ads way faster than ever before. And what they'll do is that they'll take the same exact variation ads and just show them to the same person. And
this is going to hurt your performance because the same person seeing the same exact ad with a slightly different headline is going to create ad fatigue a lot faster and it's not
going to get them to buy. What Facebook wants you to do here is start to create different concepts. If we think about consumers and how people buy things, a lot of the times we
need to see the same thing but in different ways for us to purchase. Right? If I'm seeing the exact same ad every single time, I'm just going to get sales blindness where I just
I've seen that a million times, I'm just going to scroll past it. Even if I need the product and even if I'm interested, I'm just going to ignore it if it looks exactly the same
with a slight variation. What Facebook wants you to start doing now is creating different concepts. Right? So this is a different concept because this is a review a client
testimonial and this is a different concept because this is us versus them. Same exact product communicating the same exact solution which is removing your sciatica or getting rid
of your sciatica and getting proper sleep at night with this knee pillow. But it's presented to the customer in two different ways. And this is important because customers are on
different sales cycles. Some customers know a lot about the product and you need to use a sales cycle like or sales ad like this one here to convert them. Others may not know too
much about the ad and or about the product rather and this type of ad would be better at converting to them. What Facebook wants to do is have you have a portfolio of different ad
angles and concepts so they can circulate different ads to different people at the different times in the buying decision. So that's why in this video I'm going to break down
exactly how you can create a ton of different ads quickly so you can be more profitable. Now real quick, this video is all about picture ads, but videos also do the same thing. So
rather than just changing the hook of the video, you want a different concept. Maybe a UGC style video, a founder video, an in an infomercial, or something else like text on
screen, right? So that's all very important. All right, so let's jump into exactly how to do this. The three or actually four tools you'll need is Hicksfield, Creative OS, Claude,
and Chat GBT. ChatGBT is going to be a little optional, but I think it's still overall important to the concept. Um, so let's get straight into it. So, for the sake of this, we're
going to use one of the stores that I've kind of put together here, Evelyn. This is selling a remmineralizing tooth powder for grown adults that have noticed their enamel decaying,
maybe tooth sensitivity, cavities. Um, so it's just a it's just a replacement for toothpaste. So, what we'll do is first open up Claude and we're going to create a project. This is
important to create projects because we want to first train the algorithm and the AI to understand who we're selling to, what we're selling to, so it can help create different
angles for us to make this super easy. The next step is to go in the description of this video and go to my scripting document that I have here and copy this exact prompt and paste
it into Claude AI. So, it's very important that you feed the algorithm or the AI here with as much information as possible. So you'll see in the prompt that you can grab from the
document that I'm going to give it some information to start off with. First thing is I'm going to provide it the Amazon listing or the description. Um I'm also going to give it a
Reddit form as well so we can talk about people with remineralizing um you know how they struggle with their enamel cavities. To do this you literally go in and type in your
problem and then put Reddit at the end of it. And then I have a form here. I'm just going to copy this link here and it's people just talking about remmineralizing their teeth and
a whole bunch of different stuff. So, we're going to provide that as well. And then we also want to go to the very similar Amazon listing like this one here that I'm using. And we
want to get the reviews as well. I use this tool called Amazon Reviews Exporter. And it's going to download uh about 100. I guess it can't do more than 100. So, about 100 of the
most helpful reviews. So, if I go down here, it's going to download this and turn it into a file. I'm going to take that file and slap that right on into Claude AI as well. So, it
takes a few seconds. We're going to do it right here. It's extracted 80 90 and then boom. And then I can just go here and slap that in there as well. So, we have a Reddit form. We
have the Amazon link and the the product description if you'd like. And a Reddit form all about different information about our product, different problems that people have within
this. And and now we're going to hit submit. And this is going to provide a ton of different information and get it ready to start creating a ton of different ads. I'm also going
to do the same thing in chat GBT as well. Now, for those of you that are using Claude or Chad GBT and you're saying to yourself, do I need both? I highly recommend you do have
both. But if you want to pick one or the other, just go with Chad GBT. The reason why I like using both is because some of the ads that we create is going to require a little bit
of copyrightiting and that's where Claude is a little better. But when it comes to Chad GBT, the reason why we're using this is because we're going to be actually creating all the
image ads in something called Higsfield. But before we generate the images, I like to use chat GBT to help me prompt exactly how I want to turn those images and use them for my own
brand. But um it's very important that you do train both AIs to know exactly what your product's about. That way it actually understands how it's going to create the copy and the
messaging for you. Also important to note, if Chad GBT says, "Hey, we can't scrape the Amazon link for you." Just literally copy the the description and then it'll it'll do all
that stuff for you. And I believe Claude should be almost done here as well. Um, sometimes it fails to fetch things, so it might actually go and do the research for you. So, just
give these a couple of seconds and we should be good to go. Now that Chad GBT has pretty much gone through and done everything here. We have a product summary. We understand the
key benefits, all the information that we need, the biggest takeaways. It's going to provide some different angles and concepts. We're not going to actually use any of this right
now. We just want the AI to know and we also want ourselves to know as well. So the next tool we're going to jump into is Creative OS. This is a tool that provides the best and
most viral picture ads that are being ran by other brands. And the the name of the game here is just by pulling whatever is doing really well and using that concept for our own ads
as well. So you're going to log in. Uh, I believe they do have a free trial that you can start off with and then I think the monthly subscription is $20 or $49. Either one is
pretty good. So, let's jump straight into it. Right. If I go on the rightand side here, all I like to basically do here is filter by the most popular ads. These are ads that are
absolutely crushing it for other competitors and brands. And even here at the top right hand side, we can see that there are different types of ads. You have back in stock, you
have beauty, before and after. We can hit this this drop down here. And this right here are all different concepts, right? So, different concepts that we can use and quickly be
able to test with our product. Um, I actually really like these here. So, all I'm going to do is find something that I really like. And then what we're going to do is tell Chad
GBT, hey, take this concept from a competitor and here's a picture of my product and I need you to swap out the product and swap out the benefits and features and align that with
the product that I'm looking to sell. So, let's actually do that. Let's take this for example. We're just going to download this one here. It's also important that you have a very
clean picture of your product as well. This is super easy to do. You can literally just find a product photo from AliExpress or wherever you got your product from, from your
supplier, and just have them slap a logo. You can literally go in chat GBT, hey, put a logo on this product. That's literally what I did. As you can see, it's basically the exact
same here. And I just went in chat GBT took this and said, "Hey, remove the just ingredients logo and put my logo instead." And then now that you have a clean picture of your
product, you want to slow slap that as well in the chat GBT prompt. So, we're not going to generate the images in Chad GBT. We just need help with the scripting and prompting. So,
I'm going to tell Chad GBT, I'm going to upload a picture of my product, and then the competitor ad. I'm going to say, image one is my product, and image two is the competitor
picture ad. I need you to create a Higsfield prompt that accomplishes the following. Recreate image two, which is the competitor's ad, but have the messaging in line with my
product and swap out the competitor's product images with my product. Be sure to follow the concept colors and style exactly how the competitor has it. So, this is why we need to
prompt the AI with information and knowledge about our product and the industry because now it's not only going to be able to create the prompt for us that we can throw in
Higsfield, the messaging and copy that's on the ad here, we're going to want the AI to replace this as well that aligns with our product. So, this is very very important that it
knows exactly what to do. And sometimes it's important as well that we we we get really clear. So, right here it says prenatalss. We want to make sure that all the messaging and
copy aligns with the remineralizing toothpowder and not the competitor's actual product. So, I'm going to add that in there as well. And now, Chat GBT is going to give us the
prompt, right, which is amazing. Boom. Generates the prompt in a matter of seconds. And now we can copy all this and load it up into Higsfield. So, this is Higsfield. The images
that I have here that I was generating was for another training I was doing with my students inside of my school community. But now that you have the prompt, you're just going to
paste the prompt in and paste the images. And as you notice here, Higfield has a couple of different models that you can use to generate images. And I'm going to show you exactly
how I like to do this. So, copy the exact prompt from Chad GBT into Higsfield. Make sure you upload your images. And then there is a couple different models. Like I mentioned, I
like to test off with Nana Banana. I'm going to select that. I'm also because I'm on the I'm on a specific plan that allows me to get unlimited for Nana Banana. I'm going to make
sure I select unlimited, which makes it so I only can generate one image at a time, which is fine. And then I'm going to change the dimensions here to a one by one. And then I'm
just going to hit unlimited. All right. So now that's going to start generating an image. While that's going as well, I'm going to also test out flux context max. Make sure to
change this here. This is actually going to take some credits though. So we're going to generate that. Um, and then sometimes I'll mess with these other ones, but these are two
normally the more consistent ones. Flux tends to generate a little bit faster than Nana Banana. Um, but Nana Banana, in my opinion, is a little bit more consistent. So, you're
going to notice the first set of time, the first couple times doing this, there's going to be a couple errors and issues, and all you got to do is just go back in and tweak a few
things. Um, but it's really cool because it generates realistically good photos. Um, and even in Chad GBT as well, we can we can do that as well. So, here's the first first image,
right? So, it has other toothpaste. Evelyn for mineralizing tooth powder supports natural enamel. So as you can see here the the messaging is messed up here. Gentle on sensitive
teeth contains fluoride chemicals. So the concept and the ideas there they just messed up with the the text. Flux context isn't the best right now with with generating text. Not as
good as Chad GBT and the other ones. But um it it can be really good. Let's take a look at Nana Banana. Nana Banana looks a little bit better. Right. So this one has um the tooth
powder, right? So this one's contains fluoride. They misspelled fluoride and synthetic chemicals. Can cause gum irritation, acid reflux. Okay, so this is good. Supports natural
enamel, reminds of calcium, calcium and clay, gentle and sensitive. So this is good. All you would need to do is go back here into instruct and then tell it what to say. And if I
would go in and literally tell it exactly what to say on the left side, on the right side, then it's good to go. So it did the the heavy lifting for me. I just got to go in and
tweak a couple things. But as you can see here, this is super easy. and you it took a couple seconds to do this and I have one concept and this is considered an us versus them ad
and now I would go in and generate another one. We can't sleep on chat GBT's ability as well. Chad GBT takes so much longer but they're more consistent with the text and the
wording while the other AI models are a little bit faster, but when you have certain ads with a lot of text, that's where it could get a little tricky. I did pick one of the
hardest images to replicate with all the extra text. Um, so that's where Hexfield can be a little behind, but Chad GBT, that's where Chad GBT can come in. As you can see here, it
generates everything here. Um, they will have some issues here like this sensitive spelled with a five. Um, the other text looks fine, but again, you just go in and just give the
prompt, hey, fix this or hey, make sure the image of my product looks exactly like this. And honestly, you go in, you tweak it a couple of times, you're good to go. Now, what I
would do next is, okay, I have an us versus them. Let's get another ad going. All right, another concept, right? What people would do in the past would take this exact ad and then
change a little bit of the copy or the headlines. No, we need a whole new concept. So, let's pick something a little less intensive with the text and all that stuff. Um, this could
this could be really good because um this is remin that that could work really well. Um, we could scroll a little bit. Flow, no more acne or your money back. That could be good.
Um, so we want a different concept. This could be good here. I like this. I like this because it's like the it's like more reviews. 60-day money back guarantee. That's good. Crack
skin. That could also be good here. Yeah, there's a lot of good ads here that I I like. Um, cool. This is this could be good as well for the remineralizing powder. Honestly, this
is all really good. Greens powder. This is more reviews. So, if you're like looking, you're not sure, let's do we could do before and after. And now we have a ton of before and
afters. That could be good. We can do what other concepts do they have? They have Black Friday could be good. They even go down into the niche, um, which is pretty sick. So, I'm
just going to pick one just because um a before and after. So, the other one was us versus them. This is a before and after. Let's do this as well. Let's do this ad as well. Okay.
So, we're just going to again upload the picture of the competitor's ad and our product. In a matter of seconds, it's going to give us a prompt for Higsfield. We're going to copy
that, go over to Higsfield. Um, we're gonna remove this one and then just throw in the competitor's ad. Remove the script. Paste that in. Wait for the ad to fully load. It loaded.
Boom. Hit that. And then we're also going to do Nana Banana because it's free as well. And sometimes after doing a couple regenerations, it's going to get it perfectly. So, we give
it a couple seconds here. And while we're at it, let's just go here. I'm going copy that same script. And then, might as well just do Chad GBT as well. Generate an image. And then
I just paste that in. And then now the whole concept here is that you can quickly generate ads. While Chad GBT is going, Higsfield is also going. Um, boom. So Hicksfield, as you
can see here, Flux generates really quickly, but it's not always on point. Um, so like you can see this one here didn't do a good job. It didn't even show my product, but this one
did. So let's see. A lot of text again. Um, let's see if it get nailed the text this time around. Yellow teeth and surface stains, sensitive to hot and cold, weak enamel. So again,
we'd have to go in and fix that and fix this as well. Again, to quickly fix it though, you just go in here and say on left side point number three, right? So this is the left side
of the picture. This is point number three. Three should say and then boom, boom, boom, you'd say whatever. Um, but the concept is there. We'd also want to tell it to remove this
as well. Let's see about this one from Nana Banana. Nana banana looks a little better. weakened enamels and cavities, gum inflation, bleeding, after evolence, naturally whiter.
Boom, boom, boom, boom. Yeah, perfect. This one doesn't even need to be edited, unless I'm missing something, but this doesn't even need to be edited. There you go. Right. So,
matter of seconds, you got that going. And let's see what Chad GBT is doing. Um, something as well is you want to also be clear sometimes with Chad GBT, you, as you can see here,
when you throw in a prompt, it it automatically generates it in the image format it sees best. while Higsfield you can pick the different image formats here. So when you're doing
this through Chad GBT just say hey um generate this in a 2000 by 2000 pixel format if you want it to be square but it being like this is fine. Yellow teeth surface sensitive to hot
and cold weak enamel and cavities gum inflation bleeding. Boom. Right. So that took a few seconds. I mean that's not really taking too long. You can see here if you just set up a
30-minute timer, you get really good at this and you train your AI like I did, it should be really easy. Then you just go back and create OS. All right, so we've done a us versus
them. We've done um a before and after. Now let's do a customer review or something else. And you can just keep creating different ones. And the name of the game here is okay, we
want to test, right? We want to continue to test. This is a nice before and after. Rather than taking this before and after and slightly changing one setting here or one feature
here, we we want another whole different type of before and after. So we'd come here. Um we look for before and after. Um could have sworn it was just right here, but is this in
alphabetical order? It is. But so where's before and after? I I could literally just be missing right now. But you would sit here. There's an us versus them, right? So we have an
us versus them as well. Don't make your us versus them the same picture with slight different v variations. Let's make a whole different con concept for us versus them. Right now,
let's find a new us versus them. This could be a new one. Right. Um I don't really think this is the best example of us versus them. Oh, I have before and after already selected.
That's why I can't I didn't see it. So, we have a before and after here. There's some more different variations of a before and after. This one is just text on screen. We can maybe
show a picture, right? Um, there's a lot of different things we can do and that is the way you want to create image ads moving forward. Now, let me show you. I can load this up in
an ad account and the different content strategy that I would be doing. So, Facebook's all about consolidation. Now, they want you to kind of tighten up on your campaigns. Before
you can launch three, four, five, six different campaigns and let them fly. Now, they really want no more than two campaigns, right? So, you really want a testing campaign and you
want a uh scaling campaign, right? and they're both CBO campaigns and they are the only campaigns you really need to scale your brand. So, here's how I'm going to do it, right? I
highly recommend you do the same. So, your campaign structure should go as following. Set up a CBO testing. Okay, CBO campaign. The adset level, you could start off at $100 a day.
The adset level should be one country, right? So, if you're in the UK, do the UK. If you're in the US, do the US. One country. I've seen people start off with four different
countries, the top four. highly recommend you focus on scaling on the number one country first. Then down the line you can test different countries. But for now, um I highly
recommend you keep your countries separated in different campaigns. So just start off with the US and then go from there. Do not touch the gender. Do not touch the age. I don't
care if you're selling women's clothing. Do not go in there and say female only. It doesn't matter. Let Facebook know exactly who you know they'll find your target audience for
you. And you're going to set up five to 10 different ads under the same adept. Each of these being different concepts, okay? Different concepts. This is super super important. You
want to do different concepts because now Facebook will be able to figure out which target audience of yours will respond better to the different concepts. And this is the testing
campaign because we're only going to have one ad set and all the ads under one ad set. We're not going to have different concepts as different adsets in the testing campaign. We're
just going to constantly be throwing new ads under the same adset for a couple reasons. One, this is a testing campaign, right? So, there's going to be different audiences that
interact with your con your ad differently. And we want to make sure that we're feeding that adset enough data and spend so can optimize and get the 50 conversions a week and get
out of learning phase. If you're you're separating different adsets under the testing phase, there's a good chance that you're not going to be spending as much. Your budget for
testing should have be about 20 to 30%. Obviously, in the beginning, it's just going to be 100% of your budget. But the goal here is to launch an ad set with five to 10 different
ads. You can mix it up with some pictures, some videos. You can have it all pictures, all videos. It doesn't really matter. Just have a variety of different ads under the same ad
set like I just showed you. Obviously, the goal would just be picture ads here. So, from there, you're going to find one of these ads, which are different concepts. one of these
are going to just start outperform the other and it should be profitable for you. Now, if one starts to get a ton of spend, I recommend you let that ad spend the equivalent of the
AOV of your product. So, if you're selling back to randomizing toothpowder, right? If I'm selling something for $29.99, um realistically $60, right? Because this is going to be the
number one uh option that I want people to pay. I'm going to let the ad spend $60 and if it doesn't get any buying intent, like no add to carts, no purchases obviously, then I turn
it off. But if it gets $60 in spend, no purchases, but it got like two, three add toarts, the ad to cars look good, the ad metrics look good, I'm going to let it spend one more
day, and if it doesn't get any sales the next day, then I turn it off. Right? And you're just going to do that. And you want to test different concepts until you find one that is
converting for you. Okay? So now, let's say ad number two or concept number two is cooking for you. What you're going to do is duplicate this ad, right? You ideally would want like
three or four of these to be doing good or at least two of them to be doing good. Let's say you have two of these doing really good for you. You're going to duplicate this into a
CBO campaign under its own concept, right? And basically, let's say this concept is a before and after, right? You're going to duplicate that into a CBO campaign under one adset.
You're going to title this a before and after. And now you're going to start creating a ton more before and afters. These before and afters are not going to be variations. Okay?
Remember variations. These are variations. We're not just going to create a bunch more that look like this where it's we're just changing headlines. We want to create more um
different concepts. So we'll take this, right? Let's say this is the the winner. Actually, let's say this is the winner. Now, we're going to create more that don't look exactly
