delete out the United States, we can see in the map where we're targeting. So, we've got Bath plus 25 miles as a default. You might go, "Oh, no. You know, that's too far. People
either aren't willing to travel to us if you're a local business from that sense, or we're not willing to travel that far." Because local business could be either way, right? You
could be a plumber traveling to customers or you could be a cafe with people coming to you. Um, so you go, "No, no, no. We're going to go with 15 miles around. I think that's more
appropriate." Obviously, you can you can decide this. Now, I don't want you to overthink this. I don't want you to think, well, I'm a local business, but um I have to advertise
nationally because Meta likes nice big audiences. Like, no, no, no, just where your audience are. I also don't want you to artificially constrain the location targeting just
because you think that's where the people are who are most likely to be interested in in your products or services. So, for example, if you sell products nationally in the UK,
don't go, "Oh, I'm only going to advertise in London because people in London are wealthier and they're more likely to buy my products and services." Like, Meta will work that out.
And if your uh best prospects are in a certain location, more of your ad spend will be spent there. But you don't want to artificially constrain it because Meta might think might
find some people that are in not in that location that are also great prospects even if the density of those people in those other locations is lower. Right? So basically where
your customers are is good to good to select. One thing to quickly mention about local businesses is you now have this option which is reach more people likely to respond to your
ads and deselect it. So it says here we'll also show ads to people interested in your selected cities and regions in those countries. So for example, do we want people do we want
to advertise to people that are interested in the city of Bath or not? A lot of local businesses find that they'll generate leads from people that have traveled to that location.
But if you're a roofer, that's not overly helpful because you're not going to be able to serve those people that live halfway across the country. So, a lot of local businesses want
to deselect this even if Meta pops up a warning saying you're likely to see worse results. 6.7% lower cost per result if you select it. Yeah, but what's the point having a lower
cost per lead if you can't service those leads in this scenario? So, most local business want to deselect this. For demonstration purposes though, I am going to go with uh for the
rest of this video, United Kingdom and just leave it at that. Okay. Right. Moving on. We've got show more controls. So, in show more controls, we've got a minimum age. So, you can
select anything from 18 up to 25. This is typically recommended if you're advertising something in a particular location. And there are legal restrictions on who can and can't buy
it. For example, in some places, you need to be 21 to buy certain things, right? So, you want to select 21 as your minimum. Otherwise, often best to leave it open. It only goes up
to 25. This is not like strict age targeting criteria. This is just uh for the purposes that I described. Custom audiences. I'll explain in a second. And then we've also got
languages, right? So, it could be that you can only serve people that speak a certain language within a certain location. If you operate within a country with multiple languages,
and you think, are we only able to serve this uh market? Then you can go ahead and add in specific languages um if that's appropriate for your business. Most of the time, it's not
going to be. You can go with all languages. I'm going to leave that as the default. Then we get down and that's all you have control over from a hard boundary standpoint like do
not go beyond these targeting constraints to please Meta. Okay. So then we've got the suggest an audience section. So like I said these are suggestions. This is designed to give
Meta direction. Particularly helpful when you've got a new Meta ad account when Meta doesn't know who's likely to become a lead. They don't know that people interested in cats who
are 43 and live in this certain location are most likely to buy your products and services. Right? As an example. Um, so [snorts] here we can give medicine direction. So we the
first thing we've got is include these custom audiences. And I said I'd talk about custom audiences a second ago. Custom audiences are warm audiences. People that have interacted
with your business before. Lots of different types of custom audiences. People who visited your website. People on your email list. People who have engaged with your Facebook page
or Instagram profile, watched videos of yours, become leads, all sorts. I've got whole tutorials about targeting and setting up custom audiences and definitely something you want
to do later on. For now, don't worry about it. Firstly, you probably don't have much in the way of custom audiences yet if you're just getting started with your advertising.
Secondly, they can always be created and added in later on. Okay. Then beneath that, we've got age. Now remember, this is a suggestion. So often you want to say to Meta, these are
my this is the age range of my ideal prospects, my ideal customers. But again, Meta can choose to go outside that if they think there are people that like to convert. So what we
typically do here is not get too restrictive, but just think about like your core demographic, your core target market. So for a business like ours, that's probably going to be
something like 30 to 55 in terms of we're looking to reach business owners and marketing professionals and marketing managers. Yes, there going to be some people younger, some
people older, of course, but that might be our core. Then you've got genders. If you skew one way or the other heavily, like 90% men, 90% women, then go ahead and make a selection.
Otherwise, it's fine to leave it all. Remember, Meta is going to work a lot of this out for us in terms of um who's likely to take the action we want to take. And then we've got
detailed targeting. So here we can add in demographics, interest, behaviors. You can browse the various categories and look for this. But often what I recommend to get started is
just enter in some obvious options that sound about right for your target audience. So for example, we might have something like social media marketing. If I add that in as an
option, right? So people interested in social media marketing as some as as a group of people we might be wanting to target. Uh we could have something like business page admins.
So, anyone that's an admin of a of a business page um on Meta, then great, we can go ahead and target those people. Couple of simple options. You can add in none here. You can add
in one. You can add in four. There's no right amount. These are all suggestions. This is just giving meta direction. Don't spend a ton of time on this. It doesn't matter. Seen a
lot of people get really hung up on this and like to test too much. That's what we used to do number of years ago. Not what we do anymore. You can click on further limit the reach
of your ads and then get really specific with the targeting and basically say to Meta, "No, I only want to target these people." Not something I'd recommend for most beginners. It
overcomplicates it and typically we see better results now by giving Meta direction and letting Meta's machine learning algorithm work it out as opposed to us advertisers trying to
have too much specific control. Then beneath that, we've got placements. So placements refers to the locations where your ads can be shown. So if we click in here, we can have a
look, right? So if I click into more settings and we've got placement controls uh included is 24. So we can see actually if I go above that we've got platforms. So we've got the
the five platforms currently Facebook, Instagram, audience network, messenger or threads, the places where ads can be shown. And we can say no no I don't want any of my ads to be
shown on threads. Not sure why you do that, but you can if you want. Um audience network is typically considered the lower quality placement option. Audience network's going to
refer to things you you you'll have interacted with these before where you sort of click through on something on meta and you come through to like an article or an app or something
along those lines. That's going to be audience network. So sometimes advertisers will look to to deselect those. I'll explain that in a second. And then if we click into
placements, we can see all the various options, right? So we can break it down by all the different feeds and say no, I don't want to advertise on feeds or I only want to advertise
on stories and reels or or etc etc. Right? So what would my recommendation be here for setting this up? If you are using a leads campaign or a sales campaign, just leave it as is.
Basically, let Meta run ads on all placements because they're only going to put your ads on those placements that Meta thinks are going to get you the result that you've asked for
for a lead for a sale. So, absolutely fine. If however you are forced to run a different campaign objective like traffic because you cannot track the leads or sales that you
generate then I do think you want to become more specific and the obvious option is just to get rid of the audience network because what you don't want is for Meta to put your ads
on the placement options that are lower quality, less likely to lead to a conversion. But that's exactly what Meta will do if you're not optimizing for a conversion because those
placements are cheaper. Other advertisers aren't as interested in those. Therefore, the cost is lower. Remember, the price is set by simple demand and supply and um and and yeah,
so you might want to come in and deselect audience network if you aren't able to track conversions. Most of you will be. You'll have the pixel setup and you're all good. Then you
can go ahead with just the default, which is uh everywhere, all 24 placement options and all five platforms. Run AB tests. Great thing to do later on. Not something I'm going to
worry about right now. um all this stuff here of brand suitability and inventory filters and all that sort of stuff that is beyond the scope of what most beginner advertisers want
to get into. You can get really lost in this is basically you as an advertising more control around what your ads are put alongside the context around them all those sorts of
things. A thing that a lot of big brands care about quite a lot because they really care about their brand image. I personally don't feel like, you know, what your ad is around
when a user is seeing your ad in context of other um stuff that they see on Facebook and Instagram is that important. I think it kind of operates as an isolated thing. Anyway, it's
sort of used now to scrolling through reels or stories and you see very different things, right? Different context. They're not necessarily one is associated with the other
straight after. I don't feel like it's a big deal, but bigger brands uh find this sort of stuff quite important and often mess around with it significantly. Most Creating &
Publishing Your Ads of the time it hurts results, but not something you need to worry about as beginners. And that is the ad set taken care of. So now let's go ahead and jump over
to the ad level. Okay, so now it's time for the ad level, the most interesting part, the level that determines what people actually see when they're presented with your Facebook,
Instagram ads. First thing at the top here to quickly mention is partnership ads. Love partnership ads. allow you to run ads um with creators and influencers to help promote your
products and services. These are awesome. Not something for beginners. You want to get started with simpler campaigns first, but definitely look to add this in later on. I have
content all about them. Then you've got identity. So, make sure that the Facebook page, Instagram account, and threads profile that your ads are going to come from on those various
platforms are all correct. Obviously, people make errors here. And by the way, those are my accounts. If you want more information on Facebook and Instagram advertising, go ahead
and give me a follow on whichever you typically use. Branding is more an advanced thing. Don't need to worry about that. Then we get into ad setup. So we've got create ad, which is
the default. You could also use existing post. So if you already have a post, say on your Instagram profile that's done well and you think, oh, I want to run that as an ad, you can
go ahead and select existing post, choose it, and go for it. U most of you are going to want to be creating ads. And that's typically what I'd recommend. when you use existing
posts, some of the functionality is a bit limited because it already exists as a post as opposed to having full flexibility of an ad. And also in terms of what you put out there as
say organic posts on on Facebook and Instagram versus what you use as ads, there's normally differences in the content that's used. So when you use when you're running ads, you're
normally going to have a stronger call to action and things like that, right? So typically you're going to be creating ad. So we're going to go ahead and use manual upload.
Advantage plus catalog ads. Again, slightly more of an advanced thing, not something I'm going to cover here, but just to know that if you are an e-commerce business and you want
to run uh you have a catalog, you want to run ads uh using a catalog, this is a great way to go, particularly for retargeting warm audiences, people who have maybe checked out a
product but haven't yet converted. So, definitely something to look to add in later on. I've got content on that you can find on my channel. But for now, we're going to go with
manual upload. Next, choose the format. Do we want a single image or video? That's what I'm going to go with here. I'm going to use an image. Like I said, I want the campaign
creation set up for you guys to be as easy as possible to get started. But you can run carousels. Carousels are like um cards of different So, you've got an image with some like a
headline, another image with a headline, another image, headline, some pricing information, sometimes extra info. You've probably seen carousels before. Uh multi-advertiser ads.
Honestly, we've tested this and we don't really see any difference whether we have this selected or deselected. So, I'm happy to leave it on. Multi-advertiser ad says your ad can
appear with others in the same ad unit to help promote discoverability. Doesn't seem to make much difference either way. So happy to uh to leave that on. And then we get on to
destination. Now your destination is where people are going to be sent after they click on your ads. So because we selected website as the conversion location at the adset level,
we need to enter in a website URL. So this could be a product page if you're advertising a product. Uh could be a specific landing page for a service. Could be even maybe the
homepage of your website. Wherever it is that you want to send people directly. So, I'm going to go ahead and paste a link in here just to quickly explain um what we're going to be
using as the example because I've got an example campaign. I'm going to quickly put together an example ad I'm going to put together uh to help you understand the process. So, we
have a thing called my meta ads mentorship program. And just to quickly explain what that is included in it, we've got unlimited one-to-one support. People can ask us any questions
they've got about their meta ads. It's designed to provide them all the support they need to get the best possible results um from Facebook and Instagram ads. We do daily live
calls and Q&A with me and my expert team members. We've got exclusive educational material, that sort of thing, right? That that's the offer that we're going to be advertising. By
the way, if you are interested in that, there's a link in the um video description, but that's what we're going to be using as the offer. Um so, just give you a bit of context
around that before we move on. So, I've gone and entered in the URL to the landing page for people to come through and book a call. And when we run ads for our Meta Ads membership
program, which we do all the time, um that's exactly where people are sent straight through to this page where they can go ahead and book a call. Once you enter in the URL, you'll
start to see the preview over here, which is really useful. You can't see much yet, but as we add in things like add creative and add copy, we'll be able to see what it looks like
um for the user that's actually going to see it over here in the preview, which is helpful. So, we have this first option called display link. Um so, you can see here we've got
admasters 365.com, which is the link that I've added in up here. We could change that using display link if you want to. I don't want to here. Just wanted to quickly highlight that
it's an option. Then, we've got these browser add-ons. The default is none. And that's what I'd recommend you go with for now. I think that some of this stuff gets a little bit too
complicated, a little bit too advanced for beginners. Um, you can add, for example, a call button to your website, an Instagram direct button on your website, people to be able to
message you via Instagram, WhatsApp, etc. Something you might want to mess around with later on. In general, we don't tend to use these because we want people to take a very
specific path, as in they come through to a website or a landing page and they take the one action we're sort of leading them to take as opposed to confusing them with various
different actions. But your business might be like, "No, I'd love a phone call or very happy to chat with people via WhatsApp." Then you can go ahead and set those up. Instant
experience. Again, not something we're going to worry about. It's part of this tutorial. And the same with Facebook event. If you are advertising a Facebook event, you're going to
have to go through that. But the vast majority watching this are not going to fall into that category. Then we get into the ad creative section. Right? So, we've got setup creative
and then we can choose between image ad and video ad. Like I said previously, video ads can perform really, really well. Image ads are much simpler for people to to create and I'd
often recommend that advertisers get started there. You can always look to produce uh more sophisticated ad creative things like video later on. I've got video tutorials showing
you how to do that you can find on my channel. But we're going to start nice and simple, reduce that barrier to entry and go with image ad. And once you select image ad, the first
thing that's going to happen is Meta is going to try and add in these various extensions. So, uh, we've got some branding information here, stuff that Meta is going to use to try
and work out when they produce AI generated assets. You'll see what that looks like in a second. And they're going to use this information that we add in here. And then we've got
site links, right? So, Meta is going to add in extra links to other pages on our website um, where people can go directly instead of the main one that we're looking to send people
through. So, in our case, site links could be things like sending people through to a case studies page or to a how it works page or something like that, right? Um, I think for
beginners to get started, we want to make this straightforward. Don't worry about adding in any of the branding stuff. We're not going to rely too heavily on the AI generated
assets for now anyway. And I'd also probably turn off site links. It might be really appropriate for your business. You might think, "No, great. I'm coming maybe from a Google Ads
world where you're used to site links." But if you don't have experience with that, it's just it's added complication at this stage. It's another thing to worry about. And again, I
don't really want when I'm running my ads people to come through to other pages on my site. I want them to come through to the one place I want to come through, which is a landing
page where they can go in and book a call. So, I'm going to ignore this stuff for now. I'd recommend you do the same to get started with. Okay. And then we get to media. So, a few
different places where you can grab the imagery or videos that you're going to use. You can get them from your Instagram account. You can get them from your Facebook page. You can
get them from your ad account if you've uploaded previously. We've obviously got a bunch of options here because this is an example ad account. So, I upload stuff to be able to to
demonstrate. Um, but just wanted to highlight that if you've already got stuff or you can just go ahead and click upload over here and select um any files you've got from your
computer and get those uploaded. Very straightforward. I've actually already uploaded the files that I'm going to use for demonstration purposes. Like I said, we run ads for my
meta ads mentorship program already. So, we have image ads that I can literally demonstrate. So, I'm going to go ahead and select this option and click next. And you can see that
when you add in your ad creative, Meta is going to show you what it looks like in the three main formats. So, three main aspect ratios, right? You've got square, you've got
vertical, and you've got horizontal. Now, horizontal is by far the least important because as a proportion of your um ad impressions, horizontal is going to be the fewest by far.
Most of your ad impressions are going to be from a square um ad format or a vertical ad format. Square is typically going to be used for things like the feeds, um, Facebook,
Instagram feeds, lots of feed options. Vertical is going to be things like stories, reels across both platforms. Now, what you can see is that because I've uploaded a square image,
it works brilliantly for the square format. But in the vertical and the horizontal, not so great. So, in an ideal world, what you would do is you would either crop if possible. So,
let's say we turn that to 916, try and make it that just doesn't work, right? Cuts off all the text. It just it just won't work at all. as an ad. So, we can't do that. Ideally,
you'd either crop and and change the the dimensions, or you would replace it with a different image that is specifically designed and formatted for that aspect ratio, which is
exactly what I'm going to do. So, I'm going to click replace there. And we've got a vertical one that's been selected. Go ahead and put back. You see that looks much better in that
format. Right? You don't need to do this. This is kind of an optional extra. Meta is really smart nowadays. So, they would have taken this image and probably made something fairly
similar looking to this using um like image expansion and they'll fill in the top and bottom for vertical locations and they'll do something with this to make it look good. But
just wanted to highlight that if you have the capacity to spend a little bit more time and effort on the creative and make sure it looks good in the various placement options, then
doing so could be a good way to go. Um right, just to quickly highlight the image as well. So, this is obviously really simple um what we've got here. here. So, it's a picture of
me. Mostly when we're advertising our mentorship program, it's to warm audiences. People have already exposed to my business. People are unlikely to sign up for a mentorship
program if they don't know who the person is that's going to be mentoring them, right? So, so because of the nature of this offer, it's warm a specific. So, we definitely want a
photo of me in there that's going to help grab attention. Very simple text on the image. Want me to mentor you? Very clear what this offer is all about. And then it's kind of
small. Hopefully, you can see it. But we've basically just got three testimonials highlighted. you know, almost an 8x rat in 3 weeks from someone made $29,000 with a 7.3x rat in 30
days. Um, from $30 a day ad spend to 100k month in sales in just 3 months. So, differing degrees of spend and success, but just a few quick snippets that people can look and be
like, "Wow, I'd love a result like that or results like that for my business." So, you could it's relatively easy to replicate something like this even if you don't have much in
the way of graphic design skills uh and things like that, right? Anyway, moving on. So, let's go ahead and click next. Now, we get into the text into the ad copy section. So, the
first part is primary text. Now, in different placement options, the copy and the text appears in different locations. But if you think about like a traditional Facebook feed on
mobile, you're going to have the primary text above the image, then you're going to have the image, then you're going to have the headline underneath it, and then beneath that,
you're going to have the description and uh and the call to action button off to the side. Okay? So, that's typically how it's going to work. So, let me grab a primary text that
I've got that we've used to advertise my meta ads mention program. And all the stuff I'm adding in here is stuff that has worked well and it's good to learn from real life examples
that have performed well. So, let's do that. Okay. So, I've just pasted in the primary text and if I just quickly read this so that you understand the sort of thing I'd recommend
you go with and what we're looking to do here. So, we've got tired of wasting money on Facebook ads that don't deliver. We'll mentor you daily to explode your revenue. Limited
spots available. Apply now and transform your ad game. And then we've got the link. Now, that is a very short, simple piece of ad copy, but it actually ticks a lot of boxes. And
that's what I try recommend you try and replicate. We don't want to be writing essays. People just aren't going to be bothered to read it. But we're doing a number of things here.
So, we're highlighting [snorts] the problem and calling out the target audience with the first sentence. Tired of wasting money on Facebook ads that don't deliver. So, anyone that
is suffering from that problem is likely to pay attention to the rest of the ad. Um, it also is sort of agitating that problem. We're emphasizing like, ah, are you really annoyed
that you keep trying? It's just not working. Then we got, we'll mentor you daily to explode your revenue. So, we've got a feature. What's involved in this? Oh, it's a daily
mentorship. Gotcha. Um, to explode your revenue. Great. That's exactly what I do. I really want exploded revenue. So, there's a benefit associated. Limited spots available.
Introducing scarcity. Um, apply now and transform your ad game. And there's a call to action. So, you can see in just a couple of sentences, we've ticked like a load of boxes,
right? We've called out the audience. We've agitated the problem. We have uh described the main feature, the main benefit associated with it. We've introduced scarcity and we've
got a call to action all in, you know, six different things there. Six, seven different things within uh very within just a couple of sentences. So something like that obviously
tailored to your um offer, your business is likely to do well. Right? Then what we've got here is Meta is going to use AI to generate text alternatives and they're going to do
that. You can see here tailor variations to personas. So they've come up with three different personas that they think like basically avatars, target custom avatars. We've got
ambitious entrepreneurs, digital marketers, and small business owners. So Meta is like, look, if we think that someone in your target audience is an ambitious entrepreneur, we're
going to put this primary text in front of them. Now they may use other options as well but um but we can take a look through these and decide which we do and don't want to use
right so my recommendation with everything AI generated copy imagery is absolutely use it but you need to be the filter as the advertiser cuz sometimes it's going to be great you
can just use it other times some of the suggestions are not going to work at all you can't use them sometimes it's going to be of a hybrid where you go well that's kind of good but
does need a little bit of this changing and that changing to make it work so we just quickly read this first option we've got tired of throwing money at Facebook ads don't deliver
unlock explosive revenue goes through with daily mentorship limited spots available. Apply now transform your ad game. So I mean that's very very similar to what we've got already
like happy just to include that. Uh stop wasting ad spend on underperforming Facebook ads. Get daily mentorship to scale revenue and transform your ad game. Limit what's available.
Level up your expertise and maximize ROI proven strategies. Yeah, all good. So you might find that there are options that you're like no I don't want to use but you can look to add
these in. And if I just scroll back up as well you'll see that primary text we've got here one of five. So you can have up to five different options. um absolutely fine just to go
with the one if you just want to get started. You can always add other ones in later on, but a good idea to test multiple options because it just increases the chance that a you'll
find an option that works really well and b it gives meta more flexibility. Look, like they've said, we might put this ad copy in front of this type of persona and this type of ad
copy. So basically, they're working out different people within your target audience and what they are most likely to respond to. Much more of a tailored ad deliver experience
which can help improve performance. Okay. Right? Then we move on to the headline and then this is a headline that worked well for us which is just very simply daily Facebook ads
mentorship. Right? We can add add headline options again. So you can see it's one of five. The same principle applies. You can have five headlines and I would recommend it. And
Meta is going to AI generate some options for you. Just quickly run through. So we got explode your ad revenue. Now yeah that's fine. Unlock ad mastery and 5 minutes daily. That's
not really how the mentorship program is designed to work. It's not 5 minutes daily. We have like live calls Q&A that last longer. We have training that last longer. You could do 5
minutes a day. you could do longer. So, I don't like that option. It's not good for our offer. Not going to go through every single one here, but you can just see the sort of
process I'm going through and the logic I'm going through there over deciding what to choose and what not to choose. Daily membership for ad success sounds good. I have other
videos more detailed on ad copy, by the way, in case you want to uh to go through these. Right, then we've got description. So, this isn't going to appear on every placement
options, but like I said, in the classic sort of mobile Facebook feed, it's going to be just under the headline. So we might go with something like limited spots available in order
to um emphasize the scarcity that and there are limited spots available. We only have so many coaches and so many slots available on on the live calls and Q&As and things. So yeah,
uh absolutely fine to to put that in there. Yours might be a a scarcity thing or it might be urgency based like we're running a current sale but that ends at a certain time. There
are ways to incentivize that action. And then we've got call to action button here. Right? So what you see here will depend on what type of campaign you're running. So, if you're
running a sales campaign, you might see some slightly different options. Um, although we can still see things like shop now, for example, even with the leads campaign, learn more
is the default. What I'd recommend here is you just go with the option that best describes what it is you want people to do, like what's the next step with a menship style offer,
something that people aren't necessarily super familiar with. It's not as obvious as other things that people are used to buying all the time. Then we might have something
different. We might go with contact us or we might go with schedule a call or something like that. But I think learn more is the appropriate next option. In other time other
businesses, service businesses, it might be get quote is the next thing. It might be shop now. Uh lots of different options depending on what it is that you are looking to do.
Don't overthink it. Just go with the option that best describes um the next step. Right? Then we go with next. Now what Meta is going to do is they're going to take the image that
you've that you've added in and they're going to use AI to generate other versions. So this is a tool that is improving all the time. uh and it's very interesting that it's doing
so and and uh by the time you watch this you might see that the options have improved again substantially. So if we look at what Meta is looking to do here they've basically most
of these are just changing background colors for example or changing the location. So that room behind me actually looks like one of our one of our office one of our meeting rooms
in our office. Um which might be coincidence or they may have found it elsewhere but like that's basically the same image as what we've got but it's a different color scheme. like,
"Yeah, sure. Happy to use that." Uh, again, same with that one. Although maybe the text isn't as good to read, but there are options that we absolutely can't lose. So, it's, for
example, want me to mentor you, and they've sort of AI generated a woman there. Like, it has to be me in these ads, right? In order for this process to work, want me to mentor you
without me in the thing. That's just not going to work. This is mostly advertised to warm audiences. Um, that version of me is like, I guess it's kind of me, but not really. kind
of looks a little bit like someone else or you know that get we can't use that, right? It has to actually actually be me in there. These options down the bottom obviously wouldn't
work. So you could be the filter. You might find some work really well. What what you see here um will absolutely depend on what you upload. And for some businesses, you're going
to see better options than others. So if you're uploading an image, for example, of a product, the AI generated image options can work really well because Meta is going to use
different backgrounds or put them into different scenes. Whereas when you're using people in your ads, particularly if you that needs that person needs to be the same person
involved like it is here, less so. But when I did this video a year ago, it didn't come up with any versions of me at all. So we just couldn't use this use any of the AI generated
images. Now we can. You can see this is improving um all the time. So just add in the ones you're happy with. The meta is basically going to test different variations, see which
works best, right? Fairly straightforward. Okay, let me go ahead and click next. And then we've got enhancements. So, these are things that Meta is going to do to try and improve
the quality of our ad creative in order for us to get better results or at least test it. Right? So, we can see we've got three for review. So, Meta has decided, you know, we don't
think that having these on makes a lot of sense. Let's have these um turned off and then they've put turned on seven that we could also review. So, for example, they they said we
don't think it's best to have enhanced media text. So, we'll replace the text in your media, not in the ad copy, in your media with AI generated text. Yeah, I don't want that. We
want the message to be clear and consistent. That could go wrong. And then we've got translate text turned off. Yeah, we don't want the text to be translated into other languages
because we can only provide the menship program in English. You know, me and my expert team members that that run the program, we speak English and we we operate in English, right?
So, so we can't we we want to translate to other languages because we can't then fulfill in those other languages. And then Meta have also turned off um enhanced CTA which I'm
absolutely happy with. Let's have a quick look at the other active enhancements. These are things that Meta has turned on and saying, "Look, we think these are going to help
improve performance." So, we've got ad overlays, right? So, they can add um text overlays over the top of the image to highlight certain things, grab things from the landing page
or the ad copy. You know, with an image like this, I probably would actually turn that off because look, it's already really textheavy. If it was less text heavy, I'm happy to
leave it on because the overlays can often improve performance. So, I'm going to turn that off. Then, we've got visual touchups. Okay, so we'll automatically crop, expand your
chosen media to fit more placements. Well, we've kind of done that to some extent with the three main formats. Normally, I'm happy for that to stay, though. Uh, Meta is pretty good
at making that make sense to add in add music. They basically turn your uh image into like a short video, add some music overlay. Um, I'm happy to leave that on. I totally get some
businesses aren't. They want to be much more specific of like, no, I couldn't possibly have that that audio. You can customize this. So, you can leave this on. What have they got
for us for now? just a little like corporate jingle basically like that's fine. I'm happy to do that. You can customize and then say no I want specifically to play this music not
that music or you can just go ahead and turn that off. Uh text improvements. So any text you provide may appear as primary text headline description. So you know we wrote in the
various locations that is saying we might choose to move this around right so you know one of those headline options we might just stick that in the primary text or we might change
description. I'm normally quite happy to leave that on. Sometimes that will mean the ad doesn't make sense depending on how you've constructed your copy, in which case you want to
turn that off. Um, in our case, for example, that primary text can't be used as a headline because it's too long. Um, so that will just won't happen. Uh, but again, you can
customize that or turn that off depending on what you want to do. I normally have to leave it on because if meta, for example, wanted to switch my description, my headline, which
is how it would work in reality given the copy we set up, like no biggie. Um, adapt. Here we go. Adapt multi-image format. So, we'll show ads with multiple images as a video or
slideshow or a video collection. Now, we haven't got multiple images in there. It's already on. They might use the v different variations that we had to try and create something.
Again, I'm kind of happy for Meta to play with this and do what it can. If Meta creates anything or adds variations and additions based on the ad creative that we've uploaded that
kind of doesn't work and doesn't make sense, well, as soon as they put it in front of users, they won't take action because it doesn't make sense. and they'll very quickly learn
and stop doing that and test other options. So, I don't think this adds much or really makes any difference to this particular ad. If you were running like um a carousel or um had
