died down now. But essentially, the way that we recommend people to test nowadays is to take bigger swings. And so what we mean by that is in a test like this where we're doing an
us versus them, we might actually test three different angles in each one of these actual ads. Okay? Now that is a slightly more broader test. And in Origins, we would call that
more of a marksman test. Whereas if we wanted to maybe test a more specific or a more strategic one. Now again, Andromeda has changed this. So you don't want all of these to be
completely identical. But in a more sniper test, a test that we're going a little bit deeper where we're actually running the same angle in all of this, we would actually just
execute this differently. And to try to visualize this, let me just pull up a Figma jam file where I can just explain this to you guys visually. So, for example, this is actually
from a video that I filmed a little while ago, but I want to show you guys the difference between how we are taking broader swings versus more specific swings. So, for example,
here you can see this is essentially a concept that is going after three different angles, right? Right. So we have stainless steel humidifier, Dr. Design humidifier and clean this
humidifier. Right? This would be if we go into the 322, the three creatives that we would use. And again, this would be more of what we would call marksman, which is essentially
just a broader test where we are taking bigger swings on each one. And now this is very effective for Andromeda because of the fact that we are again focus on different audiences
with each one of these ads under this superlative concept. And now again, if we focus on this one down here, you'll notice that all three of these images look slightly the same. So
they're not as crazy different swings, but you'll notice that again, we're going after some different angles here. So we're comparing coffee to hot coffee. We're comparing ceramic
to in this being invincible. We're comparing coffee here to luxury. So you can see we're kind of taking some different swings here as well. But I want you guys to understand that
the whole goal with Andromeda, especially if you're not doing an iteration and you're doing a kind of net new test, you should be focused on trying to take slightly bigger swings
in order to just have more variation with each one of your concepts. If you just essentially duplicate this three different times and then you only change the headline, although
the headline itself, as long as the headline is different enough, it still can work. But at the end of the day, we're trying to make more congruent ads, right? we have a doctor and
then we're saying doctor. And this is super important to make sure that meta just doesn't group all of your ads together and essentially just use them as the exact same ad. We
actually want each one of the individual ads to ideally have an opportunity to get spend and not just get grouped by meta. Okay? And so that's the first thing that I need to
mention in the three. Now, when it comes to the two, this is where you're going to add your primary text. Okay? So you will have copy one and then here you will have copy two. And
it's same thing for headline. So you'll have headline one and then again down here you will have headline two. Okay. Now we still aren't using descriptions. You can use
descriptions if you want, but this is essentially what a 322 is. Now obviously when we used to use DCTs, gosh, Meta is crazy with these. When we used to use DCTs, we would put all
of the ads inside of this. But what Meta has actually done is they've changed this from manual ads to flexible ads. And we do not want to use flexible ads for this strategy at
least because of the fact that it doesn't allow us to break things down neatly. And so we actually are using flexible ads in a different campaign strategy which I will get to. But
in this one specifically, we have one ad creative with our two copies and two headlines. And then again over here we would upload the second creative. So just go back visual. This
would be again ad creative number one with two copies, two headlines. And then this would be ad creative 2 with two copies and two headlines. Okay. So that is the first part of the
322 and that is how we test ads. Now when it comes to testing landing pages, what we're actually doing is one of two things. So let's say again we have a ad set over here called
the storytelling ad and then we have an ad set over here called the us versus them ad. And let's say this storytelling ad is doing really good. Well, let's say this one
specifically is working and we create a new landing page for it. Because if you guys have watched my previous landing page video, you guys will know that we create landing pages
based off of ads, not just based off of what we feel like is a good landing page, right? It's more important to focus on the customer journey than anything else. But let's just say
that ad number two here is doing really well. And let's also say that ad number one from the us versus them is potentially doing well. And we think that this could work good with
this landing page test that we want to run. So let's go ahead and duplicate this over. And just to be clear, what I'm actually going to do here is I'm going to duplicate this over
into this copy, which I'm going to rename in just a second. So, I'm going to duplicate this ad specifically. And this is one thing that I want to call out as well that I will call
out down below. So, just like that, you can see we now have ad number two, storytelling, and ad number one, us versus them. And then what we're going to do when it comes to landing
pages, is just rename this landing page test. So, landing page test number one. And again, we could call this landing page whatever. Let's just call it the listical. And so you'll
notice inside of the same campaign, we're actually going to launch landing page test with specific ads that we choose and that we think are congruent to run to this landing page.
Now, you could do this for your best ads or if you made new ads for it. I will show you how to do that in a second, but this is like, hey, I saw that this ad was doing well. And
rather than duplicating it inside of here, what you're going to do is again create a new adset and inside of this adset, you're going to rename it as landing page test. And then
you're going to duplicate whatever ads are in there. And now, yes, you will lose whatever engagement you had on this, but what you're going to do is you're going to change the URL
here. Now, Meta is going to make me go through this entire process, which is really annoying. But again, once you set everything up, you're going to put your two copies, your two
headlines, and then down in the URL section, Meta moves it on me every single day. We now actually have this set up properly for the sales. Okay? And so, here's where you will
change the URL. Okay? Right? And so in your previous ad, maybe you had it going to the product page. And then in this duplicated landing page test, you are then going to change the
URL to your new landing page. And that is how you test landing pages. And now if you want to test offers, we actually will do the exact same thing. However, one new thing that we
have started doing and I will share this with you guys again. I will just duplicate this over. What we do now whenever we test new offers, and I'm just going to change this to
offer test number one so everybody can see what this is. And let's just say this is like a BOGO test. Inside of here, what we're actually going to do is we're actually going to
create offer ads. Okay, so this is BOGO offer ad variation number one. And then again, we're going to apply this to all the other ones as well. And what you'll notice here is just
like how we would test creative test with storytelling ad and then add one, add two, add three. Whenever we're testing new offers, now what we actually like to do is we like to
create specific offer ads for that offer. So what we would do in these ads specifically is just create ads for the offer. So let me go ahead and show you an example of what that
looks like. You can see here this is an example of an offer ad, right? Buy two get one free. Buy two get one free. Buy two get one free. You can see how they would look like. And
so what we would do is we would actually create ads similar to this that we would then run inside of our campaign. So here we would have again the variation number one of this
offer ad, variation number two, variation number three, and then we would send this all to the new offer page. Again, I don't know why it's set up on calls. We're going to change
this back to website and go to sales. Bear with me because this is just a test account. But my point is this is where we would again come in and change the URL to the new offer
page. And so I want to be very clear about this cuz this is where some people get confused. When we're testing landing pages, you can also do this. All right? So if you are making
a net new landing page and you're also making some net new ads for it, you of course can create a landing page test and have you know ad number one that was specifically made for
that landing page, ad number two that was made for that landing page, etc., etc. The difference between these two is that for offers specifically, you definitely can take your best
ads. So, for example, ad number two, storytelling and ad number one, us versus them in this instance are our best ads, which is why we created a landing page test ad set. And we
added these ads in there. But with that said, you can also do this for offers as well. So, you could also do this exact same thing with your best ads for a new offer test. The
reason why I'm telling you guys to do the offer ads first is because we like to see if the offer has any kind of movement just by creating some balafunnel mostaware offer ads that
says, "Hey, here's our new offer. Come and get it." And if that does well and that gets spend in the account, then we know that we can definitely duplicate this and take our best
ads and send our ads to that new offer page as well. So, I know I'm kind of going a little bit all over the place here, but again, this is how we test ads. This is how we test
landing pages. And this is how we test offers. All right. Now, one thing that I want to mention is that we are no longer doing a Champions adset. Those of you who have seen the
previous video, you've probably seen me talk about the champions adset where you would duplicate your best ads into one adset in the CBO. But we are actually no longer doing that
because of a new strategy that we have, which I will talk about in just a second. Now, the final thing that I want to talk about here is that in some accounts, we have had people
report that you can't actually see the copy in the ads. And so what I mean by that is what you would previously do. And I'm going to take you guys into an actual ad set here inside
of the account where you could see we've got uh some of our ads from the Evolve and Origins ad account here. So let me just go ahead and filter by selection. And what you'll notice
here is in this breakdown tool, you will find something called text, right? And so if I select this text, you'll notice that there's this glitch where it just doesn't show. Now,
this happens in some ad accounts and not all of them because in a lot of our accounts, we can still see it. But this is obviously a glitch that is not ideal because how are you
supposed to be able to see which headlines and which texts are actually performing well if it's not showing in the breakdown function? Well, that's why we use a tool like Atria.
And as you can see here for this client specifically, we could see we have a report that shows us our top performing copies. And so for this brand specifically, what we'll actually
do is we'll always filter by spend to just see what copies are actually performing best. And so this one here specifically, 30 plus rats caught in a single night. This is not a
typo. Blah blah blah blah blah. You can see how much spend that this ad is getting. And this is how we know what our top copy is. Okay? And so if you are confused of like, I don't
know what my top copy is and I can't find it. We use a tool called Atria. Again, this is a paid tool and obviously it's a little bit extra and I know this is not ideal for
everyone. What I would say is once you get to the point where you're doing $500 to $1,000 a day, this is very important. Now, for those of you that are obviously running native
ads, you guys have probably seen my video on that. If you haven't, it's on the channel, but this is very important for those of you that are running native ads as well to better
understand what copies are actually performing from a spend level as well as a rorowaz level. And then we will do the exact same thing for headlines. So again, we come in here and
we will filter by spend to be able to see, hey, what headlines are getting the highest amount of spend and the best rorowaz. Well, you can see it right here. This headline is used
in 36 ads. And so this is one of our top performing headlines. And so this is how we're kind of going over this problem of uh not being able to see the breakdown. Again, meta is
always making changes. It's just how it is. And sometimes they magically appear again. Like I remember you used to not be able to see purchases by gender and now they added that
back so you could see it again. So, it's constantly changing, which is why I try to make these updated videos. But the point is is we use Atria to be able to see what headlines are
performing and what copy is performing. So, that way when we go to launch our 322s, we have a better understanding of what is actually working. All right. All right. So, if we jump
back into our mega campaign setup here, one final thing that I want to note for you guys is that when you are actually testing the copy one and copy two and headline one to
headline two, you should always be using your best performing copy. So, in this instance, I would be using at least for the headlines, clear infant entire infant stations
overnight. That would be one of the headlines that I use. And then for this ad specifically, I would potentially write a new one. Now, obviously, you need to make sure that it
actually makes sense, right? And so, if you're going after a different angle or you're going after a different avatar, make sure you just use your brain where like again, if this
headline doesn't make a lot of sense for your ad that you've made, then don't use it. Just write new copy for it. But again, the same thing here will apply to copies. If this is
our top performing copy, the copy that's getting the most amount of spend, I will use this copy in one of the copies and then I will likely write new copy as well. And again, this
just allows you to consistently test new copy and allows you to see whether or not if the new copy that you have written is actually performing at all on the new ads that you are
testing. That is essentially the entire 322 process. Now, I know that was kind of slightly more high level. If you guys have more questions on this, I am going to pull this up just
to show you guys some highle things and I'm going to do like an FAQ at the end. But essentially, we will run one of these 322 campaigns per country. So, if you're running in the
US, we'll run a US 322 campaign. If we're running in Canada, we'll run a Canada 322 campaign and vice versa for usually the big five. Now, if you are someone that likes to
consolidate things and just keep things tight-knit, you can also run a worldwide campaign and just put a bunch of countries together. With that said, I'd highly recommend keeping
the US at least separate. So, have a US 322 campaign and then you can have a worldwide campaign with all of your other countries together. That's totally fine. Just make sure that
you look for what countries are underperforming, so you can cut those out. Inside of Evolve, we actually have our exclusion list just pinned in the Discord. So you guys want that.
Again, there's way too much stuff in Evolve, but you can find it in there if you want it. But again, every single concept, every single batch of ads will have three visuals, two
copies, and two headlines. And now, the one thing that I didn't touch on is the 322 strategy, which is where you will actually test with multiple landing pages. Now, the reason why
I didn't mention this when I originally started is because for those of you that are spending less than like $1,000 or even $2,000 a day, you don't really have the budget and you
don't have the luxury of testing multiple landing pages. But if you are spending over $1,000 or $2,000 a day or ideally $10 to 20 $30,000, what you can actually do is you can
actually duplicate all of your ads and actually send them to a new landing page. And so here the only adjustment that we would make is the fact that this is let's just say going to
LP2. So we have add one us versus them variation one LP2. And then if we look at this one up here it would be ad number one us versus them variation one but this is going to LP1.
And so when you do the 322 strategy essentially what you're doing is you're duplicating your three ads. And here you will test one landing page and then here you will test another
landing page. And so this 3222 strategy is something that we kind of invented, I think last year, and it's something that we still use and it actually works really well just to see
what landing pages will perform better with specific ads. But again, this is only if you're spending above, I would say like $2,000 a day because then you actually have excess
budget. And in that instance, you can leverage some of uh Meta's advanced learning to just try to see which landing pages will perform better. So that is the 322 structure. We
talked about page test. We talked about offer test. We talked about how there is no longer a champions adset either. So that should cover everything from a 322 standpoint. Now
let's talk about one of the newer campaigns which is the scaling campaign. Now one of the things that we noticed last year for our brands is that as a result of duplicating ads
into this new campaign and essentially scaling them horizontally but also vertically because again we're just duplicating them into a new campaign and then forcing budget on them.
Not only did it allow us to actually get more spend out of our winning ads, but it did one very important thing. And that very important thing that it did is it allowed that ad to
continue to get spend no matter what was happening inside of our 322 campaign where we are testing and scaling. And what I mean by that, if I go back into the screen, is for
example, inside of this adset here, and I'm just going to go back a level. Let's just say ad number one, us versus them variation one, LP2. It's a bit of a mouthful. Again,
important reminder that if you haven't watched my naming templates video or my naming scheme video, you definitely need to watch that so you guys can name your stuff properly. But
let's just say this was a new winning ad that started getting a bunch of spend. Okay? And then let's say it was getting a lot of spend for a week, but then because our creative
team is the best, we found a new winning ad in ad number two, storytelling variation two. And let's say this ad all of a sudden started sucking up all of the spend. And so what
will happen is because this ad right here, which was our previous winner, is basically not as good as this one. At least that's what Facebook thinks for the time being. This ad
will basically go from, let's say, getting $500 to, for some of our brands, $5,000 a day in spend to basically getting like $200 a day in spend or $300 a day in spend because this
new ad is the new sheriff in town and it's sucking up all the spend. And now, as a result, it ideally should be performing better. But we'll talk about that in a second, some of
the scenarios that can happen. But what ends up happening is this ad stops getting budget. And what we've noticed is that the rorowaz will get really inflated on this because it
went from getting like a few thousand dollar a day in spend to now, you know, again, a couple hundred a day in spend because we found a new winning ad. But we know that this ad can
maintain scale. And so that is probably the only problem that we have identified with our 322 strategy, which is why we decided to implement the new scaling campaign. And so what
this allows us to do is that when we find a new winning ad, we will actually duplicate this ad into an existing campaign or into a new campaign, which is actually going to be our
campaign here. So let me just go ahead and find it. Perfect. So again, here you can see this is testing scaling, but we would actually just call this now our scaling campaign. It
still relatively is a testing and scaling as well, but inside of this campaign specifically, we will actually duplicate this into a new ad set. And we will just call this, you
know, winner ad number one or whatever winning ad it is. You know, this is ad number one, us versus them. And so what we're going to do is we're actually going to duplicate this
into a new campaign, right? And so here you can see we have this breakthrough ad, which I will talk about. And after 7 days of it running and hitting KPI and ideally scaling the ad
account again, we'll talk about all the different things in a second. We are now going to duplicate this ad out of the CBO and put it into an and try to scale it in its own
environment. Now, if I've lost you, I'm going to bring this back. Most important thing that you need to understand is that we will not turn off the ad that was doing well in the
CBO. So, again, because this is all drafts, Meta is making this a bit of a mess, but inside of our 322 campaign where this ad was originally launched, right here it is here. This
is the winning ad. We will always leave this on inside of the 322 campaign. We will never turn it off as long as it's, you know, continuing to get performance. And if you need to
watch another video around how to manage it, I have the why do bad ads get spend video. I've got so many videos now it's kind of obnoxious. But what I'm going to talk about again
in the FAQ section is a little bit more of ad management as well. But the main thing is is we will not turn this off inside of the 322 campaign. All we're simply going to do is
duplicate this into our campaign. And inside of our campaign, again, we will have our breakthrough ad here in its own ads set with its own budget. And now, the rule of thumb that
we follow is whatever you're spending per day in your CBO, you could essentially launch this in your with, if you want to be safe, 10% of it. So, for example, if in your CBO you're
spending $2,000 a day and this is your winning ad that after seven days is hitting KPI, it's getting a lot of spend. It's doing really well. Well, then you can duplicate this into
your campaign and launch this with 10% of your total budget, which would be $200 a day. $200 of 2,000 is 10%. And the reason why we do this is because again, you can always scale
up, right? I don't want you guys to burn a bunch of money. If you want to be more aggressive, you can. But the point is is now we're putting this in its own environment so that no
matter what, even if we find a new winning ad in the 322 campaign, this ad will continue to get $200 a day in spend. Now, that is what we do for our breakthrough ads. And just to
add some definitions here, now I am finalizing this for the Evolve crew, and then I will likely do a video about it later. Usually, everybody in Evolve gets things first, but
breakthroughs are essentially ads that allow you to increase your budget. So to help you visualize this, imagine you're spending $200 a day on ads. And then you create an ad that
sucks up a bunch of budget and if you're at a lower budget, it's probably going to be a higher percentage. So let's just say you're spending $200 a day and you launch a new ad and
this ad is getting likeundred, I don't know, $45 a day in spend. So that's basically like 85 to like 90% of your total budget. And let's just say as a result of this ad getting a
lot of spend, the rorowaz is really good. So let's just say your target KPI is a 2x and this is getting like a 2.5x. So not only is it sucking up a bunch of spend, it's also
hitting your target rorowes. And so what do you do when you're hitting your target rorowes, you scale? So let's just say you scale by 20% a couple days in a row. And now you get to
let's just say like $400 a day in daily spend. And now let's just say that this ad here specifically is spending, I don't know, like $275 or like $300 a day, right? So this is the
winner ad is getting $300 a day in spend. And now because you've scaled, let's just say you're back down to like a 2x row. Well, as a result of this ad, you were able to take your
budget from $200 a day to $400 a day. That is a breakthrough. A breakthrough ad allows you to scale your budget. And when you find a breakthrough, you need to do iterations on it.
You need to study on it. You need to apply everything that I talk about on my channel in other videos. But you will take an ad like this and you will again duplicate this into your
and you will call this a breakthrough and you will give it its own budget and you will just let it cook. Okay, that is the first thing. The second thing that you can do in the is
you can duplicate spend winners. Now, spend winners, just to give you an example, let's say you're spending $200 a day. You launch a new ad and it's hitting $145 a day in spend. Or
let's actually just change the budget to maybe make this more relatable. Let's say you launch a new ad. You're spending $2,000 a day. It's getting $1,200 a day in spend, but your
rorowaz is just at your KPI of like a 2x. Or let's just say it's slightly below it, like a 1.5x. So, slightly below KPI. Well, in this instance, you're not scaling your ad account,
right? Because let's just say you're still spending 2K per day at a let's just say you're at like a 1.8x now because this ad sucked up a bunch of spend, but it's slightly below
KPI. Well, in this instance, you can have the choice to either leave it on or turn it off. You guys again should watch the what to do or why bad ads get spent in your ad account.
That will help you make decisions a lot smarter. But from there, what you can do is if you do decide to turn off this ad, you can relaunch this in an And so here, I'm just going to
quickly duplicate this. And we're going to call this the spend winner. Now, the reason why it's called a spend winner. And we'll just call this spend winning ad number one is
because it won in spend, right? Like this thing sucked up like 60% of your spend, right? Or like 55% of spend. So that's pretty good. like especially at 2k a day. If you have an ad
sucking up that much spend, you've done a good job. You've created what is called a spend winner. However, it didn't allow you to scale because it's not quite at KPI. Just to be
clear, if this was at KPI or this was above KPI, it would be a breakthrough, right? So, this right here is a breakthrough. But here, we weren't really able to scale. So, it's just
a spend winner. And so, now what we do with these is again, if we turn them off, we'll put them into our And let's say it was getting $1,200 a day in spend. Well, you can just
start this thing at 120 bucks. Again, just follow the 10% rule. Okay, let's just pop this in an at $120 a day. And again, guys, this is so each adset has its own budget. Our
breakthrough is spending 200. This one is spending 120. In you have full control over the budget and with the ads that are inside of here. And so we are also duplicating spend
winners into this and we're trying to control spend on them to see, hey, at $1,200 a day in spend, all of that money that the CBO is giving it, it's not quite hitting our KPI, but
let's just try to put it at a smaller budget and see what happens. Okay? And this has actually led for us recently ads that we would originally just have turned off in CBO because
they were bad ads, getting too much spend, not hitting KPI to actually becoming some of our tough spending ads a month later inside of our and just absolutely crushing. So, this is
a great strategy for those of you guys that are getting like false winners or we call them spend winners because they get a lot of spend but they don't quite hit KPI. But if you
just throttle the spend on them and try to control how much spend that they get, it can absolutely crush and 100% allow you to scale more in your account. Now, the third thing that
we do is KPI winners. And so, a KPI winner, to go back to our example over here, let's say you're spending $10,000 a day on ads. You launch a new ad. And let's just say that your
ad is only getting like $400 a day in spend. But let's just say, again, our standard KPI is 2x. Let's say it's getting a 4x rorowaz, which is way above KPI. Now, for a lot of
people, this annoys them in the CBO. They're like, "Why isn't this ad getting more spend? It's getting $400 a day in spend at a 4x. Why isn't it scaling?" Well, if you look at
this, $400 of $10,000 is 4% of budget. So, that's not really a lot of budget considering that we're spending $10,000 a day. And let's just say our current main winner is spending
like, I don't know, $3,500 a day, which is 35% of this daily budget. And so, this is not really a spend winner. And again, we are working on the percentages, but you guys just bear
with me here. Essentially, it's not getting a lot of spent. So, we don't really see a lot of scale happening from this ad, but we do see some good KPIs. And so, what we're doing is
we're going to take these ads, which again are KPI winners. So, we launch a new ad. It's getting 4% of budget, but it has a good row ads. We're also going to take this ad, and
we're going to add it into here as well. We usually don't call them winning ads, but again, we'll just call them KPI winners. there technically are winning ads, but again, this is
where we're going to really try to redefine hit rate for the e-commerce industry because most people if you ask what their hit rate is and what their definition of it, you'll get
completely different answers across a bunch of different brands. So, we're going to work on changing that. But again, this is going to be our KPI winning ad. So, again, we're going
to put this into an and if you want to put it at 10% of whatever budget is or if you just want to match the daily budget, you can do that as well because again, it's spending $400
a day as at a 4x rorowaz. Well, if we want to be more aggressive, we can. But if you just want to follow the 10% rule and just be safe because again, if you launch it at 10% of
budget and it's getting a good KPI, guess what? You just scale it. Okay? You follow scaling protocol and you scale it, right? But if you start this at $400 a day and it completely
eats well, guess what? Now you got to scale down and you might be mad at me and I don't want you to be mad at me. And so here again, we're going to follow 10% rule and let's just
say we launch this at $40 a day. And again, this is in its own It's all under one campaign, but we're using budget to control it rather than CBO, which lets Facebook do what it
wants. But I want you guys to understand that we're essentially using this after we see what happens in the CBO. And so those are the instances of what we'll actually do. Now, if
you are more advanced, this is literally only for people that are spending like $5 to $10,000 a day. You guys are more than welcome to actually open up some one-day click adsets.
And you can also try opening up some incremental attribution adsets. For those of you guys that haven't seen this, there's obviously the new attribution models here where you could
do incremental. So, you can change this to incremental and test your breakthrough ads. I wouldn't do your KPI winners or spend winners on this. I would only do your breakthrough
ads. So, this would be, you know, breakthrough ad number one and a breakthrough ad number two. Okay, that's what I would recommend. You could start testing some different
attribution. You could start testing again incremental versus one day click. So here you could change this to standard show more settings and you could optimize this towards just
one day click data to see how meta changes that you can remove views you can keep engaged views this is actually something that we've been testing which is just one day click one
day engage view and we're optimizing for that as well with our breakthrough ads inside of this campaign which again why it's like a testing and scaling in one inside this adset you
could also test some other types of ads as well you can also test some hard exclusion adsets so you will take your best ads. Again, let me just go ahead and duplicate this. And you
would name this essentially like hard exclusions. So, hard exclusions. And inside of here, what you can actually do in your audience section is you can actually add custom
audiences that remove your like website visitors or remove your add to carts or things like that. If you want the specifics of it, it is going to be inside of Evolve. But for those
of you guys that are higher level, you know what I'm talking about. you just kind of remove all of those warmer audiences and just tell Facebook to go hardcore prospecting like
super cold audiences with some of your breakthrough ads. And that is another thing that we are doing in this testing and scaling campaign. Now again, if you are the guy that is
spending less than $1,000 a day or the gal spending less than $1,000 a day, what you'll notice here is that this is a lot of stuff to manage. And this is why unless you have a
media buyer, I would not recommend doing this because if you have a media buyer, then your media buyer can go ham, right? Like my media buyers, I we have two of them are uploading
ads and managing all of this without me having to think about it because this is not highlevel stuff for me. My highle stuff is brand positioning, brand strategy, again, ad
creatives, copywriting, creative strategy. Like that is where I make the most amount of money for our brands. And so I'm not worried about this. My media buyers are managing all of
this. So, if you're the person that is still managing this and let's just say you're spending $5 or $10,000 a day, I'd highly recommend just please go get a media buyer that you
trust so that they can take this over and manage this because as you can see, this takes a lot more time to manage all these individual ads. Especially if you have a lot of spend
winners, a lot of KPI winners, and a lot of breakthrough ads that you're making. You're going to create much more of an operation for you to manage versus if you just have the one
CBO and you're just chad scaling, letting it rip. Obviously, that makes a little bit easier for you to manage. So, I do want you guys at a higher level to get the most out of this
strategy, which is why I'm sharing it. But again, for those of you who at a smaller level spending like less than $1,000 a day, a lot of this stuff is just cope and you don't need
to worry about it. With that said, if you do want to follow the strategy for your breakthroughs, KPI winners, and spend winners, you definitely can. But just keep in mind that the
more time you spend in the ad account, the less likely it is for you to scale. All right, now let's go ahead and jump into the final campaign here for the outcomes of ads that you
test. Because obviously we talked about breakthroughs, we talked about spend winners, we talked about KPI winners. Now what about losers? And as you can see here, this says
duplicate, not post IDs. And just a super quick side note on this, the reason why we actually duplicate ads now instead of using post IDs is because when you duplicate the ad, you
will keep the Facebook ads engagement and you will also keep the Instagram engagement. When you use post IDs, you do not get the Instagram engagement. And so by just duplicating
the ad and making sure that you keep the engagement box selected and you keep it on, make sure you double check. So when you duplicate the ad, make sure you preview it and make
sure it still has the engagement. It should, although for some people in Evolve, it doesn't work. Again, it's just a random meta glitch. I don't know why, but always try to
duplicate your ads instead of using post IDs. I know this is like contrary to what we've said before, but we've noticed that if you just duplicate the ads and then you keep the
engagement, don't touch anything. like don't change any copy, don't change anything, just duplicate the ad into the and just let it cook inside of there. You should be able to keep
the Facebook engagement and the Instagram engagement. And so that is a big difference between if you just use a Facebook post ID, you lose the Instagram engagement. And for some of
you guys, if you check your breakdown, you might actually have a lot of your spend going towards Instagram. And so that's why we highly recommend duplicating the ad rather than
using the post ID. Now, I know I've talked about how engagement doesn't matter, but obviously some engagement is better than none, especially if you're trying to horizontally
scale. And so, I would highly recommend to use the duplicate function versus the post ID because it'll allow you to keep that Instagram engagement. Now, with that said, the next
campaign that we're going to set up is the zombie/graveyard campaign. Now, this campaign is for losers only. Now, what is the graveyard campaign? How do you set it up? Well, it's
actually very simple. And again, this is for those of you who are going through extreme levels of cope. This is a great campaign for you to help you feel better about your ads that
don't get spent. But essentially how this works is very simple. You guys are just going to set up a very standard zombie CBO campaign. Okay? And then what you're going to do is
you're going to change this from a highest volume or value bid strategy to a cost per result goal. And then when you select cost per result, what this will do is this will
essentially only tell Meta to spend on this ad based off of when it thinks it can actually hit this goal. Okay? Okay. And then when it comes to actually setting the cost per result
goal, you're just going to set this at basically 20% below whatever your actual target is. So let's say, for example, your cost per result is $100. You're going to set this bid or
this cost per result goal at 20% below that, which would be $80. We definitely wouldn't recommend going above your cost per result goal or at your cost per result goal.
Essentially, we just want to set a tighter bid here that tells Meta like, "Hey, don't spend on these ads unless it's actually going to hit our CPA targets." Okay. And so that is
how we set it up. It's very, very simple. And then basically, you will set this up. So, let's just say we have loser ad number one. So, again, a losing ad based off of our terms is
an ad that does not get any spend and does not hit KPI. And what you'll do is you will set this inside of your zombie campaign with the 322 in it again. So, I'll just duplicate
these out very quickly. This is our loser ad number one. And again, this is a CBO standard campaign. The only difference is we're going to optimize for cost per result goal. That
is our bid strategy. And then we're going to set our cost per result at 20% below whatever our target is. And so that's it. That is the process that you'll follow. You just
