Facebook Ads Tutorial Overview I've spent more than $200 million on Facebook ads over the past 12 years, working with more than 3,000 clients in just about every industry you can
think of. And in this video, I'm going to walk you through the entire process of creating a Facebook ad campaign and an Instagram ad campaign from [music] scratch. So, if you've
never created a Facebook ad before, or if you have, but you're not 100% sure that you set up everything correctly, this is the exact video you need because I'm going to show you
every single step and setting you need to get right. So before we dive into the fun stuff and start putting our ad campaign together, we first need to get our account structure
sorted. And what I mean by that is creating a meta business manager account because your Meta Business Manager Setup business manager account is what holds all your meta ad assets.
So things like your ad account, your Facebook page, your Instagram profile. To do that, you want to come through to this page, which is business.fas.com. Now, in order to set one
of these up, you will need to be logged into your Facebook profile on the browser that you're using. Uh the process is really straightforward. Unfortunately, I can't demonstrate it
because we already have tons of accounts. But if you just come through to this page, make sure you're logged into your Facebook profile, go through the process. Meta is just going
to ask for a few simple bits of information about your business. Just very simple, very straightforward to go through. Once you've done that, you'll be taken through to your Meta
business suite. And this is what it looks like. Although yours might look different if you haven't got, you know, the things like your Facebook page and your Instagram profile
added as I have here. The meta business suite is a really useful tool, something to know about for later on. You've got things like inbox where [clears throat] you can manage
comments on your Facebook and Instagram ads. You can respond or delete them, etc. You've got Lead Center where you can manage the leads you generate uh via instant forms. More
about that later on. You've got creator marketplace where you can find creators and influencers to help promote your products and services. Lots of useful stuff in here. But what
we want to do is go ahead and click on settings because we need to finish setting up that structure that I talked about earlier. And it's this settings page where we can add in
those meta ad assets that I referred to earlier. So, make sure we get the your Facebook page in your business manager account. Same with Instagram account, etc., etc., right? And
by the way, yours might look a little bit different because you're not probably going to have more than 100 people added to your business manager account and more than a thousand
ad accounts. We literally have more than a thousand ad accounts in our business manager. Um, but that's absolutely fine. You'll still be able to follow along with the process. So,
let's start with the Facebook page. I'm going to go here and go over to pages and I'm going to click on this ad down here. So, we've got a few different options, right? We've got
add an existing Facebook page. So, if you already have a Facebook page, something you're definitely going to want and need to run ads um on Facebook, right? Then what you want to
do is move that page over into this business manager account, you can request access to request shared access to a Facebook page. So, if it's linked with another business manager
account for some reason, maybe you've had an agency working on some stuff for you, but you also want to get it out in here, then you can go with app or you can just go ahead and
create a new Facebook page if you haven't got one and need to do so. I think most of you are going to be adding an existing Facebook page. So, let's demonstrate that. So, if I go
ahead and click on that, it's very, very simple. You just go ahead and add in the Facebook page name or the URL. So, you just want to go ahead and paste the URL to your Facebook
page in here, as I've done just there. Once I select this, it's going to say it page is already in your business portfolio, so I can't go through the rest of the process, but it's
very straightforward. You just go ahead and click next. Um, don't worry about review people. We'll cover that in a minute. And then you just request approval. So, you're basically
sending an approval to whoever the admins are of that Facebook page already. That's probably you. That's probably your Facebook profile. You probably get a notification and an
email. You could just go ahead and approve and then that page will be moved into this business manager and you've taken care of that. Okay. So, let's go ahead and do Instagram
accounts next. Same process. We go ahead and click on add. Oh, a quick warning about adding an Instagram account in here. Only Instagram professional accounts can be added to a
business portfolio. If you add a personal account, it will be switched to professional. You want a professional Instagram account for your business anyway. If you're going to be
running ads and operating as a business, that's fine. So once you've added in, it'll be switched. No problem. You've got to agree to the terms and then you go ahead and click on
add Instagram account. And then this process is really straightforward, right? So you just need to log into your Instagram account. Again, if I try and do this, it's going to say
it's already added in there. And then you just provide access by logging in. You don't even then need to approve um via a notification on the other end. So really straightforward
just to go through that. Let's go ahead and cancel. Okay. Next, let's do your ad account. So we've come into ad accounts. If we go ahead and click on add, again, we've got a number
of different options. So, you can create a new ad account. If you've never run an ad before, you've never boosted a post, uh, then you probably don't have an ad account, you can go
ahead and create one. You just want to go ahead and click on create an ad account and then enter in the information that Meta asks for. Add account names. Just put your business
name in there. Select your right time zone. Select your right currency. Make sure you get these right. If you don't, uh, very difficult to change them uh, later on. So, just make
sure, you know, this is defaulted to US dollars, but I'm in the UK, so most likely I'm going to want to change that to GBP to pounds, but just go through the process. So, I'm not
going to go through it. Like I explained for previously, we've already got plenty plenty of ad accounts, but go through the process. Um, very straightforward. And then your ad
account will be created. If you already have one, like I said, if you've ever boosted a post, you ever run an ad, you do have an ad account. And what you want to do is add an
existing ad account. So, you click click on this and you just add in your ad account ID. You paste that in there. Click confirm. Again, a notification will be sent to whoever
currently owns that ad account, and you need to then approve that. Very similar process to the Facebook page. I will show you in a minute once we get into the ad account itself and
start creating the campaign where to find find your ad account ID in case you're unfamiliar with that process. So those are the three that you really need to get added in. You need
your Instagram account, your Facebook page and your ad account. There are other stuff you can look to add in WhatsApp accounts and other business assets, data sources, all sorts.
But that's really what you need to get started. And you'll you'll see as we go through this process. I really want to make getting your first Facebook and Instagram ad campaigns up
and running as easy as possible. We're not going to mess with all the various advanced settings and features that complicates the process and becomes a barrier entry. So, let's
keep it simple. We can add complexity later on. The other thing quick thing I want to mention is around people. Um, this might not be important for you right now if you're only the
one who's going to be managing your uh Facebook and Instagram ads, the only one involved in that process, but at some point you might want other people to be involved. So, let me
just quickly show you how this works. If I go ahead and click on invite people, you then just need the email address that's associated with their uh Facebook profile. You can add
that in there and then send them the invite. Again, they'll receive a notification they need to accept it. And then you can assign access. I won't go through that process because I
can demonstrate it um elsewhere. And then once you've got someone added like I've got here, you can go ahead and click assign assets. And you can say, look, I want them to have
access, for example, to this Facebook page and I want them to be able to run ads or or deal with content or have full control over absolutely everything. Um so you can give people
different levels of access so they can work on the things they need to be able to work on without having to give them access to um everything. So, it's quite a quite a neat
solution to be able to do this. You want to do that process with yourself, with your own profile. Make sure you get yourself added and give yourself the various assets um that
you've added in here. Facebook page, Instagram account, um ad account. Okay, so hopefully that wasn't too complicated. That's our structure set Ads Manager & Account Structure up.
What we now need to do is go ahead and dive in and actually create our ad campaign. So, you can create ad campaigns from within the Meta Business Suite, but I'd recommend you do so
from within Ads Manager. So, if you go ahead and click on these three little lines, all tools, you will see ads manager here. And then if I click on this, you got a few different
options. I want you to come through to the campaigns tab. Um, if you go through to account overview and think, hang on, this looks very different to everything Ben demonstrates,
not just um in this video, but potentially in my other videos, is because I'm basically always in the campaigns tab within Ads Manager. So, now we get to the really interesting
part where we can start creating our Facebook and Instagram ad campaign. Oh, just quickly I mentioned around grabbing your ad account ID earlier to be able to move a an ad account
an existing ad account into your business manager account and you can just grab that up here right at the top. Um you'll see that so you can come in and uh and paste that in and
get it moved over. So the first thing to know about meta ad campaigns about Facebook and Instagram ad campaigns is that there are three levels to a campaign. You've got the
campaign level and then within that you've got adsets and then within adets you've got ads. And each one of those stages is responsible for different things. um around what people
see but also who sees it, various settings, budgets, etc., etc. We're going to go through all of it, but that's the first thing to understand that you can have, for example,
multiple adsets within one campaign, multiple ads within one adset. So, it's very much um that sort of structure. So, we want to start by creating a new campaign. So, make sure
you've got campaigns out of those three selected and then go ahead and click on Choosing Campaign Objectives & Budget this plus green create button. And there are a couple of
settings that we need to choose right at the beginning because whatever we select here will impact the options available to us later on as we go through the campaign creation
process. Don't worry about collaborative ads. More of an advanced thing. We're going to ignore that. Uh not for today. Something I talk about in other videos and you can move on to
later on if that's something that you want to do. But two things we do need to talk about are the buying types and the campaign objective. So we've got two different buying types.
We've got auction and we've got reservation. Auction is just the cost of your Facebook and Instagram ads is going to be determined by simple market forces. Demand and supply. More
demand, higher cost, less demand, lower cost. And that's demand from advertisers, by the way. How many advertisers there are, how much they're willing to spend. Uh reservation, you
can actually guarantee a certain price, often a lower price. And and the cost of Facebook advertising is normally measured in CPMs. So cost per thousand impressions. So it's
cheaper to use reservation, but that's not the option I'd recommend you use, which might sound bizarre. Here's why. In order for Meta to be able to guarantee that lower cost, they
are going to put your ads in front of lower quality prospects or lower quality ad placements. The better quality ad impressions are usually seen through auction and that's a big
deal. So, I'd recommend you go with auction. Let's move on to campaign objective. So, we've got six different options here and they do different things. And your campaign objective
is really, really important because it's going to inform how Meta optimizes your campaign. So, you're basically saying to Meta, "This is what I want." And Meta's really powerful
machine learning and AI based systems are going to optimize your ads, work out who to advertise to, what time a day, how often, all those things to get you more of what you want.
That's why it's so important to get your campaign objective set up correctly. So, we've got awareness. Awareness is where Meta will put your ads in front of people that are most
likely to remember them. Put your ads in front of as many people as possible. not an option I typically recommend for beginners or for businesses operating with a relatively small
Facebook and income ad budget because it can be quite an easy way in those scenarios to spend a bunch of money and not really see anything back for it. What we see with awareness
is it can work really well for larger businesses with big budgets because awareness takes time and it takes a lot of ad impressions across a lot of people over an extended period.
Bigger businesses have those budgets. Smaller ones and beginners to to meta ads typically don't. There is an exception and that's if you sell a high ticket or expertise-based
service, then you might want to use my omnipresent content strategy which typically does use awareness. I'm not going to cover that in this video. Just wanted to quickly mention it
and you'll be able to find a video about my omnipresent content strategy in on my channel. So, if you meet that criteria, maybe go ahead and uh and check that out. But otherwise,
for most of you watching this, I would say leave awareness alone for now. Then we've got traffic. traffic is designed to optimize for as many link clicks as possible or as many
landing pages as possible to get as many people from Facebook and Instagram to your website. Now, a lot of beginner Facebook and Instagram advertisers use traffic. They think,
great, I'll send a load of traffic to my website. I want as many people as possible. I'll then generate my leads, sales, etc. from those people. It's not typically the best way to
go, though. If you do really want purchases or you do really want leads that can go on to use your services, there are better options that we'll get to um in a minute because
Meta's optimization system is very literal. So, if you say to Meta, I want as many link clicks as possible, Meta is very good at finding people that are likely to click, but those
people don't necessarily go on to convert. other campaign objectives and options might be better at yes generating a few less clicks to your website but the people that do arrive
are far more likely to go ahead and take the next action. Sometimes we are forced to use the traffic objective if you cannot optimize you cannot track a purchase on your website or
you cannot track who becomes a lead. Let's say for example you're sending traffic through to a third party site where you can't track the actions that people take once they get
there. Well then you may be forced to use traffic. Engagement is what it sounds like. A campaign objective is going to optimize for likes, comments, and video views. Basically,
just getting people to engage with the ads themselves. There are use cases for engagement, but I'm not going to go into them here. Not something I typically recommend most
beginners use. The vast majority of Facebook advertising beginners want to use either leads or sales. And I'll explain I'll talk about both of those together. Um, that's what we
really want from a meta ad campaign, particularly if we're operating with a small budget, particularly if we're getting started, because you want to generate those leads, generate
those sales in the short run to provide the profitability to be able to reinvest and scale your campaigns and your business. And that's the whole point where we're running ads in
the first place, right? So, leads and sales are much more direct response marketing. Um, and if you select leads, then Meta will optimize your campaign for people who are likely to
go on to become a lead. If you select sales, Meta will do likewise. The decision between which one of these two to use is what does your salesunnel structure look like? If someone
comes through directly to your website and makes a purchase, go with sales. Meta can track that. You could set up so Meta can track that quite accurately and then you're good to
go. If however people book in a call with you or they sign up for a free quote or something along those lines, they don't actually check out with you online, then go with leads and
you can optimize for that step. um knowing that obviously then need to convert those people whether it's via phone call or email whatever whatever your salesunnel structure um
looks like right and then you've got app promotion if you've got an app obviously the option to use if you don't don't use it you can use app promotion not just for getting more
people to install your app but also for trying to sell in-app events whether it's like an inapp purchase for example as well for demonstration purposes in this video I'm going to
go ahead and select leads but what I'm about to talk about very much applies to sales which I think 90 plus% of you what going through this video should be using either the leads
or sales. So, very much what we go through from now on um is salespace, but the example campaign that I'm going to use is leads based. So, we're going to use that for demonstration
purposes. If I go ahead and click continue, there are a few more things that we need to set at the campaign level. Okay. So, the very first thing at the top is campaign name. Um
you just want to call this something that is going to make sense to you when you're reviewing the campaigns. We've just got the one campaign. It's pretty obvious. Once you've had
an ad account running for a few years and you've got lots of different campaigns, you run lots of different offers and promotions, you want to label it up something that uh that
makes sense. I'm just going to leave that as new leads campaign, but I just wanted to to quickly note that. Okay. So, in these campaign details, we've already talked about buying
type. We've already talked about campaign objective. I'm not going to bother with the show more options. Then we get into budget. Okay. So, we've got budget strategy. The default
selected here is campaign budget, but we can select ads set budget if we want. And to explain the differences between the two, with campaign budget, the budget is set at the
campaign level. Meaning that if you have multiple adsets, budget will be distributed to those adsets according to performance. So if you've got adset A that's performing much
better than adset B, adset A will get more of the budget. However, what you can do instead is select adset budget and say, "No, no, I want to have manual control over how much each
adset gets from a budget perspective." Then you can go ahead and do that. In this instance, the campaign I'm going to demonstrate is only going to have one campaign and one adset.
And in that scenario, it doesn't make any difference whether you set the budget at the campaign level or the adset level. So, I'm just going to leave that as a default, but just
wanted to explain the options. If you've got multiple adsets, um, there might be something that you want to change. You might be happy just leaving it at a campaign budget,
allowing Meta to allocate budget according to performance because if Meta spends more of our budget on the best performing elements, we get better results, right? Then we've got
this budget option down here. The default is daily budget. You can change to lifetime budgets. I prefer daily budgets. With a lifetime budget, you end up with a fixed length
campaign. So, let's say you want to run a campaign for 7 days or 14 days. You can go ahead and select lifetime budget and then Meta is going to spend your money to try and get you
as many of your result that you want, what you've uh selected as your objective as possible. But they're going to do that over that time period. So, your spend might be quite
lumpy. You might spend very little at the beginning, quite a lot in the middle, very little at the end, or it could be a different combination. Whatever meta thinks will produce
the best results. Daily budgets are a lot more flexible and a lot more consistent. And if you want to run a campaign longer, you don't want to after the 7-day lifetime campaign,
have to create a new one and meta go back through the learning phase and everything like that. We'll talk about more about that later on. Um, daily budgets allows you to do that.
You also have more scalability. you can change the budget with a daily budget campaign more easily without running um into issues. Okay. So, in terms of what to start with, how
much should you spend, I've got some uh some guidelines around that. What I recommend particularly beginners do is they set a budget that they could afford to lose. So, you you
wouldn't be in financial difficulties either you or your business if you ran the ad campaign, you spent this much money on it, and it didn't work out. Because it's a marketing
campaign, there are no guarantees. You may well need to try a few different offers in your ads in order to find one that lands. You may need to test a few different ads to find one
that lands, right? So, there's no guarantee it's going to work out uh really well from day one. Obviously, going through this video is really going to help you and increase your
your chances of success there, but no guarantees. So, let's be smart about this. But on the other hand, you don't want to spend a budget amount that is so small that you don't care
about it at all. You don't want to be one of these things where you set it up and just think, "Ah, whatever. It's going to take long in the background." You want to be involved and
engaged in the process. And I find that there's often a sweet spot where you could afford to lose that money and it wouldn't be disastrous, but it would sting a little. That's
normally a sweet spot where you're really actively in there, but you've given yourself time to be able to test and experiment and work out um what can work right there. So, I'm
just going to leave this as the default, but just that that's going to vary massively depending on the business. There's no right amount, which is a question I get asked a lot. For
some businesses, that's going to be $10 a day. For others, it's going to be $5,000 a day. Like varying sizes of businesses, massively different budgets. What matters and what they
can afford to lose, very, very different. Right? Then we've got campaign bid strategy. Now, this is really important. If I go ahead and click on this, you can see this is says how
will bid in ad auctions. Highest volume is the default. That's exactly what I want to go with here because that will determine how Meta optimizes the campaign. Basically, we set
this up as a leads campaign and we want the highest volume of leads as possible, right? There are other options. We could add in a cost per result goal or a bid cap to say I'm only
willing to pay a certain amount. Um, not something I would recommend you mess with as a beginner. So, I'm not going to worry about the more settings or the AB testing. Those are
more advanced things you may want to look into later on. I have videos covering them all. But for now, we want to make it as simple as possible to get set up and and get started to
gain momentum. Then you can look to make things more complicated. We do need to talk about special ad categories though. So, special ad categories, if your ads fall into any of
these categories, right? they're related to financial products and services, employment, housing, social social issues, election or politics, then you have to select that that's
the case. When you do that, it is going to impact some of the options you have later on through the campaign creation process. So, for example, for a lot of these, you're going to
have limited targeting options and have to rely more on meta to be able to work out who to put your ads in front of. It's a way of sort of protecting user privacy and things along
those lines. Um, if you do fall within one of these categories or you think you might fall in one of these categories, definitely select it. If you don't and then you go ahead and
run ads anyway, a good chance not only your ads will be rejected, but your whole ad account can get disapproved, which can then be quite difficult to overturn or you have to create
a new ad account. Not something that you want to deal with. Most of you won't have any of these as a as an option for, you know, that you'll need to select given what it is you're
advertising. But for those that do, make sure you go ahead and select them. I'm not going to there. I'm going to go ahead and click next. Okay, so that's the campaign level done.
Now we move on to the adset level where we've got a bunch of other settings that we need to decide and set things up. So the first we need to choose here is the conversion
location. Where do we want these leads to occur? Where do we want them to take Ad Set Targeting, Tracking & Placements place? We set this up as a a leads campaign. Again, very
similar process for a sales campaign. Now the default here is website and instant forms. So website is pretty straightforward. It's I want to generate leads via my website. So send
people from Facebook, from Instagram to my website where they can then uh book a call or fill out a contact form. A few different types of leads obviously where they can go ahead
and become a lead. Instant form is a little bit different. That's where you can click on an ad say within Facebook or Instagram. Instead of going through to your website, you are
instead presented with an instant form. A form where people can provide their contact information that then allows you as the business to reach out to them and hopefully progress
that lead into a full customer. And with this conversion location selected, you can generate leads either via your website or via instant forms. And meta will test both, see which
performs best and then allocate budget accordingly. They may also predict for an individual user, is this person more like to become a lead via website or is this person more like
to become a lead via an instant form? So different people might see different ads or or different conversion locations go through the process. For the purposes of this video though
and sort of getting started with your Facebook and Instagram ads and keeping things as simple as possible, we talked about that being important. get some results, gain momentum,
and then you can look to add in more complicated things. I'm just going to go ahead and select website because having instant forms there as well means you need to create an
instant form. That's a whole extra element as part of the the campaign creation process, but you probably already have a website. You probably already have a landing page uh that
you can send people to that may well want to be improved. But like I said, let's let's make it as easy as possible to get started and reduce that barrier to entry. And also, if you
are running through this, following along with this tutorial, creating a sales campaign, you're an e-commerce business, for example, well, you're not going to have the instant form
option, and you're going to want to be sending people through to your website. So, we can all sort of follow along. If I select website, and I think that's a good option for a lot
of beginners. Now, if you don't have a website and you want to get started quickly and easily generating leads via Facebook and Instagram, then you can just go ahead and select
instant forms and just have that as an option and and not need a website. Um but yeah, but I think for most people they will already have one most watching this video and that's a
good way to go. But you can also see there are lots of different ways to generate leads, right? You can generate leads via messenger, uh via Instagram, via WhatsApp calls, so
people can call your business. So depending on your business where you are in the world, for example, WhatsApp's a lot more prevalent in certain parts of the world than others.
That might be a really good way to go where you can start a chat on WhatsApp and look to generate leads that way. Um you might want to have a play around with this and think about
for your market, for your business, what what makes the most sense. And you can always test multiple options. Nothing wrong with that. In fact, I actively encourage that sort of
thing as you can often find ways of improving things when you do so. So once we select our conversion location, this case website, that is going to change what options we have down
here. The the most important of which being performance goal. So I talked earlier at the campaign creation stage about how important the campaign objective is in getting that
right. you can still mess up a good campaign objective selection with a bad performance goal because what the campaign objective selection really does is it determines which
options you have later on. The performance goal is how Meta is going to optimize your campaign. So let me click in here and we can take a look at the options. Right? So the default
is maximize number of conversions. But underneath leads goals we also have maximize value of conversions. Now, maximized number of conversions is absolutely fine if you're
advertising the one service and when someone becomes a lead, they look just as valuable as anyone else who becomes a lead. But if you're advertising multiple services, then it
might be that one service, if someone goes on to convert, they're worth $200 to your business. Whereas with another service, if they go on to convert, they're worth $5,000 to your
business. There's a massive difference in the value of those two leads depending on what they've said they're interested in. If you go with maximize value of conversions, then Meta
is going to not just try and get as many conversions as possible, but optimize and weight it in favor of the more valuable conversions. In other words, you might end up paying more
in terms of cost per lead, but that's a trade-off you'd be happy to make if you got more leads for the $5,000 service as opposed to the the $200 service, right? So, this really
depends on your business which one you go with. If you're just advertising the one service within this campaign, absolutely fine to go with maximize number of conversions. But if
you've got differing services uh with differing values, definitely go with maximize value of conversions. Now, in order to track that, you're going to need to make sure that you've
got all the tracking set up properly. So, you're going to need to have the meta pixel installed and the values of each lead being sent back to Meta. I've got a video about Pixel
Instation. You're going to need that if you're sending people to your website. Uh no matter what, you're going to need to have the pixel installed properly. Um and I've also got
videos on conversions API, which is something else that's recommended from a tracking standpoint. So, you can check those out. um cuz that's an important part of the the setup of a
campaign creation process of getting started with Facebook and Instagram ads if you are sending people through to your website. Uh check out those videos. But yeah, that's the
difference between those two. If you're running a sales campaign, you have basically the same options, but the wording might be slightly different. And in that scenario, let's say
you're e-commerce business, I would absolutely recommend you go with the value option, with the option that maximizes return on ad spend or maximizes value because you can always
track differing values because they go straight through your website and purchase there and then. And some people will spend a little bit when they check out. Some people will
spend a lot when they check out. And it's really important you get better to optimize for the people that are more likely to spend more when they come through to your to your
website. So definitely go the wording might be slightly different in terms of what these are called but you'll see the same options right between just get me as many sales as
possible versus get me the most value overall as possible. So uh act in favor of the higher value purchases the higher value checkouts. Right in this instance I'm just advertising
the one service with the leads being equally valuable when they become a lead within this campaign. So I'm going to go with maximize number of conversions but just wanted to talk
through that option. Now, what's really really important, this is what I said a second ago around if you get your performance goal wrong, you can mess up your campaign um even if
you've selected the right campaign objective is do not select one of these other goals. So, don't say maximize number of landing page views or link clicks. If you do that, it's
going to run just like a traffic campaign and you get lots of clicks, lots of landing page views, probably not many leads, not many sales. Don't go with daily unique reach. That's
going to run just like an awareness campaign uh or maximize number of impressions very similarly, right? So you can sort of you can mess things up by selecting one of these other
goals. Go with the leads goals or the sales goals and you should be all good. Uh data set. I already talked about the pixel, but just double check to make sure that yep, the
pixel's installed. This is an example ad accounts. We've got example ad accounts pixel. Like I said, has other videos you can check out on those. And then we need to choose the
specific conversion event that we want to optimize for. So we're saying to Meta, look, get me as many conversions of this conversion as possible. For that, you're going to have to
have the pixel set up properly, but yes, we want as many leads as possible. We could change that to schedule or one of the other options that um that we might want to optimize for
as part of our leads campaign. You'll see a similar process for a sales campaign where you can optimize for purchases or you can optimize for add to carts. My preference would be
to go for purchases provided you're generating enough purchase for meta to be able to learn. We know that that process is important. If not, you might need to go for a step that's
higher up um the salesunnel. Okay. Anyway, moving on. Don't worry about cost per result goal. Not something to mess with. Don't worry about value rule sets. We've got a value rule
set preview here, but this is very much, you know, because I demonstrated this as an example ad account in previous videos. I have videos on value rules if you want to check those
out. Not something that um beginners need to mess with. Neither the show more options or the dynamic creative. We get next down into the budget and schedule. Now, we've already
talked about the budget being set at the campaign level. We've talked through the logic of how much you want to spend and you want to go with daily budgets and all that. Here we
really just have now the power to set a start and end date. You might want to set an end date if it just provides some sort of like mental security that okay, this campaign is not
just going to run indefinitely and I'm going to forget about end up spending far more than I want. You can go and set an end date. We're going to be in our campaigns plenty enough
where we just don't need to worry about that. We're managing them all the time and that sort of thing. And again, I'm not going to mess with show more settings here either. Lots of
advanced stuff that we're scooting over, but I think that's helpful when you're getting started. Okay. Then we get down into the audience section. And the audience section is all
about targeting. And targeting is probably a thing that made well originally it was just Facebook ads famous. Uh but even as Instagram was added, that's a thing that got marketers
and advertisers excited about the platform is the ability to be able to target. And there's been a lot of changes to the targeting process and we're in a very different place than
what we were say five six years ago. Um Meta's targeting is still very powerful, but the setup is different. I I'll go through it and explain. So within this audience section, we
have two main categories. We've got controls and we've got suggest and audience. The difference between these two sections is that anything set within the control section is a hard
constraint, a hard boundary. So you can see for example the location, which I'll talk about in a second, the default here is United Kingdom. Meta is going to basically follow that
instruction. Right? We're only going to put ads in front of people in the United Kingdom. Whereas anything added in the suggestion audience section is a suggestion. You're
basically giving Meta's targeting algorithms an indication of who you think should see your ads, who your ad should be put in front of. But at the end of the day, it's up to Meta
to either go with people within that targeting criteria or find other people that it thinks will are likely to get you more of what we talked about up here, which is maximize the
number of conversions, lead conversions. Basically, who's likely to become a lead might be outside your targeting criteria, and Meta can go beyond that with the suggest an audience
section. So, let's run through this. So the first thing we need to decide is location. This is defaulted to the whole of the United Kingdom because that's where I'm based, but that
may or may not be right for your business, right? So what should we do here from a targeting standpoint? It's very simple. Advertise where your customers are. That might be one
country. That might be the whole of the UK. That might be international. So for example, we could advertise the whole of UK. We could advertise the whole US. So for example, our
major markets as an agency are going to be UK, US, Australia, Canada. I mean, we actually have clients literally in 50 plus countries. Um, Western Europe and Singapore and UAE and
all sorts, right? Um, but our major major markets are going to be, you know, UK, US, Canada, etc. So, we could, for example, look to advertise to multiple countries. Or if you're a
local business, you could get a lot more specific. So, let's say for example, you're a local business based in Bath, which is a place in the UK. Uh, so Bath in Somerset. And if I
