like this, but are still following the same formula where we're showing us versus them. And we're going to create a ton more different ads under that one ad set. Now, we're going
to start segmenting ad sets based off of the concept. So, this is a winning concept one. This is your before and after or your us versus them. Now, this should be, you know, this
should be the same ad two should be the same ad two that was doing well for you. And then you're just going to create a bunch of different uh different concepts or sorry different
variations of this concept, right? Where it's like if we go back into Creative OS, right? This is the before and after section. We'll do this would be one, this would be two.
Notice these are not the same, right? Yes, there's a before and after of someone there, but they look completely different. This could be another one. This could be another one.
Right? That's the difference. We're not creating variations. We're creating different concepts. Hopefully you guys are following along. Hopefully guys that makes sense. And I'm
sorry if I'm confusing. You might have to rewatch this a couple times. But basically, um, we're going to then scale with that winning concept. Now, your goal as you're scaling is
you're going to be increasing your budget. Most of your budget should start being allocated into your scaling campaign. So, let's say you have a budget of $700 a week, right?
That's $100 a day. Once you find your winner, you're going to start to ramp up, right? You're going to duplicate this campaign. And now you're going to go from $100 a day to $200 a
day. Right? So this is going to be at 100. That's going to be at 100 assuming you found the winner. The conversion on that on that particular ad is profitable. You're a profitable
rorowaz. So now you're going to be at $200 a day, right? You're going to scale that in there. You're going to create some more concepts under this winning concept under this one ad
set. Again, you're not changing the anything. The adset should never be touched. Do not ever touch your adsets. It should always be, you know, um what is it called? Advantage plus,
right? So, I I hope you guys aren't still wondering like, should I then No, do not touch the adset. The adset should always be the thing. Uh the same thing, Advantage Plus. So,
then you're going to create all these different concepts and you're going to be spending $200 a day. Let these ads and these campaigns do good for you, right? Let them just kind of
chill there for a day or two. Let them stay profitable. Assuming this is still profitable, you can now turn off this one. and just keep loading up new concepts, right? And you
might even want to take this turn this off and then start uploading new testing um variations of this same concept. So, if this was the the us versus them, I would create more us
versus them and throw them in here and see how they do. Okay? And then as you start as this stays profitable, this starts to scale, you're going to keep upping your budget, right?
So now this is going to stay at $100 a day. And now this is going to go from $100 a day to maybe $150 a day. And as you continue to scale, scale, scale, the next week you're going
to try to look and find a new concept. So let's say this is us versus them. In your testing phase, you should have found another winning concept, right? You would have turned this
one off and now you would have another concept that should be doing good for you. whatever that concept is. Let's say this is a UG uh not UGC, but let's say this is a before and
after. You're just going to do the same thing. You're just going to take this winning scaling um CBO campaign. You're going to create a new ad set and under that new ad set, it's
just only going to be before and after ads. And now we're going to start organizing these adsets with the winning campaigns. And then every time you are every once a week, you
should be adding new winning concepts into the scaling. And every single day or every other day, you should be adding new ads into the CBO. Anything that gets the spend of the um
AOV of your product, every ad that gets $50 to $6 in spend, whatever the amount you're selling your product for, and it doesn't look profitable, you turn it off. And you should be
always cycling new ads into this testing campaign. And you should only increase the budget of this if you have a ton of ads that are doing good and they're not getting spent,
right? Like if you have a ton of ads in here or you have one or two particular ads in here that are getting all the spend all the time and the other ones aren't being properly
tested, that's when I would start increasing the budget a little bit so Facebook can start allocating some of the spend other places. But what should happen after about a week and
a half or so, this adset should be out of learning phase and should be active. and every time you learn a new ad or upload a new ad rather, it's either going to quickly um be a
profitable be profitable for you or it's just not going to perform and you just turn it off. So, as you can see here, you're giving every single ad at least the AOV of your, you
know, the the same price of the AOV of your product and should be getting a a good amount of spend. If it's not spending, don't turn it off, right? Whatever is getting all the
budget should either be in your scaling campaign because it's profitable or it should be turned off. And then you are just going to keep adding. You're not going to create any new
adsets. You can keep throwing a whole bunch of different concepts here. So under this one adset, you might have like three us versus them. You might have two before and afters. You
might have one customer review. You might have a couple different ones. Um and that's fine, right? Because at the end of the day, it's constantly going to be cycling through and
figuring out what's working for you. And then in your scaling CBO campaign, that's where you can really start doubling down on the different concepts for you. So only two
campaigns, they're both CBO campaigns, right? Only the CBO scaling will have separate adsets for those concepts. So you can keep them organized. You can think of them like folders,
but your testing CBO will always be one adset with a ton of different ads. You literally just go into the ads set level or the ad level rather and then just click new ad or add ad
whatever it's called or create new and then you just upload the new the new picture and let it go. If it's get spend and it's profitable great throw it into the the winning
concepts. If not turn it off and you just boom boom boom. Here's the thing, right? You can do this every other day every day because you have so many ads to work with. you have
literally hundreds of ads that you can create constantly create and these are winning ads from your competitors or people in the you know that are also uh running up brand brands
as well. So, it's going to be one of those things where it's like as you scale and start to spend more money, it's going to be even more important. When you're in the beginning,
you don't need to be adding new ads every single day, right? Your budget is, if your budget is a smaller budget, you're do you're testing between 50 to $150 a day. I would not be
adding new ads in every single day. Okay? Just start off slow. Take your time. Add uh like two to three ads once a week and let let them spend, right? because it's at this daily
spend, it's going to be really hard for your ads to get $60 in spend before you know um you figure out what what's working, what's not working. So, I would definitely make sure
that you you take it slow. But once you start ramping this up and your your testing CBO might be at like $200 a day and then your scaling might be at like, I don't know, $600 a
day. That's when you're going to be needing to add new ads quickly. But by then you'll already know what works and you just you let things ride. If things are working well, great.
And the moment you start to see your ads start to fatigue, that's when you got to really ramp up. The goal though is to never be kind of waiting for that to happen. You should
always have the new batch of ads that are performing for you ready to go. So, a little bit confusing. Hopefully you guys understand. Rewatch this a couple times. If you have any
questions, you can always shoot me a message. If you want personalized coaching and learning how to scale to $1,000 a day with drop shipping and you don't want to pay high ticket
prices for mentorship, feel free to join the social brands club. It's a community I run slowly but surely growing. I'm helping people as much as possible find winning products and
understand how to test and scale with ads. Biggest thing is that I host a weekly call every single week and I'm in the DMs managing and messaging you guys every single day and
helping review uh your ad account, your store, everything that you need to be profitable. So, I'll leave a link in the description if you guys want to join that. And with that
being said, I'll see you guys all in the next one. welcome to the world's best Facebook ads tutorial it doesn't matter if your skill level is beginner or Intermediate by the end
you're going to be an expert today we're going to cover exactly when you should use Facebook advertising and when it won't work how to sign up to Facebook a clear step by step of
setting up ads how to read the data in the ad account the best ads that you should be using on Facebook how to not get banned on Facebook and most importantly how to start running
ads profitably so you can make lots of money so you're probably wondering why should you be listening to me at the age of 23 I launched Facebook ads for my brand caling blankets
and I did over $10 million in sales in the first year since then I've spent over $100 million on my own Brands through Facebook ads I'm going to run you through absolutely
everything that I've learned and then new step-by-step instructions because after the Apple privacy updates all of the previous videos are outdated I've also launched a completely
free Shopify course with thousands and thousands of members gurus will charge you lots for this if you want access to it all you need to do is comment Facebook ads below and I'll
send you the link all right let's get into the video the first question I often get asked is who should be using Facebook ads well it's perfect for most businesses the best
businesses that I see using Facebook ads include e-commerce businesses marketing agencies app businesses and people trying to generate leads it's also really good for small
businesses trying to attract local customers now you're probably thinking that's most of the economy and that's true because Facebook actually owns Instagram WhatsApp and it has
over 3 billion monthly active users yeah that's over onethird of the world's population use it every single month because of all of that data that they have they can tug any ideal
customer for any business the other huge benefit of Facebook advertising compared to any other platform is your ability to rapidly test different types of ad creatives at very low
budgets and adjust accordingly more on that later so how does Facebook advertising work it's basically a machine I want to put $1 in to the machine and I want $2 to come out to do
this we need to make sure that we have the correct settings and also the correct creatives within the ad account account to get the best performance because Facebook wants you to
make money however if you give it the wrong settings and wrong creative it just won't be able to do that for you and that's what we're going to go over today so next we're going to
set up a following in this order we're going to set up a business manager a Facebook and Instagram page then we're going to verify the domain create a Facebook pixel we're going to
add a payment method and we're going to create an add account so the first step is we need to go to business. face.com this is where you can set up your business manager you do not
want to run Facebook ads from your personal account alone you really want to set up a business manager because you're going to get less bands and you're going to have way more
control with the settings that you have so then we just need to click create accounts and we can use our Facebook details to set up a business manager it's really important that
you want to use a Facebook account that has been used before hopefully over 6 months old if it's not make sure that you post on the Facebook every now and then to make Facebook
think that you're a real person because you are the other thing that you really want to do is make sure that you making the name of the Facebook account exactly what matches on
your passport your license and even your business registration documents if you have them after you're in your business manager make sure you come to business information and go to
your legal name your address phone number all of these kind of things and make sure that they're accurate you can even use their business verification status if you are a
registered company all of this stuff is going to signal to Facebook that you're a trusted user and will reduce the amount of times you get banned one other thing you should know
about a business manager is you can come into this people section and you can add users to the account each user can have a different level of access for example admin access and
you need to be really careful about who you give that level of access to and finally make sure that you set up two Factor authentication not only for your yourself but every single
user on the platform to avoid yourself getting hacked because what will happen if you get hacked then they will remove you as a user and they'll spend lots of money on your credit
card one tip with these users is add a really trusted second party as an admin in case your personal Facebook gets banned so you can still access your ad account next step is Pages
now a lot of you may already have a Facebook page that you can simply click add and add the Page by entering its name alternatively if you don't have a page for your brand yet you
can simply click add and click create a new page you can follow the prompts if you're using a brand or starting an agency this is a very similar process for Instagram account
simply click Instagram accounts click add and click connect your Instagram account you'll be redirected to another browser where you simply just need to log in to your own
Instagram this is a really important step because it will now allow you to advertise through those pages that you've already created in the past there's no point having multiple
Pages if you creating a new Facebook page from scratch make sure you warm it up with a couple of posts change the profile picture change the name to something appropriate because
without this you're just not going to get any results when we run ads all right the next step is we need to come to add accounts and then you can click add and click create new
account now when naming the ad account this is simply for your organization you would create a brand new ad account for every single either business that you launch product that
you launch on different brands or even if you start advertising in a brand new region for example Udi sells in Australia but we'll have a different ad account for the US this is
mainly just an organizational and risk tolerance thing ensure that you select the correct time zone in the settings because this is what you're going to be using for your internal
reporting select the correct currency as well that you're actually selling your product in this is because you're going to need the sales of the product that you're selling to pay
these future bills make sure that you select that you are creating this ad account for yourself and click create you can then add yourself to manage the ad account click assign and
it should be ready to go you will then be prompted to click add payment info this is really important you can select the currency again that you plan to sell with and it's really
important that you can't actually change this once you set it up so make sure that you do it correctly one trap that I often see people make when setting up Facebook ad accounts is
they don't take their time and Facebook in the early stages will limit how many business managers you can create and how many ad accounts you can create so really take your time
simply add your credit card details click save and you should be ready to run ads another payment processing tip that I have is do not use PayPal I've seen a lot more people get
their Facebook ad account banned using PayPal and it's just extra risk the other benefit is you can actually get credit card points or cash back using credit cards to really offset
the costs oh one more thing make sure that when you're filling out your credit card details again you take your time I've seen people misfill their credit card details three times
and get the ad account banned before it even gots started now we're almost done with our settings but we need to come down to Brand safety and click domain we're going to click add
domain click create new domain and just simply enter your website details you'll then be prompted to copy and paste this meta tag in that in between the head and head tag on your
website which is super simple to find on all platforms like Shopify and webflow in Shopify it's in the theme settings and webflow you can see you can just click here and then paste
the code so now we've only got one more step before we can launch our campaigns and start making money are you still with me we simply need to go into pixels now if you come here
at the moment pixels has now moved to something called data sets don't worry it's basically exactly the same as it always has been you can click add and then you can name your data
set such as your Shopify store name or any of your agency name and click create this will then give you this little ID at the top right that you can copy and paste and also open an
events manager to set up any type type of tracking now before I lose you don't worry if you're using something like Shopify they made this way simpler and also way more effective
Shopify basically now shares all of its data from its purchases back to Facebook so you can track accordingly so with this pixel we don't actually need to copy and paste it into
Shopify so now all we need to do to link our ad account and our pixel to our Shopify store in the most effective way is come into Shopify add Facebook as a CH link the account by
logging in select all of the things that you've just set up and submit it now this pixel will be set up to track all kinds of things like page views add to carts and also purchases
if that doesn't make sense trust me I'm going to explain it in about a few minutes I know that setting stuff is boring but if you do not do that correctly you may get very very bad
results or no results at all now's the fun stuff we're going to set up our advertising campaign this is where I'm going to show you all the special Source the stuff that I've
learned over the years first we're going to start with the campaign to get to the campaign all we going to do is come to our ad account and we're going to click open in ads manager
this is going to be your home for the next 10 years as you print money when you come into the ads manager you're going to see that you've got three levels you've got campaigns ad
sets and ads I'm going to get to each of them in a second but let's start with the campaign click create and you're going to be prompted with a bunch of op options that you can run
with your campaign put simply a campaign is simply the objective that you are trying to achieve with your business now you might think I just want people to look at my product but
is that really what you want do you really just want to get website traffic or brand awareness no you actually want to create sales so 99% of the time you should be using this
conversion sale objective for your business this is because all of these other forms of traffic Facebook has so much inventory so much availability for it because it's so bad it
just doesn't create sales so if I used something like an engagement or a lead campaign I would get lots of activity but zero sales and therefore I won't be able to spend as much on
Facebook advertising and my business won't grow so for an e-commerce example that's what we're going to do today we're going to click sales then click continue you're then going to
be prompted to either use an Advantage Plus shopping campaign or a manual sales campaign an Advantage Plus is basically giving Facebook the entire control for all of the other
things that you're going to do later on in the adset level just click manual for now because I want to show you the only other thing that's really important on the campaign level
settings so the first thing is we can label our campaign Advantage Plus and USA I'll explain that in just a bit next we've got the categories which we can basically ignore then
we've got this section which is often pre-selected which is use a catalog we can turn this off for now because we can change this at the ad level then we've got an AB test which we
do not need because we can test things in a different way I'm going to show that really towards the end of the video then finally we've got this Advantage campaign budget I'm
really glad that you're watching my video at the moment because a lot of people are teaching fa Facebook ads wrong since that iOS update the annoying thing is I used to teach this
old method as well and people are still watching those videos but it has changed you see the old way that people used to run Facebook advertising is they would have a top of funnel
which would consist of lots of different interest based targeting then they would have a middle of funnel which would basically be retargeting people that have some level of
certain awareness around your product maybe they went to the website maybe they watched a video and then have bottom of funnel which have people that have like basically already
checked out or even purchased previously the reason why I'm telling you this is because all of that is out of the window and this Advantage Plus setting is basically all you need
to Target everyone across all of those stages the exciting thing for you as the viewer as a beginner or intermediate is that Facebook advertising just got so much simpler because
all you need to do now is set up one campaign and then introduce creatives to it in a unique way and you can compete with some of the world's best Facebook advertisers and that's
Facebook's goal they don't want to make these settings and a small mistakes here mean that you can't perform so the structure is going to be the following one campaign at the
moment and the only time you would create multiple different campaigns is if you have multiple offers or multiple different types of products which is more advanced we can chat
about that in a bit because I really want to start teaching you how to create an adet if that confus you I promise you it's going to make a lot of sense in a second we're going to
click Advantage Plus on and because we've clicked this now we need to decide how much money we are going to spend on this campaign I'm just going to leave it at $20 at the moment
but coming up next I've got a full row as calculator and margin calculator as well as how to set your daily budgets so stay tuned for that we can ignore this budget scheduling for
now and then we can click next now you might have not seen that transition but we've actually gone from the campaigns to the adset level now you can also see that here we've got
our campaign name and then we've got our adset level nothing we Chang within this is going to change the settings that we just set up prior the adset is where we're going to tell
Facebook to advertise first up we've got this conversion which we do want it on the website the default is correct then we want the performance goal now if you're running
e-commerce probably want to do maximize value of conversions next we want to select the pixel and make sure that it's correct this is the one that we linked with Shopify then we
click conversion event and realistically there should be these conversions API all set up if there's not you've got a wrong link with Shopify we want to click on purchase because
that's what we want to create you can ignore row as goal for now and in here you can ignore these attribution settings for now that is quite Advanced and we will chat about it
towards the end Dynamic creative is another thing that I'm going to explain but it's going to have to be later in the video because they really want to get this campaign live we
can skip budget and schedule because we kind of set that up before and now we've got audience controls this is really important the main thing is just making sure that you are
advertising to the correct region we can click edit and we can click right in United States and you'll see this audience definition is increased and now we are targeting the entire
United States when we're targeting such a large audience this is what the industry calls broad because you're targeting such a broad audience Facebook has so much flexibility to
find your correct Target customer this is one of those things that changed when iOS privacy updates changed simply because Facebook has less data so you want to give it as much
optionality as possible in this audience section we can refine things like age gender and even add certain interests like pets or even like activities that they like to do on the
surface level this sounds really effective because if I'm selling a pet product I want someone that's interested in pets but this is another thing that changed in the iOS update
because Facebook knows less about the customers this has become less reliable and we would much rather give Facebook as much optionality as possible to find the right customer so I
want you to leave this all blank this is officially a broad audience and that's it how easy was that we basically set up our campaign and our adset with very little effort if
you're becoming a little bit more advanced starting to get sales the one thing that we definitely do at the ud and a lot of other brands is we'll use exclusions to do this you
click add exclusions you can add certain lists such as your previous purchases to find this you can go to your email software export your purchases and upload them to this
exclusion list this is because we don't really want Facebook to continually Target our previous customers we want them to find new customers as well as I said this is pretty
Advanced and if you're just getting started we can ignore this for now so now we can come to the ads level now before we start this ad section let me say that this is the most
common place that people get Facebook advertising wrong because everything else is so simple nowadays in terms of setting up the business advertising to basically everybody and
simply clicking Advantage Plus campaign it all comes down to how good your creatives are and how you approach the creative framework that I'm about to talk about so before I set up
these ads let's get into the masterclass of Facebook ad creatives on the highest level we've got the type of ads so these include images video ads Dynamic product ads carousels and
collections images started out as one of the most popular formats and then over the past 2 years they haven't been performing the interesting thing is images are now a critical
part to every single business manager then we've got videos even though images are coming back probably s % of your Facebook ads B is going to be through videos this is because
videos allow you to communicate more marketing angles and capture more attention which we're going to talk about next then you've got Dynamic product ads this is where we serve up
the recent thing that people saw on the website and it's much more like product imagery then we've got carousels which is basically a series of images and videos and finally we've
got collections which is basically an impat form experience truthfully 90% of your budget even more is going to be images and video then on the second level we've got the format of
these ads the first and the most popular at the moment is user generated content or ugc then we've got unboxing we've got humor memes also work we've got influencer photos customer
photos and Graphics user generated content Works incredibly well as a video ad so you're probably wondering why do these format of ads work when others don't and this is because
good ads follow the following principles first they explain the unique selling proposition of the product second they're able to educate or entertain the customer which Facebook
will then be able to serve to more customers because it's a good experience on the platform thirdly they have a great offer an urgency as well and finally the last two is what I
see a lot of newbies get wrong they either run a pixelated product image or they just run a really boring ad the format of ads that I was just talking about like user generated
content is able to communicate a lot of education and the customers are able to see themselves within that video and therefore understand that it is relevant for them then they can
purchase because they trust the user generated content compare this to a product image that is really boring doesn't educate doesn't entertain so how do you find really good ads
without wasting a lot of money the best place that you can find example ads is simply go to app. Trend rocker. you can sign up for an account and I'll will leave a description in
this video Simply go to the ad section and then all you need to do is write in your favorite brand or Niche for example I can write in coffee now I've got a bunch of inactive and
active ads that I can look at what we're looking for is a format of ads that tick all of the criteria that I just talked about here we've got a great graphic campaign that talks
with an offer and create an urgency here we've got an awesome user generated content video one final tip that I have for ad creatives is simply going to either your negative
reviews or your positive reviews or your competitor's negative reviews and simply use their main objection in the very first sentence and film a video this is called object
advertising so for example let's say you're trying to make coffee cheaper for the masses you would obviously see negative reviews on expensive coffee shops then you can go people
say coffee is too expensive you can just record an iPhone video my brand solves this bu this that will crush 80% of the time so you're probably wondering how many ads do I actually
need to get started and you probably want to get three to five ads you definitely want at least two video ads and because images are so easy to create in Cana at the moment when
you can pay just a designer in the Philippines try to get at least two image ads as well the next step is we simply come into our ads manager and we go into the ads level remember
we've set up the campaign level we've set up the adset level now it's time to set up our first ever ad now unlike the campaign level and the broad adset level we're going to
actually create multiple ads so for this ad we can do add one and you can just label that something simple that you will remember what that type of ad is then we select the correct
page that we're going to use and select the correct Instagram account that we're going to use and click create ad now you really want to make sure that you've got manual upload and
you've got single image or video we can simply click add media add video upload it the preview of the ad should appear on the right hand side we can then scroll down and now we've
got to input the text of the ad now very similar to what I was talking about before good copy should educate explain unique selling proposition have an offer and urgency and are
not boring if you want to use chat GPT for this simply give it your unique selling propositions and ask it to create headlines and also body text once You' added the headline and
primary text then you just need to go down and you click into add website enter your URL and click public this will then take a while to approve this is now going through all of
Facebook's filters if you've used bad language or you've called out bad attributes of people then there is a chart that it's not going to get approved this doesn't mean that your
ad account is going to get banned but it's not a great start this is why I suggest being really PG initially and slowly warming up your ad account with less provocative language
and ads this is especially the case if you're running Fitness offers to create a second ad within that ad set because remember we want to run 3 to five ads when initially testing
we click quickly duplicate and now we can simply change this created by clicking remove all and uploading a new video we can decide whether we want to keep this text consistent or
tweak it so that we can get a different result or change it to get an even more different result this is probably the perfect time to talk about testing Frameworks and how to
Define your budget let's start with defining your budget to Define your initial budget there are a few things that you need to know I recommend if you're a beginner you want to
start with your daily Budget on the campaign level with about 10 to 30% of your product sale price this means that if I'm selling something worth $100 I'd want to be spending $10
to $30 a day initially how long do we spend that before we can make any decisions on the creative level so you're introducing five creatives we really want to make sure that we've
spent at least two times our average order value or the sale price of our product before we make any decisions with it this is to prevent you from creating a creative that may work
and you introduce it to Facebook and then you're trying to get some sales and it spends $3 $5 and you're like n this isn't working by allowing us to spend you know $200 for $100
product on that creative we can definitively roll out that it is not a good creative and turn it off another thing you need to consider here is the buying Journey for your product
if you're selling furniture it might take a couple of weeks for them to make the decision months even whereas if you're selling an impulse purchase people might buy it quickly so
be patient here if you've created amazing creators with my framework then chances that they should be able to work so now let's say that you've got three to five creatives working
and you're getting some sales how do you increase the sales of this ad account it's simple you're going to introduce new creatives into this existing campaign structure that you've
added so I'm going to create two to three new creatives and I'm going to upload them into the adset if you spending very very small amounts you might just want to introduce one
creative at a time this is a great opportunity future introduce very very different creatives over time for example if I'm selling iies to boyfriends that are buying a gift for
their girlfriends maybe I want to create a brand new creative Woodies for grandmas by introducing these new creatives and by having our really broad targeting that we set up before
Facebook is able to run both of these ads and expand the amount of customers that we can actually capture whereas if I created a brand new creative that was targeting the exact
same boyfriends then they're probably going to cannibalize each other and that's the beauty of the structure that we just set up so to recap we add this one creative we let it
spend for two times the average order value and if there's no sales you kill it and you introduce another creative now if that's feeling a little bit technical I'm going to walk
you through it but first we need to be able to see what results are actually popping up in our platform and to do this we need to customize our table to read the results we need to
use the table settings so when you're in your ad section make sure that you've got an appropriate time selected where the ads will actually running then what you need to do is come
into here and click customize columns you can delete all of these defaults because I'm going to give you every single one right now you can follow along with me first we've got
delivery then attributing settings date created bid strategy budget amount spent purchases you want Total and cost and make sure you can deselect all of these then you want rollers
then you want to go to add to cart and you want Total and cost remember to deselect all of these options don't worry we're almost there we want to go to outbound clicks outbound
click through rate cost per outbound click see CPN reach Impressions and video average play time the other thing we can do if you want to get really Advanced is Click create custom
metric and we can add the conversion rate which equals purchases divided by outbound click and you want to make this a percentage and you can also add average order value which
will be a currency and this equals the purchase conversion value divided by purchases we can select both of them we can save this as a preset Davies columns and click apply now
whenever we want to find all of these settings all we need to do is come into this section and click davies's columns so now you have a really Advanced view on what ads are working
we can click on any of these above here to filter by amount spend or even return on an spend this will allow you to use our formula that we had before let's say we're selling this
product for $100 and this creative here had spent $200 but had zero purchases as it does now and it also had an unprofitable return on ad spend then we would turn this creative off
and introduce another one we don't you don't have to turn a creative off to introduce another one if they're all performing but we do want to make sure that all unprofitable ads
are turned off as quickly as possible after they've had enough spend now I can hear you yelling at me what is a profitable return on ad spend or what even is return on ad spend
return on ad spend is if you put $1 in and you get $2 back that's to return on ad spend so for example if I spend $50 and get $100 back that is also to return on ad spend now your
target return on ad spend and what is a profitable return on ad spend will depend largely on your business and your product some businesses will have different return on ad spends
for different products and this is because it's all about the margin to make this really simple for you as part of my free Shopify course I've created this profit calculator in
this calculator we can see the sale price of our product and we can input this all of this these yellow things require input so let's say we're selling a product for $180 we know
that if we spend $90 to a acquire a customer which is by the way on this column here which is currently at $44 if that was at $90 we would know that that would create a two return
on ad spend and we would make a net profit of $49.50 per product let's just say that I was going to spend $120 to acquire Custer customer now we've only got $19 of profit so I know
that if I'm getting down to 1.5 rowers within my ad account in this metric that I am only making $19.50 every single customer that I get now here's where it gets interesting if I
get a customer acquisition cost of 150 at a 1.2 row as I am now losing $1050 per product that I sell which is now an unprofitable business so realistically if I want to make you
