agent harness that fits your workflow. Run agents locally or in the cloud, with Copilot or third-party providers like Claude and OpenAI. Choose from dozens of models across
providers, from fast completion models to advanced reasoning models. Or bring your own key to use any model from any provider. All your sessions, one view Stay productive while
multiple agents work on tasks in parallel. Track all your agent sessions from a single view, regardless of where they run. Quickly filter and monitor sessions, or dive into an
individual agent interaction, without switching to a different tool or terminal. Your rules, your agents Ensure agents follow your practices and team workflows. Define custom
instructions, add agent skills, or build custom agents tailored to your project. Connect to external tools and services with MCP servers, or install agent plugins or extensions to
expand the agent's capabilities. Start building with AI agents for free No trial. No credit card required. Just your GitHub account. Try free A world-class code editor at its core
VS Code has been the editor of choice for millions of developers for over a decade. AI-powered inline suggestions, intelligent completions, and a rich editing experience make it
just as powerful when you're writing code yourself. Seamlessly switch between working with agents and hands-on coding, all within the same editor. Get started with VS Code Code
with extensions Extend your agents with tools from extensions and Model Context Protocol servers. Or, build your own extension to power your team's unique scenarios. Python
extension icon Python Adds rich language support for Python Stripe extension icon Stripe Build, test, and use Stripe inside your editor C/C extension icon C/C++ Adds rich language
support for C/C++ Jupyter extension icon Jupyter Language support for Jupyter Notebooks GitLens extension icon GitLens Supercharge your Git experience C# Dev Kit extension icon C#
Dev Kit Powerful tools for your C# environment MongoDB extension icon MongoDB Extension for the @MongoDB agent GitHub Copilot for Azure extension icon GitHub Copilot for Azure
Streamline the process of developing for Azure Remote Development extension icon Remote Development Open folders in a container on a remote machine View 80k+ extensions in the
Extension Marketplace Code in any language VS Code supports almost every major programming language. Several ship in the box, like JavaScript, TypeScript, CSS, and HTML, but
extensions for others can be found in the VS Code Marketplace. JavaScript icon JavaScript TypeScript icon TypeScript Python icon Python C# icon C# C++ icon C++ HTML icon HTML Java
icon Java JSON icon JSON PHP icon PHP Markdown icon Markdown Powershell icon Powershell YAML icon YAML Fully customizable Customize your VS Code UI and layout so that it fits your
coding style. Color themes let you modify the colors in VS Code's user interface to suit your preferences and work environment. Settings Sync enables you to share your user
settings across your VS Code instances with the Settings Sync feature. Profiles let you create sets of customizations and quickly switch between them or share them with others.
Selecting the GitHub Dark theme with a quick pick Code anywhere Code wherever you're most productive, whether you're connected to the cloud, a remote repository, or in the browser
with VS Code for the Web (vscode.dev). Built-in Source Control empowers you with Git support out-of-the-box. Many other source control providers are available through extensions.
GitHub Codespaces provides cloud-powered development environments for any activity - whether it's a long-term project, or a short-term task like reviewing a pull request.
vscode.dev in an Edge browser tab Code with rich features There's a lot more to an editor. Whether it's using built-in features or rich extensions, there's something for everyone.
terminal icon Integrated terminal Use your favorite shell whether it's zsh, pwsh, or git bash, all inside the editor. debug icon Run code Run and debug your code without leaving
your editor. branching icon Version control Built-in support for git and many other source control providers. tools icon Build tasks Run tools and analyze their results from within
VS Code. history icon Local history Never lose your changes with automatically tracked local history. palette icon Themes Your theme is an extension of your personality. Add some
flair to your editor and add your touch. keyboard icon Accessibility Optimized experience for screen readers, high contrast themes, and keyboard-only navigation. globe icon Web
support Whether you are on your phone, tablet, or desktop, you can access your code from anywhere. VS Code on Github Follow us on X VS Code on LinkedIn VS Code on Bluesky Join the
VS Code community on Reddit The VS Code Insiders Podcast VS Code on TikTok VS Code on YouTube Microsoft homepage Support Privacy Terms of Use License Your Privacy Choices Consumer
Health PrivacyThe finished AI lead magnet Claude Code just built this entire NA10 workflow with just one prompt. But here's what makes Clawude Code even better. Because it's now
got the entire context around the workflow on what I'm trying to achieve. All I need to say is add a front end and it's able to turn it into a fully productized app for us to be
able to sell. We're not just building automations anymore in NA10. We're now able to build complete products. But the true question is how good is Claw Code at this? And what are
some key things that you need to keep in mind? By the end of this video, I'm going to show you exactly how you can connect Clawude code with the MCP and NAT skills and have it
generate your very own NA10 workflow for an AI lead magnet. The kind that agencies would charge thousands for and how is completely changing the game. I'll show you the full build
including Claude code, MCP A10, all of the prompts in one single video so that you can go from an idea to a SAS incredibly quickly. All of the links are going to be in the
description down below. And if you want to learn more about AI and automation, make sure to come across to our community. All of the resources are going to be in there. First
things first, let's check out what it's able to do. We're going to come through, add our email address. We're going to add a quick niche in there that we want to generate some
information for. Our target is to grow audience. We're posting three to five times a week. And we want all of the content to go on Instagram, LinkedIn, and maybe Tik Tok. We're
going to say generate our strategy. We're then going to have our NA10 workflow running in the background here, which was able to complete this entire process in 12 seconds. We've
got the confirmation the email has been sent with that really easy lead magnet. So, let's check out what we got back. As we can see here, we've now got a really, really detailed
overview that we'd be able to recommend. Again, this is a super simple lead magnet. We're able to get set up, run on autopilot 24/7, 365, and this used to take ages to get set up,
and now we're able to do it in literally 20 minutes. So, what are the three key parts we're going to need? Well, first of all, we're going to need the NA10 MCP server, and it's
going to be in here for us to set up. It's got all the ne instructions for us to follow nice and easily. Secondly, we're also going to need to give Claude our NA10 skills for it to
understand how to use the MCP server and generate all of the workflows for us as easily as possible. And then last but not least, I'm going to be using Claude Code just as the CLI
or commandlined interface for this so that we can start to bring that app to life. If you've not used VS Code before, check out my other video that will walk you through how to get
started with Claude Code. So, what makes the MTP server so great? Well, it enables our claude agent to understand in this use case 99% of the different nodes we're able to do 60%
of the operations, 87% of the documentation, 271 different tools, and it's pre-trained on 2,646 different workflows. But there's some nuances on this that I'll touch on at the end.
To get us started, we're going to scroll down. And what we're looking Setting up MCP server + n8n skills for is this full configuration part here. We're going to need to copy this
code and add it into our VS Code. So, first we're going to come across to VS Code. So, we're just going to create a folder for us to store all of the different files that we're
going to generate. Once it's loaded up on the left hand side here, you'll be able to see this is where we're going to store all of the information. First of all, we're going to do
a plus. We're going to create a new document here. But what are we going to call this document? Well, we're going to need to come back across to our NA10 skills. And the reason for
this is because if we come further down, we'll see that we've got the preerequisite. I.e. what needs to happen beforehand is we need to set up a file called MCP and JSON. So, we'll
come back across create a new document.json and press enter. So, now we need to add in the A10 MCP code. We're going to come across to the A10 MCP documentation. Again, all of the
links are in the description to find everything. We're going to come down and find the full configuration with NA10 management tools. Copy all of this back across and paste into
here. Now, how do we get it to connect to our NA10 instance? Well, what we're going to need to do is add our NA10 URL in here for where we're hosting it and our API key. To do
that, you want to come across to your NA10 environment. You want to copy all of your web URL. So, we'll copy all of that. Come back across and then paste in here. We want to make
sure that there is no forward slash at the end. So, that's all good to go. Now, we need to set up our API key. So, we're going to come down to settings. We're going to come across
to where we've got NA10 API. We're going to do create API key. We'll call it clawed. and then code in this instance. We'll copy the API key that it gives us. Come back across to
our VS Code and just paste in here. So now we've given our clawed agent the ability to connect with NA10. This is going to be good to go if you're using Mac. If you're going to be
using Windows, you need to change this from npx to cmd. And then we're also going to need to change our args or arguments in here. So instead, it's now forward slash cpx n10 mcp.
We're going to change this back though cuz I'm going to be using a Mac. So now we're all ready to go. So now we've connected our Claude instance with our NA10 account. We need to
give our Clawud agent the NA10 skills ability. So if we come back across to our NA10 skills document, we'll see that we've generated the MCP.json server information. And for
easiest installation, we're just going to come through and clone the repository to our environment. To do that, we're going to come back into clawed code or VS Code in this use
case. Now, to access my clawed code, I'm going to do the three dots to the right. And automatically, it's going to open up the terminal. If you've not done this before, just go
through new terminal and add that in there. To start cla, I'm just going to type claude, which is going to boot it up into our VS Code instance. We're going to say yes, we're happy
for it to proceed. And now we're ready to go straight away. So to enable us to have those skills readily available, now we're simply going to Generating the n8n workflow from a
prompt explain what we want to achieve. In this use case, we're going to say, please help help me install these NA10 clawed skills from this repo. And then we're simply going to
paste in what we just copied from that GitHub repository. So there we go. We're now all installed with the seven skills. As we can see here, if we come across to the left hand
side, we've now got all of the details in here. But as we see, it's cloned that entire repository from GitHub into our environment. We don't need all of that. So, we're just going
to say, please remove the A10 skills folder from my project. I just need the skills installed globally so they're available across all of my projects. This is going to go through
and make sure that we don't have all of it in here. we just need the specific skills for us to execute. We're going to say yes, we want to execute it and just let it run through.
Great. So, it's now removed those skills from the project, but we're still able to access them. All we need to do is open up the specific environment with our skills. And as we can
see here, they're still all ready to go for us to use as we need. If we come back across, so now we're going to go through and get Claude code to generate our AI lead magnet.
First, I'm going to do shift and tab. And we're going to come across to one of my favorite modes in Claude Code, which is planning. I'm going to paste my prompt in here, which
again is in the community link down below. And what we're saying is that we want it to generate a lead magnet, which is all around an AI content strategy generator that's going to
be able to actually go through, provide some recommendations for their specific niche or what to post, when to post it. We're going to be receiving all of this data through a web
hook trigger which we'll need for later on with our front end. We're going to use chat GBT to generate the messages. We're going to come up with a full strategy which will send by
Gmail, log everything into Google Sheets and return a JSON response confirming the success. So, what we could have charged someone thousands for in the past, we're able to generate
within a couple of minutes and still get them exact same output, but in a much shorter time frame, no matter if you're sending this into businesses or using it yourself. Now, it's
still thinking that 5.2 doesn't exist. One of the classic things is it's using that more historical data. We just say that we want Chad GBT40 for now. We're going to say that we're
going to want a placeholder IDs because we're going to go through and give it a Google sheet in the future. We're going to say that we want it to have content strategy as the URL
and submit our answers. So, we're going to get it to go through, finish up the plan, and then we'll get it to go through and generate the workflow. So, it's going through, it's
written a plan for us if we scroll up. So, what we can see is that it's come through. is correctly identified web hook. We got OpenAI, Gmail, Google Sheets, and a web hook
response. 30 content ideas, best posting times, recommendations, quick win ideas. It's got the workflow here. So again, the features I love about NA10. Really going in detailed for
that planning. If we come down, we got the web hook trigger. This is all the data we need. We're going to have the open AI. We need it to generate, of course, that prompt that goes
with it as well. This doesn't look like a very good prompt, so we'll probably get it to update that when we go down. Gmail strategy. M. Okay. If we go down here, if we scroll down,
we're going to say yes, auto accept edits. I always recommend that you check the code when it's ever generating something, producing something, but just for this video, we're going
to have auto accepts turned on to speed up that development. There we go. So, it looks like it's gone through and automatically generated the workflow with this ID in our NA10
instance. And we've got the raw JSON in here for us to be able to use as well. So, let's come across. And there we go. We got the AI content lead magnet. So, we can open this up.
If you can't find it straight away, the easiest way to load up the new workflow is in your URL up the top. You want to do your NA10 instance forward slashworkflowward slash that ID
which you'll be able to find when it generates the actual workflow within claw code. If we come back across what we're also going to test quickly is if we just copy the raw JSON
and paste into here. Yep, it's still able to load it in nice and easily. So this is a really really simple workflow, but hopefully it gives you the idea of what's possible. So now
let's go through and check out the workflow. So we've correctly got that content strategy URL which is great to see. It looks like the response data is going to be first entry and
then JSON with the last node which is going to be that success response. We've got our open AI module here. If I was doing this myself, I'd probably use a basic LLM mod instead.
The reason for this is because if I load it up, we've got the option of using all of the different LLMs versus being tied into pure OpenAI for this workflow in the future. But we
did say to use OpenAI. If I open this up, we'll see it's not added in the actual prompt. So, we're going to need to get it to actually go through and do that because of course it's
useless at the moment. If we come out of here, it looks like it has added Gmail. It looks like it's actually formatted the data that we're going to be sending back in the email. It
looks like it's actually said it's HTML, which is correct. We've automatically got our Google credentials connected. We're going to need to go through and just update the specific
form. So, it's got all of that data in Building the frontend (same session) there. And then we've got that success response right at the end, which is saying yes, it was correct
with boolean. So, it's done it. 30day content. Let's see what it says. has been sent to your email. And then last but not least, we're sending it to that individual specific email.
So to give this a test, we're going to come back across. We're going to copy the actual response body. So for example, here we'll come back across to our workflow, open up the web
hook, and just paste this example data at the start for us to test. So, if we come out of here and do save, of course, we're going to need to get it to give us a user prompt. So,
we're going to say there was no prompt in the open AI module. Please give me the prompt to make sure that we get the best outputs for the potential lead coming through. We'll send
this off, see what it's able to come up with. I'm interested to see if it gives us an entirely updated workflow or hopefully it just gives us maybe the AI prompt straight away in
here for us to copy across. So, as we can see here, it looks like it's done it. We're going to copy all of the prompt which is up to him. We'll come back across, open up the prompt
area here. We'll add another one in here. And this is why it's really important for you to still understand how NA10 works. Critical thinking is the skill that everyone needs to
have at the moment because for example here I now know that I would need to add in the system prompt here that it's just generated and then we can go through remove this and then
put this as the user message. Second of all for us to get that data produced correctly. The reason for this is because if I just put across that data content, if we get rid of this
posting frequency again, this is going to change when we put the front end on it just because of the actual information coming across as a body. So there we go. All pulled in and
nice and neat like we can see on the right hand side here. We'll even get rid of that part. We're now going to come out and do save. We're going to execute this to see if it runs
in the background. Of course, we made these changes ourself, so we should be able to see it. I'm interested to see the outputs that it gives us, though. Again, if I was running
this myself, I'd want to use more of that basic module and structure the output into JSON so it's better for our sending strategy later on. So, there we go. We've just got our
response back. Let's check it out. If we come through here, it looks like we've got a detailed insight in here. So, we'll just change this. And if we come out to open up in here,
it looks like it's all text. So, we'll just see if it's pulled through. It looks like it hasn't. So, we'll just get rid of this. Pull that text across, which is going to be our
content. And then it looks like it's going to be formatted in here. So, we need to check that out. If we close this down, we're going to open up our web hook again. Remove what
looks like to be the content goals. So, we'll pull that back across into here. We'll get rid of this and put across the niche to update that in there. Again, this is just because
we're sending across as a body. We'll remove this and update the email address. So, who's it going to? If we come through, we'll just send this to myself. So, I just changed the
email address. So, there we go. We just got the data back. If I open this up, we can now see we've got the email. So, let's just send it to myself and we'll see what we got back.
So, there we go. This is the email that we got sent across. As we can see here, we've got a nice big blue banner at the start. We've also got a nicely formatted email. If if we
read it through, we'll see that it's got a 30-day strategy. Position yourself as the trusted many friend for millennials. Again, if we just come back and check our use case, what
we're saying is we want it to be for personal finance for millennials and building authority in the growth email list. It looks like it's got some suggestions. Again, these tools
are getting much much smarter for the outputs. So, as we can see here, day one, it looks like the description, net monthly income. So, again, we could get this fleshed out.
Remember, this is a lead magnet, something that someone could type in their email address, mainly for us to capture and store it, which we'll do in a second, but we can send
through some initial points. We got some optimized posting times. So again, if you know about these platforms, you'll know exactly when's best. The content mix strategy, quick
wins. But again, the key rule of thumb here is this is just a starter. You really want to go through and find it and optimize it based on your knowledge that you've got. So we know
it's able to send emails. Now, let's come through and store all of that details in Google Sheets. I quickly went through and just created a Google sheet for us to store. So, we
just come through actually go through and just change it from ID and then list. And then we're just going to choose the content lead strategy in there. We're also going to do from
list just so that we can choose that sheet one cuz we know that's in there ready to go. We'll come back to the web hook, put across the niche, the content goals, posting frequency,
platforms, and email. I'm just going to go through and add in. We're going to say message and then sent just because what we're going to want to do in this use case is I want to
store that message that we sent to the customer. We just refresh this come down and actually take the output from our open AI module. And now if we execute this step it should go
through and yep stored all of that data in Google sheet for us to track including the email address. So that's how we can quickly and easily get it set up ready to go. So now let's
just give it a quick test end to end. We'll say execute workflow. We'll just check this end one. We just update this email. So we'll go email in there. We'll do save. And now we do
execute end to end. And now it should go through and do everything automatically straight away without us having to lift a finger. And then we'll go through and generate the front
end really quickly. So there we go. It looks like it's executed successfully. So we'll just come through and check our emails. As we can see here in the background, it has gone
through and added it in. We'll see. So, this was the original email. We just come back and check if we've got a new one. Yep, we do. So, if we come down, you'll grow authority by
publishing a consistent stream of teachable personal finance advice. So, it's come up with a brand new unique idea. It's going to come through and change all of this. Again, if you
had some standardized PDF attachments, you could include this nice and easily. It looks like the timings are roughly the same for all of these. So there is that consistency between
all of them. So now we're going to go through and generate the front end. We're back in VS Code. We're going to do shift and tab to come across to our planning mode. And then I'm
going to paste my command in here. Again, all of this is going to be linked down below. Make sure to come across to the community and get the most out of AI and automation. We're
saying that we want to generate a content strategy generator web page. clean and modern landing page, the your 30day content strategy headline sub headline, and we want the ability
to capture some data in here. We've got other status in there. Looks like it's gone through and generated it really quickly for us. We're going to say yes, auto accept edits. We'll
just let this run through and I'll show you the output. There we go. So, I've just had to go through and say, please start the local server, but it looks like it's ready to go. So,
if we just copy this link, come across to Chrome and open it up, we can see it in here. Nice and easy. Looks like we're able to click into all of the different ones. We've got
three times a week. We got some of the different platforms. Okay, it looks like it's not enabling us to click on them, or it does after a while. It doesn't look like that's working
correctly. So, that's something we're going to need to change. But, let's go through and give it a test. First things first, we need to make sure that we come through and activate
and publish our scenario. so that we're able to access it with our account. We're going to be able to unpin that data just to make sure that it's running in the background. If we
come across to executions, we'll leave that running in the background for now to see if it executes. So, there we go. We're going to add our email address in there, fitness
coaching, and say generate our strategy. It looks like we got an issue. So, we're just going to screenshot this. We'll copy the screenshot. Come back across to clawed code. We'll
do control and v to make sure that we paste it into the conversation. We're going to say there was an issue with the workflow. Please help me resolve it. So, it's asking us for our
web hook URL. So, we'll come back into NA10, copy the production URL if it's going to be running constantly in the background. We're going to say my URL is that send it off and
hopefully goes through and updates everything. So, it's going to be running constantly in the background. It's updated where we had that original placeholder web hook URL that we
can see here. So, let's see if we can refresh the page and see if it worked. It looks like it's still got that issue for choosing the platforms. So, we'll just come across again
and say I can't click on the platforms and have them become selected. Please update the code. So, this is why we're constantly going back and forth with the codebase trying to get
it exactly right for us to use. So, there we go. It's all refreshed. We'll come back across. Just refresh the page. It looks like that's all good to go now, which is great. That's
exactly what we wanted. We'll just add all of our goals in there that we wanted to. Exactly like before. We'll do generate my strategy. We check if it's running in the background.
So, auto refresh is turned on. It looks like it is running, which is great. That's exactly what we wanted to see. We're going to come back across when it says generated. So, we
should see some information in there and we should get an email. It looks like there was an email. So, we'll just debug this. It looks like it's going to be because it is now back
to being that body, which is great. That's exactly what we wanted. So, we do the email in there. We'll update this. So, again, that niche goes back to being the body as well. So we
do. So we'll just update all of this. We'll get rid of in here. This is back to being body and then niche. We'll get rid of the goals as well. We'll update that. We'll also just
come through and update all of these as well. So that two email address we just had in here, we're going to add into the email that we had in here. So we can see it's all
item.json.bodies. So we'll just add that all in there. Nice and easy for it to be used in the future. I would just double check this last one as well. see if there's anything yet.
So, we'll just update this. So, now it's all back and working. We'll come through. We'll just unpin this data here. Make sure everything's published and running in the background.
We'll come back across. We'll say try again. Exactly the same data. Generate my strategy. We'll come back across into here. We should see a new execution going through in the
background, which is great. That's exactly what we wanted to see. Looks like it succeeded in 9 seconds. So, if we come back across, it looks like it's all gone through and it's
told us which email it sent it to. Let's come across and check our email address. Yeah, we've got that brand new one ready to go. It looks like it has missed some of the formatting
and points in here. So, what we'll do is just come back. I have a feeling in here it's going to be what looks like the content is now not into that specific format that we had
earlier on. So, this is where you're just going to need to go through, fine-tune it, update it, and constantly improve to get the outputs. But, as we can see here, in the matter of
minutes, we've been able to go through, generate a workflow with Claude and get a front ended nice and easily. But, there are some really important things that you need to know.
Claude is really good at generating some short ones, but it's definitely not optimized if there's lots of steps in the process. It's still better for you to go through really
understand how that process works so that you can make the changes as you need especially when it comes to this vibe coding so that you understand where there may be errors the
data going through where you need to secure it and much much more. What you also find is Claude doesn't always find the optimal route. And if you have a good knowledge about NA10,
you often find smarter and quicker ways than Claude. But this is just the start. And some other really important things to keep in mind if you're going to be Vive coding when you
go through, you need to have different elements in place, especially when you're operating it globally. things like having a privacy policy, data processing agreements, a lawful
reason for connecting all the data, a cookie policy, user rights, and many, many different things need to be included, especially in case there's a breach because you will become
responsible for all of that client data and there's been instances in the past where of course people have generated volume coding tools and they have been hacked and people have
lost data and you will be responsible for that especially if you're operating it globally. Now, Claude does include elements, and I cover this in the how-to video like security
review. So, it will go through and analyze it, but still keep these things in mind because it's what many people don't show you about trying to vibe code some of these different
apps into existence. If you want to get access to all of the resources I show in this video, make sure to come across to our community. Comment down below anything you would love
us to build with anti-gravity, Google Code, NA10, and anything else. Stay tuned for more around AI automation and have a great day. [music]