build. So it's just finding one more issue to fix. All right, so it has the 16:32 build is working. So, we're going to go ahead and just run it and see how it's doing. It's
noticing that I'm already running the app on port 3000. So, it 16:39 just started it on 3001. That's typical. You just want to be careful about that. We'll fix that in just a
minute. See if 16:45 the subscriptions load. Right. There we go. Cool. So, we got free, enterprise, and pro. Definitely some styling to do 16:52 here and probably we want to be
able to sort that properly, but it looks like initially we have this coming up properly. All right. So, from here it's 16:58 asking us to sign in to subscribe. So, I haven't
actually signed in. Definitely some thought around navigation that 17:03 we'll need to do. I'm going to go ahead and just sign in first of all just to see something here. And we'll
go back to 17:09 the subscriptions page now that we're logged in. So free is the default plan and then we have enterprise. So it seems 17:16 to be working. I'm just going to jump
back to Visual Studio here. So I did a quick test. I'm going to go ahead and 17:22 have it use the Playright MCP and I'm going to go ahead and give it the username and password. So
I'm going to 17:27 grab this here. Can you go ahead and do some basic testing since you know better what you built and what pages are where? Testing Subscription Flow 17:33 I'll go
ahead and give you a user that already exists. I'll give you the username, email, and the password. I'm 17:39 just really curious to see how well this works. So, here it's just
trying to use curl. Sometimes it does this. It's not using the Playright MCP. Can you use the 17:45 playright MCP to test, not just curl? I'm going to move this over just a bit
17:50 just so we can see everything that's happening. So, it's just asking for permission to be able to autofill these 17:56 things in. In general, a lot of the times you're just
going to want to give it permission to do whatever it's trying to do and then give it permission for 18:02 the next time. Otherwise, it just keeps asking you over and over again.
It's going to subscribe to the pro plan. See 18:07 if that works. I'm going to copy this. Failed to start checkout process. Looks like it's able to handle that on its 18:14 own. It
looks like it doesn't have the API key in the local. So, it never filled out any of this information that 18:20 it needs. Perfect. I found the issue. Correct. Yes. Of course, it's
not really finished until we've tested this out. 18:26 So, you need to put in all of the environment variables that we need and if you need any from me, let me know and 18:31 let
me know when we can actually test the entire system. Sometimes AI is funny. It's basically telling us that it 18:37 wasn't able to test everything and it's telling us it's done as
well and wondering if we want really want to test 18:42 everything. So, it's asking for my Superbase credentials, but that's already in there and it needs the Stripe 18:48
publishable key. So, Superbase is already connected and working in the ENV 18:54 local. You might want to just check and make sure what we already have there. Like you said, you
already have the Stripe key. So now, let me get you the 19:01 Stripe publishable key. Grab this. Drop that in there. Let me know if you need anything else. All right, I'm going to
19:07 just stop. I was having that issue again with port 3000. So, I'm going to just kill this other version I had. I killed 19:14 the other version of Nex.js that was running on
3000. You can go ahead and use it now. All right. So, looking at the local ENV variable, it does look 19:20 like it has everything in here now. So now here we have the playright
window open. Now one thing I'm curious about is when it gets to the credit card spot. 19:28 Will it know what to put there? All right. So it didn't attempt to put in any credit
card information here. I noticed you didn't actually try to put 19:34 in a test credit card. I am in test mode. So you should be able to do that. Does the documentation in Stripe
provide 19:40 any information around what you should use for a test card and expiration date and CVC? Right. So it's going to put in 19:47 the card information. just go ahead and
not save my information for faster checkout later on so we can get past 19:54 that one spot. Now, I surely could test this, but I'm just curious to see how well the MCPs are able
to navigate 20:00 through these testing scenarios. So, it unchecked it. See if it subscribes. Processing subscription successful. Your 20:06 plan is now active. Awesome. Okay, now
I'm noticing that it's still showing the 20:12 free plan even though we subscribed. While this is working, I'm going to jump over to Stripe and let's just look at 20:18 the
transactions. So, we have one here. Subscription created. Perfect. And then 20:24 let's jump over to Superbase. Check out the tables. So, then we have features, prices, products,
and subscriptions. 20:30 Notice that there's no subscription for the one we just created. Okay. So, that's probably why the front end is not 20:36 working correctly. All right. So,
we're getting there. One thing I noticed is the subscription is properly created in 20:42 Stripe. However, I did notice that when we came back to the subscription plans page, it's
still on the free plan and 20:49 there was nothing added to the database that shows us that the plan has switched 20:55 to pro. And you can see on the playright page that it's
still showing the free plan as the current plan. So, a little 21:01 bit of debugging to do on as to why it didn't save that subscription to our Superbase database after it was
21:07 completed. I'm actually going to flip into plan mode. So, you're absolutely right. The payment went through, but our hook system didn't create anything. So, 21:14 let's see.
So, it looks like there might be a web hook that's missing. So, basically what it's trying to say is that because we're running this locally, 21:21 Stripe wasn't able to
successfully initiate the web hook back to our server. But, we do need to test this to 21:26 make sure it's okay. So, basically, it wants to install the Stripe CLI, which probably
is best practice, but it did 21:32 give us an alternate approach where it can just call the web hook for us. But, I think we should probably use the CLI. 21:38 So I'm going to go
ahead with the plan and install the CLI. I'm just curious as well. So it's going to automatically install that for us. So first thing that Fixing Webhook Integration 21:44 needs to
happen is we just need to log in using the tool. All right. Wants to rerun the dev site. Let it start it. I'm 21:49 approving these one by one just because I'm in uncharted
territory learning as I go. So I want to see each command. So 21:55 now it's going to test that web hook. And just so you understand what ends up happening is that we are
communicating 22:01 back and forth with Stripe, right? So, normally your website is on the public 22:06 internet and Stripe is able to access it. In this case, because we're on our
local computer, when Stripe is trying to 22:13 send stuff back to our local computer, it's not able to because, you know, you have a modem in the way and there's 22:19 really no
way to get in touch with your local. So, we're setting up a workaround to do that using the Stripe integration 22:25 command line tool. So, now it's going to go through the process
again. It's going to subscribe. Let's see if it unchecks this this time. Trying to do a quick 22:31 snapshot of the current page. It auto unchecked that. Now it's processing.
Subscription successful. So it looks 22:38 like the payment was successful and the web hooks are now being received. Most are returning 200, but it did get one 22:44 with a 500. So
now it's just investigating the error. Sees two issues. So now it's trying to fix those 22:49 payment issues. Seeing some database issues. So it's going ahead and fixing those. So
it's just working through issues that it's seeing on its own. All 22:56 right. So it says it's fixed. Just going to go back to port 3000 where we have our subscriptions. I believe
this should 23:01 take us to Stripe itself. Manage subscriptions. Failed to create portal session. So that's an issue. Let's try 23:07 to go through this process here. Subscribe to
the enterprise. You already have an active subscription. Okay. So we 23:13 have this problem here. Manage subscription. I went to manage subscription in my own session. And when
23:19 I did so, let me grab the error. I got this error. Feel free to test in 23:25 playright MCP if you need to. Otherwise, if you have enough information, go ahead and fix that.
All right. So, now it sees 23:31 the issue. So, it looks like it was just testing with the fake customer ID and that's the actual issue. So, now it's deleting things and checks the
box. All 23:37 right. So, it's still continuing to debug the various issues. So, it's still having an issue with the rowle security 23:43 and superbase. So, it's figuring out it's
just using different roles that it should be using. So, now it's going to be able to use the service role instead 23:49 of it actually being a user. Okay, we're just giving access
to Stripe to use the command line. This is actually pretty 23:56 cool. this command line tool for Stripe that essentially allows us to facilitate this communication I was talking
about 24:01 here for us. So it's able to simulate what's happening here. So now we have the subscription there. So now it's 24:08 getting back to the manage subscription button. If
you remember we were trying to fix that, but it had to do some other work to get that ready to fix. And so 24:15 now we're back here and we're at the same spot. So I wanted to log
into Stripe, but now it's going to try to use 24:20 the MCP. Go ahead and use the MCP. And if that doesn't work, then let me know what you need configured inside of the 24:28
Stripe portal and I'll do that for you. All right, so now we have the instructions on setting up the portal. So I'm just going to grab these, follow 24:34 the instructions. All
right, so I see a few things here. Invoices, invoice history, customer information, payment Setting Up Customer Portal 24:41 methods, cancellations, subscriptions. So it told us to
leave this off. 24:47 Business information. So now there's a couple questions I have. It says, "Should we activate the test link and do 24:53 we want a redirect link?" It looks
like most of that is already set up. One question I do have is that it mentioned, 25:00 "Should we activate a test link and do we want to set up a redirect link?" So, 25:05 this
looks like it was already somewhat set up. So, not sure exactly what you're requiring me to do here and what the 25:12 purpose was. So, look like that might not be something that
we even really need to worry about right now. So, I mentioned that I haven't maybe saved 25:18 this. So, I'm just going to come back to the top and just save the changes. See if
that does anything. Activate test 25:24 link. So, now this is a situation where it's starting to just suggest things and try things. When it seems like the AI is 25:30 just
starting to guess, I tell it to make sure to read the documentation and really to look and see if there's 25:36 anything that it can find online. Can you go ahead and just use the
documentation or the community support 25:42 and try to figure out and make sure you know what you're doing versus just trying different things? Let's go ahead 25:48 and do that
and come up with a plan. So, I'm going to put that in there and then I'm going to jump back to plan mode. All 25:53 right. So, based on the research, I have a clear understanding
what the issue is. Root cause no configuration provided in your test mode default configuration 26:00 because the Stripe customer reporter requires an active save configuration
simply by visiting the page. Okay. So, I 26:05 did save it. So, I'll let it know that I did save it. So, I'm going to jump out of the plan mode and just tell it that I did save it.
Okay. Just so you know, I 26:11 did save it. So, that was done. So what's the plan given that I have done 26:16 that? So now here be careful here because it's saying because you've
already saved the configuration let me present a plan for alternative 26:23 approaches to fix the issue. So it's getting confused. I saved it after we went through all that
information. It's 26:28 trying it's it's starting to think that I saved it beforehand. No, you misunderstood me. I saved it after we 26:34 started to investigate this issue just a
couple seconds ago. Not before this issue first started. So given that I 26:42 saved it after we started to have the issue, let's pick up again where we left off. And what is the
plan to finalize 26:48 the setup? All right. So now it's it basically just wants to continue forward. So let's go. So it's going to automatically navigate back. All right. 26:55
Cool. So now we can navigate and manage the subscription. Perfect. And we can Testing Plan Switching 27:00 modify the billing it looks like. Now one thing it did mention back here
was that it wouldn't allow me to actually 27:06 change subscriptions. So I am going to take note of that and just ask later how difficult that is. They should still 27:13 obviously
be able to cancel it and resubscribe. So problem solved. The customer portal is now fully functional. Here's what we achieved. Can you use the 27:19 playright MCP to also cancel
the subscription on the page you're currently on just to make sure that that's working and that it reflects in 27:26 the SAS application that it was cancelled. So it wants to think
that it's done even though it hasn't really tested the cancellation yet. And now, 27:33 part of the reason why I'm using the built-in Stripe pages, as you see here, if you were to
try to build all this 27:40 out, it would be very difficult and there's a lot of compliance involved. All right, cool. So, it actually shows 27:45 that it's active but cancels at
the end of the period. So, it was able to handle that gracefully. I'm just going to click through myself. Manage here. So, we 27:51 could say don't cancel. Let's see what happens
if I do that. I noticed in the billing portal there is a button that 27:58 says don't cancel subscription. if I manage the subscription because I still have an active subscription
left. Should 28:05 I expect that functionality to work? Do you want to test that in the Playright MCP real quick? I'm on the manage 28:11 subscription page. So, I'm just continuing
to explore these different features and making sure they work. So, 28:16 it looks like it worked on the Stripe side of things, but I wonder back in the portal if it's now
subscribed again. So, 28:22 now it's just checking the logs to make sure everything worked. So, it's waiting for it to go back to the application, 28:28 but I don't see anything
here that's going to do that automatically. It looks like it's just going to stay here. I don't get the sense that it's going to 28:33 forward back automatically. You might want to
just go back to the main page, subscription page, and see if everything 28:40 was updated properly on its own using the Playright MCP. All right, cool. So, we can see that it is
active again. 28:46 Cool. Can you do me one favor and investigate the technical difficulty and the work involved to allow switching 28:53 plans? It looks like the possibility could
happen on the Stripe side of things, which might be more simple, I 28:58 assume. I'm assuming that we could probably also do it from the actual SAS interface as well, but I'm I'm
not 29:05 familiar with the most simple way to set that up. Again, we want to keep this as simple as possible. Can you go ahead and 29:11 review the documentation and look up the
best practices for keeping this as simple as possible and suggest a plan 29:18 forward? Now, before I do this, one thing I am going to do is I'm going to jump back to the terminal
here. I'm just 29:24 going to do a get status. And I'm going to go ahead and get add everything to this project. Although, I'm noticing 29:30 that I shouldn't have included the
claude and the playright mcp into the GitHub repository. So, I'm going to do a 29:36 get status. We're going to see all those files in there. So, I need to reset these folders
here. So, I'm going to do 29:41 get reset.cloud and get reset.playwright. 29:48 MCP get status. All right. So now we move those back. So now one thing I want to do is just add
those to the get 29:55 ignore so we don't do that the next time. Get ignore and we will add 30:01 and playright. That way we won't accidentally do that next time. Save. 30:06 Get
status playright dash MCP. Now when we do a get status they won't even show 30:12 up. And then we'll get add the ignore. And I'm just doing this now because I don't want to take
this next step with a 30:18 bunch of code that's working and mess it up. So get commit added Stripe Adding Sort Order & UI Improvements 30:23 integration. So now that that's
committed now, I'll go ahead and run this. And then I'm going to go ahead and move it into plan mode cuz I realized it 30:30 was an auto accept. All right, so it's got a plan here.
Based on my research, there are two main approaches. Option 30:35 one, Stripe customer portal. Simple as recommended. You just enable the switch plans feature in your existing
portal. 30:41 Zero code changes. Stripe handles the entire UI. So we just need to turn it on. Current status. Your web hook 30:48 handler already processes updated events. So it
should work. So recommended approach to start with 30:53 option one. All right. So we'll go ahead and let it move forward with that based off of what I understand. I'm going to
30:59 be the one that has to do that. So it's trying to do that again. I'm just going to tell it I'll make that change. I'll 31:04 make the change in the customer portal. You can
just do the testing with the 31:12 Playright MCP. All right. So, while that's chugging along, I'll go over to the customer portal here and we saw that 31:21 subscriptions customers
can switch plans. So, we'll turn that on and we'll save the changes. You must add at least 31:27 one eligible product. So, we have to actually add the products here. So, we'll say
enterprise and the pro plan. 31:33 All right. So, we'll save that. Okay. It's ready. So now what it's testing is 31:38 just to make sure it can work here and then once they've
changed it that it should be in the new plan back in the 31:45 actual SAS framework. All right. So now that it's seen that it was able to select that. So now it needs to continue.
So that's coming up with the 31:52 plan here. So the remaining tasks are complete the plan change, verify the web hook, test the end to end flow mark to 31:58 complete. So let's go
ahead and say yes. All right. So that looks like it works. And now it's just making sure that the web hook is set up correctly. And I'm 32:04 noticing that is not on the new plan
yet. So it's noticing that the web hook did not correctly register the 32:12 subscription change. So it's saying it's totally done except there's a minor issue. So there's no
front-end caching 32:18 as far as I know. And you're saying it's done, but it's not done. So can you figure out and do some research, check 32:24 the logs, and then do some online
research with the documentation to see 32:29 what's going on? All right. So it sees the issue. So, it just didn't update the product ID. So, it looks like we were 32:35 just
missing a little bit of code, right? So, it's trying to test again. I wonder if it goes tries to go back to 32:40 the other plan. Now, the one thing that the AI is looking for is
it wants to make sure that it's on the pro plan, but it already was. So, it's going to find 32:47 that. So, I might just walk through it myself and just double check. All right.
So, let's just go to the subscriptions 32:53 and take a look. So, now realistically, I should be able to go through this process. Confirm. And now if I go to 33:01 subscriptions,
now we're on the right plan. Perfect. Awesome. All right. So, one quick thing I want to do is I want to be able to control the sort order. 33:07 Really should be free, pro, and
enterprise. Can you please make it so in the Superbase database, we have a sort 33:14 order because in reality, the subscriptions should be free, pro, and 33:19 enterprise. And we
should have a integer in the products if that's the right 33:24 table. Don't assume products. I'm just assuming that would be the table to put this in. But we need to be able to
33:29 adjust that. Can you go ahead and add that column and then update the product so that the free is first, then pro, and 33:36 then enterprise so that when I load the
subscription page, they're in the right order. Also, one thing that I'm noticing 33:41 here is that when we're subscribed, we probably shouldn't have this here, but let's do one
thing at a time. I'm going 33:46 to come back to that. So, what's cool about this is that it's building this whole database. We haven't really looked at it much because it's just
been doing 33:51 this, but we have all of our features here that are associated with specific products. product ID and these are the 33:58 different features. So the features, the
prices and the products here are all configured. And so now what we're trying 34:04 to do is add a sort order here. And let's do a refresh. So I don't see a sort order added. Maybe
it's on the 34:10 prices. So we have one subscription. That's me. So it's interesting because it added some code here. And it said it 34:16 added this to superbase products sort
order. Okay. So it did add it. So now 34:22 we're just trying to get it to work. So I'm not seeing the order reflected here. Let's just double check in the database. 34:28 Maybe
they didn't put the order correctly. So we have enterprise 3. Okay. So it's just not working. Looking 34:33 at the subscription page, I do see in the database you have added the
sort order column, but it is not being 34:40 reflected on the subscription page itself. Feel free to use the play rate MCP to take a quick screenshot if you 34:46 need that, but do
please confirm that it's correct before you say that it's done. So it's confirming everything is 34:52 correct. It just seems like something in the front end code is not correct.
So now it's kind of going off on a tangent. 34:58 Like it's checking a bunch of different stuff. This has to be a front-end rendering issue. It has nothing to do with APIs or
anything like that. You Final Testing & Wrap-up 35:05 display these in a specific order and somehow in the front-end code, I'm pretty sure that there is an issue 35:11 there. So it
said it found something. All right, there we go. So now the remaining issue that I'm seeing here is that if you're already subscribed, 35:18 subscribing doesn't make sense. You
would really want to manage subscription. So, I'm going to fix that. 35:23 When we are subscribed, when we have a plan, this button here should be manage subscription instead of
subscribe. Okay. 35:29 And now it's seeing that there's an different issue, but it doesn't understand that I did something manually. So, you're seeing a 35:35 discrepancy between
the plans, but I did that behind the scenes. So, that's working fine. The only remaining issue 35:41 that I'm seeing right now is that when we are subscribed, and right now I'm
looking at the pro plan where it says 35:47 subscribe. I believe that should really be manage subscription since subscribing 35:52 doesn't make sense here. We really want to manage
the subscription. So when we are subscribed somewhere and we have a button that allows someone to change 36:00 actually maybe it should be um switch plan. So in the upper portion
of the 36:05 page where we have the subscription plans and we show the current plan and which plan it is and that it's active and then the manage subscription button. 36:11 That
looks good. But in the three areas, if we are already subscribed, that 36:17 button instead of saying should subscribe should be switch plans or switch to pro perhaps. What do you
36:24 think? So, I'm going to go back into plan mode. I see you're about to make a change, but let's confirm what it should be. Should it just say go pro or go 36:30 enterprise
depending or should we make it more generic where we just say switch plans? And just to confirm, are you 36:38 going to automatically just go to the manage subscription page as if
they clicked the manage subscription button 36:45 or is there something fancier that you're going to try to do? Let's keep it as simple as possible. So again, remind 36:50 yourself
to keep saying simple so that something crazy doesn't happen. And it's still in plan mode. So while that's happening, I'm going to definitely jump 36:57 back to get, do a get
status, get add, get commit, added, switch plans. You're 37:03 absolutely right to keep it single. Let me clarify the current behavior. Current behavior is subscribe plan update
37:10 subscribe button change from subscribe to switch plan when user already has an active subscription. Keep existing 37:16 checkout flow. Simple conditional text switch plan
single line change. All 37:21 right, let's just go with that. These are all things that we could modify and make better later. All right, so it says 37:26 switch plans. Now, let's
just make sure it goes back to So, it didn't go back to the manage subscription. So the trick 37:33 was is that when we're unsubscribed, it should be it should say subscribe and
37:39 when it says switch plan, it should just click the same thing and go to manage subscription. Okay, so you did change 37:45 the button to switch plan, but there's an issue. So
keep in mind when we are unsubscribed, it should say subscribe 37:52 and then it should go through the subscription process. When we are already subscribed, it should say switch
37:58 plan, which it does. But when it says switch plan, it should simply act as the 38:03 manage subscription button like we have above. So the button should change functionality
depending on what state 38:10 we're in. If there's no subscription, we subscribe and we go through the subscribe process. If there is a 38:15 subscription, then we say switch plan
and we simulate going to the manage subscription page. Carefully look at the 38:22 code as it is now and make sure that we have the button working in the in both situations
properly and keep it simple. 38:28 This is a very simple solution. It just needs to do something different depending on where we are and have a 38:34 current subscription or not.
So again, when I get into these little situations kind of near the end, I like to keep going into plan mode. Go a little slower 38:40 just so we don't go down some rabbit hole and
spend the next 4 hours fixing the most simple thing that we did. All 38:45 right, so go ahead and read the plan. So it's trying to make an on click handler. Does it really need to
be dynamic with 38:51 JavaScript? It sounds like the solution you're trying to come up with is an on click JavaScript style correction. Is 39:00 that something that we have to do?
That seems a little bit more hacky to me than just directing to the proper page and 39:06 setting the page up properly. Can we do it the correct way in a simple way without opening
up potential hacks? Or 39:13 let me know if you think that this is an actual good solution based off of your experience and what the comm and how the 39:18 community does this. Can
you can you do a quick search in the documentation or in the community as well just to back up 39:24 how we're doing this? So basically, they were going to add some code here that
detected it. So when I clicked on it, it 39:30 would do one or the other. But realistically, I think that the button should be programmed correctly based off of the situation and
not some sort of 39:37 code that's added after the fact. So again, that's why I said, "Hey, go look and see what the community does." So, 39:42 after researching Stripe's official
documentation, Stripe's official best best practices, checkout versus. So, 39:48 this is what I wanted it to do. So, it's saying this is not a hack. I didn't necessarily think
going to the right page was a hack. I thought maybe the way 39:54 it was doing with the on click. So, I'm just going to confirm that. I do this often cuz I'm just trying to learn.
I didn't think sending it to different 40:01 pages was a hack. I was just wondering if the on click specifically using that as the solution to direct to the right 40:07 page is a
hack as opposed to just making sure that the button goes to the right place or is that how it's already done. 40:15 I'm not trying to over complicate things just trying to make
sure that we are doing it the right way. Now also you got 40:21 to be careful here too. I said wasn't a hack and it says was a hack. Also when you're dictating make sure that it's
40:26 dictating correctly. It actually made a mistake there but let's just see how it handled this. All right. Got it. So this is not a hack. This is actually standard 40:33
practice. Now if you have been doing this, you might not have stopped here. I'm stopping here because there are other platforms where this is kind of a 40:39 hack. But it sounds
like in React, this is normal. But I don't mind stopping things just to learn and investigate 40:44 things that I'm not sure about. All right, let's go ahead with the simple
conditional onclick approach. All right, 40:50 so now if I click switch plan, it should basically take me to manage subscription. Perfect. Okay, that 40:56 worked. Great. Can you
go ahead and just clear out any active subscriptions this current user has so that we could make 41:03 sure that the button now says subscribe instead of manage subscription. So
it's going to go into Superbase. Well, looks 41:08 like actually it's going to go to Stripe first. I don't know that we have to do it in Stripe, but so realistically I 41:13 think
where we need to cancel this is inside of our Superbase database, not necessarily in Stripe. Actually, I was 41:20 thinking since we're talking about the SAS application, I'm
talking about in Superbase. I believe if we cleared the 41:26 subscription out there, that would send us back to where it says subscribe. No. So, basically, I'm talking about
coming 41:32 here to Superbase into these subscriptions here. And it looks like I just cleared it out. So now, if we come 41:38 back to our subscriptions, and now it's back to
subscribe. And if I click subscribe, it should take me to the 41:44 subscribe page. Perfect. Now, if you want to get access to this SAS framework without having to vibe code
everything 41:50 from scratch, make sure to jump into the Vibe Encoders community. You'll find the framework inside the classroom. We've 41:56 got support calls where you can get
help and a networking call on Friday. And there's an engaged group of startup entrepreneurs that you can find in there 42:02 all working together on their new company. I'd love to
see you inside the community. But either way, I hope you enjoyed this video and I'll see you on 42:08 the next All From the series Watched 12:58 Backend web development - a
complete overview Su Intro 0:00 hey everyone my name is sam oh and welcome to the seo fundamentals course by ahrefs in this course i'll be 0:05 teaching you the fundamentals of seo
with a heavy focus on execution and while it's a beginner's seo course i 0:12 don't want you to be fooled by the word beginner even for an eight-figure business like ours we don't
do anything 0:18 crazy technical or complicated right from the start we've stuck with the fundamentals of seo that led to 0:25 compounded growth and today our site gets over a
million monthly visits from google search alone making seo one of 0:32 our most effective strategies to get traffic to our site so the course is broken down into four modules plus
this 0:39 video which is more of an introduction to the course as well as in seo 101 in this video we'll go over the basics of 0:46 seo and cover things like what it is why it's
important and how it works you'll 0:51 then move on to module one which is on keyword research throughout these lessons i'll show you how to find 0:56 keywords to target that can
benefit your business it'll also set the foundation for the next module which is on-page seo 1:03 in this module we'll talk about optimizing your pages to rank for those keywords
the next module will be on link 1:10 building this is one of google's most prominent ranking signals which has proven to contribute to higher rankings 1:16 in search finally we'll
finish off the course with the basics of technical seo which will mostly be about best practices and 1:23 website maintenance all right let's kick things off with the seo basics
we'll talk about what search What is SEO and why it is important 1:28 engine optimization is why it's important and how google works seo stands for search engine 1:35 optimization
and it's the process of optimizing content to be discovered through a search engine's organic search 1:41 results now let's talk a bit about how they work if you're completely new
to seo then it's easiest to think of search 1:47 engines as libraries but instead of storing books they store copies of websites and web pages 1:54 so when you search for a query
the search engine will then look through all pages in its index and try to return the 2:00 most relevant results and seo helps demonstrate to search engines that your page is that
result 2:07 now you might be thinking why should i focus on seo when there are so many other marketing mediums well 2:13 there are three major things that attract marketers to
search engine optimization and in my opinion these 2:19 three things make seo the best traffic source number one unlike paying for ads 2:24 search traffic is free number two
organic traffic is typically consistent 2:29 once you're ranking high whereas other mediums like social media and email marketing often result in traffic spikes 2:36 that usually
end up fading to nothing and it makes sense because social media networks are designed to surface fresh 2:42 content emails often get marked as read forgotten or land in the spam
box whereas search traffic is a result of 2:49 users actively searching for information and the number of searches for a given topic is typically consistent month to 2:56 month and
number three you have the opportunity to reach massive audiences you wouldn't have access to otherwise in 3:03 fact as of october 2019 there were nearly 4.39 billion internet users
3:09 around the world and almost 4 billion of those people are google users this is why search engine optimization 3:15 is an 80 billion dollar industry and why marketers from all
walks of life are 3:20 adopting and pursuing it today everyone wants their business to get discovered and seo is the perfect way to do that 3:28 now let's briefly talk about how
google works and there are two parts to this the first is crawling and indexation and 3:34 these two things are what actually allows google to discover web pages and create their
search index so to actually 3:41 attain information google uses crawlers also known as spiders which gather publicly available information from all 3:49 over the web the spiders
will start crawling from a list of known urls called seeds 3:54 then they follow the hyperlinks on those pages and crawl those newly discovered pages and this process goes on and
on 4:02 allowing them to collect a ton of information they then take all of this data back to google servers to be added 4:08 to their search index and that's what people like you
and i are searching through when we key in a query in google 4:15 now if you were to search for something and google returned every result that mentioned your words on the page
then 4:20 you'd end up with really bad results this brings us to the second part which is google's ranking algorithm 4:27 google has hundreds of ranking signals and they make
tweaks to their algorithm 500 to 600 times per year so to be frank 4:35 no one knows exactly how their algorithm works but they've given us clues and some 4:40 guidelines to better
4:55 are just speculation at best but i do want to cover a few of the most important factors that you'll need to 5:00 understand from a fundamental standpoint first are backlinks
backlinks are links 5:06 from a page on one website to another and google has said on their house search works page that if other 5:12 prominent websites link to a page that's
proved to be a good sign that information is well trusted 5:19 the easiest way to understand the value of a backlink is to think of them as votes when a page receives a backlink
5:25 it's essentially another website vouching for the content on the page and the more votes you get from credible 5:31 sources the higher the trust and we also studied the effect
of backlinks on search traffic and found a clear 5:38 positive correlation between backlinks from unique websites and a page's organic traffic 5:44 second is search intent which
represents the reason behind a searches query and if you think of google's goal for search 5:50 their job is to return the most relevant results for any given query so with that
5:55 said you can discover search intent simply by looking at the top ranking pages for the query you want to rank for 6:02 for example if you search for slow cooker recipes you'll
see that the search results are mostly blog posts 6:08 with a list of slow cooker recipes so if you try and rank a product page where you're selling a slow cooker you won't 6:15 be
matching search intent and therefore you won't rank now if we change the query to just slow 6:20 cooker you'll see that the dominant types of pages are ecommerce category pages so
if you try and rank your blog 6:27 post of slow cooker recipes then you probably won't rank because you're not matching search intent this is a 6:33 critical concept to understand
and i'll share a simple three-point checklist you can use to determine search intent for 6:39 any query in the next module and third is content depth search engines are made 6:44
up of computer programs so they can't actually read and understand text like you and i would nevertheless google has 6:52 poured billions of dollars into creating sophisticated
technology that understands content to a certain degree 6:59 but it's your job as a content creator to provide context about the subject for 7:04 example if you look at the top
ranking pages for the quarry how to drive a car you'll find that they talk about things 7:10 like fastening your seatbelt familiarizing yourself with the gas and brake pedals
adjusting your seat and 7:16 mirrors and other things that a first time driver may not know basically you want to be able to answer 7:22 the search's quarry the best that you
possibly can and naturally it should lead to content that has depth 7:29 now it's important to note that depth doesn't always translate to length for example a topic like how to
turn off 7:36 iphone 12 doesn't need to and shouldn't be long in fact the top ranking page is 7:41 only 185 words but the content itself solves the user's query from start to 7:47
finish alright so the basics are in the book and it's time to move on to the keyword research module 7:53 hey it's amo and welcome to the first module which is on keyword research
in this first lesson we're going to talk What are keywords 7:59 about what keywords are and how to choose them using a simple four point checklist let's get started so what are
8:06 keywords in the context of seo they're simply just words and phrases that people type into search engines to find 8:12 what they're looking for for example if you are shopping
