Skip to main content Vercel is still the simplest deployment tool for Next.js : r/nextjs r/nextjs Sign Up Log In Expand user menu Skip to Navigation Skip to Right Sidebar Back Go
to nextjs r/nextjs • 1y ago Real_Enthusiasm_2657 Vercel is still the simplest deployment tool for Next.js I’ve tried many approaches to deploy Next.js, and Vercel remains the
platform that gives me the most comfort: Easy to deploy Friendly interface CDN support Basic analytics It’s clearly simpler than Cloudflare Pages and Netlify, although Netlify is
also excellent. 91 · 76 u/anthropic-ai avatar anthropic-ai • Promoted Drop Claude Code into your IDE and stop context-switching. One install, one command in your terminal, and
you've got the world's most advanced coding agent working inside your existing workflow. Built for the kind of complex projects where other tools fall short. Sign Up claude.com
Clickable image which will reveal the video player: Drop Claude Code into your IDE and stop context-switching. One install, one command in your terminal, and you've got the world's
most advanced coding agent working inside your existing workflow. Built for the kind of complex projects where other tools fall short. Collapse video player 0:00 / 0:00 Comments
Section _Usora • 1y ago Had 0 problems with render for hobby projects. For multi milion users we have aws ecs 36 Real_Enthusiasm_2657 OP • 1y ago Yes, if there are millions of
users, deploying manually on a VPS would be the most cost-effective solution, right? AWS is always like a money pit just waiting to drain my cash. 7 u/nonHypnotic-dev avatar
nonHypnotic-dev • 1y ago Vice versa imo. Vercel could drain your cash suddenly due to a drastic change in your apps traffic. VPS always costs the same. 5 3 more replies
Logical-Idea-1708 • 1y ago Exactly. Super easy when nextjs is all I know 🤪 1 Bl4ckBe4rIt • 1y ago It's like saying Volvo makes the best Volvo cars. 34 1 more reply 60finch • 1y ago
Isn't vercel the owner of nextjs? So you can be sure it'll always be the fact. 27 Real_Enthusiasm_2657 OP • 1y ago Exactly, but in the case where your infrastructure revolves
around Cloudflare, yet you reluctantly deploy your landing page application on Vercel instead of Cloudflare Pages, it’s quite a pity. 4 [deleted] • 1y ago Comment removed by
moderator 4 4 more replies u/squarespace avatar u/squarespace • Promoted Build it to sell. With Squarespace. Sign Up ad.doubleclick.net Thumbnail image: Build it to sell. With
Squarespace. CautiousSand • 1y ago Vercel is great as long as your app is niche and tiny. As soon as it starts getting users and traffic, bills skyrocket 8 olssoneerz • 1y ago Love
me my vercel deploys. Its where everything goes first. That being said, i move bigger projects over to Coolify. UI isn’t the best, but once you get the hang of it its alright. 7
Ok_Understanding9011 • 1y ago it's hella expensive.... i easily got $40+ monthly on my site. I switched to fly io and now it's ~11. 5 Real_Enthusiasm_2657 OP • 1y ago It is the
first time I heard about fly.io, is it worth trying? 2 4 more replies FastidiousFelix • 1y ago I am curious: How many monthly requests does you site process on average to cost $40?
1 Ok_Understanding9011 • 1y ago Daily active users of 2k-4k 2 8 more replies [deleted] • 1y ago It’s the comfort that will cost you money 5 u/hyperagentapp avatar u/hyperagentapp •
Promoted Deploy AI agents across your entire company. Every agent gets its own prompt, tools, skills, and budget — managed from one command center. Skill learning, eval rubrics,
deploy to the org. $1,000 bonus credits for the first 1,000 subscribers. Built by the team at Airtable. Sign Up hyperagent.com Thumbnail image: Deploy AI agents across your entire
company. Every agent gets its own prompt, tools, skills, and budget — managed from one command center. Skill learning, eval rubrics, deploy to the org. $1,000 bonus credits for the
first 1,000 subscribers. Built by the team at Airtable. grumpy-554 • 1y ago I’m running two sites on Netlify and can’t fault them. Literally point to GitHub repo and deployed a few
minutes later. Zero configuration or hassle. 6 Real_Enthusiasm_2657 OP • 1y ago Agreed, I also have a good impression of Netlify and have used it in another project. 3
Beagles_Are_God • 1y ago just be careful of that billing 4 Real_Enthusiasm_2657 OP • 1y ago The traffic to my website is far too small compared to the quota of the $20 plan. 😂
Comment Image 2 TechTuna1200 • 1y ago Oh yeah, that's the difficult part. Getting people to use your application 😅 5 1 more reply u/breakslow avatar breakslow • 1y ago I just
deploy personal projects with docker on a digital ocean droplet. $5(ish) a month and I don't need to worry about over billing or anything. At work we use kubernetes/GCP. 2 indicava
• 1y ago I just deployed a new NextJS project to Google Cloud Run about an hour ago. It was literally running two (simple) commands in the CLI. How much more simple do you need? 2
Silver_Channel9773 • 1y ago It’s true! One click to deploy ! 1 1 more reply u/_pdp_ avatar _pdp_ • 1y ago Anything beyond mvp you will struggle to deploy via vercel’s own
infrastructure. I know because we switched to GitHub actions when we hit that limit. 1 Saintpagey • 1y ago I use custom GitHub actions for Vercel deployments and it works perfectly
fine, I wonder what struggles you've encountered 2 New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue with Phone Number By
continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. People also ask about section People also ask about Vercel features for Next.js
deployment Top features of Next.js 13 Best practices for Next.js performance How to optimize images in Next.js Integrating Next.js with headless CMS Best alternatives to Vercel?
r/webdev • 8mo ago Best alternatives to Vercel? 156 upvotes · 120 comments u/aaa_ace avatar aaa_ace • Promoted Join AAA to Explore Member-Only Discounts! Thumbnail image: Join AAA
to Explore Member-Only Discounts! ace.aaa.com Sign Up Deploying to Vercel without linking a repository r/webdev • 2y ago Deploying to Vercel without linking a repository r/webdev -
Deploying to Vercel without linking a repository alexchantastic 9 upvotes · 7 comments What UI library do you use with solid.js? r/solidjs • 1y ago What UI library do you use with
solid.js? 28 upvotes · 54 comments OpenAI server/MCP integration vs. pipelines r/OpenWebUI • 1y ago OpenAI server/MCP integration vs. pipelines 18 upvotes · 4 comments Simple and
reliable infra for my web app - render, fly, versel or coolify? r/webdev • 1y ago Simple and reliable infra for my web app - render, fly, versel or coolify? 2 upvotes · 7 comments
PSA: LightningCSS is now fast enough to completely replace PostCSS in most build pipelines r/webdev • 1y ago PSA: LightningCSS is now fast enough to completely replace PostCSS in
most build pipelines 2 comments JSX preserve mode is coming to ReScript r/webdev • 1y ago JSX preserve mode is coming to ReScript r/webdev - JSX preserve mode is coming to ReScript
rescript-lang For anyone who wants to make a website r/website • 4d ago For anyone who wants to make a website r/website - For anyone who wants to make a website 0:47 2 upvotes · 1
comment Why vercel? r/nextjs • 2y ago Why vercel? 73 upvotes · 75 comments Vercel for .NET r/dotnet • 1y ago Vercel for .NET 144 upvotes · 139 comments How do you guys host your
Next.js apps? r/nextjs • 1y ago How do you guys host your Next.js apps? 10 upvotes · 33 comments How many of you use a separate backend server vs using Vercel's functions as the
backend? r/nextjs • 10mo ago How many of you use a separate backend server vs using Vercel's functions as the backend? 10 upvotes · 29 comments Vercel Changing TOS - Feeding your
data to AI r/nextjs • 2mo ago Vercel Changing TOS - Feeding your data to AI 118 upvotes · 37 comments Built a CLI to download Vercel deployment's source files r/nextjs • 7mo ago
Built a CLI to download Vercel deployment's source files 8 upvotes · 9 comments Video tutorial on Vercel Platforms Starter Kit for building multi tenant apps with custom domains 😄
r/nextjs • 3y ago Video tutorial on Vercel Platforms Starter Kit for building multi tenant apps with custom domains 😄 r/nextjs - Video tutorial on Vercel Platforms Starter Kit for
building multi tenant apps with custom domains 😄 youtube 2 upvotes We're about to go live with Vercel CTO Malte Ubl - got any questions? r/nextjs • 4mo ago We're about to go live
with Vercel CTO Malte Ubl - got any questions? r/nextjs - We're about to go live with Vercel CTO Malte Ubl - got any questions? youtube 2 upvotes · 1 comment Has anyone setup
nvim-jdtls with Java EE? r/neovim • 1y ago Has anyone setup nvim-jdtls with Java EE? 4 upvotes · 6 comments What are some good V0 alternatives for Next.js projects? r/nextjs • 3mo
ago What are some good V0 alternatives for Next.js projects? 11 upvotes · 14 comments Deploying Next.js on a VPS is easier than you think r/nextjs • 3mo ago Deploying Next.js on a
VPS is easier than you think r/nextjs - Deploying Next.js on a VPS is easier than you think madatbay 54 upvotes · 41 comments Is Vercel’s Free Tier Reliable Enough for Client
Projects in 2025? r/Hosting • 8mo ago Is Vercel’s Free Tier Reliable Enough for Client Projects in 2025? 10 comments Is it bad using Vercel with Cloudflare? r/nextjs • 9mo ago Is
it bad using Vercel with Cloudflare? 19 upvotes · 30 comments Is Vercel good for this???? r/nextjs • 3mo ago Is Vercel good for this???? 3 upvotes · 30 comments Those who migrated
off Vercel, what made you leave? r/nextjs • 1y ago Those who migrated off Vercel, what made you leave? 44 upvotes · 84 comments Why use Redis when Next.js already offers robust
caching? r/nextjs • 1y ago Why use Redis when Next.js already offers robust caching? 89 upvotes · 33 comments Nextjs/Vercel/Headless Wordpress CMS…viable stack or no? r/nextjs •
7mo ago Nextjs/Vercel/Headless Wordpress CMS…viable stack or no? 13 upvotes · 43 comments VIEW POST IN 日本語 Русский हिन्दी Português (Brasil) 简体中文 Français See more Community Info
Section r/nextjs Join Next.js Next.js is a React framework for building full-stack web applications Public TOP POSTS Reddit reReddit: Top posts of May 21, 2025 Reddit reReddit: Top
posts of May 2025 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2025 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved.
Collapse Navigation Home Popular News Explore RECENT r/mcp RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Developer Platform Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Best of Reddit Best of Reddit
in Portuguese Best of Reddit in German Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Skip to main content
Anyone here have actual experience with hosting on Vercel on an enterprise level? : r/ExperiencedDevs r/ExperiencedDevs Sign Up Log In Expand user menu Skip to Navigation Skip to
Right Sidebar Back Go to ExperiencedDevs r/ExperiencedDevs • 1y ago audhumbla Anyone here have actual experience with hosting on Vercel on an enterprise level? We are looking to
move a huge, business critical webshop with about ~30.000 orders per day over to nextjs. I'm trying to find out if it would be worth moving to Vercel for hosting eventually, but
I'm having a hard time finding non-marketing testimonies. Anybody here that is doing something similar? Would you recommend it, how much does the enterprise level run you etc 33 ·
61 u/squarespace avatar squarespace • Promoted TL;DR: Stop building, start selling. Squarespace AI is here. Get started today. Sign Up squarespace.com Thumbnail image: TL;DR: Stop
building, start selling. Squarespace AI is here. Get started today. Comments Section Kolt56 • 1y ago Do not host with Vercel. It’s an abstraction over an AWS account that you don’t
control. If you’re using it, ask yourself—where is your backend hosted? Do use Next.js as a framework. With middleware boilerplate, TypeScript, and strong defaults, it’s a
time-saving React framework for enterprise-grade applications. I love it. For deployment: • Use AWS Fargate with a load balancer for a scalable, controlled environment. • Use
Amplify if you don’t need Vercel’s custom-optimized isomorphic rendering infrastructure. Vercel made some controversial breaking changes from Next.js 12.x → 13.x. We skipped
directly from 12.x to 14.x when Node.js 16.x went EOL, which took about four weeks of single-threaded dev effort. I’ve been using Next.js since version 9. Would I scope a new
serverless react UI project with Next.js? Yes. Would I trust Vercel with my Docker image over other cloud providers? Not necessarily. Pro Tip for Developers: Check your
package.json and disable telemetry: { “scripts”: { “dev”: “NEXT_TELEMETRY_DISABLED=1 next dev”, “build”: “NEXT_TELEMETRY_DISABLED=1 next build”, “start”: “NEXT_TELEMETRY_DISABLED=1
next start” } } This ensures no analytics data is sent back to vercel while developing, building, or running the app. 13 u/tdatas avatar tdatas • 1y ago Pointy Haired Boss: "Our
developers can't possibly handle such complexity think of the maintenance! (of setting up an alert)" 5 1 more reply u/audhumbla avatar audhumbla OP • 1y ago The fact we don’t
control it is a feature, not a bug. 5 tonjohn • 1y ago It’s expensive but so is managing the extra ICs we’d need to maintain the same results. For my company, there’s likely a
point where we outgrow the platform but for now it allows us to move fast with little overhead. 2 gibbocool • 1y ago Vercel's enterprise pricing, like many vendors, is kind of like
"how much have you got". But that works both ways, it means you can negotiate and definitely get quotes from their competitors so that you can get the best price. But definitely
prepare your proverbial anus as it is eye wateringly expensive, anywhere between $6k and $15k a month depending on a lot of variables. If you're new to Vercel, definitely take the
time on their free or pro tiers to set everything up at least at a POC level so you know what the workflow looks like and what features you use / need / want etc. Also compare the
pricing to if you managed your own infrastructure, what that would look like, in particular salaries paid to devops and site reliability engineers. I do recommend Vercel, consider
carefully if you can just get by on Pro tier plus overages. Likely it is compliance requirements that push companies to Enterprise due to the auditing requirements. 16 u/audhumbla
avatar audhumbla OP • 1y ago We are generating a 1.6 billion euro in revenue, 80% of which comes through the webshop, we have about 30 engineers working on the whole stack on a
daily basis, 16k is not as much as you think it is, especcially if we make it back through time gains. I host pretty much everything I make on vercel and think it has amazing DX, I
just wanted to know if anyone is using it at scale and thinks it’s worth it. Right now we do everything ourselves on google cloud but had a major outage that we could have avoided
if we were on vercel. Not having to worry about this anymore would be worth pretty much any price at this scale. 4 u/lrobinson2011 avatar lrobinson2011 • 1y ago Hey – I'm on the
Vercel team. Happy to talk to you more about Enterprise if you want. Generally starts at $1K/month and then is priced based on usage and what products your team needs. So for those
with a lot of usage, you can get better discount rates on Enterprise vs. self-serve. And of course support and SLAs, all that good stuff. Lmk. 2 7 more replies 1 more reply
u/wwww4all avatar wwww4all • 1y ago LOL. Enterprise anything is super expensive. You're the whale that vercel will get all the money from to pay for all the free stuff they give to
others. There's no free lunch. You will pay for the "convenience" of vercel lock in services. 18 u/audhumbla avatar audhumbla OP • 1y ago Yes I know, I’m asking if the price tag is
worth the convenience 7 6 more replies u/shopify avatar u/shopify • Promoted Real talk from real sellers: Shopify is the easiest way to start. Now it's your turn. Start your free
trial. Real talk from real sellers: Shopify is the easiest way to start. Now it's your turn. Start your free trial. Real talk from real sellers: Shopify is the easiest way to
start. Now it's your turn. Start your free trial. Real talk from real sellers: Shopify is the easiest way to start. Now it's your turn. Start your free trial. Real talk from real
sellers: Shopify is the easiest way to start. Now it's your turn. Start your free trial. shopify.com Sign Up [deleted] • 1y ago Waksu • 1y ago 30000 orders per day is really low,
why are you looking for change? 3 u/audhumbla avatar audhumbla OP • 1y ago The amount of orders is not what the issue is here, I'm looking to bring more stability to our deploys,
where we now sometimes have an outage due to stupid things. The part that interests me in Vercel is the DX, instant rollbacks, preview deploys etc. 3 1 more reply rkeet • 1y ago We
host a website on vercel. At least weekly a CD pipeline fails with some obscure message, which always turns out that something Vercel was down. Just don't. 3 u/audhumbla avatar
audhumbla OP • 1y ago I have had some experiences myself where my website hosted on Vercel was suddenly down with no explanation, a day later it came back up, I logged an issue
with vercel but as I personally am on the lowest tier they didn't seem to worry much about it. 2 1 more reply 1 more reply economicwhale • 1y ago For something of this scale I
really wouldn’t recommend using Vercel. Do things on AWS yourselves, it really doesn’t make sense. The whole idea of a frontend cloud makes sense for small projects - Vercel’s
markup on everything is awful at enterprise scale 3 u/Intuit_QuickBooks avatar u/Intuit_QuickBooks • Promoted Manage books, customers, payments, and payroll—all in one place—with
help from Intuit’s AI agents and trusted experts. Shop Now quickbooks.intuit.com Clickable image which will reveal the video player: Manage books, customers, payments, and
payroll—all in one place—with help from Intuit’s AI agents and trusted experts. Collapse video player 0:00 / 0:00 DeterminedQuokka • 1y ago So I’m backend so I’m bias. But I work
at a place with a very high traffic website and the front end team does host of vercel. My experience is that it heavily over promises. Our team went into it saying that they would
no longer need our CDN, our security, or our GCP. They are still using all three. They want to stop but their argument is they don’t want to pay for them. However, when we ask how
they are going to get the same features the answer is “random plugins”. So you have so much less recourse if that random plugin doesn’t do what it says on the tin. So what actually
happened is that all their traffic goes through all the backend security systems then we proxy it to vercel. So the main benefit appears to be that they find deployments easier. 3
u/audhumbla avatar audhumbla OP • 1y ago My experience is that it heavily over promises. Yeah, that's the impression I got as well. All the content they put out seems very nice and
impressive, but it seems a bit too good to be true. 2 3 more replies Long-Leather9731 • 1y ago You could look into Shopify’s “hydrogen” framework. It’s built on top of react remix,
which is very similar to next.js. It’s then hosted in your Shopify store at no extra cost. They call the hosting part “oxygen”. I’m 99% sure that you pay a flat fee for the store
plan and no additional costs at scale. You could (and probably will) add other paid services that increase your bill, but the rest is already paid in your monthly plan fee 2
u/audhumbla avatar audhumbla OP • 1y ago No everything is completely custom, moving to shopify would be madness. 4 aboy014 • 5mo ago Costs 2000$ a month 1 u/BeenThere11 avatar
BeenThere11 • 1y ago What is the reason to move . Why move . I would say no one will know You should do load testing and find out for yourself as every application is different.
May Need load balancing 2 New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue with Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our
User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. People also ask about section People also ask about Non-marketing reviews of Vercel hosting Is Vercel
suitable for high-traffic webshops? Best practices for code reviews in teams How to handle burnout in software development Navigating office politics as a developer Sharing this
insights video about shadcn and v0 by Vercel r/PinoyProgrammer • 2y ago Sharing this insights video about shadcn and v0 by Vercel r/PinoyProgrammer - Sharing this insights video
about shadcn and v0 by Vercel youtube u/EY_US avatar EY_US • Promoted Don’t just bolt AI onto existing processes. Build AI into the core of your business. EY.ai Value Blueprints
designs AI native operations through seven layers that build trust, orchestrate agents and unlock a transformational tomorrow. Thumbnail image: Don’t just bolt AI onto existing
processes. Build AI into the core of your business. EY.ai Value Blueprints designs AI native operations through seven layers that build trust, orchestrate agents and unlock a
transformational tomorrow. ey.com Learn More Why buy a domain if Vercel hosts for free? r/PinoyProgrammer • 10mo ago Why buy a domain if Vercel hosts for free? 13 comments HAS
ANYONE TRIED u VERCEL APP? r/PinoyProgrammer • 10mo ago HAS ANYONE TRIED u VERCEL APP? 2 comments Deploying to Vercel without linking a repository r/webdev • 2y ago Deploying to
Vercel without linking a repository r/webdev - Deploying to Vercel without linking a repository alexchantastic 9 upvotes · 7 comments Is Vercel Hobby plan suitable for hosting
local business websites? r/nextjs • 2y ago Is Vercel Hobby plan suitable for hosting local business websites? 4 upvotes · 19 comments Why vercel? r/nextjs • 2y ago Why vercel? 73
upvotes · 75 comments Tips for interviewing for Staff/Lead Engineer roles in backend? r/ExperiencedDevs • 7mo ago Tips for interviewing for Staff/Lead Engineer roles in backend?
109 upvotes · 38 comments For anyone who wants to make a website r/website • 4d ago For anyone who wants to make a website r/website - For anyone who wants to make a website 0:47 2
upvotes · 1 comment Where is the v0.dev Generative UI builder? r/nextjs • 1y ago Where is the v0.dev Generative UI builder? 4 comments How are you effectively interviewing devs
now? r/ExperiencedDevs • 20d ago How are you effectively interviewing devs now? 115 upvotes · 104 comments Vercel Postgres vs Supabase? r/nextjs • 3y ago Vercel Postgres vs
Supabase? 76 upvotes · 64 comments I'm perplexed about vercel's pricing per user r/nextjs • 3y ago I'm perplexed about vercel's pricing per user 48 upvotes · 33 comments what is
this comment thingy? r/nextjs • 3y ago what is this comment thingy? r/nextjs - what is this comment thingy? 4 upvotes · 15 comments Anyone have experience with a tool call EpubKit?
r/Calibre • 1y ago Anyone have experience with a tool call EpubKit? Join an existing team or be first dev on greenfield? r/ExperiencedDevs • 2mo ago Join an existing team or be
first dev on greenfield? 24 upvotes · 44 comments Company got acquired, new company likes certs behind the name. Quick hits? r/ExperiencedDevs • 1mo ago Company got acquired, new
company likes certs behind the name. Quick hits? 37 upvotes · 40 comments Hospedagem de sites estáticos com Github Pages/Vercel r/brdev • 2y ago Hospedagem de sites estáticos com
Github Pages/Vercel 6 comments Any experienced devs without a degree finding the job search to be hard? r/ExperiencedDevs • 17d ago Any experienced devs without a degree finding
the job search to be hard? 38 upvotes · 62 comments Thoughts on going into management vs staying technical/coding? r/ExperiencedDevs • 25d ago Thoughts on going into management vs
staying technical/coding? 35 upvotes · 52 comments Should I migrate my startup apps to Vercel? (100-350k visitors per months) r/nextjs • 2y ago Should I migrate my startup apps to
Vercel? (100-350k visitors per months) 28 upvotes · 60 comments To or not to host on Vercel? r/nextjs • 2y ago To or not to host on Vercel? 21 upvotes · 45 comments Best current
approach for interviewing junior-mid full-stack engineers? r/ExperiencedDevs • 7mo ago Best current approach for interviewing junior-mid full-stack engineers? 47 upvotes · 23
comments Anyone else have a very pleasant experience leaving startups for larger orgs? r/ExperiencedDevs • 4mo ago Anyone else have a very pleasant experience leaving startups for
larger orgs? 414 upvotes · 85 comments Why are comparison to the cloud rarely mention bare-metal hosting? r/sysadmin • 5y ago Why are comparison to the cloud rarely mention
bare-metal hosting? 39 upvotes · 52 comments Do we have anything similarly like uTest for developers ? r/UTEST • 2y ago Do we have anything similarly like uTest for developers ? 6
upvotes · 3 comments VIEW POST IN 繁體中文 Français Русский 简体中文 Português (Brasil) 日本語 See more Community Info Section r/ExperiencedDevs Join Experienced Devs For experienced
developers. This community should be specialized subreddit facilitating discussion amongst individuals who have gained some ground in the software engineering world. Any posts or
comments that are made by inexperienced individuals (outside of the weekly Ask thread) should be reported. Anything not specifically related to development or career advice that is
_specific_ to Experienced Developers belongs elsewhere. Try /r/work, /r/AskHR, /r/careerguidance, or /r/OfficePolitics. Show more Public TOP POSTS Reddit reReddit: Top posts of
February 1, 2025 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of February 2025 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2025 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility
Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Home Popular News Explore RECENT r/mcp RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Developer Platform Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog
Careers Press Best of Reddit Best of Reddit in Portuguese Best of Reddit in German Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. ©
2026. All rights reserved. Skip to main content Checklist - app/workflow suggestions : r/gtd r/gtd Sign Up Log In Expand user menu Skip to Navigation Skip to Right Sidebar Back Go
to gtd r/gtd • 2y ago Chromatious Checklist - app/workflow suggestions Having watched a recent video from Tiago Forte, he appears use to use a virtual notepad to have his weekly
review checklist which outlines, in order, his tasks to complete this review. I’m entrenched quite happily in todoist but can’t really get quick reference checklists to work
smoothly. Does anyone have a particular place they keep their checklists, including any app that works well for this sort of thing? Would be great to hear your experience and
advice on how you’ve achieved this! 4 · 10 u/todoist avatar todoist • Promoted Say your tasks out loud. Todoist turns them into organized to-dos instantly. Turn words into
organized tasks instantly Your to-do list can listen now It turns into real tasks, organized Turn words into organized tasks instantly Try Ramble todoist.com Learn More Comments
Section u/_Solon_ avatar _Solon_ • 2y ago Personal (macOS): Checklists are in Things; next actions and projects are in Omnifocus. Work (Windows): Checklists are in Microsoft Loop;
next actions and projects are in Todoist. 2 u/st0rm79 avatar st0rm79 • 2y ago I have one file called gtd where my tasks unrelated to projects and tickler headings are. I have a
heading called checklists that contains various checklists I’ve made. I have a weekly review checklist and an inbox checklist (since my “inbox” is spread out into 2 slack servers,
two email accounts, a few notebooks, and the main inbox file for the application. 2 [deleted] • 2y ago But in what program are those files? 1 u/st0rm79 avatar st0rm79 • 2y ago I’m
using emacs org mode, with the iPhone beorg app and Dropbox to sync the files across my home computer work laptop, and cell phone. The actual implementation is fairly app agnostic
though. The only thing this depends on for an app is the ability to have checkboxes that can be ticked/unticked and the ability to create a quick link to a heading that can be
accessed from the front page of the app ui. My suggestion to OP is to "pin" a file or note that is commonly used and referenced everyday, or however Todoist organizes things like
that and create a heading where checklists live there to reference. It looks like Todoist offers a template for creating checklists. 2 1 more reply [deleted] • 2y ago Google Keep
and is free 2 [deleted] • 2y ago I do have a few checklists I've got saved as .csv files to import into Todoist. But I do also use Obsidian for checklists - that's just a simple
markdown list like - [ ] Depends on the context and how I'm feeling that day/week/quarter. Obsidian checklists are a lot nicer to print out (IMO) if I'm wanting to be a bit more
paper-based. 2 u/AlthoughFishtail avatar AlthoughFishtail • 2y ago I tried a tonne, ended up using Checklist+ on iOS
https://apps.apple.com/gb/app/checklist-to-do-tasks-lists/id534217434 1 u/TallKaleidoscope9246 avatar TallKaleidoscope9246 • 2y ago I use Trello for GTD. I also have a list for
cards with recurring actions. I add checklists there. You can add several checklists to a card. It's very convenient, I recommend it. I have several lists for recurring actions:
with date without date algorithms (instructions on how to do something effectively) 1 Weekly_Accident7552 • 1y ago I feel you... Todoist is great for tasks, but it’s always felt a
bit clunky for proper checklists or step-by-step workflows. I ended up switching my recurring checklists to Manifestly. It’s basically built for this: you make your process once
(weekly reviews, routines, whatever), then just run it every time you need it. Super quick to reference, works on desktop and mobile, and you can even tick things off in real time.
I tried building checklists in Notion and Google Keep too, but honestly, Manifestly is the first one that didn’t end up abandoned after a few weeks. Worth a look if you want
something purpose-built for repeatable checklists 1 New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue with Phone Number By
continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. People also ask about section People also ask about Top tools for implementing
GTD effectively To implement Getting Things Done (GTD) effectively, Redditors recommend using Things 3 for Apple users, NirvanaHQ for dedicated GTD features, or a combination of
digital and analog tools like pen and paper for flexibility. Popular Digital Tools Things 3 stands out for Apple users due to its intuitive interface and seamless integration
across devices. "If you have an iPhone and Mac try out Things 3." NirvanaHQ is a strong contender for its direct alignment with GTD principles and structured approach. "Nirvana is
the closest to pure GTD." Mindwtr is a newer, open-source option praised for its cross-platform compatibility and privacy features. "Mindwtr is designed to be simple by default but
powerful when you need it." Hybrid and Analog Approaches Pen and paper remain a preferred method for many due to their physical interaction and lack of digital distractions. "I
like interacting with it as a physical object." Combining digital and analog systems offers the best of both worlds, using physical notebooks for daily tasks and digital tools for
long-term planning. "I’ve now landed on a hybrid system that uses this for a lot of my day-to-day work but goes to a digital system (NotePlan) for longer term project planning,
permanent reference material etc." Customized setups often involve a mix of tools like OneNote, Outlook, and ToDoist, or Trello for visualizing tasks. "OneNote + Outlook + ToDoist"
Important GTD Principles Centralized Capture helps reduce mental load by ensuring all tasks and ideas are recorded in one place. "Reducing/centralizing capture — chaos comes from
having too many places where tasks or work could come in and not getting them into one place." Weekly Review is considered crucial for staying organized and preventing tasks from
falling through the cracks. "Weekly review — taking the time to plan work and review everything once a week means that at absolute worst case, you are no more than 6 days behind on
something." Focus on Next Actions breaks down projects into manageable steps, making them less daunting. "Focus on the single next action in any project (break it down)." Do you
want recommendations for a specific operating system or a completely free tool? Related Media response_carousel_media_0 response_carousel_media_1 Related images from across Reddit
GTD Implementation Communities gtd 7.7K weekly visitors Join Getting Things Done (GTD) is a productivity methodology as described in the book by David Allen. r/gtd is a place to
discuss and ask questions about the implementation and execution of the GTD methodology. r/gtd is not a general productivity subreddit. gtd_apps 10 weekly visitors Join A place to
share and discuss GTD apps. ProductivityApps 106K weekly visitors Join A place to discuss Productivity and apps to help with it. productivity 424K weekly visitors Join Tips and
tricks for being more productive! coolguides 646K weekly visitors Join Picture based reference guides for anything and everything. If it seems like something someone might print,
physically post, and reference then it is a good link for this sub. Remember: Infographics are learning tools, guides are reference tools. Sometimes it's grey. Show More Best apps
for tracking tasks and projects How to maintain motivation with GTD Essential tips for organizing your workspace Effective ways to prioritize daily tasks A simple framework to make
course creation easier... thoughts? r/onlinecourses • 3mo ago A simple framework to make course creation easier... thoughts? 10 upvotes · 13 comments u/duluth_trading_co avatar
duluth_trading_co • Promoted Smart fabric tech to keep you chiller, drier all summer. ’Cuz cooler heads, torsos and legs prevail. Thumbnail image: Smart fabric tech to keep you
chiller, drier all summer. ’Cuz cooler heads, torsos and legs prevail. duluthtrading.com Shop Now Open source app option r/olleeWatch • 3mo ago Open source app option 12 upvotes ·
4 comments New Year, New Capacities Workflow! r/capacitiesapp • 5mo ago New Year, New Capacities Workflow! 25 upvotes · 8 comments Simple Scheduling Software r/TimeTrackingSoftware
• 21d ago Simple Scheduling Software 5 upvotes · 16 comments I made some software that may help! r/savemyrient • 3mo ago I made some software that may help! 35 upvotes · 8 comments
New to the App, Don't understand Habits and how to pair them with tasks r/superProductivity • 24d ago New to the App, Don't understand Habits and how to pair them with tasks 9
upvotes · 5 comments What would make an AI tool most helpful for you? r/audhd • 2mo ago What would make an AI tool most helpful for you? 12 upvotes · 44 comments Some gripes about
Workflows… r/CopilotMicrosoft • 21d ago Some gripes about Workflows… 7 upvotes · 10 comments What’s your actual Plaud workflow after a meeting? r/PLAUDAI • 17d ago What’s your
actual Plaud workflow after a meeting? 20 upvotes · 17 comments the first 30 minutes i spend on any new client site before touching anything else. sharing the exact checklist.
r/SEO_Xpert • 8d ago the first 30 minutes i spend on any new client site before touching anything else. sharing the exact checklist. 25 upvotes · 14 comments Bring Back the Old
Working Application r/WatchMaker • 22d ago Bring Back the Old Working Application 6 upvotes · 10 comments There might be some music in my automation project… r/flstudio • 4mo ago
There might be some music in my automation project… r/flstudio - There might be some music in my automation project… 26 upvotes · 12 comments What's your favorite task management
tool and why? r/AdminAssistant • 4mo ago What's your favorite task management tool and why? 9 upvotes · 18 comments Best tasks to do during the [sleepy] status? r/outside • 27d ago
Best tasks to do during the [sleepy] status? 104 upvotes · 14 comments Checklist App Released r/metalearth • 6mo ago Checklist App Released r/metalearth - Checklist App Released 2
29 upvotes · 32 comments New to workflowy r/Workflowy • 2mo ago New to workflowy 8 upvotes · 4 comments What program do you use to create checklists? r/flightsim • 4y ago What
program do you use to create checklists? 5 upvotes · 4 comments Workflow evolution r/Bryce3D • 4mo ago Workflow evolution r/Bryce3D - Workflow evolution 51 upvotes · 19 comments
What’s your CalTopo app workflow? r/Ultralight • 5y ago What’s your CalTopo app workflow? 51 upvotes · 33 comments What Apps Script automations do you rely on the most in your
daily work? r/GoogleAppsScript • 6mo ago What Apps Script automations do you rely on the most in your daily work? 35 upvotes · 31 comments Must Have Apps and Software for DigiTechs
r/Photoassistants • 13d ago Must Have Apps and Software for DigiTechs 32 upvotes · 36 comments What next for Tasks? r/CraftDocs • 4mo ago What next for Tasks? 33 upvotes · 17
comments Working on my own multi-media tracking app r/TVTime • 1mo ago Working on my own multi-media tracking app r/TVTime - Working on my own multi-media tracking app 53 upvotes ·
42 comments Long-time Workflowy users: how do you actually use it today? r/Workflowy • 22d ago Long-time Workflowy users: how do you actually use it today? 12 upvotes · 14 comments
Question about the checklist for my workflow r/projectmanagement • 4y ago Question about the checklist for my workflow 2 upvotes · 13 comments VIEW POST IN Português (Brasil) 简体中文
Tiếng Việt 日本語 繁體中文 Русский See more Community Info Section r/gtd Join Getting Things Done Getting Things Done (GTD) is a productivity methodology as described in the book by David
Allen. r/gtd is a place to discuss and ask questions about the implementation and execution of the GTD methodology. r/gtd is not a general productivity subreddit. Show more Public
TOP POSTS Reddit reReddit: Top posts of March 10, 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of March 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2024 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your
Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Home Popular News Explore RECENT r/SEO r/mcp RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Developer
Platform Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Best of Reddit Best of Reddit in Portuguese Best of Reddit in German Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy
Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. 0:00In this video, I will show you how you can connect custom domain to render. 0:055 secondsFirstly, make sure you
have some kind of project deployed. So, I deployed from GitHub this project. I will open it. And 0:1212 secondsnow to add custom domain. You can also see this def this is your
default domain from render. And to add custom one, you 0:1919 secondsjust want to click on settings, then custom domains on the right side. And from here, you can add your custom
domain. So, I will click on add custom 0:2727 secondsdomain. And I have goed the domain which I will copy and I will paste it here. Then click on save. 0:3535 secondsAnd now you
need to configure your DNS records. 0:3939 secondsSo firstly you need to add a name or alias record pointing to this value. If your DNS provider does not support a 0:4848
