angry demands and again we comply, giving him what he wants. The spiral continues until finally we part, each blaming the other. If design truly is a process, then we will define
and guard that process and we will walk away from those clients and situations, like the pitch, where the process is dictated to us, or where we are otherwise asked to propose
solutions without a proper diagnosis. The Polite Battle for Control The control that we need in order to do our best work includes the imperative to bring our own methodology to
the engagement. Throughout the buying cycle we are constantly gauging whether or not the client recognizes and values our expertise to the extent that he is willing to grant us
this control. Does he see us as the expert who merits the reins of the engagement, or does he see us as the order-taker supplier that needs to be directed? Possessing our own
formalized diagnostic methods, whether they are proprietary to us or not, goes a long way to our positioning in this matter. Like any other competent professional, it is reasonable
to expect that if we address similar problems on a regular basis then we would have a formalized way of beginning the engagement. It follows that we would demand to be allowed to
follow our own process and not readily agree to use one developed by the client or his procurement people. It also follows that when a client comes to us self-diagnosed, we would
feel the same sense of obligation to validate that self-diagnosis as any other professional would. A good client will begin to relinquish control once he has the confidence that
the expert practitioner knows more than he does, [or has the tools to learn more.]{.c_current__and__italic} Formalized diagnostic processes are such tools. From here forward we
will view the act of prescription without diagnosis for what it is: malpractice. We will assert the professional's obligation to begin at the beginning and walk away from those
that would have us proceed based on guesses or un-validated self-diagnoses. []{#part0007.html} IV {The Fourth Proclamation} We Will Rethink What it Means to Sell [We will
acknowledge that our fear and misunderstanding of selling has contributed to our preference for the pitch. We will embrace sales as a basic business function that cannot be avoided
and so we will learn to do it properly, as respectful facilitators. ]{.c_current__and__bold} It is time for us to address our fear and misunderstanding of the basic business
function of selling. We recoil from the "s" word because we see selling as the distasteful act of talking others into things. We see it as the act of persuasion. And while we are
comfortable with our role as persuaders in a marketing sense -- putting our clients' messages in front of groups of their desired customers -- we bristle at such persuasion in the
intimate setting of sales, where the interaction is more human and the product we are selling is us. If we are any good at what we do, we believe, then we should not have to talk
people into hiring us. A Tale of Two Salespeople We have all been the customer in situations where the product or service we were presented with was not the best choice for us. In
some of these situations we were aided by the respectful, considerate salesperson who also saw the poor fit between our needs and his product and so, appropriately, steered us
away. But it is not this salesperson that we remember when we consider the necessity of selling our own services. For we have also been in these situations, but aided by another
salesperson -- the person for whom the transaction was all about him and his need to sell us his product. This second salesman sallied forth, intent on getting the sale, leaving us
feeling violated and angry. Perhaps the motivation of this second salesperson was rooted within his forceful personality. Maybe his incentives were aligned solely to sell to us
rather than to help us. Maybe he was a victim of poor training, suffering from a misunderstanding of what it means to sell. But it is this second salesperson -- the one at ease in
the discomfort and adversity he created -- that we conjure up when it is time for us to sell. The Two Functions of Business Making things and selling things are the two basic
functions in business. For our business to succeed we must succeed at both. It is true that if we are exceptional at the first we may experience times in the life of our business
where merely being adequate at the second will carry us, but over time all things will revert to the mean. No matter how good we are there will be times when we are required to
sell. We can wish this away, we can continue to avoid it, we can hide behind the pitch and kid ourselves that as marketers we are taking a more noble path to the same goal; but the
truth is that until we embrace the fact that we are salespeople too, and we learn to master this craft as well, we will not achieve the success that we desire. [We cannot be in
business without embracing selling]{.c_current__and__italic}. We must, therefore, overcome the stereotypes and learn to do it properly -- professionally. Here, too, the pitch has
not served us well. We have used it as a tool to avoid selling. As painful as it may be to give our thinking away for free and to act like puppets in the client-driven buying
cycle, sometimes it is far easier to suffer the ignominy that at least allows us to practice our craft (even if for free) than to conjure up the sleazy salesperson and try to talk
someone into hiring us. Salesperson: Facilitator of Next Steps The good news is that selling, when done properly, has nothing to do with persuading. It is not our job to talk
people into things. The first salesperson had it right: selling is about determining a fit between the buyer's need and the seller's supply (our very objective) and then
facilitating a next step. Sometimes the proper next step is to part ways, sending the client on to another provider who is better able to serve him. We might argue that the
high-pressure salesperson is going to sell more stereos than the respectful facilitator, but it is not stereos that we sell. We sell ideas and advice -- the very contents of our
heads -- and so [how]{.c_current__and__italic} we sell impacts what we are able to deliver. We cannot disappear immediately after the transaction is concluded, and leave the client
to wallow in his buyer's remorse. After the close, our clients are stuck with us for a long time. Yes, we must sell. But there is only one way we can afford to sell: the way of the
respectful facilitator. Let us think for a minute on how difficult the respectful approach is if we have not followed the first proclamation (We will specialize). If we have not
specialized and set ourselves apart from our competition in a meaningful way then all we have left is convincing. Convince or pitch: these are the options of the undifferentiated
firm. A New Model for Selling We have already established that our objective in each and every business development interaction is to determine if the fit between the client's need
and our expertise is suitable enough to take a next step. This in itself implies the subsequent job of determining and then facilitating that next step. Let's explore a new model
for doing so. Proper selling can be distilled into three steps, based on the client's place in the buying cycle. These three steps replace the art of persuasion. To sell is to: -
Help the unaware - Inspire the interested - Reassure those who have formed intent The first thing we must understand if we are to approach selling properly and respectfully is that
the client's motivation, and by necessity, our role as salesperson, evolves as he progresses through the buying cycle. He moves from unaware of his problem or opportunity, to being
interested in considering the opportunity, and finally, to intent on acting on it. As he progresses in this manner, our role must change from one of helping, to inspiring, and
ultimately to reassuring. Buying is Changing The psychology of buying is the psychology of changing. Selling, therefore, is change management. The very best salespeople are
respectful, selective facilitators of change. They help people move forward to solve their problems and capitalize on their opportunities. The rest talk people into things. The
next steps in this model of facilitating change are driven by the client's need to move forward to solve his problem, not by what we as salespeople have or have not done. The model
does not ask, "Have we obtained a meeting?" It doesn't ask, "Have we presented a proposal?" The focus is on the client and whether or not he has recognized and begun acting on his
need. Step One: Helping the Unaware When we encounter a client who is unaware of any problem or opportunity that would require our services, what do our reflexes or previous
training tell us to do? Convert the no into a yes? Try to obtain a meeting in order to attempt the conversion in person? If we are narrowly focused experts then we should be able
to succinctly articulate our expertise, and concisely describe to the client who we help and how, [over the phone]{.c_current__and__italic}. To request a meeting after the client
has told us he does not see a fit is to admit that a) we need more time with him to explain what we do because we haven't been able to capture and communicate it succinctly, or b)
we're looking to talk him into something. That is why, when we find ourselves saying, "I'm going to be in the area and I'd like to come by to see you..." we cringe at the words
coming out of our mouths. Such behavior creates buying resistance that we will have to overcome later in the relationship. It causes us to sacrifice our mission (to position
ourselves as experts), and it creates the dynamics for an expensive sale that will see us poorly positioned to lead the engagement once hired. No -- for this future client, we must
take the long road of helping him, over time, to see that perhaps he does have a problem. We do this primarily through the dissemination of our [thought
leadership]{.c_current__and__italic} -- our writings on our area of expertise. Real Thought Leadership Over time, true thought leadership positions us as experts in our field and
creates the opportunity for some of our thinking to trigger in the client the idea that perhaps his performance in a certain area could be improved. The role of our thought
leadership is to educate, not to persuade. The future client should be smarter for reading it, we should be smarter for writing it, and, one day, when the client does experience a
problem in an area on which we've written, our guidance may be helpful to him in seeing the opportunity within his problem. Until that day, we continue to cement our position as
leaders in our field through our writing. Experts write. When we sit down to write about our area of expertise we will be confronted quickly with an assessment of our success in
following the first proclamation. Are we adding to the millions of words that already exist on a subject? Are we retreading well-worn ground? (e.g.: [A brand is a
promise]{.c_current__and__italic}, or, [Is your brand authentic?]{.c_current__and__italic}) Or, are we delving deeply into meaningful subjects for wisdom that truly helps? Writing
our way forward is a long-term approach that requires the patience of a farmer versus that of a hunter. But it is the only effective, respectful way with the client who says no and
does not see the fit between his need and our expertise. We can build a business with enough people saying no to us every week, provided many of them agree to subscribe to our
thought leadership and we are diligent about future follow-up. Step Two: Inspiring the Interested The unaware future client sits at his desk reading our thought leadership on an
emerging media, technology or school of thought relative to his business. His awareness grows, and he begins to see that his organization is lagging in this area. He assesses his
situation. He begins to gather more information. He considers the discomfort of falling behind. He looks to the future and now imagines the benefits of being out front. He
considers the risks of taking action, weighing the pros and cons. He is interested in the opportunity in front of him but not yet intent on taking action. The interested future
client looks for inspiration to move forward. This is where we as creative people excel. We are among humankind's most natural inspirers. Our work is inspirational. Our skill in
commanding and leading a room is inspirational. Our ability to come at problems from previously unconsidered angles and our passion for solving the problem not yet solved are both
inspirational. We excel here, in inspiring the interested. Let us be clear: our goal with such a prospect is to inspire him to form the intent to solve his problem; it is not to
inspire him to hire us. At this stage, hiring us is but a possible future consequence of his deciding to take action. Our focus needs to remain on the client, helping him to
facilitate the change in himself that he is considering. Forms of Inspiration Our portfolios are our best tools of inspiration. They show the client what could be. They show him
what others have done. Our examples of our best work paint the picture of the beautiful world on the other side of his pain. Inspiration is the primary role of our website, our
brochure, our sales collateral and our in-person portfolio review. It need not even be our own work that we show here to inspire the interested, just inspirational outcomes.
Misusing Inspiration Like anyone, we play to our strengths. And, like anyone, our strengths become our weaknesses when we go to them too often. When we get ahead of ourselves and
attempt to inspire the unaware, we create buying resistance and set up the wrong dynamics. Trying to inspire someone who does not recognize that he has a problem is a recipe for
defensiveness and resentment. Inspiration is something we must save for the interested. Step Three: Reassuring the Intent The interested prospective client sits across from us and,
through our portfolio, views examples of organizations that have mastered the challenge he is now considering. Through our examples and our conversation, he begins to envision a
future of wonderful possibilities. Inspired by what his company could become, he summons the resolve to commit to solving his problem. In this moment he says to himself, quietly,
"I'm going to do this." His arrival at the decision triggers a change in brain chemistry that brings a euphoric lift; the bigger the decision, the higher the lift. He turns to us,
excited and grateful for the strength we have given to move forward, and says, "This is fantastic! This is what we need! You people are great! I'll get back to you." And he means
it. He truly means it. The Emergence of Doubt Our mistake is in thinking this is the last step. It is not. What goes up must come down. After only a few hours, the client's
euphoria wears off and he slips into a hangover of doubt called buyer's remorse. Now he questions everything, including his decision to move forward. He considers all the things
that could go wrong, all the reasons why this might not make sense. As natural inspirers, our tendency is to do exactly the opposite of what is required at this moment. Playing to
our strengths, we lean towards inspiration once again at a time when we should reassure. It is not in the nature of most creative people to offer the reassurance the client seeks
here. We tend toward excitement at a time when he requires calm. We speak of an organic approach to problem solving when the client would be soothed by the logic and consistency of
hearing about our defined approach. We continue to talk big-picture when the client now needs to process sequentially and seeks to understand what the steps are that we would take
together. He asks questions of the smallest detail -- questions that seem meaningless and even odd to us, but are of the utmost importance to him in his quest for assurance that he
is not about to make a significant mistake. Alternative Forms of Reassurance Closing -- the last step in the buying cycle -- is all about reassuring. Let us remember that when a
future client has formed intent and asks us for a written proposal containing free recommendations or speculative creative, his primary motivation is fear of making a mistake. If
we can keep this in mind and look past his request to his underlying motivation, then maybe we can find other ways to offer the reassurance he seeks. Most creative firms take these
requests at face value and simply comply. Win Without Pitching firms offer alternative ways forward. Phased engagements, pilot projects, money-back guarantees and case studies
framed in defined methodologies are among the many viable alternative forms of reassurance. [The key is to respond to the motivation and not necessarily the
request.]{.c_current__and__italic} The Four Priorities of Winning New Business To follow the twelve proclamations and Win Without Pitching does not mean that we must always have
our way. It is not our goal to replace the client's rigid and often ridiculous selection process with one of equal rigidity and absurdity. Let us be guided by the following
hierarchy of four priorities of winning new business that will ensure we do not become overly rigid in our approach. The goal is to win. The preferred means is to not pitch. A firm
that does not win will not last. The First Priority: Win Without Pitching We first strive to secure the business before it gets to a defined, competitive selection process in which
we are pitted against our peers and asked to give our thinking away for free. This is easiest when the client sees us as the expert and reaches out to us first. It is also easier
when we reach out to the client at a time early in the buying cycle, when he is unaware of any need; and we stay with him as he progresses through the buying cycle, at first
helping over time, then inspiring when appropriate, and finally, reassuring at the end. To Win Without Pitching is the ideal, but it is not always possible. The Second Priority:
Derail the Pitch We often do not become aware of opportunities until late in the buying cycle -- when the client has already formed intent, has already put a selection process in
place and has reached out to numerous firms. In these examples our priority is to derail the pitch -- to get the client to put his process aside and take an alternative first step
with us. The twelve proclamations offer guidance on the principles of derailing the pitch. The Third Priority: Gain The Inside Track There will be times when, try as we might, we
cannot derail the client's selection process. Some organizations' policies are too strong. Some clients are too unwilling -- even when they do recognize and value our expertise. In
these examples, we apply the same principles laid out here, but our priority is now to get an edge over the competition within the process. When we do choose to participate in the
client-directed selection process we should do so with the perspective that every competitive bid process has a preferred option. Somebody almost always has inside information or
access to hard-to-reach decision makers. Sometimes the outcome is predetermined and the process is but a veil of legitimacy. Our default assumption should be that somebody always
has the inside track. If we cannot Win Without Pitching, if we cannot derail the pitch, then we endeavor to be the one on the inside track. We begin to participate in the process
but do so while constantly gauging whether the client recognizes and values our expertise. We ask for concessions. We ask for access to decision makers. We negotiate what we will
and will not write in a proposal or show in a presentation. We measure the client's words, but more importantly, his behavior -- his willingness to treat us differently -- and if
he grants us the inside track, then it may make sense for us to proceed. The Fourth Priority: Walk Away In the sixth proclamation (We will be selective) we will discuss the need to
walk away. There will be many times when it makes sense to do so; but for those prospects that would otherwise meet the parameters of clients we can best help, walking away is the
fourth priority. We walk away when we cannot Win Without Pitching, when we cannot derail the pitch and when we are unable to gain the inside track. Good prospective clients who
recognize and value our expertise will grant us one of the above. The others are not worth sacrificing our mission on in a long-shot attempt to out-pitch others, one of whom almost
certainly has gained the inside track ahead of us. We Are Salespeople Now In following this fourth proclamation, we will embrace sales as one of the two basic business functions,
and we will go about this function in the manner of the respectful facilitator. We will look for those that we can best help. We will seek out those that see a fit between their
needs and our expertise and who are willing to let us lead the engagement. And then we will facilitate the appropriate next steps: we will help the unaware, we will inspire the
interested and we will reassure the intent. With this last group, we will look beyond their requests for proposals and free thinking to the motivations behind them, and we will
suggest alternative ways forward. Those that see us as experts will grant us at least some of the concessions we seek and allow us to Win Without Pitching, to derail the pitch or
to gain the inside track. From the rest, we will walk away. []{#part0008.html} V {The Fifth Proclamation} We Will Do With Words What We Used to Do With Paper [We will understand
that the proposal is the words that come out of our mouths and that written documentation of these words is a contract -- an item that we create only once an agreement has been
reached. We will examine all the reasons we ask, and are asked, to write unpaid proposals and we will never again ask documents to propose for us what we ourselves should
propose.]{.c_current__and__bold} When we look back at the proposals we have written and we consider the engagements we have won, we can easily conclude that it was rarely the
written document that secured the business. Those engagements we won were the ones for which we were best suited. The suitability of the fit was apparent to both parties throughout
the conversations in the buying cycle. The written document did little to sway the decision. Just as we are leaving behind the pitch, the presentation and persuasion, so too are we
abandoning the written proposal and thereby freeing up the dozens or even hundreds of hours we previously devoted to it every year. We have long been conditioned to think that the
written proposal is a necessary step in the buying cycle. It is not. The document that we write is the contract. It serves as public verification of an agreement we have already
formed with the client [in conversation]{.c_current__and__italic}. The agreement is an oral understanding that covers the scope of work, timeframe, budget and the basic terms of
the engagement. While the agreement may be subject to minor details, all of these issues are addressed in conversation first. [The paper is produced only once the agreement has
been reached.]{.c_current__and__italic} Overinvesting Creates Buying Resistance The buying resistance that we engender in the client is partly a result of the obvious investment we
have made in the sale. When we spend hours on a lengthy written proposal, one that diagnoses and prescribes for free, it sends the message that we need the client's business. We
clearly imply to him that he has the power in the relationship. Beyond giving him the upper hand, we also make it difficult for him to be honest with us. Let's face it,
[No]{.c_current__and__italic} is the second best answer we can hear. If the client does not see a fit between his need and our expertise, we want to hear so as early in the buying
cycle as possible. The more heavily invested we appear to be in the sale, the less likely the client will tell us what he is really thinking. When he thinks we cannot bear to hear
no, he will simply stall or defer or deliver a string of maybes. Most of the time, he will do so behind the shield of a request for a written proposal. We want to operate from the
practitioner's position where we have not overinvested in the sale, where we are not trying to talk the client into hiring us, and where we invite him to say no early and often. In
this environment, there is no room for the written proposal, which, like the presentation, is a tool of swaying. Why the Client Asks for a Proposal Even at first reading, the logic
of this proclamation (We will do with words what we used to do with paper) seems obvious, almost irrefutable. This straightforward approach of using conversation rather than
writing to determine a fit makes perfect sense for both parties, but it is rarely practiced in the creative professions. The written proposal is the norm and not the exception. Let
us explore the many reasons why the client asks for a written proposal and see how many of them are valid. To Keep the Hordes at Bay The over-supply of undifferentiated creative
firms has necessitated a process that keeps the client from being overwhelmed. He uses the written proposal as a tool to help him. It allows him to keep the masses at arm's length
and still give him something upon which to determine a next step. If we have succeeded in following the first proclamation and we have built an obvious specialized expertise, then
we make it easier for the client to let us in. Otherwise, he will use the written proposal to keep us out. [We must embrace the challenge implied by the request for proposal
(RFP).]{.c_current__and__italic} If we see the RFP as a tool for keeping undifferentiated firms at arm\'s length, then we will take up the challenge to break through the proposal
process and gain validation that the client does indeed recognize and value our expertise. When he does not, he will use the proposal, and its supporting selection process, as a
means of maintaining distance. The better clients, when they do recognize expertise, will crack open the façade of the proposal process and agree to a proper conversation. The
question is one of merit: is the expertise of our firm deserving of such access? This challenge aids us in determining very early in the process whether or not the opportunity is
worth pursuing. For if the client does not recognize and value our expertise then we have failed -- failed to build true expertise, failed to demonstrate that expertise or failed
by pursuing an opportunity that is not properly aligned with our expertise. In most of these cases it is appropriate for us to retreat. We can do so without having overinvested in
the opportunity. We can do so with our integrity intact and with possible future business opportunities preserved. To Compare In sorting through many similar firms, the client
seeks to grid out their likenesses and differences. Undifferentiated firms gladly participate in this process. By not following the first proclamation, these businesses operate
from positions of little power. Thus, all they can hope for is to win based on service (as demonstrated by compliance to the client's process), personality, price, or by beginning
to solve the client's problem within the proposal. The process itself is an exercise in homogenization that reduces each firm to samples of its work, ill-informed guesses at
possible strategies and hourly rates. True differences do not shine through in written proposals. If we are pomegranates then we will resist being pushed into a process designed to
compare apples to apples. To Measure Value Value = Quality/Price. The client's challenge in determining the value of our services is that the quality of an idea not yet delivered
is difficult to measure. This leaves him with two options: he can over-weight the decision toward that which he can measure (price), or he can ask us to deliver the idea (for free)
in an effort to determine its quality. By following the third proclamation (We will diagnose before we prescribe) we demonstrate that our ability to do our best work is rooted in
the strength of our diagnostic and strategic development processes. A client asking for unpaid ideas in a written proposal is like a patient asking for a diagnosis and prescription
from a doctor he refuses to visit or pay. The flaws of the proposal process are one more reason we must see the request for a proposal as a challenge to be met. Either we leverage
the power gained by our expertise to impact the client's process and replace the proposal and accompanying presentation with conversation, or we walk away and leave this client to
another firm. To Gain Inspiration The most common, and costly, business development mistake shared by creative firms around the world is that of mistaking interest for intent.
Clients often ask creative firms for proposals before their intent to act on their problem has been formed. In these situations we must recognize that while the client is simply
seeking the inspiration to help move him forward, sending us away to write is not likely to achieve it. We must learn to measure the client's intent; if his decision to act on his
opportunity has not yet been anchored to a future date or event (a decent indicator of intent), then the written proposal is not the tool to help propel him forward. If the
engagement has not yet moved from his wish list to his to-do list, then it is still inspiration he seeks. We are better off in these cases exploring our previous work for examples
of inspiration, or examining with him his competitor's work or other best practices from further afield. Sometimes such explorations merit a small paid discovery engagement, and
sometimes they are merely part of the conversations in the buying cycle; but we must not mistake the seeking of inspiration for the will to move forward. To Stall Sometimes the
answer is no. Sometimes the answer is probably not. And if this is what the client is really thinking, then this is what we should be keen and able to hear. But when we push too
hard -- when we pitch, present and invest in a written proposal -- we often make it difficult for the client to be honest with us. In these cases he will use the written proposal
and its supporting process to not say anything to us when he really would like to say no. If the answer is no, we want to hear it; therefore, we want to make it easy for the client
to say it. It serves neither of us when we lob a written proposal over the fence and wait patiently for a reply. To Shop Around for a Better Price We are under no obligation to
provide the client with a reference of services, process and price just so that he can find someone else to do what we would do, the way we would do it, but cheaper. [Res ipsa
loquitur. ]{.c_current__and__italic} RFP R.I.P. Of all the reasons that a client might ask for a written proposal, none can withstand the stronger logic of having a conversation
with an expert of few equals. When we fail to make this case then we must understand that we have failed in setting ourselves apart from the competition, or we have created buying
resistance through our need to present or persuade. When we follow the earlier proclamations, we make following this fifth one possible; and in this way we continue to march from
order-taker to expert, one step at a time. Getting Paid to Write Proposals One of our new mantras that we will repeat to ourselves and our potential clients is: [We do not begin to
solve our clients' problems before we are engaged.]{.c_current__and__italic} Many times, the client's situation, or the probable solutions, are so complex or technical that we need
to better understand the challenges if we are to propose and quantify responsible solutions. Such engagements demand that we begin our diagnostic work in order to present a plan.
But let us not make the mistake of doing this diagnostic work for free. No -- understanding and diagnosing the client's situation is vital to the success of any engagement, and it
is our work here at the very front of the engagement that will largely determine whether we succeed or fail in our endeavors for the client. We must charge for this work. Doctors
charge for MRIs. Accountants charge for audits. Lawyers charge for discovery. And we charge for our diagnostic work as well, whether it is a brand audit or discovery session that
we conduct ourselves, or outside research that we commission. For these complex challenges in which we must diagnose before we can even begin to quantify a prescription, our
clients pay us to write proposals via a phased sale that begins with a diagnostic. The outcome of the diagnostic phase is two parts: findings and recommendations. In our findings
we deliver our diagnostic discoveries, and in our recommendations we include a plan to move forward, complete with timeline and budget. In this way, we get paid to craft the
proposal those times when it is necessary to write one. Contracts and Proposals Our proposal is indeed the words that come out of our mouths: "We propose to do X for you, over Y
timeframe, for Z price." Once we have agreement on the proposal, then we write up the contract for signature. Let us be clear to our clients and ourselves: we are not in the
proposal writing business. And let us make a promise to ourselves that we will no longer ask a document to do what we ourselves should do: [propose]{.c_current__and__italic}.
[]{#part0009.html} VI {The Sixth Proclamation} We Will Be Selective [Instead of seeking clients, we will selectively and respectfully pursue perfect fits -- those targeted
organizations that we can best help. We will say no early and often, and as such, weed out those that would be better served by others and those that cannot afford us. By saying no
we will give power and credibility to our yes.]{.c_current__and__bold} Most of us do not suffer from having too few clients. The problem with our client roster is usually one of
quality, not quantity. We sometimes attempt to compensate for the quality of our clients by adding more of them; but we know that having numerous small, unsophisticated or
otherwise inappropriate clients is no reparation for having the right type and size of clients. If we are to build a lucrative expert firm then we must regain this balance of a
small number of high-quality clients. Once regained, we must accept that our client base will turn over and we must understand that this churn is healthy. Our client relationships
should not be life sentences. Our Business Development Goals Clients hire us at times of need. We generally solve the most pressing problems at the beginning of our relationships,
and over time the nature of our work slides toward the tactical end of our offering. Thus, our positioning with the client changes. At some point we become less of an outside
advisor and more of a partner, and then, ultimately, a supplier. Eventually we part ways. The transition is inevitable; the only variables are time and the point of departure. The
optimal engagement length will differ from firm to firm and from client to client, but we must embrace the idea that turnover is healthy, and the subsequent idea that our business
development goal is to manage such turnover. If it is our desire to grow our practice, then we accomplish this by ensuring that the new clients we take in represent increased
opportunity over that of those departing. Selectivity is one of the defining characteristics of the expert. It builds credibility, reduces buying resistance and creates the
conditions where it is possible to replace presentations with conversations. A clear understanding of our goals -- a small number of slowly revolving high-quality clients -- makes
it easier for us to adopt this selective approach. We will not win every opportunity, nor do we need to. From this we should take comfort and patiently go about finding those that
we can best help in a manner that is more focused and less frantic. Retreating Where Others Advance Clients can smell selectivity. It is one of the early cues that signal to them
to drop their guard and participate in meaningful discussions of fit, or raise it and retreat behind the protective cover of "the selection process" where they ask for credentials,
proposals and presentations. It is human nature to follow what retreats from us and to back away from what advances. Confucius famously said, "Speak softly and people lean toward
you; speak loudly and they lean away." Buyers prefer to be politely vetted by a seller who has clearly defined parameters of the nature of the work he will do, the type of client
he will take on, and the budgets with which he will and will not work. The client's experience in dealing with the selective expert versus the enthusiastic generalist who barges
headlong into every opportunity is night and day different. One invites him to advance; the other causes him to retreat. Back Again to the First Proclamation Selectivity begins
with positioning -- the very focus of our enterprise. Our public claim of expertise must describe who we help and how, and in this description those that would be better served by
others should be able to select out. The client should be able to determine from a sentence or two whether our expertise is likely to meet his needs. The narrower our claim of
expertise, the more integrity we earn. By staking a narrow claim we build the credibility for the client to assume we have capabilities beyond our claim, whereas a broad claim
generates the opposite reaction. The client knows the great difficulty of amassing broad expertise, and when such a claim is made he assumes our true expertise, if any, must be
much smaller than what is declared. In his very first interaction with us, in reading the words on our website without having even met or spoken to us, he makes judgments on our
integrity that will impact the dynamics moving forward. The first proclamation lays the foundation for all others, including this, the sixth. If we have succeeded in specializing,
then selectivity becomes easier for us. In Pursuit of No No is the second best answer we can hear. If the answer is no, we want to hear it as soon as possible, before we and the
client unnecessarily waste valuable resources. When an opportunity first arises, therefore, we try to see if we can kill it. This is contrary to how we typically act, but it is a
powerful approach that lets us weed out poor fits early and eliminate those opportunities where the client would not hire us in the end (or those where we would regret that he
did). If the opportunity is right and we retreat just a little, the client is likely to follow. The retreat-and-follow is an important test of how much the client recognizes and
values our expertise. It tells us if he sees a fit and indicates to us the power we have to lead any engagement. Our inclination is to avoid the questions to which we think we may
not like the answers, but here again we must learn to fight our tendencies, demonstrate the selectivity and efficiency of the expert and march headlong into these conversations in
pursuit of no. There are many common reasons why an engagement might not make sense: money, the nature of the client's need, his willingness to let us lead, geographic location,
the depth of our experience. We want to develop the habit of putting on the table for early discussion these or any other concerns we, or the client, might have. Reversing the
