Dynamics of Objections The dynamics of objections are such that when one party raises them, it is incumbent on the other to address them. Our tendency is to avoid areas of
potential objection, but they cannot be avoided forever. Eventually the client raises them and we are forced to address them. Such dynamics are easily reversed when we learn to
raise the objections first and place them on the table for the client to address. Instead of waiting to hear, "You seem expensive," we might say, "I'm a little concerned about the
ability an organization of your size has to afford us." In this manner we want to learn to lean into potential objections. If the objection is going to kill the deal, then let's
kill it early. Bridging the Expertise Gap It is okay for us to accept work outside of our area of expertise, provided: we have the ability, we have the capacity, we can do it
profitably and we are not deluded into thinking that such work immediately merits expanding our claim of expertise. If we are well positioned then we will possess capabilities
beyond -- often well beyond -- our declared expertise. When potential clients approach us with needs within our capabilities but outside of our central expertise, it is vital that
we handle these enquiries with honesty. When our claim of expertise is broad, we are inclined to respond to such enquiries with what the client expects to hear: "We can do that!"
This reply builds buying resistance and makes it difficult to replace presentations with conversations. The target is not the market. We take precise aim at the smaller target and
are happy to hit the wider market. Our claim of expertise should be a lot narrower than the sum of our capabilities. When we encounter an opportunity within our capabilities but
outside of our expertise, we owe it to the client to tell him that, yes, we can do this, but no, it is not why we are typically hired. We owe it to him to reiterate our claim and
point out the gap between what he needs and what we do. From there, the client can make the decision to bridge the gap or not. He can decide that our experience translates to his
need and that he would rather work with someone who is honest about her strengths. Or, he can decide to look for someone whose expertise more closely aligns with his need. If the
gap is to be bridged, it's better if it is the client who does so. The dynamics of objections, and the need to reverse them, apply here, too. On this point of accepting work
outside of our expertise, let us remember that we never want to be enticed into competing for it. If the client bridges the gap and says, "I think you can do this," and it makes
sense for us to do it, then we are within our rights to take the work. If his statement is followed by an invitation to compete for the work, however, then we are better to
decline, point him in the direction of a firm better aligned with his need, and get back to looking for our next perfect fit. He may advance when we retreat, he may be worth
following up with after he has spoken to other firms, but he may also disappear and never return. Regardless, we do not want to sacrifice our mission and be dragged into competing
for work that is outside of our expertise. The Passion Dichotomy Who are we without our passion? It is an asset that drives us into the problems we solve. It is the motivational
engine for finding the best solutions to the challenges we face. Surely, displaying such an asset in the buying cycle is advantageous? But here, too, we must beware and, to an
extent, fight our natural tendencies. Passion can be a tiebreaker when the client believes the level of expertise to be equal among his considered options. When we play up the
tiebreakers of price, chemistry and passion, however, we tacitly imply that when it comes to measuring us on the most important variable -- expertise -- we are no better equipped
than others in consideration. We must be free to use our passion, without forgetting that it can easily become a liability. The client may view our display of passion as an
invitation to take control and an admission that our expertise may be lacking. Let us use our passion but beware that we do not over use it and allow the client to use it against
us. Selectivity Deepens with Expertise As our expertise deepens, so too does our ability to be selective. Expertise forces selectivity. The generalist is drawn to the problem he
has not yet solved. His curiosity trumps all else. He feels no discomfort in operating outside of his area of expertise because such an area is broad, shallow and loosely defined.
He pursues with passion the new and the different. When the transition is made however, and he becomes used to the benefits of deep expertise -- when the client ceding control to
someone deserving of such control becomes the norm -- he will not be easily enticed back to operating from the powerless position of the generalist. When given a choice to operate
from the position of power that comes with deep expertise or to pursue work outside that area for clients who will not allow him to lead, the expert will refuse. He will refuse not
because it is written here to do so, but because he will never want to retreat back to that place of generalist order-taker. He will be wary of situations in which he does not have
confidence in his ability to find the best solution -- in which the landscape and challenges are unfamiliar and he has to admit to his client, "I've never done this before." Once
he grows accustomed to operating from the position of the practitioner, the expert will take pains to ensure that his future clients grant him such a position. In this manner, his
expertise will force his selectivity, but in the beginning it will not be so easy. Selectivity is something he must learn. He must put his passion in its place and walk away from
those opportunities where he is not viewed as the expert. And so must we all. []{#part0010.html} VII {The Seventh Proclamation} We Will Build Expertise Rapidly [We will view our
claim of expertise as a beginning and as a rallying cry for perpetual progress. Once focused, we will work to add to and deepen the skills, capabilities and processes from which we
derive our expertise, and we will commit to the idea that continuous learning is mandatory.]{.c_current__and__bold} We address here the third of our three steps to positioning our
firm. First we select a focus, we then articulate that focus via a claim of expertise, and finally we work to quickly add proof to our claim. When we put our flag in the ground,
heads turn. The competition, seemingly oblivious to us before, suddenly takes notice. Those that do not claim meaningful territory are rarely attacked. What is there to defend,
after all? This is one of the indulgences of the generalist: it is an easier life. It is not as lucrative. It is not as fulfilling. It is, however, easier. Nobody attacks the
unthreatening generalist. The truth about the average human being is that, regardless of what he claims to want, he will avoid the difficult decisions and the undesirable tasks,
even if they represent the path to the outcome or future he desires. The proven reality is that most people will change their desires, even their values, before they will change
their behavior. Now, the question we must face is, [are we most people?]{.c_current__and__italic} Will we stay on the old comfortable path where we can avoid attack? Will we choose
denial and continue to shape our beliefs to conform to our old behavior? Or do we have it within us to do what we know must be done to build an expert firm: a firm that delivers to
our clients our best work, a firm that brings to us the fulfillment of a career well managed, and a firm that provides to our families the security and prosperity they deserve?
Will we do what we know needs to be done? Making the Claim Real Putting one foot in front of the other, we begin by choosing a focus and articulating a claim (the first
proclamation). Then we change the way we sell (proclamations two through five). We become selective about our new clients and the work we do for them (the sixth proclamation). And
now that we have momentum and we begin to taste the benefits of expertise, here in the seventh proclamation we make a promise to ourselves that we will see how far we can go. We
commit to deepening our expertise, rapidly and forever, so that we can find out just how good we can become. From the moment we make the claim, we find ourselves in a race with no
finish line. It is a race in which the greater our lead, the more we have to lose; therefore, the faster we feel we must run. [This is not the easy path]{.c_current__and__italic}.
Once we are on it, however, moving past the stationary generalists on the sideline, we realize we would not have it any other way. We would rather race to fulfill our potential
than stagnate in unchallenged contentment. The Importance of Proving Our Expertise A claim is just a claim; anyone can make one. Our claim of expertise helps us break through the
clutter of competition and gain attention at the very first interaction with the prospective client. But from then on, it is incumbent on us to prove our claim. The further we
progress into the buying cycle, the more the proof of our expertise aids us. Without proof, we find ourselves having to pitch -- having to begin to solve the client's problem as
proof of our ability to solve his problem. The proof that we desire to build, and that our future clients need to see, is rooted in our skills, capabilities and processes. These
are things that we must never cease to build -- assets to which we must never stop adding. Let us explore some means we have available to us to deepen our expertise. Starting With
Focus The good news is that the very act of focus is likely to build depth. If we were to take two people of similar intellect and abilities and charge the first with building a
business with a broad focus and the second with building a business with a narrow focus, we would find that the second person would build a depth of expertise exponentially greater
than that of the first. He could not help but do so, for when we narrow our field of thought we think deeper. We need not be smarter or more creative than our competition, only
more focused. Focus is powerful, but it is just the first step in building deep expertise. Other steps follow. The Requirement to Write Writing gets us found. Writing helps to
cement our position as experts. Most important of all, writing about what we do is the fastest way to deepen our knowledge. Writing at length on our expertise drives us into the
deep crevices of our territory. As focused experts, we benefit from repeated observation of the same challenges. Writing is the tool that helps us formalize our thinking on these
observations. It forces us to tighten our arguments and therefore our understanding. Writing might not come naturally to us, it might be painful at times, but the rewards are
significant and the exercise is mandatory. If we are to be experts we must write. The skills we must possess or acquire in order to succeed in a differentiated creative enterprise
are: consulting first, writing second, artistry third. The problem-seeing and problem-solving skills of the advisor, along with the ability to lead others through the engagement,
trump everything else. Writing follows, for writing both proves and deepens our expertise. The artistry, increasingly, is the commodity. It is inexpensively acquired from those
that neither have, nor attempt to cultivate, the first two skills. We must take control and we must write. Formalizing How We Work If we were paid to dig a ditch of a specified
depth, width and length, our first attempt would be completed at quality X, in timeframe Y. If we were to dig a ditch of those same specifications every day, we can assume that the
quality of our output would increase and the time required would decrease. Repeated observation and problem solving is bound to improve our quality and efficiency. We can also
reasonably assume that over time, through trial and error, we would happen upon an efficient approach that allows us to deliver at quality and speed [with
consistency]{.c_current__and__italic}. In almost any of our repeated endeavors, it is the strength of our processes that drives the consistency of our outcomes. If we want to build
deep expertise we must take pains to document how we work, to define how we will work in the future and to continuously refine and improve our approach. Working from a defined
process leads to the very consistency of quality that a potential client tries to discern late in the buying cycle, when our role is to reassure. Nothing reassures the client more
than him drawing the powerful inference that [little variability in process equals little variability in outcomes]{.c_current__and__italic}. Every one of the firms he is
considering can demonstrate an ability to do great work, but the question he wants answered before he buys is: "How do I know I'm going to get their best work?" When we are able to
demonstrate strong processes, the client can decide for himself the implications of our processes on the consistency of our quality. Training and Empowering If we have no
meaningfully defined processes, then there is not much to train our people on. But once we commit to defining and improving how we work, then we must commit to training our people
on such methods. Training and other forms of individual professional development are vital, for a creative firm either has a culture of continuous learning or it does not. We must
make the commitment that in our firm all our people will feel compelled to keep up with their associates and excel past our competitors. When our new employees come to work for us
they must feel as though the learning never ends and the pace of learning never lessens. We race together. We build a culture of continuous learning by hiring for skill, by
developing it through training, by empowering our people to form their own professional development plans that we will approve and fund, by holding them accountable to these plans,
and, most importantly, by leading with our own example. We go first, and set the example of pace and determination required to be part of our enterprise. All Will Not Follow While
creative people have a proclivity for generalist tendencies that allow them to explore the new and the different, most will select a path of deep expertise once it is shown to them
and they have experienced the benefits. Without that experience, not all will be convinced to join us on our journey. The culture of tolerance and inclusiveness that we've always
had in our firm still applies, but now it applies only to those willing to pull their weight. When we choose to follow the twelve proclamations and make the transition from
order-taker to expert, we commit to the idea that perpetual learning and continuous improvement are mandatory. Everyone involved in our enterprise must buy in, pull his weight and
push the rest of us as we push him. Those who do not will be shepherded on to other firms where the collective desire to realize potential is more in line with their own. The One
Who Eddied Out We know the principal who eddied out -- the owner of the creative firm who enjoyed early success for many years only to have that success leave him for good. He
started on his own during good economic times or with one large benefactor client and he rode that current for years. Then things changed. The economy turned or the client moved on
and the principal's easy success vanished. For years now he sits wondering what went wrong. What did he do to deserve such misfortune? What he cannot, or will not, see is that his
misfortune is rooted in his early success. He was not forced to make the difficult decisions early, so when faced with them late he remained certain that the decisions and the
effort could be avoided, and success could be had the old way once again. Now clients no longer beat a path to his door, and he blames the market or he laments that times have
changed in a manner he cannot comprehend, for reasons he cannot see. As others move past him, making the brave decisions and doing the difficult work, he remains, with his
reminiscent stare, bobbing in the calm at the side. He stays there for us, as a reminder of what we will become if we ever stop learning, if we ever give up the race.
[]{#part0011.html} VIII {The Eighth Proclamation} We Will Not Solve Problems Before We Are Paid [Our thinking is our highest value product; we will not part with it without
appropriate compensation. If we demonstrate that we do not value our thinking, our clients and prospects will not. Our paying clients can rest assured that our best minds remain
focused on solving their problems and not the problems of those who have yet to hire us.]{.c_current__and__bold} A pitch-based business development strategy devalues our thinking
and emphasizes the more commoditized parts of our offering. If we do not value our thinking, the client will not. He uses many cues to try to ascertain our value. He looks for
signs from us of how we value ourselves. How can we diagnose and prescribe for free one minute, and later ask for hundreds or thousands of dollars for similar thinking? We must
strive for a consistency in our behavior that says we know our own worth and we will not be led into selling ourselves short. We must address our own negligence in standards around
this behavior, and simply agree that there is a line that separates proving our ability to solve the client's problem from actually solving his problem. We shall not be lured into
crossing over this line before we are paid. This pervasive challenge of giving our thinking away for free is easily remedied. It is as simple as deciding we will no longer do it,
writing this commitment into a policy statement, and then stating to the client with polite conviction, "It is our policy to not begin to solve our clients' problems before we are
engaged." It is irresponsible of us to use our identity as artists as an excuse for not forming business standards and policies. Clients lay policies on us as though they were law
and we respond with preferences and inclinations. No -- we must respond with policies of our own. We encounter far less client resistance when we preface our requirement with the
words, "It is our policy that..." Free Thinking is Not Just Creative Many of us weigh the free-pitching problem and feel proud that it does not affect us. "We don't do speculative
(spec) creative." But our designs are merely the application of our strategy; and our strategy, when arrived at responsibly, is rooted in a thorough diagnosis. Each of the phases
that precedes design or any other application work has a value at least as high as the application. Like creative, this thinking that precedes it should not be given away for free.
The line that separates proving our ability to solve the client's problem from actually solving his problem begins at the diagnosis. We correctly collect preliminary diagnostic
information in the buying cycle in order to assess the client's situation and make a determination of our ability to help. [But we should not progress so far as to share our
diagnosis with the client before we are hired and appropriately paid.]{.c_current__and__italic} Beyond that, we certainly should not be prescribing strategy without proper
diagnosis and compensation. Free pitching is free thinking, period. Once Hired Our need to not begin work without appropriate compensation does not end once the client commits to
working with us. The transition from intent prospect to new client takes place through a series of steps, each an escalation in his commitment. While we do not doubt his word when
he speaks it, we must remember that he is not fully committed until he has parted with his money. [Every client reserves the right to change his mind until he parts with his
money.]{.c_current__and__italic} The escalation of commitment begins with a private one, when he says to himself, "I'm going to do this." From there he moves to shared commitment
when he says aloud to us, "Let's do this." He then further escalates his commitment by signing his name to a legal document, be it a contract, letter of intent or memorandum of
understanding. But even now he is not truly committed. It is not until he has parted with his money that he is fully committed to moving forward with us; and even then we will
still have to reassure him through the inevitable period of buyer's remorse. We must recognize this escalation of commitment as a natural series of steps, and simply ensure that we
do not begin to solve the client's problem until he has completed all of them, the most important being the last: payment. One third to one half of the fee portion of the
engagement is appropriate, or even the entire fee for the first phase in a phased engagement. There is no need for us to be tentative about stating our requirement for a deposit
before we begin working for the client. We simply say, "We'll get started as soon as we receive the deposit, as is our policy for all new clients." We need not apologize for being
responsible business people. Never again should we find ourselves attempting to clarify issues of payment after we have begun working on the engagement. This is the simplest of
business tests, one for which there is no longer any excuse to fail: for all new clients, we will be paid in advance. []{#part0012.html} IX {The Ninth Proclamation} We Will Address
Issues of Money Early [We will resist putting ourselves in a position where we have overinvested in the buying cycle only to find the client cannot afford to pay us what we are
worth. We will set a Minimum Level of Engagement and declare it early in conversations so that if the client cannot afford us, both parties will be able to walk away before wasting
valuable resources.]{.c_current__and__bold} Let us commit to memory the Win Without Pitching rule of money: [Those who cannot talk about it, do not make
it.]{.c_current__and__italic} We claim to have been raised in a family or a culture where it is impolite to talk about money, but we know this is only a half-truth, don't we? In
every culture it is impolite to talk about money [in a personal setting.]{.c_current__and__italic} Just as ubiquitous as this rule is its corollary: in every culture it is
considered a sign of poor business acumen to avoid talking about money [in a business setting.]{.c_current__and__italic} We must reconcile these two conventions and not confuse
social mores with sound business practices. One of the goals of our enterprise is to make money; therefore, we must form the habit of talking about it early and often. The Stress
of Money Conversations How often have we found ourselves deep into a business development opportunity, heavily invested in time and other resources, only to learn at the end that
the client's budget was far below what was required for us to do the job? How is it that we get so far with such a gap in vital information? How is it that we allow ourselves to do
so much work without first having a meaningful conversation about the financial fit between both parties? The client has a budget, or at the very least, budget limitations, and we
should have our own parameters that define our minimum client size. With each party having such criteria, it becomes easy to determine as early as practical if there is a financial
fit. But for many of us, it is not easy: money conversations are a source of stress. When we take stock of the stress in our life, it is easy to see that almost all of it is caused
by things that are either out of our control -- or, more often, things that are within our control that we are avoiding. Stress is caused by the things we do not do. The root of
this money stress is not in the conversations themselves, but in not having them when we know we should. Overcoming this stress begins with deciding that from here forward we will
talk about money early and often. As soon as the opportunity arises we will lean into the discomfort of the topic, deal with it immediately and eliminate the stress from the
subject. In time we will learn to do this with ease. A Minimum Level of Engagement By following the sixth proclamation (We will be selective) we agree to be more purposeful about
the new clients we take on. We agree to establish the criteria that define with whom we will and will not work. Included in such criteria is budget, and specifically the fees that
such budget would represent. When we commit to deliberately managing a slow, steady churn of a small number of clients, we commit equally to the idea that each new client must be
of a certain size, representing a certain amount of fee income. We owe it to our prospective clients to share such fee expectations with them as soon as appropriate. The annual fee
minimum that we require becomes our Minimum Level of Engagement. It is an approximate number (usually somewhere around 10% of our total target fee income for the year) that we use
as a tool to quickly weed out poor financial fits, to escalate discussions of short term tactical projects into discussions of long term strategic engagements, and to help us begin
the money conversation early. Soon after a need is initially determined, it is incumbent on us to let the prospect know that we only work with a small number of new clients every
year and therefore can only add clients that will spend at or above our Minimum Level of Engagement. We are not looking to the client for an iron-clad commitment on this point, we
are simply saying, "This is the size of client it makes sense for us to work with, so if you decide at some point that you would like to work with us, we ask that you be prepared
to commit to fees at or above this level over the year." Committed but Flexible The Minimum Level of Engagement is a powerful tool that we want to commit to using often, but
without being overly rigid in its application. There will be times when we choose to waive our minimum, but let us not confuse the prerogative to waive it with the necessity for
using it in conversation. We want to develop the habit of routinely sharing our Minimum Level of Engagement in every first discussion of an opportunity with a new prospect, while
always reserving the right to waive it, if appropriate. Waiving it without mentioning it doesn't count. Such behavior is simply a failure to follow our own parameters of
selectivity. On Project Work As selective experts, it is not in our interest to pursue project work that is tactical in nature or well below our Minimum Level of Engagement. This
does not mean we do not take on project work from time to time. Obviously, we undertake project work for existing clients with whom we have larger, more comprehensive and strategic
relationships. We may choose to take on new project work if it meets certain criteria, such as, if we have capacity, if we can do it profitably, if it does not impair our ability
to obtain more appropriate strategic work from the client in the future and if we do not have to compete for it. Project work is a byproduct of pursuing a small number of more
meaningful engagements. We use it to fill gaps in capacity, but it is not the mainstay of our practice. If we were to accept even half of the project work that comes to us, then we
would find ourselves aimlessly building a tactical firm burdened by too many small clients and projects, with the commensurate challenges of poorer financial reward and less
fulfillment. We will refuse more project work than we accept, but from time to time we will accept it. It is here that we would waive our Minimum Level of Engagement. Waiving Our
Minimum Level of Engagement When we do choose to waive our minimum and accept either project work or the occasional more meaningful strategic engagements just below our minimum, we
can still benefit from its power by keeping it in place as an obstacle that we may or may not move aside. Delivering our Minimum Level of Engagement early teaches us of the
client's ability to afford us. If we find that the client does not meet our minimum, but for other reasons, may still represent a lucrative opportunity, we can simply follow up
with language such as, "Before I say no, let me ask you a few questions." This keeps the minimum in play and lets us continue to gather information to make an assessment of the
fit. In this way, we better manage the dynamics of the buying cycle. If we determine the fit is suitable and we decide we would take this client on as one of our few exceptions to
our minimum requirement, we must ensure that removing the minimum is the last thing we do before accepting the engagement. We never want to be in a position where we agree to waive
our minimum only to hear, "Great, we'll send you an RFP," or, "Now we need to meet with a few more firms." We use our Minimum Level of Engagement like any other objection that we
raise early for the client to overcome. Like the others, we reserve the right to remove it. This is the power of no. When we use it, it helps us measure and improve our place in
the relationship, and it's only as permanent as we need it to be. Walking Away One of the functions of business development is to keep bad clients or other poor fits out. Like the
gatekeepers at our clients' companies, we must establish who is allowed in for meaningful discussions and who should be gently guided away to a more appropriate relationship with
our esteemed competitor. The fastest way to efficiencies in our business development approach is to unabashedly uncover important information early and use that information to make
an honest and practical assessment of a fit. The answer to the question, "Can and will the client afford us?" is vital information that we must resolve to uncover as soon as
possible. Walking away from those that cannot pay us what we are worth lowers our average cost of sale and preserves both our positioning and any future business opportunities with
the client. Discussing money early is an easily formed habit that, once acquired, helps us better make the decisions that shape the future of our practice. []{#part0013.html} X
{The Tenth Proclamation} We Will Refuse to Work at a Loss [We will build our practice one profitable assignment at a time. Excepting our carefully selected pro bono engagements and
the occasional favor to our best and longest standing clients, every project will generate a profit that recognizes our expertise and the value we bring to our clients' businesses.
]{.c_current__and__bold} We will strive to win while charging more and thus validate our expert positioning. If we are not accomplishing this feat, then we have not yet succeeded
in implementing the earlier proclamations. We must dispossess ourselves of the notion that we can operate on thin profit margins at the beginning of a new client relationship and
then work to increase those margins over time. We know that profit margin, like power, only diminishes with time. The tenth proclamation builds on the others before it: the need
for diagnosis before prescription, the need for selectivity, the need to discuss issues of money early. Not only will we meet our obligation to diagnose before we prescribe, but we
will selectively work for those clients willing to pay us for such an approach. We Are Hired to Begin at the Beginning Like the medical professionals that our four-phase model of
diagnose, prescribe, apply and reapply suggests, our highest value offering is our ability to bring new perspective and understanding to our clients' problems. Success at each
phase depends on getting the earlier ones correct. The first two phases of diagnose and prescribe represent the strategic portion of the engagement -- the thinking phases that
precede the doing. Our strength in these first two phases is what sets us apart from our competition and keeps the commoditizing forces of the profession at bay. The thinking that
precedes and wraps our doing is our value-added differentiator. It is the basis of our deep expertise. Our opportunity for profit margin in the engagement is greatest in these
first two phases and diminishes from there. No client will willingly allow us to reverse this natural trend and command more profit margin as time goes on. We must admit that an
approach that sees us sacrifice significant margin to win business with hopes of making it up later is rooted either in naivety, a false agreement with a client who is telling us
what we want to hear, or in our own dishonest intentions of hoping to find profit that is not visible to the client. A key test remains to win while charging more. When we win by
charging less, price becomes our positioning that we wear like an albatross with that client forever: we become the price shop. On Discounting In our enterprise there will be no
loss leaders. As experts, we will not discount with new clients today for the opportunity to make money tomorrow. We will save the use of discounts for our best and longest serving
clients at times when they need our support. Legitimate price negotiations are fair game. If, from time to time, we decide that it makes sense to cut price to win the engagement,
we must ensure we never cut so deep as to jeopardize its profitability. By seeing that every engagement is profitable, we ensure that our firm is profitable. By allowing an
engagement with a new client to begin unprofitably, we set up what is almost certain to be a relationship of mutual discontent. Alternatives to Discounting We may negotiate from
time to time, but before we cut price we will ensure we have explored all the alternatives. [Guarantees]{.c_current__and__italic} → Clients may attempt to negotiate because they
are unsure of the value of our services. In these situations we can consider guarantees as alternatives to discounting. Not guarantees of return on investment -- for too many
variables remain out of our control. Not guarantees on our entire spectrum of offerings -- for they may be used against us late in the engagement. It is appropriate to guarantee
the first phase -- diagnosis and prescription -- of a phased engagement in order to reassure the client of the value of moving forward with us. There is far less risk in this
guarantee than there is in pitching free ideas and hoping to get paid. [Terms]{.c_current__and__italic} → Clients may see the value of our offering but attempt to negotiate based
on their inability to pay. In these situations, before we discount we should consider offering favorable terms that let the client pay over time. [Holding Our Ground
]{.c_current__and__italic}→ Sometimes clients will see our value and will be able to afford us, but will negotiate to get a better price nonetheless. Often, negotiating success in
these cases goes to the party most comfortable talking about money. The one with the least emotional baggage on the subject will do better at holding his ground. By following the
ninth proclamation (We will address issues of money early), we work to ensure that that party is us. Two Rules for Discounting When we have explored the alternatives and still we
choose to discount, we will adhere to two rules: [We Leave it to Last ]{.c_current__and__italic}→ First, we will ensure that cutting price is the last thing we do. We will search
for and address all other objections before we agree to discount. In one final sweep before we agree to accept less we will ask, "If we were to agree to this price, is there
anything else to stop us from deciding to work together right now?" If no objections or next steps remain, then we can cut our price and take the engagement. If there remain steps
to be taken or objections to address, then we will do so before we discount. [We Put it in Writing]{.c_current__and__italic} → Second, we must ensure that such discounts are
clearly identified in all written documentation, including contracts, estimates and invoices, in order to remind the client of the true value of our services. Our failure to abide
by this rule will almost certainly cost us in the future as the client "forgets" this proper value and references only what he previously paid. By recording our discount in all
price documentation in this way, we ensure that such a discount does not set a precedent for new pricing moving forward. Our Pro Bono Clients We will build a lucrative expert
practice one profitable engagement at a time, and then use the strength of our firm to help those that need it most. For these carefully selected charity clients, we will work for
free. We will leave to our competitors the unseemly practice of working for charities for free in the beginning in hopes of up-selling them to paid services. We will let others
choose their charities based on the business connections they hope to make in the boardroom, but not us. We will treat charity as charity and not confuse it with business
development. Among those charities whose causes align with our values, we will work with the neediest, commit to them unselfishly and sacrifice any opportunity to benefit
financially from this work. We will thus give ourselves the courage to ensure that every for-profit engagement is indeed profitable. This relieves the burden of the mushy middle of
barely-profitable clients and quasi-charitable causes. This is the emancipating duality of pro bono work: it is the charity we must do, and it gives us the courage to turn away
work that would be only marginally charitable or questionably profitable. Every one of our for-profit engagements will bring us profit. Our carefully selected pro bono clients will
bring us nothing but fulfillment. We will leave to our competition those clients that would neither bring us profit nor merit our charity. Using Pro Bono Work to Build Expertise In
the early days of a firm, there can sometimes be little foundation on which to build expertise. Here, pro bono -- or even deeply discounted work within the selected field of focus
-- might be required to build that expertise. In these cases, there is no shame in being upfront with a prospective client about working cheaply or for free to amass expertise.
Such an approach is valid, for a period of time. If we truly are trading profit for expertise building, then we will be honest and direct with our client about it. To do it quietly
is to employ the generalist tactic of competing on price. []{#part0014.html} XI {The Eleventh Proclamation} We Will Charge More [As our expertise deepens and our impact on our
clients' businesses grows, we will increase our pricing to reflect that impact. We will recognize that, to our clients, the smallest invoices are the most annoying. Through
charging more we will create more time to think on behalf of our clients and we will eliminate the need to invoice for changes and other surprises.]{.c_current__and__bold} By
following the money proclamations -- getting paid first (VIII), talking money early (IX), refusing to work at a loss (X), and now, charging more -- we develop a confidence that
attracts better clients and weeds out poor fits without wasting resources. Proper employment of our Minimum Level of Engagement helps in this regard: thrifty clients are repelled
and quality clients are attracted. In boldly charging more than our competitors, we advertise to our prospective clients that we have confidence in our ability to deliver high
quality outcomes. As we get better we will charge even more, until we find that equilibrium that captures the appropriate remuneration for the value of our services. Our premium
pricing will cost us clients from time to time; but if we are not losing business on price occasionally, then we are not charging enough. Conversely, if we need to win on price, we
