Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All
rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Getting Started with Studio Manager Search Articles in this section Getting Started with
Studio Manager Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Downloading Pixieset's Studio Manager App Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Getting Started with Booking KB 1.jpeg
Studio Manager’s Booking & Scheduling will transform your client onboarding process, with an elegant booking site with automated workflows that allow you to collect intake
information and payment as soon as clients book. Not sure how to get started? This article will guide you through our recommended steps. On this page: Create your first Session
Type Set up your payment and intake form options Set up your Booking Site Share your services with your clients Stay on top of your scheduled sessions Create your first Session
Type Getting Started with Booking KB 2.png Set up your services in your Session Types page (Bookings > Session Types). With each session type, get booked on your own terms by
determining your availability, cancellation and rescheduling policies, buffer times, and more. In turn, ensure you get the information you need from your client by setting up
required session intake form questions. Learn more about creating your first session type Set up your payment and intake form options Getting Started with Booking KB 3.png Get paid
on time without all the back and forth. Set up an online payment method in your Payment Settings to collect partial or full session fees from your clients as a required booking
step. This way, if a client wants to reserve their session, they need to pay for it upfront, providing you with more security. With any upgraded Studio Manager Plan or Suite Plan,
you can also add a questionnaire and contract to your booking flow. This is a great way to streamline your workflow and ensure that you have all the necessary information and
required agreements collected immediately upon booking. Learn more about setting up Pixieset Payments (US and Canada) Learn more about setting up payment methods Learn more about
adding intake forms Set up your Booking Site Getting Started with Booking KB 4.png Your booking site is a public website where your clients can view the services that you offer.
Based on the options you present on this page, clients can easily book and pay for a specific session, submit inquiries, and request availability from any device. Learn more about
customizing your booking site Share your services with your clients Getting Started with Booking KB 5.png Securing a booking has never been easier for you and your client. We
recommend adding links to your available services on your photography website, social media accounts, and your Google Business profile. Learn more about sharing your services with
clients Stay on top of your scheduled sessions Getting Started with Booking KB 6.png We make it easy for you to stay organized even as client bookings come pouring in. You can view
and manage all your sessions from your Sessions page (Bookings > Sessions) or your calendar (Bookings > Calendar), which you can sync with your Google Calendar. Learn more about
syncing your sessions to your calendar Need more help? For more information on the ways that Booking & Scheduling can streamline your booking workflow, see our full list of
comprehensive help articles here. Can’t find what you are looking for? Send us a message from the chat bubble in your Studio Manager Dashboard! Was this article helpful? Related
articles Customizing your Booking Site Creating Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Adding booking and scheduling to your website Setting up a Custom Domain for Pixieset
Website Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help
Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Getting Started with Studio Manager Search Articles in this section Getting Started with Studio Manager Getting Started with
Booking & Scheduling Downloading Pixieset's Studio Manager App Downloading Pixieset's Studio Manager App Studio Mobile App.jpeg At Pixieset, we know you need to run your business
wherever your client work takes you. As an addition to Studio Manager, we are very excited to announce the Studio Manager mobile app! Download on your device: Go to the App Store
(iOS) or Play Store (Android) and search for Pixieset - Studio Manager. Download the app and log in using your existing credentials. Get started, and leave us a review if you enjoy
the app! Download_on_the_App_Store_Badge_US-UK_RGB_blk_092917.png GetItOnGooglePlay_Badge_Web_color_English (1).png What can the app do? The Studio Manager mobile app is designed
to support your day-to-day workflows on the go: Stay on top of upcoming sessions and client updates with notifications Message clients anytime, anywhere with Inbox Respond to
session inquiries and book clients immediately Create and send invoices, contracts, questionnaires, and quotes View contact information and manage client projects and more! What if
I had early access to the beta app? The beta app will eventually expire, so we recommend switching to the official app as soon as possible for a seamless transition. After you’ve
installed the official version, you can uninstall the TestFlight app or leave the beta program on Play Store. Need assistance? If you have specific questions, please contact us at
support@pixieset.com or directly through the app! Was this article helpful? Related articles Getting Started with Studio Manager Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Managing
Client Communication with Inbox What is a Mobile Gallery App? How do clients book a session? Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you
within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Contacts Search Articles in this
section Importing Contacts to Studio Manager Creating New Clients, Leads, and Other Contacts Capturing Leads and Contacts with Contact Forms Exporting Contacts from Studio Manager
Managing Client Communication with Inbox Creating Custom Email Templates in Studio Manager How do I check the email history of a session or document? Importing Contacts to Studio
Manager Do you have existing contacts that you’d like to manage in Studio Manager? With a CSV file, you can easily use the import feature in Contacts to bulk transfer your contacts
into Studio Manager. Importing Clients to SM 1.png There are two ways to import your contacts in Studio Manager: via a third-party platform’s CSV file or with Pixieset’s CSV file
template. This article will cover both options, as well as go over some frequently asked questions. If you are looking to export your contacts, see Exporting Contacts from Studio
Manager instead. On this page: Importing a third-party platform’s CSV file Importing with Pixieset’s CSV template Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ’s) Importing a third-party
platform’s CSV file Studio Manager supports CSV files from the following platforms: Bloom.io Dubsado Honeybook Session Shootproof Studio Ninja 17Hats If you have a supported file,
you can import your entire client list exactly as-is by going to Contacts > Import. It’s that easy! Once your file is uploaded, Studio Manager will automatically generate your
contact list as clients using the information provided. If you need to sort your contacts by other contact types (e.g. “Lead” or “Other” instead of “Client”), you can edit your
contacts’ type on an individual basis afterwards. Note: Any contacts that share the same email address as existing contacts in Studio Manager will be skipped during the import.
Importing with Pixieset’s CSV template If you do not have a supported file from one of the platforms listed above, you can use Studio Manager’s CSV template to bulk import contacts
instead. To download the template, go to Contacts > Import and click “Download”. Importing Clients to SM 2.png Once downloaded, open the template in a spreadsheet software like
Microsoft Excel or Google Sheets. The template will contain pre-determined column headers to help you organize your contacts’ information. In order to successfully import your
contacts using this template, organize all of your contacts’ information according to the column headers. Do not re-label the headers. Here is an example of what a correctly
formatted CSV file looks like: Importing Clients to SM 3.png Once your CSV file has been formatted, you can return to Contacts > Import and upload it. When the import is completed,
Studio Manager will automatically generate your contact list as clients using the information provided. If you need to sort your contacts by other contact types (e.g. “Lead” or
“Other” instead of “Client”), you can edit your contacts’ type on an individual basis afterwards. Note: Any contacts that share the same email address as existing contacts in
Studio Manager will be skipped during the import. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Can I import contacts that registered their email addresses in my galleries? What if I have an
email address in my CSV file that already exists as a contact in Studio Manager? What if I don’t have some information for specific contacts yet? What does the “There are missing
headers in this file. Please upload a CSV file and try again” message mean? Can I import contacts that registered their email addresses in my galleries? Yes! If you have exported a
CSV from any of your collections’ Email Registrations, you can upload the file exactly as-is into your Contacts page. When the import is completed, they will be generated as
clients in Studio Manager. What if I have an email address in my CSV file that already exists as a contact in Studio Manager? Any contacts that share the same email address as
existing contacts in Studio Manager will be skipped entirely during the import. In other words, our system will not overwrite your pre-existing Studio Manager information. If you
need to modify an existing contact, you can do so by editing their contact profile. What if I don’t have some information for specific contacts yet? The only required field for a
contact is their email address, which our system needs to generate a contact profile. Every other field is optional, so you can simply leave them blank in your CSV file if you
don’t have the information for that specific contact yet. After your CSV file is imported, you can always edit your contacts’ profiles in your Studio Manager Dashboard as needed.
What does the “There are missing headers in this file. Please upload a CSV file and try again” message mean? This error appears when your CSV file does not contain the exact column
headers provided by our CSV template. Here is an example of a correctly formatted CSV file: Importing Clients to SM 3.png To resolve this error, complete the following: Update your
CSV file so that the first row of your document contains the column headers from the CSV template. Do not re-label the column headers. Confirm that all of your contacts’
information is organized underneath according to the column headers (e.g. first names are listed under the “First name” header). Save your CSV file and upload it again in your
Contacts page. Was this article helpful? Related articles Creating New Clients, Leads, and Other Contacts How do I check the email history of a session or document? Getting Started
with Booking & Scheduling Creating Mini Sessions Uploading Videos to your Collections Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24
hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Contacts Search Articles in this section
Importing Contacts to Studio Manager Creating New Clients, Leads, and Other Contacts Capturing Leads and Contacts with Contact Forms Exporting Contacts from Studio Manager Managing
Client Communication with Inbox Creating Custom Email Templates in Studio Manager How do I check the email history of a session or document? Creating New Clients, Leads, and Other
Contacts Studio Manager makes it easy to track all of your contacts and their respective documents, sessions, and galleries in one place. In this article, learn about how contacts
work in Studio Manager, and how to add them. On this page: Contact Types in Studio Manager Contact Automation Adding a Contact Contact Types in Studio Manager Creating New Clients,
Leads, and Other Contacts 1.1.png There are three types of contacts that you can add to Studio Manager: Client: A contact who has booked a session, or has agreed to do business.
Lead: A contact that is a potential client. This may be someone that expressed interest in your photography services but has not committed to booking you yet. Other: A contact that
is related to your photography business in some way. This may be a local vendor, an event partner, or a personal acquaintance that you want to keep track of. Note: If a contact’s
type is “Other”, they will be sorted separately from the rest of your contacts. You can locate these contacts under the Other filter in your Contacts page. Contact Automation You
can always manually manage and tweak a contact’s type at any time, but Studio Manager has the following automation to help you keep your contact list effortlessly up to date: If a
brand new contact submits a session inquiry for any of your session types, they are automatically created as a lead. If a brand new contact books a session, they are automatically
created as a client. If an existing lead or “other” contact books a session or pays an invoice, they are automatically converted into a client. If you have Inbox, Studio Manager
will also automatically generate “Other” contacts based on relevant activity from other Pixieset products. These contacts are created when: A brand new Store customer purchases
from one of your collections A brand new Client Gallery client downloads from one of your collections You send a collection via the email sharing feature with a brand new contact
Adding a Contact You can create a new contact whenever you set up a new project, document, or session. You can also always create a new contact directly from the Contacts page.
Tip: If you have multiple clients you’d like to add to Studio Manager in one go, check out our import option. Creating New Clients, Leads, and Other Contacts 1.2.png When manually
adding a new contact, simply confirm its contact type and fill in the required fields. You can always change this information afterwards. Creating New Clients, Leads, and Other
Contacts 1.3.png Once this is set up, your contact is ready to be assigned to any new projects, documents, or sessions in Studio Manager. Was this article helpful? Related articles
Importing Contacts to Studio Manager Responding to a Session Inquiry Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Choosing the right Subscription How do I check the email history of a
session or document? Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved.
PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Contacts Search Articles in this section Importing Contacts to Studio Manager Creating New Clients, Leads, and
Other Contacts Capturing Leads and Contacts with Contact Forms Exporting Contacts from Studio Manager Managing Client Communication with Inbox Creating Custom Email Templates in
Studio Manager How do I check the email history of a session or document? Capturing Leads and Contacts with Contact Forms 10.1_2 Contact forms-2.jpg Regardless of whether you are
just starting out or an experienced photographer, having an easy channel for those interested in your photography services to get in touch with you is essential for your business
With Studio Manager, you can easily create customized forms that you can publish online or embed on your photography website. Form submissions are automatically sent to your email
and the contact will be automatically created in your Contacts page so you can stay organized with minimum effort. On this page: Creating your Contact Form Field Types Form
Settings Sharing your Contact Form Embedding your form in your Pixieset Website What happens when my form is submitted? Creating your Contact Form Setting up your first form is
easy! In your Studio Manager Dashboard, go to Contacts > Contact Forms and click Create Contact Form. From there, name your contact form before being taken to the form builder.
Capturing Leads and Contacts with Contact Forms 2.png To help you get a head start, your new form will be populated with first name, last name, email and message fields. Field
Types You can add more fields to your form by hovering over a field and clicking the green + button underneath. Hovering over a specific field will also reveal additional
customization options, such as the ability to re-order the field, or set it as required. Capturing Leads and Contacts with Contact Forms 3.png The following contact info fields are
available for a contact form. When a lead submits the form, Studio Manager will use the information provided in these fields to generate a contact profile. First Name and Last Name
Email Company Name Address Phone Number Note: The First Name, Last Name, and Email fields cannot be removed from your contact form. In addition to the contact info fields, you also
have the option to add the following customizable fields to your form: Short Text and Long Text: These text blocks allows you to accept freeform responses from your contact.
Multiple Choice: Multiple choice fields can be used to list other several possible options, from which your contact can choose their preferred choice. Checkboxes: The checkbox
field lets your contact select one or more option from a list of choices you provide. Date: The date block lets your contact to select a calendar date (e.g. 01/15/2024), as well as
a time (e.g. 2:30 PM) if required. Explanation: The explanation block allows you to share additional information with your client before they continue to a specific section of the
contact form. Form Settings In the left-hand Settings section of the form builder, you have the option to adjust specific behaviour and labels of your form. Capturing Leads and
Contacts with Contact Forms 4.png These settings include: New Contact Type: Choose a contact type (Lead, Client or Other) for new contacts created from form submissions. New
contacts will automatically appear in your Contacts page. Button Label: Customize what the button to submit your form says. Form Title: Assign a title that your client will see at
the top of the form (Optional). After Form Submission: Determine what your contact sees after they submit the form. Show success message: Present a short, custom message after your
contact submits the form. Redirect to another page: Direct your contact to a specific webpage after they submit the form. Sharing your Contact Form When your contact form is ready
to be shared with the world, click Publish in the top right hand corner of your form builder. From the pop-up that appears, share your contact form as a direct link or retrieve a
custom code to embed your form on a site. Capturing Leads and Contacts with Contact Forms 5.png Note: Certain third-party site builders, including Wix, do no support URL redirects.
In this scenario, we recommend showing a success message instead of redirecting to a webpage after a form submission. Embedding your form in your Pixieset Website If you are a
Pixieset Website user on the Pro Website Plan or the Pro/Ultimate Suite Plan, you can paste your code into a custom embed code block so your form appears right on your site! This
can be done in a few steps: In your Website Builder, add a custom embed code block to the page where you’d like your contact form to show up. You can locate the block under the
“Others” category when adding a new content block. Click on the custom code embed block and paste your contact form’s code into it. If you don’t have the code for your contact form
copied yet, go to your Contact Forms page to retrieve it. Capturing Leads and Contacts with Contact Forms 6.png Publish your Website so your contact form appears to everyone
visiting your website! You also have the ability to review how your contact form will appear first by toggling on Safe Preview for your custom embed code block. What happens when
my form is submitted? If your form is completed by a new contact, Studio Manager will automatically generate a profile for them based on the form’s New Contact Type setting. This
new profile will automatically appear in your Contacts page. From there, your contact’s submission is automatically sent to Inbox, as well as your account email, for review. Tip:
Having trouble locating your form submissions? Make sure to check your spam folder or search your inbox for emails from mailer@pixiesetmail.com with “Contact Information
submission” as the subject line. Was this article helpful? Related articles Adding a custom embed code block Organizing your Workflow with Projects Creating Mini Sessions Creating
and Sending a Questionnaire Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact
Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Contacts Search Articles in this section Importing Contacts
to Studio Manager Creating New Clients, Leads, and Other Contacts Capturing Leads and Contacts with Contact Forms Exporting Contacts from Studio Manager Managing Client
Communication with Inbox Creating Custom Email Templates in Studio Manager How do I check the email history of a session or document? Exporting Contacts from Studio Manager As a
photographer, managing your contact list is crucial for marketing, growing client relationships, and record-keeping. Exporting your contacts from Studio Manager allows you to use
the data in other third party tools to help grow your business. On this page Exporting your Contacts What information is included in the CSV file? Exporting your Contacts To export
contacts from Studio Manager: In Contacts, click Actions > Export Contacts. Select the contact types (clients, leads, other) you’d like to export. Click Export. Studio Manager will
automatically generate a CSV for you to download. This file can then be uploaded into your preferred third party tool for use. exportingcontactssm.gif What information is included
in the CSV file? The CSV file will include all available details for each contact, organized into the following columns: First Name Last Name Company Email Type (Client, Lead,
Other) Address Line 1 Address Line 2 City State/Province Zip/Postal Code Country Notes Was this article helpful? Related articles Importing Contacts to Studio Manager Creating New
Clients, Leads, and Other Contacts Capturing Leads and Contacts with Contact Forms Creating Mini Sessions Setting up Payment Methods in Studio Manager Can't find what you're
looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset -
Help Center Studio Manager Contacts Search Articles in this section Importing Contacts to Studio Manager Creating New Clients, Leads, and Other Contacts Capturing Leads and
Contacts with Contact Forms Exporting Contacts from Studio Manager Managing Client Communication with Inbox Creating Custom Email Templates in Studio Manager How do I check the
email history of a session or document? Managing Client Communication with Inbox Intercom Cover 1200x700_1.jpeg Inbox is the easiest way to email clients and centralize all your
communications in Studio Manager. Whether it is an update about a session, a follow up about a document, or just a thank you note, contact your client right from Inbox and get
instant notifications when they respond. On this page: Using Inbox File Attachments Inbox Settings Client Side Experience Using Inbox Inbox is available in your Studio Manager
Dashboard. To send an email to a client, simply click New Message and start a new conversation. Create custom email templates to further streamline your workflow. Inbox1.1.gif
Whenever your client responds, you will get a notification instantly in the Dashboard and your own email inbox, so you can pick up right where you left off. If you need to refer to
a past correspondence, use the filter options or the search function to quickly find what you’re looking for. Inbox2.webp File Attachments Inbox supports common file types for
documents, spreadsheets, media, and more, up to a total of 25 MB per message. Supported file formats include: Document files: .doc, .docx, .pdf, .ppt, .pptx, .rtf, .key, .numbers,
.pages, .xls, .xlsx, .csv, .txt, .html, .htm, .xml, Media files: .bmp, .gif, .jpeg, .jpg, .png, .svg, .tiff, .tif, .psd, .avi, .mkv, .mp4, .mov, .wmv, .aac, .mp3, .ogg, .wav Other:
.ics, .zip, .rar, .tar When drafting an email, click Attach files to add your file to your message. You can share investment guides (e.g. pricing/package guides), style guides,
“don’t forget” lists, or client inspiration photos, to name a few examples. Inbox1.2.png Inbox Settings Inbox will display all your Studio Manager emails. If you would like to
manage your other Pixieset emails in Inbox, you can turn this on in Settings > Preferences. Changes will apply immediately for future conversations. Inbox3.webp Client Side
Experience When you send a message from Inbox, your contact will receive the message in their own email account’s inbox. Your contact will be able to reply directly, and you will
receive their response right in Studio Manager, as well as in your own email account’s inbox. You can respond from either location to continue the conversation. Was this article
helpful? Related articles Creating Custom Email Templates in Studio Manager Creating New Clients, Leads, and Other Contacts How do I check the email history of a session or
document? Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Creating Custom Templates for Email Invites Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you
within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Contacts Search Articles in this
section Importing Contacts to Studio Manager Creating New Clients, Leads, and Other Contacts Capturing Leads and Contacts with Contact Forms Exporting Contacts from Studio Manager
Managing Client Communication with Inbox Creating Custom Email Templates in Studio Manager How do I check the email history of a session or document? Creating Custom Email
Templates in Studio Manager Save time and keep a consistent brand voice in Studio Manager communications with email templates. Studio Manager’s email templates allow you to save
custom messages that you use frequently in your photography workflow. Instead of starting from scratch whenever you send an email to a client, just apply your template to save
time. On this page: Creating an Email Template Applying a Template Creating an Email Template Email templates are a perfect solution for any communications you send out repeatedly
in Studio Manager, such as document and session emails. To prepare an email template: Go to Templates and in the top right, click New Template > Emails. In the email composer, set
up your template. Give the template a name and subject line, then start typing out your custom message. Highlight any text in the email body to format it (e.g. bold, italicize,
hyperlink, etc.). Email Templates 1.png Your email template will automatically save as you write. Once complete, it will be listed under Templates > Emails to review and modify at
any time. Applying a Template When sending an email in Studio Manager, click Insert Email Template and select your template to apply it to the email. You will always have the
option to customize your email further before sending it. Email Templates 2.gif Was this article helpful? Related articles How do I create Templates for my Pixieset Emails? Getting
Started with Booking & Scheduling Setting up a Custom Domain for Pixieset Website Creating Mini Sessions I received a “Payment on the way” email. Where is my payment? Can't find
what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us
Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Contacts Search Articles in this section Importing Contacts to Studio Manager Creating New Clients, Leads, and Other Contacts Capturing Leads
and Contacts with Contact Forms Exporting Contacts from Studio Manager Managing Client Communication with Inbox Creating Custom Email Templates in Studio Manager How do I check the
email history of a session or document? How do I check the email history of a session or document? If you sent your client a document or session via the built-in email sharing
option, you can review its email history to confirm whether your client has received it. Within your Studio Manager Dashboard, click into your document/session and select Share >
Email History. How do I check the email history of a session or document?.png If you need to review the contents of the email or send a follow-up, go to Inbox > Sent to locate the
correspondence between you and your client. How do I check the email history of a session or document? 2.png Email History Statuses When viewing a session or document’s email
history, the corresponding recipient, subject, status, and date sent of each email is shown. How do I check the email history of a session or document 3.png There are a few
different statuses you may see in your Email History under Status: Pending: The email is in the queue waiting to be sent. Sent: The email has been successfully sent from our server
and delivered to your client's email server. Soft-bounce: Typically, this means that there is a temporary delivery issue to an email address. Although there are a number of reasons
that a soft bounce might occur, the most common reasons are: Recipient's email server is down Mailbox is full Message is too large Rejected or Hard Bounce: Typically, this
indicates that there is a permanent issue and the email is undeliverable. Although there are a number of reasons that a hard bounce might occur, the most common reasons are:
Incorrect recipient email address Incorrect domain name Recipient email server has completely blocked email delivery If your client is unable to receive emails in their inbox,
consider sharing their document or session via a direct link instead. Was this article helpful? Related articles Importing Contacts to Studio Manager Creating Full Session Types
Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Analytics for your website Creating Mini Sessions Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you
within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Contacts Search Articles in this
section Importing Contacts to Studio Manager Creating New Clients, Leads, and Other Contacts Capturing Leads and Contacts with Contact Forms Exporting Contacts from Studio Manager
Managing Client Communication with Inbox Creating Custom Email Templates in Studio Manager How do I check the email history of a session or document? Importing Contacts to Studio
Manager Do you have existing contacts that you’d like to manage in Studio Manager? With a CSV file, you can easily use the import feature in Contacts to bulk transfer your contacts
into Studio Manager. Importing Clients to SM 1.png There are two ways to import your contacts in Studio Manager: via a third-party platform’s CSV file or with Pixieset’s CSV file
template. This article will cover both options, as well as go over some frequently asked questions. If you are looking to export your contacts, see Exporting Contacts from Studio
Manager instead. On this page: Importing a third-party platform’s CSV file Importing with Pixieset’s CSV template Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ’s) Importing a third-party
platform’s CSV file Studio Manager supports CSV files from the following platforms: Bloom.io Dubsado Honeybook Session Shootproof Studio Ninja 17Hats If you have a supported file,
you can import your entire client list exactly as-is by going to Contacts > Import. It’s that easy! Once your file is uploaded, Studio Manager will automatically generate your
contact list as clients using the information provided. If you need to sort your contacts by other contact types (e.g. “Lead” or “Other” instead of “Client”), you can edit your
contacts’ type on an individual basis afterwards. Note: Any contacts that share the same email address as existing contacts in Studio Manager will be skipped during the import.
Importing with Pixieset’s CSV template If you do not have a supported file from one of the platforms listed above, you can use Studio Manager’s CSV template to bulk import contacts
instead. To download the template, go to Contacts > Import and click “Download”. Importing Clients to SM 2.png Once downloaded, open the template in a spreadsheet software like
Microsoft Excel or Google Sheets. The template will contain pre-determined column headers to help you organize your contacts’ information. In order to successfully import your
contacts using this template, organize all of your contacts’ information according to the column headers. Do not re-label the headers. Here is an example of what a correctly
formatted CSV file looks like: Importing Clients to SM 3.png Once your CSV file has been formatted, you can return to Contacts > Import and upload it. When the import is completed,
Studio Manager will automatically generate your contact list as clients using the information provided. If you need to sort your contacts by other contact types (e.g. “Lead” or
“Other” instead of “Client”), you can edit your contacts’ type on an individual basis afterwards. Note: Any contacts that share the same email address as existing contacts in
Studio Manager will be skipped during the import. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Can I import contacts that registered their email addresses in my galleries? What if I have an
email address in my CSV file that already exists as a contact in Studio Manager? What if I don’t have some information for specific contacts yet? What does the “There are missing
headers in this file. Please upload a CSV file and try again” message mean? Can I import contacts that registered their email addresses in my galleries? Yes! If you have exported a
CSV from any of your collections’ Email Registrations, you can upload the file exactly as-is into your Contacts page. When the import is completed, they will be generated as
clients in Studio Manager. What if I have an email address in my CSV file that already exists as a contact in Studio Manager? Any contacts that share the same email address as
existing contacts in Studio Manager will be skipped entirely during the import. In other words, our system will not overwrite your pre-existing Studio Manager information. If you
need to modify an existing contact, you can do so by editing their contact profile. What if I don’t have some information for specific contacts yet? The only required field for a
contact is their email address, which our system needs to generate a contact profile. Every other field is optional, so you can simply leave them blank in your CSV file if you
don’t have the information for that specific contact yet. After your CSV file is imported, you can always edit your contacts’ profiles in your Studio Manager Dashboard as needed.
What does the “There are missing headers in this file. Please upload a CSV file and try again” message mean? This error appears when your CSV file does not contain the exact column
headers provided by our CSV template. Here is an example of a correctly formatted CSV file: Importing Clients to SM 3.png To resolve this error, complete the following: Update your
CSV file so that the first row of your document contains the column headers from the CSV template. Do not re-label the column headers. Confirm that all of your contacts’
information is organized underneath according to the column headers (e.g. first names are listed under the “First name” header). Save your CSV file and upload it again in your
Contacts page. Was this article helpful? Related articles Creating New Clients, Leads, and Other Contacts How do I check the email history of a session or document? Getting Started
with Booking & Scheduling Creating Mini Sessions Uploading Videos to your Collections Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24
hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Projects and Settings Search Articles in this
section Organizing your Workflow with Projects Customizing your Branding for Studio Manager Managing your Studio Manager Settings Organizing your Workflow with Projects Bring all
your clients’ documents, sessions, payments, collections, and notes together with Projects. Projects Splash.gif With Studio Manager, you can effortlessly build projects for each
client to manage all of their documents, sessions, payments, and notes in one place. The projects board allows you to see all of your projects at a glance and move them towards
completion to help keep your workflow organized. To learn more about Projects, check out our blog post and video tutorial. On this page: How do Projects work? Connecting
pre-existing work to a project Organizing your Projects How do Projects work? Whenever you begin work for a client, create a project to group the documents, sessions, payments, and
notes that you need to keep track of. This new project will appear in your customizable project board, where you can create and manage documents and session details in one place.
Projects 1.png Connecting pre-existing work to a project You can set up a newly created project with documents, sessions, conversations, and collections that are already in-flight.
Documents and sessions While viewing the document or session from your Dashboard, click Actions > Link to Project. Then, select your active project from the dropdown menu that
appears. LinktoProject.png Client Gallery Collections To assign a collection to a project, select the project from your Projects page, click the + icon next to the Client Gallery
Collections section > select the collection > and Save. Any of the project contacts will be linked to the collection. CollectionProject.png Inbox messages For conversations in
Inbox, click ••• > Link to Project. LinktoProject2.png Organizing your Projects Studio Manager is set up with popular workflow stages and project types to help you get started
right away. As you proceed through your tasks, drag and drop the project from stage to stage on your board. No matter how many active projects you have, your project board makes it
easy to track everything you’re working on. Projects 2.gif Want to customize your project board to further reflect your workflow? Add, remove, or reorganize stages directly on the
