Website, you can display your best work and engage with potential clients. Our website builder comes with a wide range of tools for customization, blogging, analytics and more!
Available Subscriptions Free With the Free plan, you can create a fully functional website with up to 15 pages, 100 photos, and 5 blog posts. Choose from all of our beautiful
themes to get started, and customize your site with your own photos and content. You’ll get a unique URL (your-username.mypixieset.com) that you can use to attract visitors and get
listed in search engine results. Upgraded With an upgraded subscription, your website can have an unlimited number of pages, photos, and blog posts, and you can get access to
additional features like connecting your own custom domain, using premium font, color, and block options, and more! Upgraded features start at $12/month. Learn more: Website plans,
pricing and features Studio Manager studiomanager.png Studio Manager has all the tools you need to manage the business side of being a photographer, right from your dashboard.
Allow your clients to book a session with you online, collect payments, and create and send beautiful quotes, invoices, contracts and more. Available Subscriptions Free With the
Free plan, you can send invoices and collect payments from clients, and create a limited number of quotes, contracts, and questionnaires. You can also allow your clients to
schedule a photo session with you using the booking tool! Upgraded With an upgraded subscription, you can send an unlimited number of any document type, and create multiple session
types for your clients to book online. You can also set up custom branding to personalize your clients’ experience, and get access to other advanced features like automated
reminders, accepting tips, and more! Upgraded features start at $12/month. Learn more: Studio Manager plans, pricing and features Suite Plans There are a range of Suite plans
available, so you can take advantage of all of the products on the Pixieset platform. A Suite plan offers the best value as it automatically includes additional storage capacity
and upgraded features for Client Gallery, Website, and Studio Manager — all in one simple, affordable subscription. If you plan on regularly using more than one Pixieset product,
our Suite Plans are the best choice! Available Subscriptions A Suite plan will replace any existing individual plans you currently have. Plans start at $28/month. Learn more: Suite
plans, pricing and features Was this article helpful? Related articles Managing your Subscription My Upgrade/Subscription Payment was Declined All you need to know about Domains
Uploading Videos to your Collections Privacy Options for Client Gallery Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours.
Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Account and Billing Subscriptions & Billing Search Articles in this
section Managing your Subscription Choosing the right Subscription When Will My Credit Card Be Charged? My Upgrade/Subscription Payment was Declined Refer a friend to Pixieset and
get $20 When Will My Credit Card Be Charged? There are a few situations when your credit card on file will be charged by Pixieset. This article covers the potential situations and
where you can review these charges. Subscription Accounts Monthly Yearly Lab Fees Offline Payments Coupons Boutique Packaging Reviewing your Billing History Subscription Accounts
Monthly If you have upgraded your account, and opted for monthly subscription payments, Pixieset will charge your credit card on file on the same day of every month. This generally
will fall on the day that your subscription was originally upgraded; the only exception would be if the payment was declined, and we had to retry the payment on a later date than
usual. The next payment would still be taken on the original date, as your billing cycle remains unchanged. Monthly subscriptions are automatically renewed at the end of the
billing cycle, to ensure a seamless experience for you and your clients. Yearly If you have upgraded your account, and opted for yearly subscription payments, your account will be
charged on the same date, once yearly, to continue your subscription service. Yearly subscriptions are automatically renewed at the end of the billing cycle, to ensure a seamless
experience for you and your clients. Lab Fees Offline Payments If you are using the offline payment option in your Store to allow your clients to pay you via an alternative method
(e.g. cash, cheque, in person) you are responsible for handling the payment outside of Pixieset and then marking the order as paid once you have received the funds. Your credit
card on file will then be charged for the Cost of Goods Sold if applicable. You can find more information on offline payments here. Coupons If you have provided your customer with
a Coupon or Gift Card to use during checkout which brings their Order total to less than the cost of Cost of Goods Sold (COGS), and they checked out using Stripe or Offline
Payment, then we will need to charge the balance of the Cost of Goods directly from your credit card. For example, if the total of the Order came to $10.00 with a Coupon, but the
COGS came to $20.00, we will need to pull the remaining $10.00 from your credit card to send to the Lab to cover the costs on the Order. This will be charged immediately after the
Order is placed. Boutique Packaging If you have decided to go the extra mile for your clients, and add Boutique Packaging to their Order, then we will charge your credit card on
file for the specified amount. We are not able to pull the money for the boutique packing from your transaction in these cases, as it was not an original item on the Order.
Reviewing your Billing History You can easily review your billing history at any time to confirm any subscription costs or lab fees you have paid for. Just click on your Profile
Icon > Billing and scroll down to the Billing History section. From here, you can click into any charge to learn more about it. Lab_Fees.png Was this article helpful? Related
articles Managing your Subscription My Upgrade/Subscription Payment was Declined Choosing the right Subscription Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Getting Paid for your
Store Orders Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET
Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Account and Billing Profile & Account Settings Search Articles in this section Updating your profile or changing your username and
password Can I add terms and policies to my Galleries? How can I update my business information? All about Notifications Can I add terms and policies to my Galleries? You may be
required to display a Terms of Service and/or Privacy Policy to your clients, based on local or regional business regulations. You can add Terms of Service or a Privacy Policy to
be displayed within Client Gallery and any Mobile Gallery Apps in a few simple steps! To start, head to Client Gallery > select the Settings tab > then Preferences. terms_1.png
From here, scroll down and you can add or edit your Terms of Service and/or Privacy Policy sections. terms_2.png Clients can view these details by clicking on the links available
on their Collection as well as on the Contact Info page within any Mobile Gallery App. terms_3.png Note: Links to this information will only be shown if information has been
entered and saved in these fields. If you've left these sections blank, no link will be shown. What if I've already added Terms in my Store? The Terms of Sale and Digital Image
License options in your Store Settings are specific to your Store. Links to this information are only shown to clients on the checkout page when placing an Order. The addition of
Terms or Service or a Privacy Policy would be displayed on all Client Galleries and Mobile Apps. Learn more here: Adding Terms of Sale or a Digital Image License to your Store
Impressum (Germany, Austria and Switzerland Only) Users that have their Business Country set to Germany, Austria, or Switzerland will also have the ability to add an Impressum to
their Profile, as is required in these countries. Links to this information will be displayed alongside the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy, where applicable. Was this article
helpful? Related articles Privacy options for your website How can I update my business information? Editing your website's footer Managing your Client Gallery Homepage Where do I
get my PayPal API Credentials? Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights
reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Account and Billing Profile & Account Settings Search Articles in this section Updating your profile or changing
your username and password Can I add terms and policies to my Galleries? How can I update my business information? All about Notifications How can I update my business information?
You can update your Profile information at any time by clicking on Profile Icon > Profile. This page includes your Business Name, Website, Address, Phone Number, and more!
ProfileMain.png In addition to your Profile information, you can add your Social Media pages (Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram), which will be displayed using the corresponding
icons on your Pixieset Homepage. ProfileSocial.png You can also update your Account information at any time by going to Profile Icon > Account. This page includes your Account
Email address, Username, and Password. Account.png Was this article helpful? Related articles Where can I add custom business information to my invoice header? Choosing the right
Subscription Managing your Studio Manager Settings You've reached the wrong email inbox Promoting Store Sales with a Coupon Banner Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our
support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Account and
Billing Profile & Account Settings Search Articles in this section Updating your profile or changing your username and password Can I add terms and policies to my Galleries? How
can I update my business information? All about Notifications Updating your profile or changing your username and password On this page Profile information Business Details and
Business Address Standards & Formats Social Account information Username Account Email & Password Account Security Profile information Information included in your Pixieset Profile
is used throughout your account to automatically include your business details, website, and social links, and more, where appropriate. You can review and update your profile
details from the Profile page (click your Profile Icon > Profile). To make changes to any of the options on this page, simply update the appropriate field and click Save.
save-change.png Business Details and Business Address In the Business Details section, you can add your Profile Icon, which is shown on your Client Gallery homepage, as well as in
your galleries if you have not set a collection cover logo. If a specific Client Gallery logo or collection cover logo has not been added, your Business Name will also be shown on
your Client Gallery homepage. You can add your First Name and Last Name which will be used throughout Studio Manager documents where applicable (e.g. contract signatures). On your
Client Gallery homepage, your business name will be linked to the Website you have listed in your profile. This can be set to your Pixieset Website address, or any other website
you want to share! Your Phone Number and Biography are shown on your Client Gallery homepage, if your homepage settings have those options turned on. Learn more: Managing your
Client Gallery Homepage The Contact Email is an email address listed on your Client Gallery homepage. If you have a contact form set up on your Pixieset Website, submissions to
that form will be sent to this email address. Your Business Address is to determine the currency used in your Pixieset Store, as well as the available print labs and tax settings
for your orders. Your Business Address, along with your phone number, contact email, website, and social links can also appear in your Studio Manager booking site, if you have
those options turned on. Learn more: Customizing and Sharing your Booking Site Standards & Formats Here you can set your timezone and the preferred date format which appears
throughout Pixieset. The timezone set here is the default used in Studio Manager, though you can manually change this for any new sessions you create. Social You can connect a
number of social media accounts to your Pixieset profile; links to these social media profiles can be shown in your Client Gallery, Website, and Studio Manager booking site. You
can add links to your Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and more! To add your social profile, simply include the URL to your profile in that section and click Save. add-instagram.png
Account information Your Pixieset account details include crucial information like your username and login details (account email and password). You can review and update your
account information from the Account page (click your Profile Icon > Account). On this page, you’ll also find advanced account options like turning on Two-Factor Authentication,
and the ability to delete your Pixieset account. Username Your Pixieset username is used to set the default URL for pages that you share with clients, including your Client Gallery
homepage and galleries, your Pixieset Website, and your Studio Manager booking site; for example, your Client Gallery homepage will be located at yourusername.pixieset.com. When
your account is first created, your username is automatically set based on your Business Name, but this can be changed at any time. To change your username, click the pencil icon
to edit your username, and update this field to any unique username (you cannot select the same username as another Pixieset user), then click Save. Note: If you change your
username, the URL for your Client Gallery homepage, collections, website, and booking site will automatically and immediately be updated. Any previous links you have sent that
contain the old username will no longer work. If you are using a Custom Domain for your Client Gallery or Website, this will still be connected and will continue to function as
normal. Account Email & Password The account email set up for your account is your main login to your Pixieset dashboard. Any notifications, updates, or emails from Pixieset will
be sent to this address. If your account email matches the email set up for your Google account, you can log into Pixieset using Google; this will connect your Google account to
Pixieset, which will be shown here. You can disconnect your Google account at any time. Your password is required to access your account (unless you are logging in with your Google
account). To change your password, click the pencil/edit icon and enter your current password, and the new password for your account. This will take effect immediately and the new
password will be required to log in in the future. Account Security This section includes details related to your account security. You can turn Two-Factor Authentication on or
off, which will affect how you log into Pixieset. It is recommended to turn on 2FA in order to increase your account security. Learn more: Setting up Two-Factor Authentication
(2FA) Here you will also find a list of the current devices/browsers logged in to your Pixieset account, including your current session. If you do not recognize a device in this
list, you can end that session and force the device to log out by clicking the ‘x’ next to it. If your account has been accessed by an unrecognized device, we would recommend
ending that session, then changing your password to prevent any unwanted access. Was this article helpful? Related articles Setting up Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Managing your
Subscription Setting up a Custom Domain for Pixieset Website Connecting a Custom Domain to Client Gallery Choosing the right Subscription Can't find what you're looking for?
Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved.