Assigning a price sheet to all collections Steps: From your Store dashboard, select the Products tab Click on the ••• icon next to the price sheet you would like to use for all
collections > select Assign to All Collections PriceSheetGalleries-4.png Replacing existing price sheets Steps: From your Store dashboard, select the Products tab Click on the •••
icon next to the price sheet you would like to delete and replace > select DeletePriceSheetGalleries-5.png Choose the new price sheet you would like to use for all collections
currently assigned to the sheet you are deleting PriceSheetGalleries-6.png Click Delete. Your new price sheet will be automatically applied to all collections that had the
now-deleted price sheet assigned to them Default options You can make any price sheet your Default Price Sheet so that is automatically applied to newly created collections.
Presets are a great option to check out as well as they allow you to create a template of specific Client Gallery and Store settings to be applied when creating new collections,
such as the Store Status and Download Status. Learn more about both of these options here. Was this article helpful? Related articles All about Price Sheets Upgrading from the
Legacy Store Where do I get my PayPal API Credentials? Selling albums and books Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support
staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Products Search
Articles in this section All about Price Sheets Can I sell both automatic and self-fulfilled products? Adding and Pricing Products in your Store Selling digital downloads Selling
Digital Download Packages Selling print and digital packages Selling albums and books Selling greeting cards Selling multi-image products Assigning price sheets to collections See
more Organizing products and product categories The products in your Store are organized by category to help your clients find the items they’re looking for. Organizing products is
a good way to make certain products or product categories more discoverable by your clients, depending on your business model. This is easily managed by adjusting the order of
products and product categories within your price sheet. Learn more about how price sheets work: All about price sheets categories.gif On this page: Product categories Arranging
products within categories Arranging product categories Product categories Products can be assigned to any of the predefined categories available: Packages, Prints, Digital, Wall
Art, Cards, Albums, Gifts, and Others. These categories are shown in various places throughout your Store. Print products fulfilled by our lab partners, digital downloads, and
packages are automatically assigned to the appropriate categories. For example, canvas prints are assigned to the Wall Art category, and digital downloads are assigned to the
Digital category. Self Fulfillment products can be assigned to the category of your choice. change-category.gif Arranging products within categories When you are managing your
products, you can arrange the products in your preferred order within the category. Steps: From your dashboard, go to Store > Products and select your price sheet. Hover over a
product, then click and drag the move icon on the top right of the product to move the product into the correct position within that category. arrange-products.gif Arranging
product categories You can rearrange the product categories for each price sheet to determine their order in your Store. You can use this to make sure popular items such as Wall
Art are listed first, or to draw attention to packages or any other specific category. Steps: From your dashboard, go to Store > Products and select your price sheet. Click ••• and
select Reorder Categories. Drag and drop categories to rearrange them. Click Apply. reorder-menu.pngreorder-cats.gif Was this article helpful? Related articles All about Price
Sheets Selling multi-image products Managing your Client Gallery Homepage How do I purchase prints at cost? Uploading Videos to your Collections Can't find what you're looking for?
Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center
Store Products Search Articles in this section All about Price Sheets Can I sell both automatic and self-fulfilled products? Adding and Pricing Products in your Store Selling
digital downloads Selling Digital Download Packages Selling print and digital packages Selling albums and books Selling greeting cards Selling multi-image products Assigning price
sheets to collections See more Using Lab Color Correction in your Store When the Lab Color Correct option is turned on for your Automatic Fulfillment Orders, each image is
individually assessed for color and density by the Lab's qualified technicians using high-end, professional monitors. Using their expert knowledge, they will adjust each image to
give the best print result. On this page Turning Lab Color Correction on or off Additional costs Turning Lab Color Correction on or off Unless you have calibrated and profiled your
monitor for the chosen Lab, we highly recommend turning on color correction for your Automatic Fulfillment price sheets. Some of our lab partners have more information about color
management and monitor calibration on their websites: WHCC, ProDPI, Loxley Colour, and Atkins Pro. Lab Color Correction is turned on or for your entire price sheet, and if turned
on will be applied to all orders you receive using that sheet. You can turn this option on or off from your Price Sheet Settings (Store > Products > click your price sheet >
Settings). enable-colorcorrect.gif Additional costs Turning on Lab Color Correction may increase the print cost for each product, depending on the lab. For price sheets set up with
WHCC, ProDPI, or the Automatic lab selection, the lab will correct the entire image file and balance for skin tones to match their printers' color profile for an additional $1.20
per item. This is automatically included in the item cost shown on your price sheet when Lab Color Correction is enabled. Miller’s and Loxley Colour price sheets can have Lab Color
Correction applied at no additional cost. Since Mpix and Atkins Pro do not offer color correction at this time, you will not see Lab Color Correction as an option for those price
sheets. Also, note that color correction is not available for greeting cards, albums, or books, through the labs. Was this article helpful? Related articles Preparing Image Files
for Printing All you need to know about Shipping Download Sizes - Available Resolutions Reviewing Store Orders with Order Delay How do I create a Mobile Gallery App from one of my
Client Gallery collections? Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights
reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Products Search Articles in this section All about Price Sheets Can I sell both automatic and self-fulfilled
products? Adding and Pricing Products in your Store Selling digital downloads Selling Digital Download Packages Selling print and digital packages Selling albums and books Selling
greeting cards Selling multi-image products Assigning price sheets to collections See more How do I purchase prints at cost? Would you like to purchase Products through your
Pixieset Store at Cost, without paying your own markup? There are 2 ways to do this. On this page: Use a 100% off coupon Create an at cost price sheet Use a 100% off coupon You can
create a secret coupon that gives yourself 100% off the order. Don't let anyone know this coupon code, otherwise they'll be able to order from you for free. Creating the coupon:
From your dashboard, go to Store > Coupons. Click on the Add Coupon button. Enter a name and coupon code that only you will know. Select Percent Off discount type. Enter 100 into
the discount amount. Scroll down and select "Add Free Shipping" Click Save. 2020-05-26_11-40-43.png Apply the coupon: Go to one of your galleries. Add items you want to purchase to
your cart. Go to the checkout page. Apply the coupon. Enter your own shipping information. Place the order. 2020-05-26_11-53-03.png Note: the cost of goods sold for the products
will be automatically charged to the credit card on your account since your transaction total will not cover the printing cost. Create an at cost price sheet One way to order at
cost is to use a price sheet where all products have zero markup. Creating at cost price sheet: From the dashboard, go to Store > Products. Click Add Price Sheet button. Select
options for your price sheet, but do not change any prices. Click Create. Click on the "..." menu and select Apply Bulk Markup. Enter 0 into the markup percent, and select No
Rounding. Click Apply. 2020-05-29_09-31-52.png Assign the new price sheet to gallery From the dashboard, go to Client Gallery > Collections Select a collection and go to the
Settings tab. Go to collection Store settings. Select your at cost price sheet. AtCost.png Important: Be sure to remember to change the price sheet back after you have ordered the
prints at cost, because anyone with access to the collection will also be able to purchase prints at cost. Was this article helpful? Related articles All about Price Sheets Print
labs available with Pixieset Selling albums and books Introduction to Pixieset Store How do I turn Store on? Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll
get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Products Search Articles in
this section All about Price Sheets Can I sell both automatic and self-fulfilled products? Adding and Pricing Products in your Store Selling digital downloads Selling Digital
Download Packages Selling print and digital packages Selling albums and books Selling greeting cards Selling multi-image products Assigning price sheets to collections See more How
do I set a minimum order amount? You can set a minimum amount that a client must spend before they are able to check out in your Store. To change or add a minimum order amount, go
to Store Dashboard > Products and click into the price sheet you'd like to add a minimum order amount to. While viewing the price sheet, click Settings in the top right hand
corner. Then, under Minimum Order Amount, enter your preferred minimum amount and click Save. If your client tries to checkout without reaching the minimum order amount you've set,
they will see this message preventing them from proceeding: Was this article helpful? Related articles Selling digital downloads Organizing products and product categories Selling
Digital Download Packages Selling multi-image products Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to
you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Shipping and Taxes Search Articles in
this section All you need to know about Shipping All you need to know about Store Taxes Automated Sales Tax Why isn’t my country appearing as an option at checkout? How do I see my
tax report? Can I offer a pickup shipping option? What countries can I ship to? All you need to know about Shipping The shipping methods in your Store are set based on the
fulfillment method you’ve chosen for the price sheet. This article will go through how shipping works, and how to get set up to ensure your shipping costs are covered. On This
Page: Automatic Fulfillment Self Fulfillment Set up your Self Fulfillment Shipping Method What do I do if I’m selling self fulfilled items in my automatic fulfillment price sheet?
Automatic Fulfillment With automatic fulfillment, there is no shipping setup required on your end. Instead, the shipping methods are provided by your chosen print lab directly, and
the shipping fees are determined by your client’s order and shipping address. The lab will ship orders directly to your client in white-label packaging, giving them a seamless
experience from start to finish. There will be no mention of the lab on the packaging, unless required by the country’s regulations. You can view the available shipping methods for
your chosen lab by going to your Store > Shipping > Automatic Fulfillment. All you need to know about Shipping 1.png Your client will see the available shipping methods for their
order in the Shipping Methods section at checkout after they enter their address. The cost of the shipping method they choose will be added to their order total and charged to them
directly. Additional fees may apply to larger items, orders requiring multiple shipments, delivery to remote areas, and during peak times. Learn more: What is Cost of Goods Sold /
Application Fee? Self Fulfillment When using self fulfillment, you are responsible for the printing and shipping of all orders placed through your Store. This means you’ll need to
set up your own shipping methods for your orders, which will be shown to your clients at checkout. Note: When you first set up your Store, there will be sample shipping methods for
the United States, the UK, and Canada. These will appear at checkout until you create your own shipping methods. Set up your Self Fulfillment Shipping Method The shipping methods
you create will determine which countries appear in the Billing/Shipping Address section of the checkout page — to ensure your clients can place their orders correctly, you must
add at least one shipping method for each country you want to sell to. All you need to know about Shipping 2.gif To add a new shipping method for your self fulfillment price
sheets, go to Store > Shipping and click + Add Shipping Method. In the pop-up that appears, set up your shipping method using the fields provided: Name: This is what clients will
see in the Shipping Methods section at checkout. The name you add should clearly outline what you are offering, such as the shipping company you are using (e.g. FedEx, USPS), and
the type of delivery method (e.g. Express, Priority Mail). Flat fee per order: This is the shipping fee added to the order total paid by your client. The same rate will be used
regardless of the products in your client’s cart. If specific items need additional fees, you can use the Extra Shipping option within the product’s settings to cover the extra
costs. Country: This determines which country this shipping method will apply to. If you select "Ship to international", it will be shown for clients in all countries. What do I do
if I’m selling self fulfilled items in my automatic fulfillment price sheet? When self fulfilled items are added to automatic fulfillment price sheets, your self fulfillment
shipping methods will not be shown at checkout. You can add any required shipping costs for individual items to the Extra Shipping section of the product itself — they will be
added to the lab’s shipping fee at checkout. All you need to know about Shipping 3.png Note: Extra shipping fees are charged per item, not per order, so there will be multiple
shipping fees added if more than one self fulfilled item is in your client’s cart. Was this article helpful? Related articles Order fulfillment options Can I offer a pickup
shipping option? Where do I get my PayPal API Credentials? Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment Why isn’t my country appearing as an option at checkout? Can't find what
you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us
Pixieset - Help Center Store Shipping and Taxes Search Articles in this section All you need to know about Shipping All you need to know about Store Taxes Automated Sales Tax Why
isn’t my country appearing as an option at checkout? How do I see my tax report? Can I offer a pickup shipping option? What countries can I ship to? All you need to know about
Store Taxes Depending on your local tax requirements, you may need to collect sales tax on items being sold in your store. This article includes steps on how to set up tax rates
for your sales, so you can collect the appropriate taxes for your store orders. Important: This article is a resource and should not be relied upon as legal or accounting advice.
Pixieset does not remit any taxes on your behalf, nor provide advice regarding laws applicable to your business. You are responsible for filing taxes as needed; if you have
questions about collecting or reporting taxes, you should consult with a tax advisor. On this page: Setting up your Tax Automated Tax (US Only) Manual Tax Additional Tax Settings
(VAT number, inclusive tax) Exporting your Tax Report Setting up your Tax There are two tax options available in the Pixieset Store: automatic tax (US only) and manual tax.
Automated Tax (US Only) If you are based in the United States, the sales tax you need to collect will vary based on the location of your business, the product(s) purchased, and the
shipping address entered at checkout. To make setting up your taxes simple, we have partnered with TaxJar to provide automated tax calculations based on your business address and
the details of each order. All you need to know about Store Taxes 1.gif To use automated tax for your orders: In Store > Taxes, click Get Started under the Automated Sales Tax
section. In the pop-up that appears, enter your business location and ZIP code. Then, click Save. Once you have set up your business location, that’s it! TaxJar will calculate the
relevant taxes for each order at checkout, and add them to your client’s order total. Note: If you have multiple business locations, you can include them in the same way by
clicking +Add Business Location after your first one is set up. Manual Tax If you are located outside the US, or you would prefer to set up your own tax rates, you can create
manual tax rates at both country and regional levels, giving you full control over the tax rates charged on your orders. Taxes are then calculated based on the customer's shipping
address entered at checkout. Note: If you're in the United States, using Automated Sales Tax is recommended. All you need to know about Store Taxes 2.gif To create a manual tax
rate: In Store > Taxes, select Get Started under the Set Your Own Rates section. In the pop-up that appears, click + Add Tax Rate. From here, select your country from the drop-down
menu before entering your tax rate as a whole number. If needed, you can also add a regional tax rate to collect taxes specific to your state/province. You can choose to charge the
state/province tax rate only, or combine this rate with the country rate. Additional Tax Settings (VAT number, inclusive tax) To adjust the way your tax rates are applied to store
orders, click the Settings on the top right of the Taxes page. All you need to know about Store Taxes 3.png You have see the following options: VAT Number: Enter your VAT ID here
to include it in invoices for store orders where tax was collected. Inclusive Tax: Turning this option on will calculate the tax without changing the final price, assuming taxes
are already included at the rate you have specified. Sales Tax Calculation: This will allow you to switch between automatic or manual tax calculations (US stores only) Exporting
your Tax Report All you need to know about Store Taxes 4.png To review how much tax has been collected from your Store sales, or to generate a tax report, head to your Store >
Taxes > Tax Report. Important: Pixieset does not file any taxes or remit any tax payments on your behalf. You are responsible for filing your taxes as needed for your business. Was
this article helpful? Related articles Automated Sales Tax How do I see my tax report? Where do I get my PayPal API Credentials? How do I turn Store on? Exporting invoice payments
from Studio Manager Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved.
PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Shipping and Taxes Search Articles in this section All you need to know about Shipping All you need to know about Store
Taxes Automated Sales Tax Why isn’t my country appearing as an option at checkout? How do I see my tax report? Can I offer a pickup shipping option? What countries can I ship to?
Automated Sales Tax We’ve partnered with TaxJar to provide automatic tax calculations for your Pixieset store. Using your business location and your clients’ shipping addresses, we
will charge the correct state, county, and district taxes for each order automatically using the latest up-to-date tax rates provided by TaxJar. Simply turn it on and all the
calculations will be handled for you. This option is only available for US stores. If you’re located in the US, this is the recommended method to collect taxes from your clients.
On this page: How does automated sales tax work? Enabling automated sales tax Tax reporting and breakdown Switch back to manual tax How does automated sales tax work? If you are
based in the United States, the sales tax you need to collect will depend on the product purchased and the shipping address (state, county, and district). To help you handle the
potential complications, we have partnered with TaxJar to offer the option of automatically calculating taxes based on your business address and the client shipping address entered
at the time of purchase. Simply turn it on and let TaxJar do all the tax calculations for you! Enabling automated sales tax Steps: From your dashboard, Store > Taxes. If you are
are in the US, you should see a Get Started button. Alternatively, you can switch to automated sales tax calculation by clicking on Settings next to Add Tax Rate, and choosing
Automatic. https://help.pixieset.com/hc/article_attachments/360002152472/How_does_Automated_Sales_Tax_work_1.png Enter the state and zip code for your primary business location.
This is the location where you conduct your business from. https://help.pixieset.com/hc/article_attachments/360000874892/Tax2.png If you have more than one Business Location, you
can add each location using +Add business location. https://help.pixieset.com/hc/article_attachments/360000874872/Tax3.png Tax reporting and breakdown You can see the breakdown of
the sales tax calculated on your client’s Order through your Store Dashboard by going to Store > Orders, clicking View next to the Order in question, and then clicking Tax.
https://help.pixieset.com/hc/article_attachments/115004131671/How_does_Automated_Sales_Tax_work__4.png When it’s time to report your taxes, you’ll find a full report of what you’ve
collected under Tax Report. https://help.pixieset.com/hc/article_attachments/115004131691/How_does_Automated_Sales_Tax_work__5.png Switch back to manual tax If you are looking to
turn off automated tax and use manual tax calculation instead, go to Store > Taxes > Settings and select Manual to change your Tax Settings. Confirm your change to proceed.
https://help.pixieset.com/hc/article_attachments/360000875012/Tax4.png https://help.pixieset.com/hc/article_attachments/360000874992/Tax5.png Was this article helpful? Related
articles All you need to know about Store Taxes How do I see my tax report? Creating and Sending an Invoice Can I offer a pickup shipping option? Exporting invoice payments from
Studio Manager Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved.
PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Shipping and Taxes Search Articles in this section All you need to know about Shipping All you need to know about Store
Taxes Automated Sales Tax Why isn’t my country appearing as an option at checkout? How do I see my tax report? Can I offer a pickup shipping option? What countries can I ship to?
Why isn’t my country appearing as an option at checkout? When you are using a self fulfillment price sheet, only countries that have a corresponding shipping method can be selected
as the Billing/Shipping Country on the checkout page. When you first set up your Store, there will be sample shipping methods set up for the United States, Canada and the United
Kingdom. Why isn’t my country appearing as an option at checkout 1.png If you would like to offer different options to your clients, review your shipping methods in Store >
Shipping and edit them to ensure there is at least one method available for every country you want to sell to. If you’d like to offer shipping to all countries, select Ship To
International when adding a shipping method. Why isn’t my country appearing as an option at checkout 2.png For more information on creating shipping methods for self fulfillment
price sheets, see this guide. Was this article helpful? Related articles What countries can I ship to? All you need to know about Shipping How do I see my tax report? Can I offer a
pickup shipping option? Print labs available with Pixieset Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us
Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Shipping and Taxes Search Articles in this section All you need to know
about Shipping All you need to know about Store Taxes Automated Sales Tax Why isn’t my country appearing as an option at checkout? How do I see my tax report? Can I offer a pickup
shipping option? What countries can I ship to? How do I see my tax report? Important: Pixieset does not file any taxes or remit any tax payments on your behalf. You are responsible
for filing your taxes as needed for your business. To review how much tax has been collected from your Store sales, or to generate a tax report, head to your Store > Taxes > Tax
Report. In this area, you can filter your past orders to determine the taxable amount and total tax collected within any period. How do I see my tax report 1.png For your
convenience, you can use the Export CSV option to download a CSV file which you can use in your spreadsheet or accounting program. Was this article helpful? Related articles All
you need to know about Store Taxes Exporting invoice payments from Studio Manager Can I offer a pickup shipping option? Why isn’t my country appearing as an option at checkout?
Where can I add custom business information to my invoice header? Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us
Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Shipping and Taxes Search Articles in this section All you need to know
about Shipping All you need to know about Store Taxes Automated Sales Tax Why isn’t my country appearing as an option at checkout? How do I see my tax report? Can I offer a pickup
shipping option? What countries can I ship to? Can I offer a pickup shipping option? If you use self fulfillment, you can offer your clients in-studio delivery by creating a
shipping method for $0.00. Can I offer a pickup shipping option 1.gif In your Store Dashboard, go to Shipping and click + Add Shipping Method. Name your shipping method (e.g. “Pick
Up in Studio”) and set up your flat fee as $0.00. Click Save to make this option available for all self fulfillment orders going forward. Note: It is not possible to offer a
pick-up or ship to studio option for automatic fulfillment orders, as these will always be sent directly to the shipping address entered at checkout by the lab. Was this article
helpful? Related articles All you need to know about Shipping What countries can I ship to? All about Price Sheets How do I see my tax report? Print labs available with Pixieset
Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center
Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Shipping and Taxes Search Articles in this section All you need to know about Shipping All you need to know about Store Taxes Automated
Sales Tax Why isn’t my country appearing as an option at checkout? How do I see my tax report? Can I offer a pickup shipping option? What countries can I ship to? What countries
can I ship to? If you're using automatic fulfillment, the countries available for shipping depends on the print lab you have chosen. You can review the shipping methods available
for each lab by going to the Store > Shipping > Automatic Fulfillment, and selecting the desired lab to see what they offer. What countries can I ship to 1.png WHCC USA, Canada,
and International ProDPI USA, Canada, and International Millers USA Mpix USA Loxley Colour UK, Republic of Ireland, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxemburg, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Bosnia, Iceland,
Norway, Serbia, Switzerland, United States, and Canada Atkins Pro Australia, New Zealand, and International Note: If you did not select a specific lab for your automatic
fulfillment price sheet, your orders will be fulfilled by the default lab based on your store location (WHCC for US, Atkins Pro for Australia/New Zealand). Was this article
helpful? Related articles All you need to know about Shipping Print labs available with Pixieset All you need to know about Store Taxes Why isn’t my country appearing as an option
at checkout? Preparing Image Files for Printing Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025
Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Mobile Gallery App Getting Started with Mobile Gallery App Search Articles in this section
What is a Mobile Gallery App? Creating and Sharing a Mobile Gallery App What is a Mobile Gallery App? The Mobile Gallery App allows you to create custom photo apps for your
clients, which they can add to their phones and tablets to quickly access a curated selection of images (up to 200) on the go. You can get a sample app to see it in action
yourself. Many photographers use Mobile Gallery Apps to share sneak peeks or highlights before the full collection is available in Client Gallery. They can also be a helpful add-on
to easily expand your services, or a fun gift to surprise clients with! What is a Mobile Gallery App 1.gif Apps can be easily personalized to align with your brand. Each app
includes your contact details, social sharing options, and a call-to-action button, so your clients can help generate word-of-mouth referrals for your business right from their
mobile device. With a Pixieset account, you can create an unlimited number of Mobile Gallery Apps if you are on a paid Client Gallery or Suite Plan. On the Free Plan, you can
create up to 3 apps. You can learn more about Mobile Gallery Apps here. Was this article helpful? Related articles Creating and Sharing a Mobile Gallery App How does my client
install a Mobile Gallery App? How do I create a Mobile Gallery App from one of my Client Gallery collections? Getting Started with Client Gallery Can I preview or test my Mobile
Gallery App? Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET
Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Mobile Gallery App Getting Started with Mobile Gallery App Search Articles in this section What is a Mobile Gallery App? Creating and
Sharing a Mobile Gallery App Creating and Sharing a Mobile Gallery App With Mobile Gallery Apps, you can give your clients a quick access to images that they can easily view on the
go! This article will walk you through how to create and share apps that clients can install on their phones and tablets. On this page: Creating an App App Design and Settings
Contact Info, Share and Branding Options Sharing a Mobile Gallery App Creating an App You can always create Mobile Gallery Apps from your Mobile Gallery Dashboard, but the easiest
way is from a pre-existing Client Gallery collection in your Client Gallery Dashboard! While viewing the collection, select the images you want to add, and click ••• > Create
Mobile App. In the pop-up that appears, enter a name for your app and click Create. Creating MGA 1.1.png Alternatively, you can create an app from the collection’s favorite list!
Simply go to Activities > Favorite Activity, and select ••• > Create Mobile Gallery App in the list. Creating MGA 1.2.png Once your new app is created, you can upload additional
images (up to 200) to it. App Design and Settings Creating MGA 3.gif You can customize the appearance of your Mobile Gallery App from the Design section. Here, you can choose to
adjust your app’s design like its cover, theme, layout, and its icon. Within the App Settings, you can also edit your app’s name, event date, change its status (e.g. published to
unpublished), or adjust the app’s Call to Action button. Tip: The Call to Action button can be a great option to help clients quickly access their entire collection for downloads
or purchases! Contact Info, Share, and Branding Options You can choose which contact information and social media accounts you display across all apps by going to your Mobile
Gallery App Dashboard > Settings. Within the Contact Page Info, any details you check or uncheck will automatically update in your apps respectively. Creating MGA 4.png With an
upgraded Client Gallery or Suite plan, you can also access additional branding options for your Mobile Gallery Apps. Go to Mobile Gallery App Dashboard > Settings. At the bottom of
the page, you can add a logo, remove Pixieset’s branding, or link your custom domain to your apps. Creating MGA 5.png Sharing a Mobile Gallery App Creating MGA 6.gif When you’re
ready to share an app with a client, go to the Mobile Gallery App Dashboard. Open the app you want to send, and click the Share button from the top right corner. On the Share page,
you can add the client’s email and click Send Invite to share the app from the Dashboard. Alternatively, click the Get Direct Link button to send the app from anywhere else you’d
like! Was this article helpful? Related articles What is a Mobile Gallery App? How does my client install a Mobile Gallery App? What is the difference between Client Gallery
collections and Mobile Gallery Apps? Getting Started with Client Gallery Uploading Videos to your Collections Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll
get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Getting Started with
Studio Manager Search Articles in this section Getting Started with Studio Manager Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Downloading Pixieset's Studio Manager App Getting
Started with Studio Manager Getting Started with Studio Manager 1.png With intuitive project management, flexible booking options, and branded documents for every workflow, Studio
Manager has all the tools you need to run your growing photography business. Start with the Free Plan and follow these common workflows to discover how easy it is to get client
work done with Studio Manager! On this page: Offer online booking to effortlessly secure sessions Send an invoice and get paid quickly Collect signatures for a contract faster Get
in touch with a client right from your dashboard Streamline your workflow with the rest of Studio Manager’s tools Offer online booking to effortlessly secure sessions Getting
Started with Studio Manager 2.2.gif Remove the hassle of back-and forth emails, answering questions about your next available slot, and keeping track of multiple calendars. Set up
your next photoshoot online with Studio Manager’s booking system and offer your clients an elegant, simpler way to secure an available slot with you: Go to Bookings > Session Types
and click New Session Type. Name your session, determine your available hours, and optionally set a session fee. Publish and share your booking calendar with clients so they can
secure a spot. Send an invoice and get paid quickly Getting Started with Studio Manager 3.gif Effortlessly create a branded invoice that your client can pay for immediately. From a
premium package to an extra hour of editing, getting paid for your most recent shoot is as easy as the following steps: Go to Documents > Invoices and click New Invoice. Assign the
invoice to your client and begin filling it out with billable items. Determine the invoice’s due date and accepted payment methods. Share the invoice’s link so your client can pay
immediately from any device. Collect signatures for a contract faster Getting Started with Studio Manager 4.gif When it comes time to seal the deal, put away the scanner and skip
the clunky PDFs. Studio Manager can create your next professional contract that your client can sign online from any device: Go to Documents > Contracts and click New Contract. Add
your signers and fill out the terms of your agreement. Send the contract directly to your client for their review and signature. Tip: Not sure where to start with a legally binding
contract? Get a head start with our sample templates, from print releases to wedding photography agreements. Get in touch with a client right from your dashboard Getting Started
with Studio Manager 5.gif Enjoy a more streamlined way of email communication with Inbox. Need to send a checklist, a quick reminder, or a simple thank you note? Send it as an
email to your client now without leaving Studio Manager: Go to Inbox and click New Message. Enter your client’s email address and fill out your message, and click Send. Get an
instant notification when your client responds, and continue the conversation right in Inbox. Streamline your workflow with the rest of Studio Manager’s tools Studio Manager has
everything you need to power your workflow from start to finish. Consider these tools to help you get your work done faster. Capture leads with simple, intuitive forms: Create
custom forms to offer prospective clients an easy way to get in touch. Your contacts’ information and form submissions are automatically organized in one place. Share cost
estimates and upsell better with branded quotes: Create a custom price quote in minutes and invite your next prospective client to select the services and options they are most
interested in. Once they accept your quote, a draft invoice is automatically created for you to immediately send out. Make prep work easier with custom questionnaires: Feel more
prepared for your next photography session by sharing a questionnaire. Studio Manager’s questionnaires are simple to build and even easier for your client to complete. Download the
mobile app: From booking clients to managing projects, take your business wherever your client work takes you by downloading Pixieset’s official Studio Manager app. Was this
article helpful? Related articles Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Getting Started with Studio Manager - Tutorial Video Choosing the right Subscription Creating Full
