of goods sold / application fee? See more Accepting Store Payments with Stripe In order to accept payments for orders, you will need to set up at least one payment method in your
Store settings (Store Dashboard > Settings). Stripe is a quick and secure way to accept digital wallets and credit or debit cards in your Store. By connecting Stripe, you will be
able to accept the following: Visa (credit and debit cards) MasterCard (credit and debit cards) American Express Discover (US merchants only) Digital Wallets - Apple Pay, Google
Pay, Microsoft Pay (on supported devices) iDEAL | Wero payments (Netherlands merchants only) Generally, Stripe charges a processing fee of 2.9% + $0.30 for each credit/debit card
transaction. iDEAL | Wero payments charge a processing fee of €0.29 per transaction (only available in the Netherlands). These rates may also vary based on your country. You can
visit Stripe's global page to see a list of their supported countries and pricing. On this page: Connecting Stripe What will the client see? What happens when a client places an
order? Troubleshooting Payment Errors Connecting Stripe You can set up Stripe in your Store in two steps: Go to Store > Settings and click Get Started next to Stripe. Accepting
Store Payments with Stripe 1.png Click on the Connect with Stripe button. You will be redirected to a Stripe page for you to create and connect your account. If you don't have a
Stripe account yet, you can set one up on the spot. Accepting Store Payments with Stripe 2.png What will the client see? When you have your Stripe account connected as a payment
method, your client will see a credit card option when paying for their Store orders. If they are viewing from a supported mobile device, they may also see digital wallet options
such as Apple Pay, Google Pay, or Microsoft Pay. Accepting Store Payments with Stripe 3.png What happens when a client places an order? You can view the profit made from an order
at any time from your Store > Orders page and clicking View next to the order. When a client pays through your Stripe integration at checkout, you will receive the proceeds from
the sale (minus any applicable cost of goods and processing fees) in your Stripe account immediately. In Stripe's dashboard, Stripe will display the lab’s cost of goods and the
commission fee together as the "Pixieset Application Fee". StripeExample.png Stripe will then transfer the remaining funds (i.e. your profit) from your Stripe account to your bank
account directly using the fastest payout plan available. Your payout schedule may vary depending on your country. If you're in the US, the payout is typically 2 business days
after you receive the order payment. For new Stripe users, there may be a one-time waiting period of approximately 7 to 14 business days in effect. You can set up and change your
payout settings, like your connected bank account and payout schedule, from your Stripe dashboard. Troubleshooting Payment Errors If your clients see an error at checkout when
processing payments through Stripe, review the transaction details in your Stripe Dashboard. Under Payments, Stripe will show you the specific reason for the decline, like
insufficient funds or incorrect payment details. You can use this information to help your client resolve the payment error. Stripe may also prevent your clients from making any
payments if your Stripe account requires updated account or tax information. If your customers have verified their payment details, but are still seeing an error at checkout, we
recommend logging into your Stripe Dashboard to locate any notifications related to information you might need to update. The Stripe Support Team can help with getting your account
back in good standing. Was this article helpful? Related articles Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Connecting a Custom Domain to Client Gallery Order fulfillment options
Introduction to Pixieset Store Uploading Videos to your Collections Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us
Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Payments Search Articles in this section Available Payment Methods in
Pixieset Store Accepting Store Payments with Stripe Accepting Store Payments with PayPal Accepting Offline Payments (cash, check, in person) in Store Accepting digital wallet
payments (Apple Pay, Google Pay) in Store Getting Paid for your Store Orders Where do I get my PayPal API Credentials? How do I fix payment errors at checkout? Where can I see my
profit on a store order? What is the cost of goods sold / application fee? See more Accepting Store Payments with PayPal In order to accept payments for orders, you will need to
set up at least one payment method in your Store settings (Store Dashboard > Settings). Connecting your PayPal business account (Pro or Standard) allows you to turn on PayPal
Express Checkout in your galleries’ Store. While checking out, your clients will be able to pay with supported credit and debit cards, as well as their PayPal account balance.
Generally, PayPal charges a processing fee of 2.99% + 49¢ for each credit/debit card transaction, and 3.49% + 49¢ for each PayPal account checkout transaction. This rate may vary
based on your country. You can refer to PayPal’s global page to see a list of their supported countries. On this page: Connecting PayPal What will the client see? What happens when
a client places an order? Troubleshooting Payment Errors Connecting PayPal Setting up PayPal requires two main steps: adding your API credentials and authorizing Pixieset to
capture funds: In Store > Settings, click Get Started beside PayPal. Then, click ’Add your API Credentials’ and select ‘Retrieve my credentials’. A pop-up containing PayPal’s
sign-in page should appear. Accepting Store Payments with PayPal 1.gif Once signed into PayPal, locate your API credentials by scrolling down in the same pop-up window until you
see Set up PayPal API on your website. Under it, click Continue with out-of-use NVP/SOAP credentials. For an alternate way to retrieve your API credentials, see our guide here.
PayPal1.1.png Select Direct (custom application) and click Continue with deprecated credentials. (Note: If prompted for an explanation, you can enter something like “The
integration I am connecting to currently requires the legacy credentials.”) PayPal1.2.png Copy and paste the credentials into the corresponding fields in your Pixieset Dashboard.
Click Save. Accepting Store Payments with PayPal 5.png Lastly, authorize Pixieset's selling agreement by clicking Authorize Now. Accepting Store Payments with PayPal 2.png You will
be directed to PayPal's site so that you can log in and complete the authorization. Once logged in, click on Agree and Continue. You will then be redirected back to your Pixieset
Dashboard and will see a green ON indicator to let you know PayPal has been connected successfully. What will the client see? When you have your PayPal account connected as a
payment method, your client will see a Check out with PayPal option when paying for their Store orders. Accepting Store Payments with PayPal 3.png What happens when a client places
an order? You can view the profit made from an order at any time from your Store > Orders page and clicking View next to the order. When a client pays through your PayPal
integration at checkout, the following happens: PayPal will immediately deposit the total amount the client paid at checkout into your PayPal account. Pixieset charges your default
payment source in PayPal in order to transfer the cost of goods sold to the lab (for printing and shipping). PayPalExample.png From there, your funds will reside as a balance in
your PayPal account. You need to initiate a withdrawal to transfer money out of your PayPal account. Troubleshooting Payment Errors If your clients see an error at checkout, their
bank could be preventing the payment due to insufficient funds, incorrect payment details, or another type of block from their bank. Reviewing the transaction details in your
PayPal Dashboard will give you specific information about the decline so you can help your clients resolve the issue. PayPal may also prevent your clients from making any payments
if your PayPal account has not been fully activated or is missing any information. We recommend logging in to your PayPal dashboard to double-check the following: Both your PayPal
account and email address are fully verified. There are no missing account details. Your Store is set up with a currency supported by PayPal If you can’t find any missing details,
the PayPal Express Checkout Support Team will have more insight. Note: Placing an order yourself with your own PayPal account will typically lead to an error due to restrictions on
PayPal’s side. You can avoid this by placing the order with a 100% off coupon instead. Was this article helpful? Related articles Where do I get my PayPal API Credentials?
Accepting Store Payments with Stripe Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Setting up your Store My Upgrade/Subscription Payment was Declined Can't find what you're looking
for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help
Center Store Payments Search Articles in this section Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Accepting Store Payments with Stripe Accepting Store Payments with PayPal
Accepting Offline Payments (cash, check, in person) in Store Accepting digital wallet payments (Apple Pay, Google Pay) in Store Getting Paid for your Store Orders Where do I get my
PayPal API Credentials? How do I fix payment errors at checkout? Where can I see my profit on a store order? What is the cost of goods sold / application fee? See more Accepting
Offline Payments (cash, check, in person) in Store Pixieset’s integrations with third-party payment providers like Stripe and PayPal makes getting paid simple. However, with an
upgraded Client Gallery or Suite subscription, you can also offer alternative payment methods such as cash, cheque, or email money transfer in your Store. With Offline Payments,
your clients will be able to complete the checkout process without submitting an online payment. You will be responsible for securing the payment from your client outside of
Pixieset. On this page: Setting up an Offline Payment What will the client see? Managing Offline Payment Orders Setting up an Offline Payment Offline Payments Store 1.png With an
upgraded Client Gallery or Suite subscription, set up an offline payment in your Store in two steps: Go to Store > Settings and click Get Started next to Offline. Toggle on Offline
Payment and enter your payment instructions. For example, if you are accepting an online transfer, you can list the details you’d like your client to send the money to. Offline
Payments Store 2.png Click Save. Your offline payment method will automatically appear as an option for clients when checking out of their gallery’s Store. What will the client
see? The Offline Payment option will be available at checkout, alongside the payment instructions you set up. Clients can review these instructions and then click Place Order to
complete the checkout process. Offline Payments Store 3.png Managing Offline Payment Methods Offline Payments Store 4.png When your client chooses to pay via your offline payment
method, the following will happen on your end: The order will appear in your Dashboard under Pending Offline Payment status. This status means that the system is waiting for you to
manually confirm the receipt of payment. Once you have successfully secured the offline payment from your client outside of Pixieset, click Mark Paid for the order in your
Dashboard. Once marked as paid, the order’s automatic fulfillment and digital download items will be processed automatically unless you have Order Delay turned on. If applicable,
your credit card on file will be charged for the lab’s cost of goods sold (e.g. the cost of the ordered prints). Was this article helpful? Related articles Available Payment
Methods in Pixieset Store All about Price Sheets How do I turn Store on? Setting up Payment Methods in Studio Manager Creating and Sending an Invoice Can't find what you're looking
for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help
Center Store Payments Search Articles in this section Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Accepting Store Payments with Stripe Accepting Store Payments with PayPal
Accepting Offline Payments (cash, check, in person) in Store Accepting digital wallet payments (Apple Pay, Google Pay) in Store Getting Paid for your Store Orders Where do I get my
PayPal API Credentials? How do I fix payment errors at checkout? Where can I see my profit on a store order? What is the cost of goods sold / application fee? See more Accepting
digital wallet payments (Apple Pay, Google Pay) in Store Our Digital Wallet payment options (Apple Pay, Google Pay and Microsoft Pay) allow your clients to pay for purchases from
your Store with a single touch using Apple or Android devices. Digital Wallets are available to users who have their Pixieset Store set up to accept payments with Stripe. It is
enabled by default, and there is no additional set up required. On this page: Apple Pay Google Pay Microsoft Pay Checkout Experience Troubleshooting Apple Pay The option to
checkout with Apple Pay is shown to clients purchasing from your Store using the Safari browser through iOS 10 and macOS Sierra. Apple Pay is compatible with the following devices:
iPhones: iPhone SE, iPhone 6 and later, iPhone 6 Plus and later iPads: iPad mini 3 and later, iPad Air 2, iPad Pro Macs: MacBook Pro with Touch ID Apple Watch: All generations
paired with iPhone 5 and later Google Pay The option to checkout with Google Pay is shown to clients purchasing from your Store using the Chrome 61 browser or newer. Microsoft Pay
The option to checkout with Microsoft Pay is shown to clients purchasing from your Store using the Microsoft Edge 16.1629 browser or newer. Checkout Experience When your client
visits your Store using one of the supported methods they will see the qualifying Digital Wallet as one of the payment options. They simply have to click on the "Buy with Apple,
Google or Microsoft Pay" button, and accept the payment. Apple_Pay_Client_View.png Troubleshooting Can I test Digital Wallet? We have set up a test page for you to see what paying
with Apple Pay is like. Please note that you should open this page in Safari, and ensure you are on iOS 10 or macOS sierra with a compatible device connected. To test it out in
your own store, checkout with the same settings, and make sure you have Order Delay enabled so you can cancel the order afterwards. I don't see the Apple Pay button showing up in
my Store. Please ensure that you have the following set up: You are using Stripe as a payment gateway and have Digital Wallet enabled. (You can check your settings by navigating to
the Store Dashboard, and clicking on Settings. You are using using a supported browser. Are there any additional fees for accepting Digital Wallet payments? No, Stripe will process
your Digital Wallet transactions and the standard Stripe transaction fee will apply. Can I turn off Digital Wallet? Yes! If you do not want your clients to pay using a Digital
Wallet, you can turn off this option by navigating to the Settings page within your Store Dashboard, and clicking Edit (beside Stripe) > Apple Pay > Off.
accepting-digital-wallet-payment.jpg Was this article helpful? Related articles Accepting Store Payments with Stripe Setting up Payment Methods in Studio Manager Connecting a
Custom Domain to Client Gallery What does Pending PayPal status mean? Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll
get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Payments Search Articles in
this section Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Accepting Store Payments with Stripe Accepting Store Payments with PayPal Accepting Offline Payments (cash, check, in
person) in Store Accepting digital wallet payments (Apple Pay, Google Pay) in Store Getting Paid for your Store Orders Where do I get my PayPal API Credentials? How do I fix
payment errors at checkout? Where can I see my profit on a store order? What is the cost of goods sold / application fee? See more Getting Paid for your Store Orders Pixieset’s
integrations with third-party payment providers like Stripe and PayPal makes getting paid simple. You can manage how you are paid through their dashboards and they are responsible
for paying out your money. Offline payments can also be set up if you’d like to accept payments outside of Pixieset. On this page: Stripe PayPal Offline Payment How much do I get
paid? I can’t locate the funds for a store order Stripe For orders that were processed using Stripe, you will receive the proceeds from the sale (minus any applicable cost of goods
and processing fees) in your Stripe account immediately after the sale. In Stripe's dashboard, Stripe will display the lab’s cost of goods and the commission fee together as the
"Pixieset Application Fee". StripeExample.png Stripe will then transfer the remaining funds (i.e. your profit) from your Stripe account to your bank account directly using the
fastest payout plan available. Your payout schedule may vary depending on your country. If you're in the US, the payout is typically 2 business days after you receive the order
payment. For new Stripe users, there may be a one-time waiting period of approximately 7 to 14 business days in effect. You can set up and change your payout settings, like your
connected bank account and payout schedule, from your Stripe dashboard. PayPal For orders that were processed using PayPal, the full payment from the client is deposited in the
PayPal account immediately after the order is placed. Pixieset will then charge your default payment source in PayPal for any applicable cost of goods and processing fees.
PayPalExample.png Your money will reside as a balance in your PayPal account. You need to initiate a withdrawal to transfer money out of your PayPal account. There are various ways
to withdraw your money depending on your country, such as bank transfer or check. You can learn more about withdrawing money from a US PayPal account from PayPal here: How do I get
money out of my PayPal account? Offline Payment Offline payments are available for any upgraded Client Gallery or Suite subscription. If an order is paid using an Offline Payment
method, you are responsible for making payment arrangements with your client before the order can be processed. Once you’ve secured the payment from your client outside of
Pixieset, click the Mark Paid button on your dashboard to process the order and your credit card on file will be charged for the Cost of Goods Sold as applicable. How much do I get
paid? Where applicable, you will be paid the order total minus the cost of goods sold (e.g. the lab cost to produce the product) and any payment processing fee charged by Stripe or
PayPal. If you are on the Free Plan for Client Gallery, a Pixieset commission fee will also be charged. Stripe and PayPal’s processing fees start around 2.9% + $0.30 USD per
transaction, but it may vary based on your country. You can find out more information directly on Stripe and PayPal's websites. Example (Upgraded Client Gallery Plan): You sell a
product at: $100.00 Cost of goods sold: -$38.00 Payment processing fee: -$3.20 Pixieset commission: $0.00 Your payout: $58.80. You can learn more about fees that are charged for
your client’s order here. I can’t locate the funds for a store order Your payout is handled by the payment processor you have set up, or payments are collected yourself when using
offline payment. For this reason, Pixieset generally does not have visibility into the payout process with your payment processors. If you are having trouble locating the funds for
a specific order, you will want to first confirm that you are checking the correct dashboard (e.g. your Stripe Dashboard for an order processed by Stripe) through the correct
account (e.g. your connected Stripe account may be under a different email address than the one you use for Pixieset). If you’re still unable to locate the funds, reach out to
support@pixieset.com for additional assistance. Make sure to include your order number and any relevant details. Was this article helpful? Related articles All about Price Sheets
Introduction to Pixieset Store Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment Print labs available with Pixieset Getting started with Store - Tutorial Video Can't find what you're
looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset -
Help Center Store Payments Search Articles in this section Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Accepting Store Payments with Stripe Accepting Store Payments with PayPal
Accepting Offline Payments (cash, check, in person) in Store Accepting digital wallet payments (Apple Pay, Google Pay) in Store Getting Paid for your Store Orders Where do I get my
PayPal API Credentials? How do I fix payment errors at checkout? Where can I see my profit on a store order? What is the cost of goods sold / application fee? See more Where do I
get my PayPal API Credentials? Your PayPal API credentials are a combination of three fields that allows us to access your PayPal account, and set up the necessary payment
information to integrate PayPal Express Checkout to your Pixieset Store. You can obtain your API credentials directly from your PayPal account, or via our API Credential retrieval
tool. On this page: Option 1: Obtaining your PayPal API Credentials via Pixieset Option 2: Obtaining your PayPal API Credentials via your PayPal Account Option 1: Obtaining your
PayPal API Credentials via Pixieset 1. Go to the Store > Settings tab and click on Get Started beside the PayPal option. PayPal-GetStarted.png 2. Click on Add your API Credentials.
PayPal-AddAPICredentials.png 3. Click on Retrieve my credentials, and log in to your PayPal account in the pop-up window. PayPal-RetrieveMyCredentials.png 4. Once signed into
PayPal, locate your API credentials by scrolling down until you see Set up PayPal API on your website. Under it, click Continue with out-of-use NVP/SOAP credentials. PayPal1.1.png
5. Select Direct (custom application) and click Continue with deprecated credentials. If prompted for an explanation, you can enter something like “The integration I am connecting
to currently requires the legacy credentials.” PayPal1.2.png 6. View your API Signature and click on Show to copy the required information. ViewAPISignature.png 7. Copy and Paste
the information to the appropriate fields and enter them on Pixieset CopyPaste.png 8. Click on Save and you should then see an "Added" indication. Remember to complete the second
part of connecting your PayPal account which is to authorize your selling agreement by clicking Authorize Now. PayPal-AuthorizeNow.png Option 2: Obtaining your PayPal API
Credentials via your PayPal Account If you have any difficulty obtaining your API credentials from the Retrieve my credentials button on your Pixieset dashboard, you can obtain
your credentials from your PayPal account directly by following these steps: 1. Log into your PayPal Dashboard. Hover over your name in the top right and click Account Settings. 2.
In your account settings, go to API Access, and click Update. AccountSettings.png 3. Under Set up PayPal API on your website, click Continue with out-of-use NVP/SOAP credentials.
PayPal1.1.png 4. Select Direct (custom application) and click Continue with deprecated credentials. (Note: If prompted for an explanation, you can enter something like “The
integration I am connecting to currently requires the legacy credentials.”) PayPal1.2.png 5. In a new browser tab, return to Store > Settings. From there, click on Get Started next
to PayPal and select Add your API credentials. AddAPICredentials.png 6. From your PayPal window, click Show next to your API Credentials. From your PayPal window, click Show next
to your API Credentials. For your Pixieset account, you need the API signature, not the API certificate or fingerprint. ViewAPISignature.png 7. Copy and paste your PayPal API
credentials from your PayPal page into the fields provided on Pixieset. This includes your API Username, API Password, and API Signature. CopyPaste.png 8. Click on Save and you
should then see an "Added" indication. Remember to complete the second part of connecting your PayPal account which is to authorize your selling agreement by clicking Authorize
Now. PayPal-AuthorizeNow.png Was this article helpful? Related articles Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store How do I turn Store on? Download Sizes - Available Resolutions
Setting up a Custom Domain for Pixieset Website Adding Terms of Sale or a Digital Image License to your Store Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll
get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Payments Search Articles in
this section Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Accepting Store Payments with Stripe Accepting Store Payments with PayPal Accepting Offline Payments (cash, check, in
person) in Store Accepting digital wallet payments (Apple Pay, Google Pay) in Store Getting Paid for your Store Orders Where do I get my PayPal API Credentials? How do I fix
payment errors at checkout? Where can I see my profit on a store order? What is the cost of goods sold / application fee? See more How do I fix payment errors at checkout? If your
clients are seeing an error at checkout while trying to place their order, it could be due to certain factors like insufficient funds, incorrect payment details, or information
missing from your payment processor account. This guide outlines how to find and resolve these errors so your clients can purchase from your Store. On this page: “Checkout is
closed” error Errors at checkout when paying via PayPal Errors at checkout when paying via Stripe “Checkout is closed” error In order to accept payments and activate your checkout
for your clients, you must have at least one payment method connected. You can set this up by going to Store > Settings > Payment Methods. For more information, see our guide here.
Note: If you have PayPal or Stripe already connected to Pixieset via Studio Manager, you will still need to connect those methods to Pixieset Store separately. Errors at checkout
when paying via PayPal If your clients see an error at checkout, their bank could be preventing the payment due to insufficient funds, incorrect payment details, or another type of
block from their bank. Reviewing the transaction details in your PayPal Dashboard will give you specific information about the decline so you can help your clients resolve the
issue. PayPal may also prevent your clients from making any payments if your PayPal account has not been fully activated or is missing any information. We recommend logging in to
your PayPal dashboard to double-check the following: Both your PayPal account and email address are fully verified. There are no missing account details. Your Store is set up with
a currency supported by PayPal If you can’t find any missing details, the PayPal Express Checkout Support Team will have more insight. Note: Placing an order yourself with your own
PayPal account will typically lead to an error due to restrictions on PayPal’s side. You can avoid this by placing the order with a 100% off coupon instead. Errors at checkout when
paying via Stripe If your clients see an error at checkout when processing payments through Stripe, review the transaction details in your Stripe Dashboard. Under Payments, Stripe
will show you the specific reason for the decline, like insufficient funds or incorrect payment details. You can use this information to help your client resolve the payment error.
Stripe may also prevent your clients from making any payments if your Stripe account requires updated account or tax information. If your customers have verified their payment
details, but are still seeing an error at checkout, we recommend logging into your Stripe Dashboard to locate any notifications related to information you might need to update. The
Stripe Support Team can help with getting your account back in good standing. Was this article helpful? Related articles Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Where can I see
my profit on a store order? What is the cost of goods sold / application fee? Creating Full Session Types Adding booking and scheduling to your website Can't find what you're
looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset -
Help Center Store Payments Search Articles in this section Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Accepting Store Payments with Stripe Accepting Store Payments with PayPal
Accepting Offline Payments (cash, check, in person) in Store Accepting digital wallet payments (Apple Pay, Google Pay) in Store Getting Paid for your Store Orders Where do I get my
PayPal API Credentials? How do I fix payment errors at checkout? Where can I see my profit on a store order? What is the cost of goods sold / application fee? See more Where can I
see my profit on a store order? From your Orders page, click View next to the order. Scroll down to the bottom of the order detail page until you see the cost breakdown showing
your profit. YourProfit.png Generally, you will be paid the order total minus the lab's printing and shipping costs, and any payment processing fee charged by Stripe or PayPal. If
you are on the Free Plan for Client Gallery, a Pixieset commission fee will also be charged. You can learn more about this breakdown here. Example (Upgraded Client Gallery Plan)
You sell a product at: $100.00 Printing and shipping costs: -$38.00 Payment processing fee (Stripe, PayPal): -$3.20 Pixieset commission: $0.00 Your payout: $58.80. To learn about
how your profit is sent to you, see our article: Getting Paid for your Store Orders Was this article helpful? Related articles Getting Paid for your Store Orders What is the cost
of goods sold / application fee? Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store How do I fix payment errors at checkout? Managing Orders Can't find what you're looking for? Contact
our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store
Payments Search Articles in this section Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Accepting Store Payments with Stripe Accepting Store Payments with PayPal Accepting Offline
Payments (cash, check, in person) in Store Accepting digital wallet payments (Apple Pay, Google Pay) in Store Getting Paid for your Store Orders Where do I get my PayPal API
Credentials? How do I fix payment errors at checkout? Where can I see my profit on a store order? What is the cost of goods sold / application fee? See more What is the cost of
goods sold / application fee? After you receive an order in your Pixieset Store, fees may be taken out of your client’s transaction. These fees will fall into three categories: the
lab’s printing and shipping costs, payment processing fees (from Stripe or PayPal), and Pixieset commission fees (for Free Plan accounts). In your Pixieset Dashboard, these fees
are referred to as the “Cost of Goods Sold”. COGs.png Note: Your payment processor may refer to the printing, shipping, and commission fee as the "Pixieset Application Fee"
instead. This is because the fees are sent to Pixieset before being passed onto the lab. Printing and Shipping Costs When you use automatic fulfillment, the lab will charge you to
cover the cost of printing and shipping your client’s order. Printing cost: This is the per-print cost involved in producing the prints. Shipping: This is the cost of shipping the
print order to your client. This fee is paid for by your clients directly, and we're simply passing the amount on to the print lab. Payment Processing Fees (Stripe or PayPal) This
fee is charged directly by PayPal or Stripe in order to process the online payment made by your client. In some countries, if sales tax is charged on the payment processing fee,
that will be included here. Generally, for each transaction, Stripe charges a processing fee of 2.9% + $0.30 and PayPal charges a processing fee of 3.49% + $0.49 USD. These fees
can vary depending on your country. For more information on payment fees, head to Stripe and PayPal’s website. Pixieset Commission Fee (Free Accounts only) If you are on the Free
Plan for Client Gallery, a 15% commission fee is applied to your orders. This is calculated based on the order subtotal before any discounts, coupon codes, taxes, or shipping fees
are applied. Accounts on any upgraded Client Gallery or Suite Plans enjoy 0% commission fee on all orders. If selling is a major part of your workflow, we recommend upgrading to
avoid this fee. The Client Gallery plans start as low as $8/month billed annually (or $10/month billed monthly). You can see our subscription options here. Was this article
helpful? Related articles Why was I charged a fee for my client's order? How do I purchase prints at cost? Introduction to Pixieset Store Order fulfillment options Setting up
Payment Methods in Studio Manager Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All
rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Payments Search Articles in this section Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Accepting Store
Payments with Stripe Accepting Store Payments with PayPal Accepting Offline Payments (cash, check, in person) in Store Accepting digital wallet payments (Apple Pay, Google Pay) in
Store Getting Paid for your Store Orders Where do I get my PayPal API Credentials? How do I fix payment errors at checkout? Where can I see my profit on a store order? What is the
cost of goods sold / application fee? See more How do I change the currency for my Store? You are able to sell your products in any single currency as long as your selected payment
processor accept that currency as well. For example, if Stripe accepts EUR and you have connected Stripe, you can accept EUR. Store Currency.png To change your currency in Store:
Go to your Store > Settings. Under Store Currency, click Change and select your desired currency. You will see your updated currency reflected in new and existing price sheets
immediately. Was this article helpful? Related articles Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Accepting digital wallet payments (Apple Pay, Google Pay) in Store Setting up a
Custom Domain for Pixieset Website Exporting invoice payments from Studio Manager Creating Mini Sessions Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get
back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Payments Search Articles in this
section Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Accepting Store Payments with Stripe Accepting Store Payments with PayPal Accepting Offline Payments (cash, check, in person) in
Store Accepting digital wallet payments (Apple Pay, Google Pay) in Store Getting Paid for your Store Orders Where do I get my PayPal API Credentials? How do I fix payment errors at
checkout? Where can I see my profit on a store order? What is the cost of goods sold / application fee? See more What does Pending PayPal status mean? If your order is in “Pending
PayPal” status, the payment is in an unclaimed status with PayPal. The order cannot be sent to the lab for printing until you resolve this with PayPal, since the funds have not
been successfully sent to your PayPal account yet. You should also receive an email from PayPal with further instructions on how to claim the payment and receive the funds. Here
are some common reasons why PayPal may flag the incoming payment: You have not yet verified your PayPal account You have made changes to your PayPal account email address Your
PayPal account is in a different currency than the currency your client used to pay for their order Note: Payments not collected after 30 days could be returned to the sender, so
we recommend taking action as soon as possible to claim these funds. To resolve the order status: Log into your PayPal Dashboard and manually accept the payment. Head back to Store
> Orders and view your order. Click Confirm Payment.Pending PayPal .png Was this article helpful? Related articles Accepting Store Payments with PayPal PayPal: What does Pending
Fees status mean? Where do I get my PayPal API Credentials? Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Accepting digital wallet payments (Apple Pay, Google Pay) in Store Can't
find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center
Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Orders Search Articles in this section Managing Orders Reviewing Store Orders with Order Delay All you need to know about Customers Adding
Boutique Packaging to your orders Refunding a Store Order Getting help with a print order Troubleshooting "Pending" Order Statuses How do I change or cancel an order? How will the
images be cropped for printing? Managing Orders Understanding how orders work in Pixieset Store is an important part of selling online. After your customer places an order, it will
appear in the Orders page on your store dashboard. On this page: Processing and fulfilling orders Order statuses Tracking an order Exporting orders Changing or cancelling orders
Refunding orders I need help with an order Processing and fulfilling orders If you have automatic fulfillment setup, any print items and digital downloads are automatically
processed for you. There's no action required on your end. You and your clients will receive email communications as the order gets fulfilled and shipped. If you're self fulfilling
orders, you will need to manually fulfill your order at your preferred vendor outside of Pixieset. Order statuses The following options only apply to automatic fulfillment orders:
Pending - the order is waiting to be processed by our system shortly. Pending Payment - the payment for this order has not been confirmed. This may mean different things depending
on the payment method used for the order. Order Delay - the order is on hold for your review. Learn more: Reviewing orders with Order Delay Processing - the order has been sent to
a print lab for fulfillment, or digital download items are being processed by Pixieset. Lab Completed - the print portion of the order has been fulfilled and shipped. There may be
still digital downloads or self fulfilled items needing fulfillment. Completed - the order is completed and fully fulfilled. Canceled - the order is cancelled. It is important to
