upload speed is often determined by the connection between your ISP (Internet Service Provider) and our data center. Try uploading using an entirely different network or hotspot.
If it appears that the upload issue is happening on your network only, chances are that your ISP is limiting your upload speed and you will need to contact your ISP directly to
resolve the issue. Step 4: Check file size If your file sizes are very large it may have an impact on upload speeds. You should be able to reduce the size of the file to some
extent without compromising on quality. Doing so will greatly improve your upload experience, and save you space! You can find information on our supported file size and format
here. You may find that uploading in smaller batches also helps. Step 5: Check external programs You may also want to check to see if you're running a new AntiVirus program, if you
have a firewall in place, or if any browser extensions or plug-ins were recently installed. These can all have an impact on your upload speed! Temporarily disabling these or adding
our URL to their whitelist can be helpful. If you are still having issues with upload speed after following these steps, please reach out to our support team by clicking the Help
Icon (?) > Contact Us from the top right-hand corner of your dashboard. Please provide some details on the steps you have taken to troubleshoot, along with your speed test results,
so we can best pinpoint the issue and resolve it as quickly as possible. Was this article helpful? Related articles How do I clear my browser’s site data? File size and format
requirements for Pixieset Why do my uploaded images look different on Pixieset or Mobile? Uploading Videos to your Collections Setting up Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Can't find
what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us
Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Troubleshooting Search Articles in this section Troubleshooting Upload Errors and Processing Issues Why is my upload speed really slow? Why is
the File Size Small on Download? My Client Cannot Access Their Collection With The Collection Password Why do my uploaded images look different on Pixieset or Mobile? The
downloaded file won’t open How do I install the Lightroom Plugin? How do I check my Lightroom Pixieset Plugin Export Settings? Reviewing a Collection's Email Invite History My
client has not received their Email Invite See more Why is the File Size Small on Download? When your clients Download images through the Gallery, or make a purchase of Digital
Downloads through your Pixieset Store, the file size they receive will vary depending on which resolution you are providing. Web Size If you have set up your Digital Downloads to
be delivered in Web Size (either 640px, 1024px, or 2048px), the file size will be much smaller than what you originally uploaded to Pixieset, because we have re-sized the image to
match the selected file dimension, and have optimized the file for the fastest possible download. If your Original file was 5 MB (for example), the downloaded Web Size file would
likely be less than 1 MB. High Resolution: 3600px If you have set up your Digital Downloads to be delivered in High Resolution, at 3600px, these files are a maximum of 3600px on
the long edge, and are also optimized for the fastest possible download. If you were to place the High Resolution (3600px) file and the Original file next to each other on your
screen, you would likely not see a vast difference in the quality, but the file dimensions and the file size will be different. If your Original file was 5 MB, the downloaded High
Res file would likely be between 800 KB-2 MB in size. High Resolution: Original If you have set up your Digital Downloads to be delivered in Original resolution, the file your
client receives will be the exact file you uploaded to Pixieset originally. We will deliver the file in the exact size and dimension that you uploaded it initially. If the file you
uploaded was 5 MB, the file your client receives will also be 5 MB. For more information on the file sizes you can provide in Pixieset: What file sizes can my client Download? If
you'd like to review or change your Settings: Where can I customize the Download settings? Was this article helpful? Related articles Download Sizes - Available Resolutions
Collection Download Settings Why do my uploaded images look different on Pixieset or Mobile? Downloads How do I check my Lightroom Pixieset Plugin Export Settings? Can't find what
you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us
Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Troubleshooting Search Articles in this section Troubleshooting Upload Errors and Processing Issues Why is my upload speed really slow? Why is
the File Size Small on Download? My Client Cannot Access Their Collection With The Collection Password Why do my uploaded images look different on Pixieset or Mobile? The
downloaded file won’t open How do I install the Lightroom Plugin? How do I check my Lightroom Pixieset Plugin Export Settings? Reviewing a Collection's Email Invite History My
client has not received their Email Invite See more My Client Cannot Access Their Collection With The Collection Password Have you invited your clients to view their
password-protected Gallery, but they are unable to access it, even though they are entering the correct password? There are a few reasons why you could be experiencing this issue!
Pixieset Passwords are both space and case-sensitive. Your clients will need to enter passwords exactly how you have entered them on your end or the system will not recognize it as
the valid password. Below are some of the most common causes of passwords not working as expected. On this page: Hidden Spaces in the Password Previously Cached or Auto-Filled
Passwords Client Access vs Guest Access Still having trouble? Hidden Spaces in the Password The most common error with Collection Passwords is a hidden "space" within the Password.
When looking at the password itself from both your end and the client's end, you won't be able to tell that there is a space located within the Password. Here is how to tell if
you've accidentally entered a space: Open the applicable Collection, go to the Privacy section of the Collection’s Settings tab, and scroll to the Collection Password field.PW1.png
Click the eye icon so that you can view the password. Click on the bar where you would type in the password itself. You will see your cursor begin to blink. PW2.png If you can see
a space between the word and the cursor or " | " symbol, then you have accidentally entered a space with this password. Simply hit Backspace or Delete to remove the space once this
is done successfully the cursor symbol should appear to be touching the word. PW3.png Once your password is successfully saved without a space your clients will now be able to
access the Collection! However, ensure that they do not have any cached information saved about the original password on their browser (as described below), or they may continue to
experience the issue due to their browser auto-loading the original information. Previously Cached or Auto-Filled Passwords Another common cause for a Collection password to not
function as expected is a previously cached password, or an auto-filled password being entered by your web browser. Certain browsers will, at times, cache a previously entered
password. It will then continue to submit this cached password, even when the correct password is being entered. To correct this, you'll want to clear your web browser's cache and
cookies, before attempting to enter the password once again in a new browser session. Learn more here: How do I clear my browser’s site data? Client Access vs Guest Access
Sometimes visitors to your Collection may not know that you have different security options in place for logging in and may select the wrong option on the login page. For example,
if your Collection has both a Collection Password and a Client Exclusive Access Password, on the login page, visitors will see two options: "Enter as Guest" and "Enter as Client".
To Enter as Guest, they will need to enter the Collection Password, and to Enter as Client they need to enter the Client Exclusive Access Password. Ensure that they are entering
the correct password based on which entry method they selected. Still having trouble? If you continue to experience password issues, contact support from your dashboard or by
email: support@pixieset.com. Was this article helpful? Related articles Adding Collection Passwords Collection Download Settings Troubleshooting Upload Errors and Processing Issues
Privacy options for your website Connecting a Custom Domain to Client Gallery Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours.
Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Troubleshooting Search Articles in this section
Troubleshooting Upload Errors and Processing Issues Why is my upload speed really slow? Why is the File Size Small on Download? My Client Cannot Access Their Collection With The
Collection Password Why do my uploaded images look different on Pixieset or Mobile? The downloaded file won’t open How do I install the Lightroom Plugin? How do I check my
Lightroom Pixieset Plugin Export Settings? Reviewing a Collection's Email Invite History My client has not received their Email Invite See more Why do my uploaded images look
different on Pixieset or Mobile? If you can see a variation between the colors of your images from your computer and Pixieset, or from Pixieset to your Mobile Device, this usually
means that your images have been saved in the incorrect color space. We recommend that you save your images in the sRGB color space because sRGB can be fully supported across all
devices and printers. Any color spaces above sRGB (RGB, AdobeRGB, or ProPhotoRGB) are very large color spaces, and unfortunately are not fully supported by most systems. When
exporting your images from Lightroom, be sure to check that your Export Settings are set to the sRGB color space. LR_ColorSpace.png When working and saving in Photoshop, you will
also want to be sure that your color settings are set to sRGB. If your images are in the sRGB color space, and you are still experiencing colour variation between your desktop and
mobile Collections views, contact support and we'd be happy to help! Was this article helpful? Related articles Photo Resizing and Sharpening Download Sizes - Available Resolutions
Why is the File Size Small on Download? Downloads Uploading Videos to your Collections Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within
24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Troubleshooting Search Articles in this
section Troubleshooting Upload Errors and Processing Issues Why is my upload speed really slow? Why is the File Size Small on Download? My Client Cannot Access Their Collection
With The Collection Password Why do my uploaded images look different on Pixieset or Mobile? The downloaded file won’t open How do I install the Lightroom Plugin? How do I check my
Lightroom Pixieset Plugin Export Settings? Reviewing a Collection's Email Invite History My client has not received their Email Invite See more The downloaded file won’t open When
clients download the entire Collection, select full Sets for download, or purchase Digital Downloads through your Store, the images will be delivered in .ZIP format. The contents
of the folder will need to be “unzipped” or extracted before being able to view the images. Most computers will already come with some sort of unzip program, in which case they can
just follow a couple of quick steps, and the computer will start the unzipping process automatically. On this page: How to unzip a .ZIP file Using a Mac Computer Using a PC/Windows
Computer Troubleshooting: The folder is still empty after unzipping How to unzip a .ZIP file Using a Mac Computer Locate the Downloaded .ZIP file. Double-click the file. Your Mac
will automatically unzip the file so the images can be viewed. Using a PC/Windows Computer Locate the Downloaded .ZIP file. Right-click the .ZIP file. Select "Extract All" or
"Extract Here", and the contents of .ZIP file will be extracted as a normal folder so the images can be viewed Note: If the computer does not have a built-in program for compressed
(zipped) folders, there are numerous free unzip software options that can be downloaded and installed. Troubleshooting: The folder is still empty after unzipping If your client has
already unzipped the folder, and it is empty, there could be a couple of things happening: If your images contain special characters, such as "©", "|", "§", "ñ" or an extra "." in
the filename, these images may not show up correctly on Windows devices. The default unzipping program cannot read these characters as valid, so the folder is delivered without the
files that contain the special characters. You can correct this by removing any special characters in the filenames and re-uploading the images to Pixieset without the special
characters for your clients to download. If you are trying to download a Favorites List, and the folder is being delivered to your own computer as an empty folder (0 MB), this is
likely caused by the Collection's Download Settings. You may have the Sets within the Collection set up to not be Available for Download, so any images the client selected from
these special Sets will not be delivered when you download the List. Simply edit your Download Settings and you'll be good to go! If the trouble persists, please contact support
for assistance from within your Pixieset dashboard or by email to support@pixieset.com. Was this article helpful? Related articles Your client's download experience Downloading
photos to mobile devices Collection Download Settings Downloads What does Inactive Website mean? Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to
you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Troubleshooting Search Articles
in this section Troubleshooting Upload Errors and Processing Issues Why is my upload speed really slow? Why is the File Size Small on Download? My Client Cannot Access Their
Collection With The Collection Password Why do my uploaded images look different on Pixieset or Mobile? The downloaded file won’t open How do I install the Lightroom Plugin? How do
I check my Lightroom Pixieset Plugin Export Settings? Reviewing a Collection's Email Invite History My client has not received their Email Invite See more How do I install the
Lightroom Plugin? The Pixieset Lightroom Plug-in allows you to upload photos to Pixieset directly from Lightroom Classic. If you are an Adobe Lightroom user, this plugin will allow
you to further streamline your upload workflow. You can watch a tutorial video for installing the plugin here. In your Client Gallery Dashboard, go to Settings > Integrations and
download the Lightroom Plug-in. Alternatively, you can download it here. Unzip the download and move the Pixieset.lrplugin file to where you want it stored on your computer.
(Safari users: the browser may automatically unzip the file for you - check the file extension. If so, just move the file to where you want it stored) Important: You can keep the
plug-in wherever you like, however, we recommend storing it somewhere where it is less likely to get deleted or moved around. This file is required for the plugin to function
correctly. In addition, this plugin only works for Lightroom Classic. Installing the Plug-in: Open Lightroom, and select File > Plug-in Manager...
How_do_I_install_the_Lightroom_Plugin__1.png Click on the Add button in the new window. How_do_I_install_the_Lightroom_Plugin__2.png Note: If you created your Pixieset account
using your Google account, you will need to create a Pixieset password from your Account page (click your Profile Icon > Account) to use for the Lightroom plugin. Locate the
Plug-in that you have just saved, and click Add Plug-in. Click on Done, and your Pixieset Plug-in is installed! Setting Up the Plug-in: Locate the Pixieset Plug-in under the
Publish Services tab, and click on Set up... How_do_I_install_the_Lightroom_Plugin__3.png Log in to your Pixieset Account under the Account section. Once logged in, you will be
able to see your Account information, such as Account type, and the amount of storage used. How_do_I_install_the_Lightroom_Plugin__4.png Select Sync Gallery Structure if you would
like your Gallery structure from Pixieset to be synced with Lightroom. This will pull the Collection, Set structure and names from your existing Collections on Pixieset to
Lightroom. Your photos from Pixieset will not be imported into Lightroom. Configure other export settings as needed and click Save. Note: You can edit these changes at any time by
clicking on the Publish Services > Edit Settings. Was this article helpful? Related articles How do I install the Lightroom Plugin? - Tutorial Video How do I upload from Lightroom?
How do I upload from Lightroom - Tutorial Video Download Sizes - Available Resolutions Setting up a Custom Domain for Pixieset Website Can't find what you're looking for? Contact
our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client
Gallery Troubleshooting Search Articles in this section Troubleshooting Upload Errors and Processing Issues Why is my upload speed really slow? Why is the File Size Small on
Download? My Client Cannot Access Their Collection With The Collection Password Why do my uploaded images look different on Pixieset or Mobile? The downloaded file won’t open How
do I install the Lightroom Plugin? How do I check my Lightroom Pixieset Plugin Export Settings? Reviewing a Collection's Email Invite History My client has not received their Email
Invite See more How do I check my Lightroom Pixieset Plugin Export Settings? If you suspect that your images are exporting too small, that your Color Space is incorrect, or if you
are simply curious how to adjust the Export Settings, here is how to do so in a few easy steps! 1. Right-click the Pixieset Plugin Manager under the Publish Services Tab, and
select Edit Settings LR1.png 2. From there you will be able to see and adjust the File Settings and File Size. You will also be able to confirm how much space is available based on
your Subscription. This is handy if you receive an error message that you cannot upload, as it will allow you to check if you have reached the allotted space for your account.
2024-05-14_11-10-09.png Once you have Set or adjusted your settings, you can simply hit save for it to take effect for all new exports. Was this article helpful? Related articles
How do I install the Lightroom Plugin? How do I upload from Lightroom? How do I upload from Lightroom - Tutorial Video Preparing Image Files for Printing Viewing Client Favorites
in Lightroom Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET
Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Troubleshooting Search Articles in this section Troubleshooting Upload Errors and Processing Issues Why is my upload
speed really slow? Why is the File Size Small on Download? My Client Cannot Access Their Collection With The Collection Password Why do my uploaded images look different on
Pixieset or Mobile? The downloaded file won’t open How do I install the Lightroom Plugin? How do I check my Lightroom Pixieset Plugin Export Settings? Reviewing a Collection's
Email Invite History My client has not received their Email Invite See more Reviewing a Collection's Email Invite History You can review the history of email invites sent to your
clients through Pixieset from any Collection’s sharing menu, or from the Share by Email page. This allows you to see a list of recipient email addresses, the email subject and date
sent, and the status of the sent email. On this page: Viewing Email History Checking the Email Status Viewing Email History From any Collection in your dashboard, click the More
button in the top right corner > View email history. ViewEmailHistory1.png Alternatively, click the Share button, and from the email sharing page, click More > View email history.
ViewEmailHistory.png Once clicked, you can view the email sharing activity associated with that Collection. email_history3.png Tip: Automated Expiry Reminder email history will
appear here too! Learn more here: How do I send automated expiry reminder emails to my clients? Checking the Email Status There are a few different statuses you may see in your
Email Invite History under Status. Pending: The email is in the queue waiting to be sent. Sent: The email has been successfully sent from our server and delivered to your client's
email server. If the client says they have not received it, they may wish to check their junk/spam folders. They can mark the received email as a safe sender to ensure that future
invites are received. Soft-bounce: Typically, this means that there is a temporary delivery issue to an email address. Although there are a number of reasons that a soft bounce
might occur, the most common reasons are: Recipient's email server is down Mailbox is full Message is too large Rejected or Hard Bounce: Typically, this indicates that there is a
permanent issue and the email is undeliverable. Although there are a number of reasons that a hard bounce might occur, the most common reasons are: Invalid recipient email address
Invalid domain name Recipient email server has completely blocked email delivery Note: If you are having difficulty sending an email to a client, you can always share a direct link
to the collection instead. Learn more here: Sharing a Collection with your Client Was this article helpful? Related articles My client has not received their Email Invite Sharing a
Collection with your Client Collecting Email Addresses through Email Registration Sending Collection Email Invites Reviewing Collection Download Activity Can't find what you're
looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset -
Help Center Client Gallery Troubleshooting Search Articles in this section Troubleshooting Upload Errors and Processing Issues Why is my upload speed really slow? Why is the File
Size Small on Download? My Client Cannot Access Their Collection With The Collection Password Why do my uploaded images look different on Pixieset or Mobile? The downloaded file
won’t open How do I install the Lightroom Plugin? How do I check my Lightroom Pixieset Plugin Export Settings? Reviewing a Collection's Email Invite History My client has not
received their Email Invite See more My client has not received their Email Invite If your client has not received the Email Invite to view their Collection, you should check the
status of their Email Invite. There are three different statuses that your sent emails can be in: Pending, Sent, and Rejected. On this page: Locating a Collection’s Email History
Understanding Email Statuses Pending Status Sent Status Rejected Status DIY Personal Invite Locating a Collection’s Email History To view the email history associated with a
collection: Open the collection. Click More > View email history. viewemailhistory.png Understanding Email Statuses Pending Status After you have clicked Send, you can scroll down
to the Email Invite History to see the status of the email invite. If the status is "Pending", it means that our system is still working on sending the email invite. The email can
take up to a couple of minutes to send. Once the email has been sent, the status will be updated to Sent. Sent Status If your client has not received the email invitation, and the
email invite status is Sent, there could be a couple of reasons: The email invitation has been delivered, but it could have landed in the clients' junk/spam/promotion folder. Your
client can mark the invitation as 'not spam' once located, to prevent future invitations from getting filtered as spam. The email has been delivered to the destination email
server, and it is up to the your email service provider to deliver it to your mailbox. In this scenario, you might simply have to wait. Rejected Status A Rejected status means that
the email was 'bounced' and was rejected by the email server of the recipient. There could be many different reasons why an email might be rejected, which we categorize into two
main groups: Soft Bounce A soft bounce typically means that there is a temporary delivery issue to an email address. Although there are a number of reasons that a soft bounce might
occur, the most common reasons are: The recipient's email server is down The recipient's mailbox is full The message is too large Hard Bounce A hard bounce indicates that there is
a permanent issue and the email is undeliverable. Although there are a number of reasons that a hard bounce might occur, the most common reasons are: Invalid recipient email
address Invalid domain name Recipient email server has completely blocked the email delivery A rejected email will not be re-delivered, and will need to be re-sent. DIY Personal
Invite If you are having trouble with your client's email, you can obtain a direct link to the Collection and share it with your client through another means (i.e. text message).
Open the collection. Click the downward arrow next to Share. Click Get Direct Link. getdirectlink.png Was this article helpful? Related articles Sharing a Collection with your
Client Why am I receiving email notifications from @pixiesetmail.com? Collection Download Settings Creating Mini Sessions Uploading Videos to your Collections Can't find what
you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us
Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Troubleshooting Search Articles in this section Troubleshooting Upload Errors and Processing Issues Why is my upload speed really slow? Why is
the File Size Small on Download? My Client Cannot Access Their Collection With The Collection Password Why do my uploaded images look different on Pixieset or Mobile? The
downloaded file won’t open How do I install the Lightroom Plugin? How do I check my Lightroom Pixieset Plugin Export Settings? Reviewing a Collection's Email Invite History My
client has not received their Email Invite See more How do I create Templates for my Pixieset Emails? Email templates are pre-created text emails that can be saved to your account
and customized as needed. Customizing this text ahead of time and creating new email templates will allow you to save time when sharing Collections with your clients and sending
them Automated Expiry Reminder Emails to remind them that their Collection is due to expire. You can easily customize these email templates to best suit your needs. On this page:
Collection Sharing Email Templates Creating a Collection Sharing Email Template Using a Collection Sharing Email Template Automated Expiry Reminder Email Template Editing your
Automated Expiry Reminder Email Template Using an Automated Expiry Reminder Email Template Collection Sharing Email Templates When Sharing your Collection with your clients, you
are able to use Pixieset’s existing email templates or create a new template. Information including the Collection password (and/or Client-Exclusive Access password), Download PIN,
and Expiry Date can all be included so that your clients have all the information they need to view, download, and share their gallery. Learn more here: Creating Custom Templates
for Email Invites Creating a Collection Sharing Email Template Head to your Client Gallery dashboard > Settings > Email Templates > Add Email Template. template1.png Next, name
your template, add an optional subject line, and start typing! You can highlight any text to see the formatting toolbar. template2.png Finally, click Save when you’re ready! Using
a Collection Sharing Email Template When you go to share a Collection with your client, click Insert Email Template and select the one you would like to use. Your email is now
ready to send, using the Send button in the top right corner! template3.png From this email sharing window, you can also click Manage Templates to be brought to your Email
Templates page within Client Gallery Settings, where you can create new templates and edit existing ones. Automated Expiry Reminder Email Template With Auto Expiry Reminder Emails,
you can notify your clients automatically by email when their Gallery is about to expire. These emails can be sent automatically to specific clients, or to all guests who have
viewed, downloaded, favorited, or made purchases through that Collection. These emails can also be customized to include the expiry date, Download PIN, and Passwords. Learn more
here: How do I set an Expiry Date for the Gallery? Editing your Automated Expiry Reminder Email Template Head to your Client Gallery dashboard > Settings > Email Templates > and
click on Auto Expiry Reminder Email to edit your template. template4.png From here, you can customize the body and subject of the email template. This includes the option to insert
dynamic text into the email template. On the right side of the page, you can see a preview of the Auto Expiry Reminder Email. Using an Automated Expiry Reminder Email Template
After you’ve set an expiry date for your Collection via the Collection’s Settings > General tab, you can click +Add expiry reminder email to set up an Automated Expiry Reminder
Email for the Collection. template6.png From here, you can customize the email further if needed before clicking Save! Learn more here: How do I send automated expiry reminder
emails to my clients? Was this article helpful? Related articles Creating Custom Templates for Email Invites Sending Collection Email Invites Responding to a Session Inquiry
Managing your Client Gallery Homepage Uploading Videos to your Collections Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours.
Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Troubleshooting Search Articles in this section
Troubleshooting Upload Errors and Processing Issues Why is my upload speed really slow? Why is the File Size Small on Download? My Client Cannot Access Their Collection With The
Collection Password Why do my uploaded images look different on Pixieset or Mobile? The downloaded file won’t open How do I install the Lightroom Plugin? How do I check my
Lightroom Pixieset Plugin Export Settings? Reviewing a Collection's Email Invite History My client has not received their Email Invite See more I don't want my Collections
searchable on Google or other search engines To choose how Google and other search engines index your pages, go to your Client Gallery Dashboard > Settings > Preferences > Search
Engine Visibility. search.png From here, there are a few options! Homepage only: This is the default option. This option will tell Google and other search engines to only index
your Client Gallery Homepage (https://yourusername.pixieset.com). It will not index your individual Collections so note that those will not appear in search results. Yes: Google
and other search engines will find your Homepage and your Collections. This is perfect for photographers who want their work to be seen as much as possible. No: This option will
tell Google to not index your Homepage or your Collections. If you want your Pixieset Homepage and Collections to stay hidden from search engines, select this option. Important:
Any changes made to the Search Engine Visibility will take weeks to take effect. Google and other search engines will need to re-index your pages, and we cannot remove your
Homepage or Collections from any search engine during this time. Was this article helpful? Related articles Managing your Client Gallery Homepage Photo Resizing and Sharpening
Privacy Options for Client Gallery Getting Started with Client Gallery Choosing the right Subscription Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back
to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Troubleshooting Search
Articles in this section Troubleshooting Upload Errors and Processing Issues Why is my upload speed really slow? Why is the File Size Small on Download? My Client Cannot Access
Their Collection With The Collection Password Why do my uploaded images look different on Pixieset or Mobile? The downloaded file won’t open How do I install the Lightroom Plugin?
How do I check my Lightroom Pixieset Plugin Export Settings? Reviewing a Collection's Email Invite History My client has not received their Email Invite See more Why am I seeing
error messages when I upload? If you see error messages while uploading photos or videos, there are a few things you can do to help get things up and running again. Uploads to
Pixieset are supported via desktop/laptop. This article will help walk you through our recommended troubleshooting steps so that you can ensure your photo and video files upload
successfully to Pixieset. Step 1: Ensure your files are formatted correctly Before you attempt uploading your files again, make sure they are in a supported format with only
alpha-numeric characters in their filenames: For image files, JPEG, GIF, or PNG format that are less than 100 MB each are supported. For video files, mp4, mov, avi, and m4v files
are supported. For more information, review our file size and format requirements. Step 2: Troubleshoot your browser Your browser may be the cause of the uploading issue. We
recommend Chrome, Safari, and Firefox for uploading to Pixieset. There are a few things you can do to solve browser related issues: Clear cache: Clearing your browser’s cache will
help resolve most uploading errors. You can find the steps for your specific browser here. Update your browser: We generally recommend using the most updated version of your
browser. Switch your browser: To help rule out browser related issues, you can try a different browser and see if the upload works there. Step 3: Troubleshoot your network If you
notice errors during the upload process it could be due to a network issue. There may have been temporary disruptions in the connection. To troubleshoot: Restart your device and
router Try a different network Upload smaller batches of files Step 4: Use the Flash Uploader Why am I seeing error messages when I upload.gif You can switch to our secondary
uploader powered by Adobe Flash to see if the error persists: In the uploader, click Switch to classic uploader. Select Switch to Flash uploader. Click +Add and select the files
you’d like to upload. If you continue to have issues, please reach out to our support team by clicking Help (?) > Contact Us from your Client Gallery Dashboard. Please provide some
details such as the name of the collection and the troubleshooting steps you have tried, so we can best pinpoint the issue and resolve it as quickly as possible. Was this article
helpful? Related articles How do I clear my browser’s site data? File size and format requirements for Pixieset Troubleshooting Upload Errors and Processing Issues Download Sizes -
Available Resolutions Uploading Videos to your Collections Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us
Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Website Design and Customization Search Articles in this section Sharing your
site’s content block designs Customizing your website's design Changing your website’s colors Customizing your website’s fonts Adjusting your website’s spacing Customizing Layers
with Flex Editor Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet Creating Galleries and Slideshows with Flex Editor Adding animations to your website How to personalize branding
on your website See more Sharing your site’s content block designs Pixieset Website lets you quickly share your favorite block designs with other Pixieset users through a simple
link. When someone opens your link, they add a copy of your layout including text and media elements into their own site builder. It’s an easy way to exchange creative building
blocks with other photographers for their own use. Note: Shared content blocks are available for any site template, with the exception of classic themes. On this page: Before you
start Sharing your block design Using a shared block Before you start You can share any block in your site builder, whether it’s part of your live site or still in draft. Custom
photos and videos are replaced with sample images by default, but you can choose to include your own media when generating the link. Shared blocks are snapshots of your design at
the moment you generate the link. If you update the design later, you will need to create a new link to share the changes. Previous links will remain active but won’t update.
Sharing your block design Sharing a block is as easy as creating a link, sending it to someone, and letting your layout inspire their own site’s design. To create a block share
link in the site builder: Hover over the block. Select Share in the top right. Click Create Link. Select Copy to save your link to your clipboard. Sharing content block designs.gif
Using a shared block If another user sends you a shared block, you can bring their design into your own photography website with a quick, simple import. Note: Saved blocks are
stored within the specific site you added them to. For example, a block saved while editing a draft site won’t appear in your live site’s block library. To add a shared block to
your website: Paste the shared block link into your browser. Once redirected to the site builder, click Add to save your block. Use the block on any page of your site. Once saved,
the block will automatically use your site’s color scheme and selected fonts to match your branding. You can find the shared block in the Saved Blocks section when adding a new
block to your site. Sharing content block designs 2.gif Was this article helpful? Related articles Customizing your website's design Customizing your site with Flex Editor
Customizing your website’s fonts Adding photos and content to your website Bulk creating collections in Client Gallery Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support
staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Website Design and
Customization Search Articles in this section Sharing your site’s content block designs Customizing your website's design Changing your website’s colors Customizing your website’s
fonts Adjusting your website’s spacing Customizing Layers with Flex Editor Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet Creating Galleries and Slideshows with Flex Editor
