history, and search results. logo favicon 4.png Best practices for favicons To ensure your favicon appears optimally for your website: Use a GIF, PNG, or ICO file type. Choose a
simple visual or logo that visitors can identify with your brand, even at a small size. Intricate details can get easily lost when viewed as a browser icon. Keep your favicon a
square icon in multiples of 48 pixels so it appears in search engine results. 288x288 is the largest supported file type for this shape. Adding your favicon To upload your favicon
to your website: Go to Design > Logo & Branding. Upload your file to Favicon. Note: When you add or update your favicon for your published site, it will always take time for search
engines to index it. This process can take up to a few weeks to complete on their end. Was this article helpful? Related articles Setting up a Custom Domain for Pixieset Website
How to personalize branding on your website Getting Started with SEO File size and format requirements for Pixieset Customizing your website’s fonts Can't find what you're looking
for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help
Center Website Design and Customization Search Articles in this section Sharing your site’s content block designs Customizing your website's design Changing your website’s colors
Customizing your website’s fonts Adjusting your website’s spacing Customizing Layers with Flex Editor Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet Creating Galleries and
Slideshows with Flex Editor Adding animations to your website How to personalize branding on your website See more Customizing your website's menu and header A site menu contains
links to your primary pages to help visitors find what they are looking for. With Pixieset Website’s templates, you have a variety of design options for your site menu, ranging
from menu styles to finer details like spacing and icons. Note: If you are using a classic template built on our original layout engine, some features and steps may be different or
unavailable. On this page: Changing the menu layout Designing your site header Customizing the menu items Changing the menu layout Switching to a new menu layout is the simplest
way to personalize your site navigation across all your pages: Hover over your site header and click Change Layout. Select a new layout for your site pages. Pixieset Website Menu
Header 1.png Note: Your navigation will appear differently on mobile and tablet devices, compared to a desktop view. Click Edit Site Header to view your mobile menu style options.
Designing your site header Your site header contains multiple customization options that offer you more control over how your menu appears. To access more advanced styling options,
hover over your site header and click Edit Site Header. Here, you can adjust the following options to elevate your visitors’ viewing experience: Height and spacing tools: Adjust
the padding between your navigation and the rest of your page content. This can add a more airy or bold feel to your menu. Mobile menu styles: Tailor the way your menu appears on
mobile and tablet views. Sticky header: Decide whether your menu should stay at the top of the page even as visitors scroll down. Dropdown menu icon: Select an icon style for your
dropdown menus. Additional page specific options: Adjust the header background, color scheme, and page logo that appears in the header of the specific page you’re working on.
Pixieset Website Menu Header 2.png Customizing the menu items The links that appear in your site menu mirror the existing pages in your builder on the left hand side. You can
customize your site menu by adding more pages and links, or by rearranging the existing items. Pixieset Website Menu Header 3.png New pages are automatically added to your site
navigation as a new menu item: In the left panel, click +Add Page > Page. Choose a page layout to use as your starting point. Drag and drop the new page into your preferred
position via the left panel site menu. Tip: To keep your site navigation tidy, consider creating a dropdown menu and grouping similar pages together. You can also hide the page
from your site menu if required. Was this article helpful? Related articles Customizing your website's design Editing your website's footer Adjusting your website’s spacing
Changing your website’s colors Adding a new portfolio category/subpage Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact
Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Website Design and Customization Search Articles in this section Sharing
your site’s content block designs Customizing your website's design Changing your website’s colors Customizing your website’s fonts Adjusting your website’s spacing Customizing
Layers with Flex Editor Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet Creating Galleries and Slideshows with Flex Editor Adding animations to your website How to personalize
branding on your website See more Editing your website's footer Your website’s footer is the bottom section of all your site pages. This area is primarily used to provide
navigation links, contact information, social feed, and other important details that are readily accessible and helpful for your site visitors. With Pixieset Website, you can apply
ready-made designs to your footer, as well as customize every detail with the intuitive drag and drop Flex Editor. Note: If you are using a classic template built on our original
layout engine, some features and steps may be different or unavailable. On this page: Designing your footer Editing footer elements Designing your footer Each Pixieset Website
comes with a unique footer based off of your starting site template. You can add ready-made layouts right to your footer area to convey any additional information you want: In the
top right of your footer, click Edit Site Footer. Click the white + icon above or below your current site footer. Select a premade block you’d like to add to your footer. Tip:
Adding a new layout won’t remove your site’s original footer block. You can always reorder or remove a content block when there are multiple in your footer area. Editing your
website's footer 1.png Editing footer elements To tweak the appearance of your footer further, you can use the footer’s drag and drop Flex Editor. This is a great tool if you want
to precisely reposition existing elements like your menu links, or add individual elements like a button to your footer. Learn more: Flex Editor -Tutorial Videos Note: For
customization like color scheme and padding, click Edit Site Footer > Settings instead. To access your footer’s editor: Hover over the top right your site footer and click Edit
Site Footer. Select Open Editor for the block you’d like to customize. Drag and drop existing elements around freely in the block, or click +Add Elements in the top left to
customize it further. When customizing your site footer with the editor, a good rule of thumb is to keep things simple and avoid drawing attention away from your pages’ main
content. Editing your website's footer 2.png Was this article helpful? Related articles Adding custom code to your header or footer Customizing your website's menu and header
Setting up a Custom Domain for Pixieset Website Adding a logo and favicon to your website Changing your website’s colors Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support
staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Website Design and
Customization Search Articles in this section Sharing your site’s content block designs Customizing your website's design Changing your website’s colors Customizing your website’s
fonts Adjusting your website’s spacing Customizing Layers with Flex Editor Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet Creating Galleries and Slideshows with Flex Editor
Adding animations to your website How to personalize branding on your website See more Adding custom code to your header or footer Custom header footer.png Pixieset Website
supports code snippets in the header and footer area of your site pages. Third-party code snippets can be used to display pop-ups and widgets, collect analytics, and more. Note:
Custom code tools are an upgraded feature available on the Pro Website Plan or the Pro/Ultimate Suite Plan. On this page: Before you start Adding custom code to your site’s header
or footer Before you start A Pro Website Plan or Pro/Ultimate Suite Plan is required to add custom code to your published website. The header and footer area is intended for code
related to site analytics, metadata, pop-ups, or live chat widgets. It is not intended to be used to significantly redesign your site’s content, which can impact your site
functionality. The header area will add code to the ‘head’ tag on every page of your site, and the footer area will add code before the ‘body’ tag on every page. If your code is
meant to appear on a specific page, see Adding a custom embed code block instead. If you are experiencing issues with custom code, we recommend reaching out to the third-party that
you received the code from. They will be best equipped to provide support for your code snippet. Adding custom code to your site’s header or footer To set up code in your site’s
header or footer area: Go to Settings > Advanced. Paste your code into Custom Header Code or Custom Footer Code. Preview or publish your site to see your code in effect. Tip:
Platforms that provide code snippets typically specify whether the code should be inserted in the header or footer of your site. If they do not, try adding it to the header area.
Custom header footer.gif Was this article helpful? Related articles Adding a custom embed code block Editing your website's footer Adding Meta Pixel to your website Analytics for
your website Setting up a Custom Domain for Pixieset Website Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us
Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Website Design and Customization Search Articles in this section Sharing your
site’s content block designs Customizing your website's design Changing your website’s colors Customizing your website’s fonts Adjusting your website’s spacing Customizing Layers
with Flex Editor Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet Creating Galleries and Slideshows with Flex Editor Adding animations to your website How to personalize branding
on your website See more Privacy options for your website Pixieset offers a range of privacy features for your website. You can choose to hide your site from search engines, remove
pages from the menu, restrict access to certain pages with a passcode, or protect your whole website with a unique password. On this page: Password protecting your site Password
protecting specific pages Hiding a page from your menu Taking a page offline Hiding your site from search engine results Password protecting your site Add a site password if you
want to limit access to your entire website. Once implemented, visitors will need to enter the correct password before they can access any of your site pages. To set up a site-wide
password: Go to Settings > Advanced. Under Site-Wide Password, enter a unique password. Click Publish to go live with the password. Privacy Website 1.gif Password protecting
specific pages You can assign a page password to keep a specific page of your website private. This is especially useful if you have a client area or page that you’d like only a
limited audience to access. Note: Page passwords are an upgraded feature available for users on any paid Website plan or Suite plan. To assign a page password: Click ••• > Settings
for the page you’d like to add a password to. Under Page Status, select Password Protected. Enter a unique password. Click Publish to go live with the password. Privacy Website
2.gif Hiding a page from your menu You can choose to remove a page from your site menu while keeping it accessible via a direct link. This is a simple way to share webpages with a
select audience without cluttering your site navigation. Important: Hiding a page adds some privacy, but keep in mind its direct link may still be shared or appear in search engine
results. For full privacy, implement additional settings like a page password. To hide a page from your site menu: Click ••• > Hide from menu for the page you’d like to hide. Click
Publish to go live with the change. Privacy Website 3.png Taking a page offline You can take a page completely offline so that no one can access it. Visitors will see a simple
webpage with your logo that informs them that the page cannot be found. Note: Search engines take time to re-index your website whenever you make changes. Until then, relevant
search results may still display your offline page. To make a page offline: Go to ••• > Settings for the page you’d like to take offline. Under Page Status, select Offline. Click
Publish to go live with the change. If you want to forward traffic from the offline page to an active one, consider setting up a 301 or 302 redirect afterwards. Learn more about
redirects here. Privacy Website 4.gif Hiding your site from search engine results If you do not want your website to appear in search engine results, you can block Google and other
search engines from indexing your site. To hide a website from search engine results: Go to Settings > SEO Manager. Click Global. Toggle Search Engine Visibility to Hidden. Click
Publish to go live with the change. Note: Search engines take time to re-index your website whenever you make changes. Until then, your website may still appear in relevant search
results. Was this article helpful? Related articles Privacy Options for Client Gallery Can I add terms and policies to my Galleries? Managing your Page Settings Publishing your
Pixieset Website My Client Cannot Access Their Collection With The Collection Password Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within
24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Website Design and Customization Search Articles in this
section Sharing your site’s content block designs Customizing your website's design Changing your website’s colors Customizing your website’s fonts Adjusting your website’s spacing
Customizing Layers with Flex Editor Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet Creating Galleries and Slideshows with Flex Editor Adding animations to your website How to
personalize branding on your website See more Creating social sharing images for your website Social sharing 1.png When you share your Pixieset Website on social media like
Facebook or messaging platforms like WhatsApp or iMessage, a preview will often be shown with the link’s page title and description, as well as a social sharing image. This article
will cover how to set up a social image for your entire site, as well for a specific page. Note: Setting up a social sharing images is optional but recommended. If you do not set
up a site social image, the first image on your home page will be used. On this page: Best practices for social sharing images Adding a site social image Adding a page social image
Troubleshooting Best practices for social sharing images Use a landscape image with subjects centred whenever possible. Many social platforms crop to 1200 x 630px, so selecting
images with this in mind will help your previews look their best. Choose an image that accurately reflects the content of your brand and page. For example, if your page is
promoting your maternity sessions, use a standout image from a recent maternity shoot. Keep your social sharing images simple. Remember that your social sharing image will appear
alongside your page’s title and description, so avoid busy backgrounds or imposing text on the image. Adding a site social image Your site social image is the default image that
appears when someone shares a link to your homepage or any page that does not have a page social image set. To set up a site social image: Go to Settings > Social. Scroll down to
Site Social Image and upload a photo. Re-publish your site so your changes go live. Social sharing 2.png Adding a page social image Your page social image is the default image that
appears when you share a specific webpage. It will override your site social image. To set up a social image for a page: Click ••• > Settings next to the page. Scroll down to
Social Image and upload a photo. Re-publish your site so your changes go live. socialsharing.gif Troubleshooting When I share my link, the social preview doesn’t appear. When I
share my link, my old social image still appears. When I share my link, the social preview doesn’t appear. If you don’t share the full URL for your website, the platform you are
using may not be able to pull a preview. Ensure your direct link includes https:// for optimal results: Correct: https://patriciajohnsonphoto.com/portfolio Incorrect:
patriciajohnsonphoto.com/portfolio Keep in mind that some platforms have specific rules for when they show social previews. For example, if your post includes multiple links, a
preview might not generate at all. When I share my link, my old social image still appears. If you shared your link on the same platform previously, it may still show your old
social image even if you already updated it on Pixieset. This is usually because the platform has cached the old image and requires time to automatically update to the new image.
If you are sharing on a Meta platform like Facebook or WhatsApp, you can use their debugger tool to manually speed up the process. This involves entering your link to be debugged
and then clicking Scrape Again to request that Meta re-scan your webpage. Social sharing 4.png Was this article helpful? Related articles Analytics for your website Adding a logo
and favicon to your website Editing your website's footer Creating Mini Sessions Adding animations to your website Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff.
We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Website Design and
Customization Search Articles in this section Sharing your site’s content block designs Customizing your website's design Changing your website’s colors Customizing your website’s
fonts Adjusting your website’s spacing Customizing Layers with Flex Editor Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet Creating Galleries and Slideshows with Flex Editor
Adding animations to your website How to personalize branding on your website See more Adding a custom embed code block Your Pixieset Website is designed to be built without any
coding or design skills required. If you have a code snippet from a third-party platform though, you can easily add it to any site page with a custom embed code block. Note: Custom
code tools are a premium feature available on the Pro Website Plan or the Pro/Ultimate Suite Plan. On this page: Before you start Adding a custom code block Adding custom code to
an existing block Before you start A Pro Website Plan or Pro/Ultimate Suite Plan is required to add custom code to your published website. The code block works best with snippets
that are meant to be embedded on a specific page, like a badge, contact form, or social media content. If your code is meant to apply to every page of your site, see Adding code to
your site’s header and footer instead. If you are experiencing issues with the custom code, we recommend reaching out to the third-party that you received the code from. They will
be best equipped to provide support for your code snippet. Adding a custom code block You can add custom code as a standalone section of any page. This is helpful if your code is
for an embedded media player or form that requires more room to shine. To add a custom code block to a page: Hover over the space between two content blocks and click the green +
icon that appears. Go to the Others category. Add the custom embed code block to your page. Click directly on the block and paste your code. Note: More complicated code may not
fully render within the site builder. In these cases, we recommend visiting your website once published to confirm how the code will appear. custom embed.gif Adding custom code to
an existing block You can add custom code to a block design through the Flex Editor. This is helpful if you want to embed multiple code snippets in one block, or if you want to
embed your code right next to another element (e.g. an image). To access a content block’s Flex Editor: Hover over the block and click Open Editor. In the editor, click +Add
Elements in the top left. Add the custom code element to your block. Click Edit Custom Code and paste your code. Note: More complicated code may not fully render within the site
builder. In these cases, we recommend visiting your website once published to confirm how the code will appear. custom embed 2.gif Was this article helpful? Related articles
Sharing Client Gallery collections on your website Adding custom code to your header or footer Customizing your site with Flex Editor Collecting Email Addresses through Email
Registration Customizing your website's design Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025
Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Getting Started with Selling Search Articles in this section Which print lab am I using
in my Store? Introduction to Pixieset Store Setting up your Store Preparing Image Files for Printing Order fulfillment options Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment Getting
started with Self Fulfillment How do I turn Store on? Print labs available with Pixieset How does the 0% commission fee work? See more Which print lab am I using in my Store? On
your price sheet, the print lab will be listed under the Fulfillment heading. PrintLab.png When viewing an order, the print lab fulfilling the order will be listed under the
Fulfillment heading. PrintLab2.png Note: If the Fulfilment area doesn’t specify a lab, note that North American based store orders are sent to WHCC by default and Australian/New
Zealand based store orders are sent to Atkins Pro. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Which labs are you partnered with? How do I change my print lab? How do I use my own print lab?
Which labs are you partnered with? Pixieset has partnered with industry-leading professional print labs across North America, UK/Europe, and Australia. To learn more about the labs
we’ve partnered with, see our guide here: Print labs available with Pixieset How do I change my print lab? If you’re based in North America and you’d like to work with a different
print lab, create a new price sheet and choose your preferred lab. To see this in action, watch our tutorial video here: Choosing a specific print lab - Tutorial Video Note: It’s
not possible to change the lab for an existing price sheet since the lab’s product offerings differ. How do I use my own print lab? Set up your Store with self fulfillment so that
you can sell print products from a print lab outside of Pixieset. To learn more, follow our guide here: Getting started with Self Fulfillment Was this article helpful? Related
articles Print labs available with Pixieset Introduction to Pixieset Store Setting up your Store Getting started with Self Fulfillment Choosing a specific print lab - Tutorial
Video Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help
Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Getting Started with Selling Search Articles in this section Which print lab am I using in my Store? Introduction to Pixieset Store
Setting up your Store Preparing Image Files for Printing Order fulfillment options Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment Getting started with Self Fulfillment How do I turn
Store on? Print labs available with Pixieset How does the 0% commission fee work? See more Introduction to Pixieset Store Pixieset Store lets you sell professional print products,
digital downloads, and other items directly from your galleries. With a stunning online store and a variety of premium products, it’s simple for photographers to sell photos online
and earn more. Take a look to see how it works in our example galleries: https://pixieset.com/example-store/ store-hero.gif On this page: How it works Store Pricing The Legacy
Store system How it works It’s easy to get started with Pixieset Store! You just need to review the products you want to sell, and enable a payment method. You determine the prices
for all of the products in your Store, so you can make sure you earn a profit from each sale. Your Pixieset Store is seamlessly integrated into your client galleries. Your clients
can easily purchase any products you have available while they are browsing your images, or visit your dedicated storefront to explore products to purchase.
store-gallery-integration-desktop.jpg With Personalized Product Preview, your photos are used in the product preview image, creating a personalized shopping experience for your
clients to help drive sales. You can control which images from the gallery are used in the preview, in the collection’s Store settings. Learn more: What is Personalized Product
Preview? ppp.jpg Your client can preview their images, place their order, and process their payment right in the gallery. You can easily review and manage your orders right from
your Pixieset Dashboard. Learn more: Managing Orders Digital images will be delivered automatically to your client via email when the order is processed. In countries where
Automatic Fulfillment is available, orders will be sent to one of our professional lab partners to be printed and shipped directly to your client! Learn more: Getting started with
Automatic Fulfillment You may also choose to fulfill the orders yourself. Simply select the Self Fulfillment option when you are creating your price sheets, and add your own
products, pricing, and shipping methods. Learn more: Getting started with Self Fulfillment Store Pricing Just like with any Pixieset product, you can get set up with Store for
free! On the Free account, each sale is subject to a 15% commission fee. Pixieset Store is included as part of our Client Gallery subscription, and depending on your business needs
and how much you plan to sell, it may be worth upgrading your plan. With any of the upgraded Client Gallery plans, which start at $10/month, or a Suite subscription, there will be
0% commission on your sales. If you sell as little as $70 a month, a monthly subscription is worth the cost, as you will get more storage and keep all of your profits. The Legacy
Store system In May 2020, we launched an updated store system that was built from the ground up with a focus on improving product discoverability and increasing ease-of-use for
your clients. Price sheets created in the previous, legacy system will continue to work as before, but new legacy price sheets cannot be created. Legacy price sheets do not support
any of the new features or products in the updated Store. To get started with the new Store, simply create a new price sheet and assign it to your Client Gallery collections. You
can find more details on upgrading to the new system here: Upgrading from the Legacy Store Was this article helpful? Related articles Setting up your Store Print labs available
with Pixieset Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment What is Personalized Product Preview? Order fulfillment options Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support
staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Getting Started
with Selling Search Articles in this section Which print lab am I using in my Store? Introduction to Pixieset Store Setting up your Store Preparing Image Files for Printing Order
fulfillment options Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment Getting started with Self Fulfillment How do I turn Store on? Print labs available with Pixieset How does the 0%
commission fee work? See more Setting up your Store You can sell prints, digital downloads, and more through your galleries with Pixieset Store. To set up your Store, you need to
decide what products you want to sell, and how you want to accept payments. We have a great video tutorial going over these steps here: Setting up your Store Tutorial Video
store-hero.gif On this page: Reviewing your products Setting up checkout Turning on your store Reviewing your products Price sheets determine your product pricing and the products
available to your clients for purchase within collections. By default, there is an example price sheet created for you to get started. You can update the existing price sheet, or
create brand new ones. To create a new price sheet: From the Products page (Store > Products) click + Add Price Sheet. Give your new price sheet a name and select the fulfillment
type. Automatic Fulfillment will set up your price sheet with one of our lab partners, so your orders will be printed and shipped to your client automatically. Self Fulfillment
will allow your clients to place their orders in the gallery, where you will then arrange for printing and shipping yourself. Learn more: Order fulfillment options With Automatic
Fulfillment, you have the option to use our Recommended Pricing, which will automatically set the prices in your store according to our research and analytics to maximize sales and
profits. This way you’ll be ready to start earning right away! With Self Fulfillment, you can automatically add commonly sold products to your price sheet, to save you some time
getting set up. recommended-pricing.png Click Create, then review the price sheet to see the products available, and update your prices as necessary. Here, you can create packages,
and add Digital Download or Self Fulfilled products to your Store. Learn more: Adding and Pricing Products in your Store Assign your new price sheet to your Client Gallery
collections. You can easily assign the new price sheet to all of your galleries at once, or set it as the default for new collections, using the ••• menu. Learn more: Assigning
price sheets to galleries assign-all.png Setting up checkout In order to accept payments and enable your checkout, so clients can finalize their purchases, you must have at least
one payment method connected. You can choose to accept online payments with a debit or credit card via Stripe or PayPal, or with an offline payment method (only available with an
upgraded Client Gallery plan). Your payment method determines how your clients will pay for their orders and how you'll receive your profits. Learn more: Connecting a Payment
Method Steps: From your dashboard, go to Store > Settings. Under to Payment Methods, click Get Started for the payment method you would like to connect. You can then follow the
steps that appear to connect your Stripe or PayPal account, or enable Offline Payment. enabled-payment.png Once you have enabled a payment method, you can click Edit at any time to
change or disable that particular method for your Store. Turning on your store Once you have created your price sheet and connected a payment method, you’re ready to start selling!
First, make sure your Store is turned on in your Store Settings (Store > Settings). store-global.png Then, go to the Client Gallery collection you want to sell from, and make sure
the Store is enabled and your price sheet is assigned correctly. Learn more: How do I turn Store on? store-collection-settings.png That’s it! Check out the client view of your
gallery (click View from the collection dashboard) to check out your Store in action. Was this article helpful? Related articles Getting started with Store - Tutorial Video Order
fulfillment options How do I turn Store on? How does the 0% commission fee work? Linking a store to your website Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff.
We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Getting Started with
Selling Search Articles in this section Which print lab am I using in my Store? Introduction to Pixieset Store Setting up your Store Preparing Image Files for Printing Order
fulfillment options Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment Getting started with Self Fulfillment How do I turn Store on? Print labs available with Pixieset How does the 0%
commission fee work? See more Preparing Image Files for Printing PrintStoreImages.jpg When your client places an automatic fulfillment order in your Store, the original files you
upload to the gallery will be submitted directly to your chosen partner lab for printing. It is important to optimize your files so they are print-ready before you upload them.
This article will cover how to adjust your editing setup and export settings to ensure your clients are happy with the prints they receive. On this page: Step 1: Adjust your
editing setup Step 2: Adjust your export settings Step 3: Review your orders (Optional) Step 4: Calibrate your monitor (Optional) What’s next? Step 1: Adjust your editing setup
Because digital images are brighter than printed products, you should ensure the files you see on screen are as close to the final prints as possible when editing. Here are some
quick tips to help you get set up for success: Adjust your monitor to 70% brightness. This setting is a good estimate of what the files will look like when printed. Work in a well
lit space. Using lighting that is similar to how you expect your photos to be displayed will give you a reference point for how your photos will look in your clients’ homes. Step
2: Adjust your export settings When you’re done editing, you’ll need to export your files using our labs’ recommended settings. Your images should be: High resolution JPEG files
exceeding the minimum requirements for printing 300 DPI In the sRGB color space A JPEG quality of 10 in Photoshop, 90% in Lightroom, or the equivalent in your editing tool Tip: If
you’d like to take an extra step to make sure your files will print as you expect them to, you can order some sample prints from your chosen partner lab. In many cases, they will
be able to help you order some samples if you contact them directly. Alternatively, you can order some yourself by placing an order at cost price through your Store. Step 3: Review
your orders (Optional) To review orders before they are sent to the lab, we recommend turning on Order Delay. When Order Delay is activated, all automatically fulfilled orders will
be placed on hold for a set number of days before they’re submitted for printing. During this time, you can review the selections made by your clients (e.g. crop placements, image
files, shipping address) to ensure that their order looks good before it’s submitted. Note: When Order Delay is turned off, all orders will be added to the Lab’s production queue
immediately after your client checks out. Step 4: Calibrate your monitor (Optional) For the most accurate reflection of how your files will look when printed, you should calibrate
your monitor to your chosen Print Lab’s specifications. Here are some guides from our Partner Labs on their recommendations: WHCC (Automatic: North America) ProDPI Miller’s Lab
(PDF) Mpix (PDF) Atkins Pro (Automatic: Australia & New Zealand) Loxley Colour Note: WHCC, ProDPI, Miller's and Loxley price sheets also provide a lab color correction option.
Learn more What’s next? Once the Lab receives your order, they will fulfill your client’s prints using the exact files submitted, and send them directly to the shipping address
entered at checkout. By following the steps above to prepare your files, you will ensure consistent, accurate results for every order placed through your Store. Need help with a
print order? If so, we are here to help! Get in touch with Pixieset via the "Contact Us" link below as soon as you can. We will do our best to assist and get any issues resolved
for you and your client. So we can take action as soon as possible, please include the order number, details of the issue, and photos of both the prints and the packaging where
applicable. Attachments Mpix Monitor Calibration Guide.pdf 100 KB Download Millers Lab Monitor Calibration Guide.pdf 400 KB Download Was this article helpful? Related articles
Minimum resolution requirements for automatic fulfillment products Order fulfillment options Setting up your Store Introduction to Pixieset Store Print labs available with Pixieset
Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center
Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Getting Started with Selling Search Articles in this section Which print lab am I using in my Store? Introduction to Pixieset Store Setting
up your Store Preparing Image Files for Printing Order fulfillment options Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment Getting started with Self Fulfillment How do I turn Store on?
Print labs available with Pixieset How does the 0% commission fee work? See more Order fulfillment options In your Pixieset Store, you have control over how the orders you receive
are fulfilled. Depending on your price sheets and products, your can have your orders fulfilled automatically, by one of our professional lab partners, or you may fulfill the order
yourself, outside of Pixieset. On this page: Automatic Fulfillment Self Fulfillment Digital delivery Choosing a fulfillment option Automatic Fulfillment Automatic Fulfillment is an
automated process, where we handle everything from printing to shipping on your behalf. This is a great way for photographers to sell prints while being hands-off with the
fulfillment process. How does automatic fulfillment work? First, your client places an order in your store. Then, the order is automatically sent to a professional print lab where
it is printed, packaged and shipped directly to your client. The order cost is deducted from your client's payment, and you receive the difference as profit. Your client receives
their order in a white-labeled package. image.png Learn more: Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment Self Fulfillment If you are using self fulfillment, you will be in charge
of fulfilling the orders manually, outside of Pixieset. You are responsible for ordering prints from your preferred lab, as well as arranging for shipping to your clients. This is
a great option for photographers that wish to take full control of the fulfillment process. How does self fulfillment work? First, your client places an order in your store, and
their payment is sent to you. You'll receive an order notification, and you can review what has been ordered in your Store dashboard. You will then arrange for printing and
shipping manually, with a printing lab or vendor of your choice, outside of Pixieset. You will manage the order status through the Orders page in your Pixieset dashboard, and
