board. For more customization options, click on Project Settings in the top corner. Projects 3.gif Get started at Studio Manager Dashboard > Projects to manage every aspect of your
photography workflow in one place. Was this article helpful? Related articles Customizing your Branding for Studio Manager Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Managing your
Studio Manager Settings Download Sizes - Available Resolutions Uploading Videos to your Collections Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to
you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Projects and Settings Search
Articles in this section Organizing your Workflow with Projects Customizing your Branding for Studio Manager Managing your Studio Manager Settings Customizing your Branding for
Studio Manager With Studio Manager, you can easily customize how your brand appears to clients across your documents and emails. This article will go over Studio Manager's Branding
Settings page, and walk you through the available options. On this page: Accessing your Branding Settings Page Adding a Logo Setting a Default Cover Image Focal Point Adjusting
your Color Theme Selecting a Font Theme Accessing your Branding Settings Page You can access your Studio Manager's Branding Settings page by going to Studio Manager Dashboard >
Settings > Branding. Studio_Manager_Branding_Page.png Whenever you make changes to your branding on this page, you can review how it will appear in the Preview section on the
right. You can click Invoice to preview your invoices, and Email to preview your emails. Invoice_and_Email_Preview.png Adding a Logo By default, your Studio Manager emails and
documents will use text for your logo, and display it alongside your Pixieset account's profile icon. To use a dedicated logo image as your logo instead, you can upload an image
file of up to 5 MB into the Logo uploader. For the best visibility, we recommend using a PNG file with a transparent background. Studio_Manager_Logo_Uploader.png When you upload an
image file into the Logo uploader, we will automatically generate a white version of the Logo to use as your Cover Logo. The Cover Logo is specifically used on the cover photo of
your documents. Cover_Photo_SM.png If you'd like to manually upload an image file into the Cover Logo uploader instead, we recommend using a white or light colored logo with a
transparent background. You can permanently delete your uploaded logo by hovering over it and clicking the trash can icon. Delete_Logo_SM.png Setting a Default Cover Image You can
select from our curated images to use as the default cover image for your documents, and even upload your own photo (a JPEG or PNG file, up to a maximum of 50 MB) to use with the +
Add Photo option. You will still be able to change the cover image on a per-document basis. Default_Cover_Image_SM.png Focal Point If you want to adjust the area of focus on your
cover image, you can do so by hovering over the cover image and clicking the Focal Point icon. Focal_Point_Cover_Image.png In the Set Focal Point pop-up that appears, click and
drag the green focal point to wherever you'd like your cover image's focal point to be. Focal_Point.png Click Done to save your changes. Adjusting your Color Theme Your color theme
applies to your documents and emails, and consists of a Background Color and an Accent Color. Color_Theme_SM.png You can choose a different color theme by clicking directly onto
your current color theme. This will reveal a drop-down menu containing pre-made theme options. Color_Theme_Quick_Select.png Alternatively, if you have a specific color theme in
mind, you can create a customized theme of your own! Simply click directly onto your current Background or Accent color to bring up its Color Picker tool. Color_Picker_Tool.png
With the color slider and the color picker, you can select a custom color. You can also enter a hex color code (e.g. #a76b6b) to automatically select a specific color! Selecting a
Font Theme For your font theme, you can determine whether your font is serif or sans serif. Your font theme will be applied to your invoices. Font_Theme_KB.png Was this article
helpful? Related articles Managing your Studio Manager Settings Organizing your Workflow with Projects Logos & Branding Creating Mini Sessions Changing your website’s colors Can't
find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center
Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Projects and Settings Search Articles in this section Organizing your Workflow with Projects Customizing your Branding for Studio
Manager Managing your Studio Manager Settings Managing your Studio Manager Settings With Studio Manager, you can access your Settings to review and manage your branding, business
profile, connected payment methods, and general preferences. This article will explain these settings in detail. On this page: Accessing your Studio Manager Settings Page Adjusting
your Branding Reviewing your Profile Setting up Payments Managing your Preferences Connecting to Studio Manager Integrations Accessing your Studio Manager Settings Page You can
access your Studio Manager Settings by going to your Studio Manager Dashboard > Settings. At the top of the Settings page, there are four categories: Branding, Profile, Payments,
Preferences, and Integrations. You can access the specific settings for any of these categories by clicking the corresponding heading.
Managing_your_Studio_Manager_Settings_KB_1.png Adjusting your Branding Your Branding Settings page allows you to easily customize how your brand appears to clients across your
documents, sessions, and emails. Branding settings include adding a logo and default cover image, and selecting a color theme and font theme.
Managing_your_Studio_Manager_Settings_KB_2.png To learn how to manage your branding settings, see our "Customizing your Branding for Studio Manager" guide here. Reviewing your
Profile The Profile Settings page will display your business profile information, which is what your client will see in various places such as on their invoices and payment
statements. Your business profile information is shared across all your Pixieset applications (i.e. Client Gallery, Store, etc.). To edit this information, click Edit Business
Profile to be taken to your Pixieset account's Profile page. Managing_your_Studio_Manager_Settings_KB_3.png To learn more about updating your Pixieset account's business profile
information, click here. Setting up Payments The Payments Settings page is where you can set up and manage your payment methods for your invoices and sessions.
Managing_your_Studio_Manager_Settings_KB_4.png You have the ability to accept bank transfers (US only), credit cards, and debit cards via Stripe, PayPal Express Checkout, credit
cards, and debit cards via PayPal, or add payment methods that are manually processed (e.g. cash, check, etc.) with Manual Payment. Pixieset Payments allows you to accept and
manage a wide range of payment methods at ease, right from your dashboard. For more information on connecting your payment methods, click here. Managing your Preferences Your
Preference Settings page is where you can review and manage your notification preferences for Studio Manager, as well as custom header fields for your invoices.
Managing_your_Studio_Manager_Settings_KB_5.png To manage the email notifications you receive in your account email, click Manage notifications to be directed to your account’s
Advanced Settings. With Invoice Header Fields, you can add extra information, like required business numbers (VAT, ABN, etc.) to the header of your invoice PDFs. For more
information on adding invoice header fields, click here. Connecting to Studio Manager Integrations Your Integrations page is where you can connect to third-party integrations such
as Google Calendar and Zoom. These integrations help streamline your day-to-day workflows in Booking & Scheduling. Managing For more information on connecting to Studio Manager’s
integrations, see our step-by-step articles: Google Calendar Sync Google Meet Zoom Was this article helpful? Related articles Organizing your Workflow with Projects Customizing
your Branding for Studio Manager Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Choosing the right Subscription Customizing your Booking Site Can't find what you're looking for? Contact
our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio
Manager Booking & Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating Full Session Types Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift Cards for
Sessions and Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session Inquiry Syncing your
Sessions to your Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See more Creating Full Session Types Full Session Types 1.png Full session types are a perfect for full-length
services that you offer regularly, such as family, maternity, or wedding photoshoots. This article will walk you through our recommended steps for setting up a full session type.
Note: Looking to set up limited sessions like mini sessions? See our guide here instead On this page: Creating your full session type Set up your session availability Collect
intake information from your client Secure payment during booking Sharing your session type Creating your full session type Full Session Types 2.gif It is easy to set up a new
session type from your Studio Manager Dashboard: Create a brand new session type. Go to Bookings > Session Types > New Session Type. Give your session type a name, select Full
Session, and click Next to continue. Customize your session type’s general settings. This includes adding a custom image and determining the duration for your sessions. Once your
session type is created and its general details are filled out, you’re ready to set up its time slots, payment options, and intake steps. Set up your session availability Full
Session Types 3.gif In order for clients to book, you must specify when you are available under your session type’s Availability section. The easiest way to set this up is with the
default List View, where you can add, modify, or remove your available hours to determine your weekly schedule for this specific session type. Have a specific date where your
availability is different? Add it to the Date Specific Hours column on the right. Note: To get your sessions ready as quickly as possible, the booking system will set default rules
(buffer time, maximum notice) for your available time slots. It is recommended you leave these advanced settings as-is, but you can always adjust them in the Booking Rules section.
Collect intake information from your client Full Session Types 4.png During the booking process, your client will be required to enter their first name, last name, and email
address. In the Intake Form section, you can choose to also require additional information such as a phone number or address. This information will be used to compile or update
their client profile in your Dashboard. If you are on an upgraded Studio Manager Plan or Suite Plan, you can also require a questionnaire and/or contract to be filled out by your
client before their booking is secured. Learn more about intake documents here. Secure payment during booking Full Session Types 5.gif Consider collecting a full or partial session
fee during your clients’ booking process to ensure you get paid upfront and avoid no-shows. Under the Payments section, simply choose to collect your fee through any payment method
that you’ve connected in Studio Manager. Note: Allowing a partial payment or tip is a premium feature available on any upgraded Studio Manager Plan or Suite Plan. Sharing your
session type Once your session type’s details are set up, you’re ready to share it with your clients! Simply click Publish in the right corner, and you’ll be able to share your
booking page wherever you like through its direct link. If your session type is public, it will also be available on your booking site. Was this article helpful? Related articles
Creating Mini Sessions Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar Can my session types share the same availability schedule? Setting up a
Custom Domain for Pixieset Website Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All
rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Booking & Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating Full Session Types Advanced
Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Customizing your Booking Site
Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session Inquiry Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See more Advanced Options for
your Full Session Types Studio Manager’s Booking & Scheduling was designed to help you get your time slots ready as quickly as possible. All you need to do is set up your session
type’s availability, and you’re good to go! If you want to fine-tune how your time slots appear though, you can check out the options listed in this article. On this page: Start
time increments Maximum and minimum notice Buffer time Availability request Maximum bookings per day Start time increment Advanced Options for your Full Session Types 1.png This
setting is located at the bottom of your Availability section. This setting determines how your time slots will appear to clients when they book a session. Here are some examples
of how different increments will affect the way time slots are displayed: 30 Minutes: 9:00, 9:30, 10:00, 10:30, 11:00, etc. 45 Minutes: 9:00, 9:45, 10:30, 11:15, 12:00, etc. 5
Minutes: 9:00, 9:05, 9:10, 9:15, 9:20, etc. Since this setting affects how time slots appear to clients, we always recommend reviewing your availability’s Client View if you make
any changes to ensure the updated time slots are appearing as you intended. Maximum and minimum notice Advanced Options for your Full Session Types 2.png These settings are located
in your session’s booking rules, and they allow you to determine how far in advance a client can book a session. How far into the future can clients book: Determine up to how many
days away a client can book a session. Example: If set to 180 days, your client will only see available time slots up to 180 days away from their current date. What is the minimum
notice you need: Prevent clients from booking without enough notice. Example: If set to 1 hour, your client will only see available slots that are more than 1 hour away. If you
choose to make adjustments, it is important to avoid making these settings too restrictive, as this could prevent you from securing bookings. For example, if you set your minimum
notice to 30 days, that means none of your clients will be able to book a slot within the current month! Buffer time Advanced Options for your Full Session Types 3.png This setting
is located in your session’s booking rules, and allows you to set an amount of additional time to block off before and/or after a client’s confirmed session. It is handy if you
need time to prepare between sessions, and would like to avoid back-to-back sessions. If set up, it is important to keep in mind that the buffer time will only come into play after
a session is confirmed. As an example: For your 30 minute photography session, you set a 15 minute buffer time for after the session. A client pays and confirms your 3:00 time slot
(i.e. 3:00 - 3:30 PM). Your buffer time will kick in and block off 15 minutes after the confirmed session. When other clients try to book a session afterwards, they won’t be able
to see or select any time slots that fall between 3:00 - 3:45 PM. Availability request This setting appears at the bottom of your session’s Availability settings. With it, you can
determine whether clients can request for a specific slot outside of your available options. Advanced Options for your Full Session Types 4.png By default, your session type is set
to Allow availability request. With this specific setting, your client can select a session based on the available slots they see, or they can submit an alternative date and time
for your approval. Advanced Options for your Full Session Types 5.png If you’d like to change this default setting, you have two alternative options: Do not allow availability
request and Session by request only. Do not allow availability request: A client can only select a session from the available time slots. The option to request an alternative date
and time will be removed. Session by request only: If this option is selected, your time slots will be removed. Instead, your client will be asked to provide their preferred date
and time (in addition to their basic client information like name and email address). From there, you will receive their submission as an inquiry and will be able to
approve/decline it. Maximum bookings per day The maximum bookings per day setting lets you control how many full session bookings can be scheduled on a single day through your
booking site. Once the daily limit is reached, clients will no longer be able to book that session type for that date. This setting can be adjusted from your Session Type >
Availability Settings page. MaxBookingsPerDay.jpg Note: This limit applies only to bookings made through your booking site. You can still manually book sessions even if the daily
booking limit has been reached. Was this article helpful? Related articles Creating Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a
Session for a Client Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us
Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Booking & Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating
Full Session Types Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons
Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session Inquiry Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See
more Creating Full Session Types Full Session Types 1.png Full session types are a perfect for full-length services that you offer regularly, such as family, maternity, or wedding
photoshoots. This article will walk you through our recommended steps for setting up a full session type. Note: Looking to set up limited sessions like mini sessions? See our guide
here instead On this page: Creating your full session type Set up your session availability Collect intake information from your client Secure payment during booking Sharing your
session type Creating your full session type Full Session Types 2.gif It is easy to set up a new session type from your Studio Manager Dashboard: Create a brand new session type.
Go to Bookings > Session Types > New Session Type. Give your session type a name, select Full Session, and click Next to continue. Customize your session type’s general settings.
This includes adding a custom image and determining the duration for your sessions. Once your session type is created and its general details are filled out, you’re ready to set up
its time slots, payment options, and intake steps. Set up your session availability Full Session Types 3.gif In order for clients to book, you must specify when you are available
under your session type’s Availability section. The easiest way to set this up is with the default List View, where you can add, modify, or remove your available hours to determine
your weekly schedule for this specific session type. Have a specific date where your availability is different? Add it to the Date Specific Hours column on the right. Note: To get
your sessions ready as quickly as possible, the booking system will set default rules (buffer time, maximum notice) for your available time slots. It is recommended you leave these
advanced settings as-is, but you can always adjust them in the Booking Rules section. Collect intake information from your client Full Session Types 4.png During the booking
process, your client will be required to enter their first name, last name, and email address. In the Intake Form section, you can choose to also require additional information
such as a phone number or address. This information will be used to compile or update their client profile in your Dashboard. If you are on an upgraded Studio Manager Plan or Suite
Plan, you can also require a questionnaire and/or contract to be filled out by your client before their booking is secured. Learn more about intake documents here. Secure payment
during booking Full Session Types 5.gif Consider collecting a full or partial session fee during your clients’ booking process to ensure you get paid upfront and avoid no-shows.
Under the Payments section, simply choose to collect your fee through any payment method that you’ve connected in Studio Manager. Note: Allowing a partial payment or tip is a
premium feature available on any upgraded Studio Manager Plan or Suite Plan. Sharing your session type Once your session type’s details are set up, you’re ready to share it with
your clients! Simply click Publish in the right corner, and you’ll be able to share your booking page wherever you like through its direct link. If your session type is public, it
will also be available on your booking site. Was this article helpful? Related articles Creating Mini Sessions Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Syncing your Sessions to
your Calendar Can my session types share the same availability schedule? Setting up a Custom Domain for Pixieset Website Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support
staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Booking
& Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating Full Session Types Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and
Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session Inquiry Syncing your Sessions to your
Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See more Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Studio Manager’s Booking & Scheduling was designed to help you get your time
slots ready as quickly as possible. All you need to do is set up your session type’s availability, and you’re good to go! If you want to fine-tune how your time slots appear
though, you can check out the options listed in this article. On this page: Start time increments Maximum and minimum notice Buffer time Availability request Maximum bookings per
day Start time increment Advanced Options for your Full Session Types 1.png This setting is located at the bottom of your Availability section. This setting determines how your
time slots will appear to clients when they book a session. Here are some examples of how different increments will affect the way time slots are displayed: 30 Minutes: 9:00, 9:30,
10:00, 10:30, 11:00, etc. 45 Minutes: 9:00, 9:45, 10:30, 11:15, 12:00, etc. 5 Minutes: 9:00, 9:05, 9:10, 9:15, 9:20, etc. Since this setting affects how time slots appear to
clients, we always recommend reviewing your availability’s Client View if you make any changes to ensure the updated time slots are appearing as you intended. Maximum and minimum
notice Advanced Options for your Full Session Types 2.png These settings are located in your session’s booking rules, and they allow you to determine how far in advance a client
can book a session. How far into the future can clients book: Determine up to how many days away a client can book a session. Example: If set to 180 days, your client will only see
available time slots up to 180 days away from their current date. What is the minimum notice you need: Prevent clients from booking without enough notice. Example: If set to 1
hour, your client will only see available slots that are more than 1 hour away. If you choose to make adjustments, it is important to avoid making these settings too restrictive,
as this could prevent you from securing bookings. For example, if you set your minimum notice to 30 days, that means none of your clients will be able to book a slot within the
current month! Buffer time Advanced Options for your Full Session Types 3.png This setting is located in your session’s booking rules, and allows you to set an amount of additional
time to block off before and/or after a client’s confirmed session. It is handy if you need time to prepare between sessions, and would like to avoid back-to-back sessions. If set
up, it is important to keep in mind that the buffer time will only come into play after a session is confirmed. As an example: For your 30 minute photography session, you set a 15
minute buffer time for after the session. A client pays and confirms your 3:00 time slot (i.e. 3:00 - 3:30 PM). Your buffer time will kick in and block off 15 minutes after the
confirmed session. When other clients try to book a session afterwards, they won’t be able to see or select any time slots that fall between 3:00 - 3:45 PM. Availability request
This setting appears at the bottom of your session’s Availability settings. With it, you can determine whether clients can request for a specific slot outside of your available
options. Advanced Options for your Full Session Types 4.png By default, your session type is set to Allow availability request. With this specific setting, your client can select a
session based on the available slots they see, or they can submit an alternative date and time for your approval. Advanced Options for your Full Session Types 5.png If you’d like
to change this default setting, you have two alternative options: Do not allow availability request and Session by request only. Do not allow availability request: A client can
only select a session from the available time slots. The option to request an alternative date and time will be removed. Session by request only: If this option is selected, your
time slots will be removed. Instead, your client will be asked to provide their preferred date and time (in addition to their basic client information like name and email address).
From there, you will receive their submission as an inquiry and will be able to approve/decline it. Maximum bookings per day The maximum bookings per day setting lets you control
how many full session bookings can be scheduled on a single day through your booking site. Once the daily limit is reached, clients will no longer be able to book that session type
for that date. This setting can be adjusted from your Session Type > Availability Settings page. MaxBookingsPerDay.jpg Note: This limit applies only to bookings made through your
booking site. You can still manually book sessions even if the daily booking limit has been reached. Was this article helpful? Related articles Creating Full Session Types Creating
Mini Sessions Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our
support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager
Booking & Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating Full Session Types Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift Cards for
Sessions and Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session Inquiry Syncing your
Sessions to your Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See more Creating Mini Sessions Mini sessions 1 .jpeg Mini sessions are short, fun photography sessions typically
anywhere from 15-20 minutes in length each and stacked back to back on a certain date in the same location. These are the perfect way to bring in bookings, connect with new
clients, and give them a taste of your full photography experience (e.g. Holiday Mini Sessions). For additional tips for successful mini sessions, see our blog post. On this page:
Creating your mini session Setting up your mini session availability Collecting payment during booking (Optional) Sharing your mini session Creating your mini session Creating mini
sessions is easy to do! In your Studio Manager Dashboard, go to Bookings > Session Types and select New Session Type. Give a name to your new session type, select Mini Session as
the type of session and fill out its details (e.g. location and description). Mini sessions 2.png Setting up your mini session availability Mini sessions 3.gif In the Availability
section of your mini session, set up your available time slots in two steps: Determine the duration of your mini sessions. Click +Add Date next to Mini Session Dates to add your
available slots for a specific date. In the panel that appears on the right, determine your dates and start time for your mini sessions, as well as any gaps and breaks you need
between slots. Studio Manager’s system will dynamically create time slots based on your prerequisites. Once you click Save, your time slots will be summarized in the Mini Sessions
Dates view. Collecting payment during booking (Optional) Mini sessions 4.png For mini sessions, you can consider collecting the fee during your clients’ booking process as it
ensures you get paid upfront and helps avoid no-shows. You can do this by connecting an integrated payment method to Studio Manager (Stripe, PayPal) and activating Collect Payments
to specify your session fee. Sharing your mini session Once you have confirmed your mini session’s availability and session fee, as well as additional settings such as intake
forms, you’re ready to share your mini sessions with your clients! Simply click Publish in the top right hand corner and you’ll be able to share your mini sessions wherever you
like through its direct link. Mini sessions 5.png This is a great way to announce your mini sessions on your website or socials to build excitement and get those bookings coming
in. Through your booking link, your clients will be taken straight to your mini session where they can book, pay and get excited for their upcoming shoot. Was this article helpful?
Related articles Creating Full Session Types Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Adding booking and
scheduling to your website Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights
reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Booking & Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating Full Session Types Advanced Options
for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Customizing your Booking Site Manually
Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session Inquiry Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See more Creating Gift Cards for Sessions
and Invoices In Studio Manager, offer gift cards for clients to apply towards booking sessions or invoices. A gift card’s balance can be used like any other payment method and any
leftover balance will be saved for future uses. On this page: Creating a Gift Card Sharing a Gift Card Client Side Experience Reviewing Gift Card Balance and Activity Frequently
Asked Questions (FAQ) Creating a Gift Card Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and Invoices 1.gif To create a gift card in Studio Manager: Go to Bookings > Discounts and click New
Discount > Gift Card. Give your gift card a name, specify the stored amount, and optionally add an expiry date. Click Create. Sharing a Gift Card Once the gift card is created, you
can share it from your Gift Cards page. If you deliver the gift card via email (••• > Send Email), your client can review their own credit balance through the unique link in their
email. Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and Invoices 2.gif Client Side Experience Your client can redeem their gift card in any invoice or session booking by clicking Apply Coupon
or Gift Card and pasting their code. Once applied, the balance stored will automatically go towards the payment due today (e.g. the retainer/deposit for a session). Any leftover
balance will be saved in the gift card for future use. Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and Invoices 3.gif Reviewing Gift Card Balance and Activity You can manage or review the
activity of any gift card from the Gift Cards page. Click on the specific gift card to see the full usage details. Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and Invoices 4.gif Frequently
Asked Questions (FAQ) Can I refund a gift card payment? Can I sell gift cards to my client? What do I do if my client forgot to enter their gift card? Can my client use their gift
card towards prints or downloads? Can I refund a gift card payment? No. When a gift card’s credit is used, that amount cannot be refunded back to the gift card. You can issue a new
gift card for the same amount, if required. Can I sell gift cards to my client? Yes. If a client is interested in purchasing a gift card, you can invoice them directly for the
amount owed. Once the invoice is paid, you can create and share the gift card afterwards. What do I do if my client forgot to enter their gift card? Gift cards cannot be
retroactively redeemed for an invoice once paid. At your discretion, you can choose to honor the amount your client paid by processing a partial refund. After your refund, we
recommend deactivating your client’s gift card to prevent the funds from being re-used at a later date. In your Gift Cards page, click ••• > Disable. Can my client use their gift
card towards prints or downloads? No. Gift cards created in Studio Manager can only be applied towards sessions and invoices. If you would like to offer a gift card for prints or
downloads in your galleries’ store, you can create a gift card in your Pixieset Store Dashboard instead. Was this article helpful? Related articles Setting up Gift Cards and Print
Credits for your Store Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Coupons and Gift Cards - Tutorial Videos Customizing your Booking Site Creating Mini Sessions Can't find what you're
looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset -
Help Center Studio Manager Booking & Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating Full Session Types Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions
Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session
Inquiry Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See more Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Coupons Animation GIF.gif Session discounts can
be an effective way to boost bookings and engage with new or returning clients. Studio Manager’s coupons allows you to easily create discount codes for your session types within
minutes. On this page: Creating a Coupon How does a client apply their coupon code? Where can I review my coupon history? What can I do if my client forgets to use their coupon?
Creating a Coupon Session Coupons 1.gif Creating a new coupon is easy: Go to Bookings > Coupons > New Coupon. Fill out the basic details for your coupon. This includes the coupon
name, a unique code, and its discount type (i.e. amount or percentage off). Under ‘Options’, determine the coupon’s parameters. Decide which session type(s) you’d like it to be
valid for, the period of time in which it will be active, and the number of times the code can be redeemed in total. When you’re done, click Create. Your new coupon will appear
under the Active or Scheduled section of your Coupons page, where you can easily copy and share the code with clients, or modify the coupon details. How does a client apply their
coupon code? Your client can redeem a coupon during the payment step, the last part of their booking flow. When the coupon is applied successfully, their session total will
automatically decrease according to the discount being offered. Session Coupons 2.png Where can I review my coupon activity? To review a coupon’s activity, go to Coupons and click
on the specific coupon. The coupon’s full details and activity history will be displayed, along with additional actions such as editing and deactivating your coupon. Session
Coupons 3.gif What can I do if my client forgets to use their coupon? If your client has forgotten to enter their coupon code while booking, you can choose to honor the coupon by
processing a partial refund for the amount of the discount. Alternatively, if you had Collect Partial Only set up for the session type, you can manually add a discount to your
client’s remaining invoice for the amount they would’ve saved. Depending on the situation, you may like to also deactivate the coupon code afterwards so it cannot be used again.
You can do this by going to Bookings > Coupons and selecting ••• > Disable next to the applicable coupon. Was this article helpful? Related articles Customizing your Booking Site
Creating Mini Sessions Manually Booking a Session for a Client Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Creating Full Session Types Can't find what you're looking for? Contact
our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio
Manager Booking & Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating Full Session Types Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift Cards for
Sessions and Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session Inquiry Syncing your
Sessions to your Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See more Customizing your Booking Site Customizing your Booking Site 1.png In Studio Manager, you have an online
booking site dedicated to your business. Simply set it up once, introduce your photography services with details about duration, price, location, and availability. That’s it! From
your Studio Manager Dashboard, customize your booking site at any time in Bookings > Booking Site. Need some inspiration? Check out some real-life examples from members of the
Pixieset community here. On this page: Setting up your Booking Site’s Information Customizing your Booking Site’s Branding Setting up your Booking Site’s Information Customizing
your Booking Site 2\.gif You can set up the basics of your booking site by going to Bookings > Booking Site. Here, you can add a welcome message and adjust the business information
