it is likely that the buffer time for your confirmed session has overlapped with your missing time slot, so the entire slot was removed to ensure you do not have overlapping
sessions. If you'd like to remove the buffer time so that these time slots become available again, you can easily do so by going to the applicable session’s Session Type > Booking
Rules > Want to block off time before/after a session? Maximum bookings per day Note: This setting applies to full session types only. If you are building a mini session, this
setting does not apply. It would not be causing any conflicts with your mini session's slots. If your available time slots are not appearing for a specific date, you may have
reached your maximum bookings per day limit. This setting allows you to control how many full session bookings can be scheduled on a single day through your booking site. Once the
daily limit is reached: Clients will no longer see availability for that session type on that date. The date will appear fully booked on your booking site. You can adjust or remove
this setting from Studio Manager > Bookings > Session Types > Availability Settings. MaxBookingsPerDay.jpg Tip: This limit only applies to bookings made through your booking site.
You can still manually book sessions, even if the daily booking limit has been reached. Additional troubleshooting If you’ve reviewed all three settings above but are still having
trouble getting your session type’s availability to show up, please contact our support team from the chat bubble. Be sure to provide the session type’s name and share more details
about the availability you’re trying to set up. Additionally, please share screenshots of your session type’s Availability and Booking Rules sections. This will allow our team to
advise as accurately and efficiently as possible. We're always happy to help! Was this article helpful? Related articles Creating Mini Sessions Syncing your Sessions to your
Calendar Creating Full Session Types Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Manually Booking a Session for a Client Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support
staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Booking
& Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating Full Session Types Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and
Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session Inquiry Syncing your Sessions to your
Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See more I received a “Payment on the way” email. Where is my payment? If your client chooses the manual payment option in their
invoice, you will receive a “Payment on the way” email notification. This email is to notify you to expect your client’s payment soon from outside of Pixieset. It is not a receipt
or confirmation that the payment was sent successfully. Where is my payment KB 1.png Since your client has chosen a manual payment, you are responsible for reaching out to your
client to secure the payment via the specific method they chose (e.g. cash, e-transfer, cheque, Cash App, etc.). You can always confirm the manual payment option they chose within
the email, under “Method”. Once you have received the payment from your client outside of Pixieset, you can record their payment in Studio Manager by following the steps in this
guide. Was this article helpful? Related articles Setting up Payment Methods in Studio Manager How do I record a payment and mark an invoice as paid? Locating your Invoice Payments
in Stripe or PayPal Creating Mini Sessions Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24
hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Pixieset Payments (Studio Manager) Getting Started with
Pixieset Payments Search Articles in this section Getting Started with Pixieset Payments Switching to Pixieset Payments from Stripe Payment Options Available with Pixieset Payments
Tap to Pay in the Studio Manager App Receive financing through Pixieset Capital Getting Started with Pixieset Payments Pixieset Payments Cover.jpg Pixieset Payments is a fully
integrated solution for Studio Manager that makes it easy to accept a range of online payment methods securely online. As clients pay their invoices, enjoy full visibility of the
incoming transactions and your next payout right from your Pixieset Dashboard. Switching from Stripe? Refer to our guide: Switching to Pixieset Payments from Stripe Note: Pixieset
Payments is available to Studio Manager users in the United States and Canada. On this page: Why choose Pixieset Payments? Supported Payment Methods Activating Pixieset Payments
Why choose Pixieset Payments? Pixieset Payments is our integrated payment system, powered by Stripe but designed specifically for photographers. By using Pixieset Payments, you can
manage all your sales in one place, saving time and helping you earn more with ease. Plus, you unlock exclusive features that are tailored to fit the way photographers run their
businesses. It’s a simple, streamlined way to handle payments so you can focus on what you do best— your photography. Here are some ways Pixieset Payments makes it easier to run
your business: Seamless integration: Manage payments within Pixieset— no switching platforms or accounts. Everything is connected to Studio Manager for easy bookings, contracts,
invoices, and payments. Flexible payment options: Your clients can choose from a variety of methods, including Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) options Affirm and Klarna. This allows them
to split their session cost into manageable payments, while you still receive the full amount upfront. Pixieset support: Enjoy our top-tier support— our team helps you directly,
without needing to navigate Stripe’s system. Supported Payment Methods With Pixieset Payments, you can offer your clients the widest range of popular payment options: Credit and
debit cards: Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, and more Digital wallets: Apple Pay, Google Pay, Link Buy now, pay later solutions: Affirm, Klarna ACH (US Only): Allow
your clients to pay for larger payments securely via bank transfer Learn More: Payment Options Available with Pixieset Payments Activating Pixieset Payments Setting up Pixieset
Payments is quick and easy—most users complete the process in just 5-10 minutes. Pixieset partners with Stripe to ensure a secure and compliant setup, using their verification
process to confirm your identity for safety and compliance. Go to Settings > Payments and click Activate Pixieset Payments. PixiesetPayments 2.1.png You will be guided through the
process of entering the required business and bank account details then uploading requested identification to pass verification After submitting your information, you will be
redirected back to the Studio Manager Dashboard. You can start collecting payments once your application is approved! Manage Everything within Studio Manager Easily track your
sales and transactions right from Studio Manager. Learn more about: Managing Transactions and Refunds: Learn how to handle refunds, declines and more. Processing Times and Fees:
Understand payout schedules and transaction fees. Supported Payment Methods: Learn more about available payment methods like Affirm, Klarna, Tap to Pay, and ACH. Was this article
helpful? Related articles Pixieset Payments Processing Times and Fees Switching to Pixieset Payments from Stripe Payment Options Available with Pixieset Payments Managing
Transactions and Refunds with Pixieset Payments Setting up Payment Methods in Studio Manager Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you
within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Pixieset Payments (Studio Manager) Getting Started
with Pixieset Payments Search Articles in this section Getting Started with Pixieset Payments Switching to Pixieset Payments from Stripe Payment Options Available with Pixieset
Payments Tap to Pay in the Studio Manager App Receive financing through Pixieset Capital Switching to Pixieset Payments from Stripe image (1).png Level up your photography business
with Pixieset Payments. Built directly into Studio Manager and powered by Stripe’s trusted technology, Pixieset Payments makes it simple to accept more payment methods while giving
you access to features you won’t find in Stripe alone. With competitive transaction rates and no added subscription costs. Enjoy full visibility of incoming transactions and your
next payout right from your Pixieset Dashboard. Note: Pixieset Payments is available to Studio Manager users in the United States and Canada. On this page: What is Pixieset
Payments? Why switch to Pixieset Payments? How do the fees compare with Stripe? How do I switch from Stripe to Pixieset Payments? Where do I see my transactions and payouts? Do you
support financing options? What happens after I switch to Pixieset Payments? What is Pixieset Payments? Pixieset Payments is more than just a way to get paid, it’s a complete
payments solution designed specifically for photographers and creative professionals within the Pixieset Dashboard. By using Pixieset Payments, you can manage all your sales in one
place, saving time and helping you earn more with ease. Plus, you unlock exclusive features that are tailored to fit the way photographers run their businesses. It’s a simple,
streamlined way to handle payments so you can focus on what you do best—your photography. Pixieset Payments is powered by Stripe, giving you the same trusted payment processing
technology you can rely on, while managing everything in Pixieset and gaining more features to help you book clients. Why switch to Pixieset Payments? Here are the reasons why
thousands of photographers have already started using Pixieset Payments: Seamless integration: Manage payments and account details within Pixieset—no switching platforms or
accounts. Everything is connected to Studio Manager for easy bookings, contracts, invoices, and payments. Flexible payment options: Unlock payment options that aren’t available
with Stripe alone, including Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) options Affirm and Klarna. This allows clients to split their session cost into manageable payments, while you still receive
the full amount upfront. Pixieset Studio Manager app: Stay on top of your day-to-day workflow while on the go. Receive notifications, manage payments and view reports right from
your mobile device. Tap to Pay for in-person payments: Remove the hassle of managing cash, checks, or manual payments within the Studio Manager App. Your clients can tap their card
or phone to complete their purchase, giving you both a more convenient and secure way to handle in-person payments. Learn more here. Top-tier Pixieset support: Our team understands
both the tools you’re using and the unique needs of photographers. No need to navigate Stripe’s system. Future-ready features: As Pixieset continues to expand Studio Manager,
Pixieset Payments is the best way to unlock new payment-related features and updates. How do the fees compare with Stripe? Pixieset Payments charges transaction fees for successful
payments to cover the costs of handling and facilitating payments. There are no extra subscription costs. The fees are comparable with Stripe and other payment processors. In
addition, Pixieset offers new payment options such as Buy Now, Pay Later and Tap to Pay, giving your clients more flexibility. These new options can help you win more bookings and
grow your business. Pixieset Payment FeesStripe Fees Credit card payments 2.9% + 30 cents per transaction 2.9% + 30 cents per transaction Digital wallets (Apple Pay, Google Pay)
2.9% + 30 cents per transaction2.9% + 30 cents per transaction Buy Now, Pay Later (BNPL) with Affirm and Klarna 5.99% + 30 cents per transactionNot available with Stripe through
Pixieset Tap to Pay (on the Studio Manager Mobile App) 2.9% + 30 cents per transactionNot available with Stripe through Pixieset ACH bank transfer (US Only) 1% of the payment
total0.80%, capped at $5.00 You can learn more about fees in our article: Pixieset Payments Processing Times and Fees How do I switch from Stripe to Pixieset Payments Switching to
Pixieset Payments from Stripe is easy and most users complete the transition in just a few minutes as the information from your previous Stripe account is pre-filled. Go to
Settings > Payments. Click Activate Pixieset Payments. Complete the onboarding process. During this, you can choose to copy over your details from your existing Stripe account
(some verification steps may still be required). PixiesetPayments2.png If you need more help, you can refer to our help article: Setting Up and Activating Pixieset Payments Where
do I see my transactions and payouts? Pixieset Payments is fully integrated into Studio Manager, so you have complete visibility of your payments and payout details right from your
dashboard. You can go to Payments to view your transaction and payout details. Reports are located in two primary areas: your Home and Reports pages. Learn more: Getting Started
with Pixieset Payments Reporting2.png Do you support financing options? Yes! Pixieset now offers financing through Pixieset Capital, powered by Stripe. With Pixieset Capital,
eligible businesses can access fast, flexible funding directly within Pixieset. You can use the funds to invest in new equipment, marketing, or upcoming projects, and repayment
happens automatically as you earn. Rest assured, you won’t be starting over or rebuilding your reputation with Pixieset. Stripe looks at your overall business history when
determining eligibility and considers the volume and transaction history from both new and existing accounts under the same business entity to provide you with the best possible
offers. What happens if I have an existing Stripe Capital financing offer? If you already have an active or pre-approved Stripe Capital offer, you won’t lose access to financing
when you switch to Pixieset Payments. You’ll find the same trusted experience—just integrated right into your Pixieset dashboard for simpler management. Here’s how it works:
Existing active financing: If you currently have an active loan through Stripe Capital, please contact our Support Team after you’ve activated Pixieset Payments. We’ll help ensure
your financing is migrated smoothly and quickly. You’ll see a summary of your current loan in Pixieset, and repayments will continue automatically through your Stripe account. You
can still view detailed repayment information in your Stripe dashboard. New offers: Once you’ve switched to Pixieset Payments, new financing offers will appear directly inside
Pixieset Capital. Stripe continues to consider your overall business history (including previous Stripe activity), so you won’t need to “start over” or rebuild eligibility. What
happens after I switch to Pixieset Payments? Once you activate Pixieset Payments, you’ll typically be ready to start processing payments right away—most accounts are approved
instantly. After your application is approved: Your Stripe connection will be automatically disconnected from Pixieset. Any payments previously processed through Stripe will remain
visible in your Pixieset Dashboard for review. If needed, you can still manage those payments directly in your Stripe Dashboard. Your first payout with Pixieset Payments may be
accelerated. The usual 5–10 day waiting period for first payouts is often waived for users with a positive processing history through Stripe. After that, payouts will follow your
regular payout schedule. Instant Payouts (U.S. only). Eligible U.S. users can send Instant Payouts for a 1.5% fee. Learn more about Instant Payouts and eligibility here. If you
have questions about eligibility, our support team is happy to help. Was this article helpful? Related articles Getting Started with Pixieset Payments Pixieset Payments Processing
Times and Fees Payment Options Available with Pixieset Payments Setting up Payment Methods in Studio Manager Managing Transactions and Refunds with Pixieset Payments Can't find
what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us
Pixieset - Help Center Pixieset Payments (Studio Manager) Getting Started with Pixieset Payments Search Articles in this section Getting Started with Pixieset Payments Switching to
Pixieset Payments from Stripe Payment Options Available with Pixieset Payments Tap to Pay in the Studio Manager App Receive financing through Pixieset Capital Payment Options
Available with Pixieset Payments PixiesetPayments1.png With Pixieset Payments, your clients can pay with credit and debit cards, digital wallets, bank transfers, and Buy Now, Pay
Later (BNPL) options available via Klarna and Affirm. This flexibility ensures that your clients can choose the payment method that works best for their session or invoice. Enjoy
hassle-free, diverse payment options for your clients while simplifying your payment collection process. Payments through Pixieset Payments are securely processed via Stripe, a
trusted payment processor. When a client makes a payment, the transaction is handled by Stripe’s industry-leading technology, ensuring both security and compliance. Note: Pixieset
Payments is available to Studio Manager users in the United States and Canada. On this page: Credit, debit cards and digital wallets Affirm and Klarna Bank Transfer (ACH) - US Only
Can I choose which payment options I want to offer? Credit, debit cards and digital wallets Allow your clients to easily pay for their sessions and invoices with their credit and
debit card. Pixieset Payments supports the following card types: Visa (credit and debit cards) MasterCard (credit and debit cards) American Express Discover (U.S. merchants only)
Additionally, Pixieset Payments also supports digital wallets so your clients can enjoy a seamless checkout experience right from their device: Apple Pay Google Pay Microsoft Pay
Transaction fee: 2.9% + $0.30 per transaction. Affirm and Klarna Affirm and Klarna are Buy Now, Pay Later (BNPL) methods that allow your clients pay for their booking over time
with flexible installment plans. Instead of paying the full amount upfront, clients can choose a payment plan at checkout, helping them commit to sessions while you get paid in
full immediately. Here’s how it works: On the invoice payment page, clients select Affirm or Klarna as their payment method. They are redirected to Affirm or Klarna’s website to
choose their preferred installment plan. Clients can log in to an existing account or create a new one. Once the plan is finalized, they are redirected back to their paid invoice
or booking confirmation. Transaction Fee: 5.99% + $0.30 per transaction Payment Options Pixieset Payments 1.png Bank Transfer (ACH) - US Only ACH (Automated Clearing House) bank
transfers let your clients pay directly from their bank account. This is a secure and cost-effective option for those who are paying a larger amount for higher-value sessions.
Here’s how it works: On the invoice payment page, clients select ACH Bank Transfer as their payment method. They are redirected to securely connect their bank account, where they
can authorize the payment (available for payments over $150). Funds are transferred directly from their bank. Once completed, they are redirected back to their paid invoice or
session confirmation. ACH payments typically take 3-5 business days to complete. During this time, the payment will show as pending in your transactions tab. If an ACH payment
fails due to insufficient funds or other issues, the transaction will be reversed, and you’ll be notified. Once the payment is successfully processed, it will be included in your
next available payout. Fee: 1% of the payment total per successful transfer. ($4.00 for failed transfers.) Can I choose which payment options I want to offer? To select your
preferred payment options In Studio Manager, go to Settings > Payments. Under Pixieset Payments, click Manage Payment Methods. Click on the options you’d like to turn on/off.
Payment Options PP.gif Was this article helpful? Related articles Getting Started with Pixieset Payments Switching to Pixieset Payments from Stripe Pixieset Payments Processing
Times and Fees Creating and Sending an Invoice Managing Transactions and Refunds with Pixieset Payments Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get
back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Pixieset Payments (Studio Manager)
Getting Started with Pixieset Payments Search Articles in this section Getting Started with Pixieset Payments Switching to Pixieset Payments from Stripe Payment Options Available
with Pixieset Payments Tap to Pay in the Studio Manager App Receive financing through Pixieset Capital Tap to Pay in the Studio Manager App tap to pay 1 copy.jpg Accept contactless
payments right from your phone with Tap to Pay in the Studio Manager App. Whether you’re finalizing a session or handling on-the-spot payments, Tap to Pay removes the hassle of
managing cash, checks, or manual payments. Your clients can tap their card or phone to complete their purchase, giving you both a more convenient and secure way to handle in-person
payments. Note: Tap to Pay is currently available for Pixieset Payments users in the US and Canada. What you’ll need before getting started The Studio Manager App: Get yours today
on the App Store (iOS) or Play Store (Android) Pixieset Payments: Get started with our fully integrated payments solution A compatible device: iOS: iPhone XS or newer, running the
latest iOS version Android: NFC-enabled phones running the latest Android version Turn on Tap to Pay Open the Studio Manager mobile app. Follow the Tap to Pay prompt from your home
screen (or head to Settings > Payments) Follow the setup instructions and grant necessary permissions (like Precise Location access). You’re ready to go! There are two easy ways to
collect payments. From your Studio Manager Home page, tap Create New (+) > Tap to Pay Payment. An invoice will be automatically created after the transaction is complete. From any
Unpaid Invoice, tap Request Payment and confirm the amount you’d like to collect. Your client can easily make their payment by tapping their device or card. TaptoPay.png Accepted
payment methods Tap to Pay works with all major contactless payment methods: Credit & debit cards (Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover) Apple Pay Google Pay Samsung Pay
Transaction Limits There are some limits and extra steps for contactless payments, depending on the client’s card and location: Canada: There is typically a CA$250 limit for
contactless payments. US: Larger transactions may prompt the client to enter their card PIN securely on your device. If the PIN prompt fails or the contactless limit is reached,
the Studio Manager App will automatically display a QR code. Clients can scan it with their phone to complete the payment on their own device. Troubleshooting Tips Having trouble
setting up or using Tap to Pay? Here are a few things to check: Make sure you’re using a compatible device with a stable internet connection. Tap to Pay will not work on beta
versions of iOS. For the best experience, we recommend using the latest official iOS release. Confirm that Tap to Pay is set up correctly: Ensure your device has a passcode or
screen lock set up Location access must be turned on (and Precise Location for Android). NFC must be enabled on Android. On iPhone, you must accept the Tap to Pay on iPhone Terms &
Conditions during setup. Your Pixieset Payments country and invoice currency must match the Business Country listed in your Pixieset Profile. Was this article helpful? Related
articles Getting Started with Pixieset Payments Downloading Pixieset's Studio Manager App Creating Mini Sessions Setting up Payment Methods in Studio Manager Where can I add custom
business information to my invoice header? Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset.
All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Pixieset Payments (Studio Manager) Getting Started with Pixieset Payments Search Articles in this
section Getting Started with Pixieset Payments Switching to Pixieset Payments from Stripe Payment Options Available with Pixieset Payments Tap to Pay in the Studio Manager App
Receive financing through Pixieset Capital Receive financing through Pixieset Capital Pixieset Capital gives you fast, flexible access to business financing—so you can invest in
your photography or creative business when it matters most. Funds are deposited directly into your bank account as a payout, and the loan is automatically paid through a percentage
of your incoming Pixieset Payments. This program is powered by Stripe and available through Studio Manager for eligible users. Note: Pixieset Capital is available to eligible
Pixieset Payments users in the United States. Eligibility is determined by Stripe, and offers will only be shown to eligible users. On this page: How to apply Paying back your loan
Frequently asked questions (FAQ) How to apply Screen_Shot_2025-07-25_at_11.30.31_AM.webp Pixieset Capital is powered by Stripe, who handle your application, approval, and
repayment. If you become eligible for funding, you'll see a new Capital section in your Dashboard under Payments > Capital. You may also see a banner promoting your offer in Studio
Manager > Settings > Payments. Click the offer to view your loan details, including: Loan amount Minimum payment amount per period Expected loan term Fixed fee Payment rate and
total amount owed You’ll be asked to confirm a few personal or business details before submitting your application. For some offers, Stripe may request additional documentation for
verification purposes. You can track the status of your application anytime under Payments > Capital. If your application is approved, funds are typically deposited into your
connected bank account within 1–2 business days. Screen_Shot_2025-07-29_at_9.19.00_AM.webp Note: Eligibility is determined by Stripe based on your processing history. Both your
eligibility and offer amount are subject to change. You won’t see an offer appear unless you are determined to be eligible by Stripe. Paying back your loan Stripe deducts a small
percentage of each incoming Pixieset Payment until the loan is paid off. Payment is collected automatically through a percentage of your Pixieset sales as they’re processed, which
means you pay more towards your financing when business is busy and less if things slow down. From Payments > Capital, you can review the status of your loan, its details and
transaction history. You can make additional payments or pay the full amount at any time by clicking Make payment. Funds will be pulled from your connected bank account.
Screen_Shot_2025-07-28_at_3.57.08_PM.webp Frequently asked questions (FAQ) Are there fees? How long does it take to receive funds? How can I become eligible for a loan? Can I
qualify for more loans in the future? What is a minimum payment? How do I make my minimum payment? Can I pay early or make extra payments? Who is the loan from—Pixieset or Stripe?
Will this affect my credit score? Are there fees? Yes, there is a one-time flat fee added to your total loan amount. You’ll see this fee clearly listed in your offer before
accepting. The fee is paid over time as part of your payments—it’s not charged upfront. How long does it take to receive funds? The application process typically takes 1-3 business
days. If your application is approved, funds are typically deposited into your connected bank account within 1–2 business days. How can I become eligible for a loan? Eligibility
for offers is based on your ongoing payment volume and history. If you become eligible for a loan, you’ll see the Capital section appear under the Payments tab or find an offer in
Settings > Payments. You won’t see an offer appear unless you are determined to be eligible by Stripe. Can I qualify for more loans in the future? Yes! If you previously received a
loan from Stripe directly, you may become eligible for future loans through Pixieset, as Stripe will consider your payment history on both platforms. Once you have paid off a loan,
you can track the history in Payments > Capital. If you become eligible for a new loan, you’ll see a notification at the top of this screen. What is a minimum payment? For Stripe
Capital loans, a minimum payment is the minimum amount that you’re expected to pay every payment period. That period will be determined during underwriting and based on the total
term of your loan offer. If your automatic payments do not meet this minimum, you’ll be required to pay the remaining amount at the end of the period. You can view your minimum
payment amount in the Dashboard or in your loan agreement. How do I make my minimum payment? For Stripe Capital loans, if your payments deducted from sales cover the minimum
payment requirement for the payment period, no action will be taken. If you have not met the minimum payment amount by the end of the payment period, Stripe will automatically
debit your bank account or account balance the balance needed to meet your minimum payment. There’s no action needed on your part. Can I pay early or make extra payments? Yes! You
can make additional payments or pay the full amount anytime from the Capital tab in your Dashboard. Funds will be pulled from your connected bank account. Who is the loan
from—Pixieset or Stripe? While Pixieset facilitates access, all loans are provided and serviced by Stripe. They handle underwriting, approval, funding, and repayment. Will this
affect my credit score? No. Your loan does not impact your personal credit score. If you have questions about Pixieset Capital, our support team is here to help. From your Studio
Manager Dashboard, get in touch by clicking the chat bubble in the bottom right corner. We will help get in touch with Stripe as needed. Was this article helpful? Related articles
Getting Started with Pixieset Payments Pixieset Payments Processing Times and Fees Tap to Pay in the Studio Manager App Payment Options Available with Pixieset Payments Viewing
your payment reports in Studio Manager Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All
rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Account and Billing Subscriptions & Billing Search Articles in this section Managing your Subscription
Choosing the right Subscription When Will My Credit Card Be Charged? My Upgrade/Subscription Payment was Declined Refer a friend to Pixieset and get $20 Managing your Subscription
Pixieset offers a variety of subscription options so that you can choose the plan(s) and features that work best for you, depending on which Pixieset products you use. You can make
changes to your subscription at any time, right from your Billing page in your dashboard. To learn more about the available subscriptions and choosing the right one for you, see
Choosing the right subscription On this page How your Subscription works Choosing the Right Subscription Upgrading your Subscription Downgrading or Cancelling your Subscription
Accepted Methods of Payment for Subscriptions How your Subscription works All of Pixieset's products are available to use on a Free plan, with no credit card required. This is a
great way to understand how each product works, and understand how Pixieset can support your business. When you're ready to grow, you can upgrade your subscription to gain access
to additional space for more galleries, or advanced features that enhance your workflows. When upgrading, you can decide to pay monthly or annually. Once you have upgraded your
selected plan, any new features included with the subscription will be made immediately available. Your plan will renew automatically each month or year, and you can upgrade,
downgrade, or change your plan at any time. The details of your current subscription can be reviewed from the Billing page in your dashboard (click your Profile Icon > Billing).
Choosing the Right Subscription There are individual plans available for each of the core products in the Pixieset platform: Client Gallery, Website, and Studio Manager. If you use
multiple Pixieset products, you can also choose a Suite plan, which covers all Pixieset products in one subscription. subs-hero.png Each plan is also available as a monthly or
yearly option. The yearly plans offer up to a 20% discount compared to the monthly rates, while the monthly plans offer more flexibility to change or cancel your plan as needed.
You can choose the option that works best for you! Learn more: Choosing the right subscription Upgrading your Subscription You can review your current plans as well as upgrade,
downgrade, or change between plans at any time, right from your dashboard. From the Billing page (click your Profile Icon > Billing), you can upgrade or change the plan for
individual products, or switch to a Suite plan. The Change Plan page allows you to select from all the available subscriptions, and makes it easy to switch between monthly and
yearly plans. Changes to your plan will be applied immediately. upgrade-to-suite.gif What happens to the amount I've already paid? When you upgrade, downgrade, or change between
paid plans, any remaining, unused time from your current subscription will automatically be pro-rated and credited towards your new plan. If your new plan costs more than the
credited amount, you will only be invoiced for the difference in cost. Downgrading or Cancelling your Subscription All subscriptions are set to automatically renew at the end of
each billing cycle, but you can downgrade to Free or cancel your subscription at any time. To do this, go to the Billing page (click your Profile Icon > Billing) and click Change
Plan next to the subscription you want to cancel. On the next page, click Cancel Subscription. If your account can be downgraded to the Free plan, the option to Downgrade to Free
will be available. If the option does not appear, you may need to delete some photos or collections from your Client Gallery, to bring your storage usage under the limit for the
Free plan (3 GB). If you are currently on a Suite plan, you will have the option to choose specific products (Client Gallery, Website, or Studio Manager) to be downgraded to Free,
and you can select individual subscriptions for any products you want to keep upgraded. With a monthly subscription, cancelling or downgrading to the Free plan will take effect
immediately. You will be able to review the changes that will take place to your account before confirming the request. With a yearly subscription, you will have the option of
either: cancelling immediately, or turning off the subscription’s auto-renewal (cancel at period’s end). This will keep your subscription active for the remainder of the billing
period, but it will not be automatically renewed for the following year. If you later decide you’d like to keep your subscription, you can simply resume your plan. Once your
subscription has been cancelled, any additional storage or upgraded features will no longer be available. If you decide to upgrade your account again in the future, you can
re-subscribe to the plan of your choice at any time! Accepted Methods of Payment for Subscriptions For subscription payments, we currently accept Visa credit and debit cards,
MasterCard credit and debit cards, as well as American Express and Discover credit cards. The card used will be kept on file and charged again automatically when your subscription
renews. Was this article helpful? Related articles Choosing the right Subscription My Upgrade/Subscription Payment was Declined When Will My Credit Card Be Charged? Managing your
Profile Settings Understanding Login Verification Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025
Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Account and Billing Subscriptions & Billing Search Articles in this section Managing your
Subscription Choosing the right Subscription When Will My Credit Card Be Charged? My Upgrade/Subscription Payment was Declined Refer a friend to Pixieset and get $20 Choosing the
right Subscription Every Pixieset product comes with a Free plan to get started with, so you can easily use Client Gallery, Website, or Studio Manager without a subscription and
upgrade when you need to. Upgraded plans offer additional features and storage so that you can run your business with ease. You can upgrade individual products, customizing your
account to meet your needs, or you can select one of our Suite plans, which automatically include upgrades for all products. With Pixieset, you can choose a plan that covers
exactly what you need! You can also change your plan at any time, right from your dashboard. Learn more: Managing your Subscription On this page : Individual Plans Client Gallery
Website Studio Manager Suite Plans Individual Plans There are individual plans available for each of the core products in the Pixieset platform: Client Gallery, Website, and Studio
Manager. If you use multiple Pixieset products, you can also choose a Suite plan, which covers all Pixieset products in one subscription. subs-hero.png Each plan is available as a
monthly or yearly option. The yearly plans offer up to a 20% discount compared to the monthly rates, while the monthly plans offer more flexibility to change or cancel your plan as
needed. Client Gallery clientgallery.png Pixieset’s flagship product, Client Gallery, provides a simple and elegant way to deliver personalized galleries to your clients. From
within galleries, clients can view, share, proof and download their photos with ease. Client Gallery includes our Store feature as well, so you can allow clients to purchase prints
and downloads via a personalized storefront. Available Subscriptions Free With the Free plan, you can create an unlimited number of collections, and upload up to 3 GB of photos,
which clients can review, share, or download! You can also set up a fully functional Store, and start selling prints and other photo products right from your galleries with a 15%
Pixieset commission fee applied. This is a great way to get started with uploading and sharing your work with clients! Upgraded With an upgraded subscription, you gain additional
storage space for photos, as well as the ability to upload videos, connect your own custom domain to your galleries, and more! Sales in your Store will also no longer have a
commission fee applied. Also available are Studio plans, which are designed for accounts with multiple users and allow multiple simultaneous logins to your account. Upgraded
features start at $8/month. Learn more: Client Gallery plans, pricing and features Website website.png Looking for a beautiful way to showcase your online portfolio? With Pixieset
