Adding animations to your website How to personalize branding on your website See more Customizing your website's design After you select a site template, you have a full suite of
design options at your fingertips to help your site best reflect your brand. This article will outline the design options you have available in your site builder’s Design tab.
Looking for tips on building your site instead? Head to Adding Blocks and Content to your Website to learn more. On this page: Logo & Branding Fonts Colors Animation Spacing,
Buttons, and Arrows Logo & Branding WebsiteDesign1.png Your logo is one of the main ways to distinguish your photography business from others online. With Pixieset, you can upload
a logo and favicon to help maintain a consistent brand identity across all your site pages. To get started: Go to Design > Logo & Branding. For your logo, upload a PNG-24 file. To
create a favicon, upload a GIF, PNG, or ICO file. Learn more: Adding a logo and favicon to your website Fonts WebsiteDesign2.png Your site’s typography plays a large role in
whether your website feels timeless and elegant, bold and adventurous, or playful and trendy. Pixieset Website offers over 40 curated font themes designed to capture every style,
and on select plans you can customize font themes from a selection of over 1000 unique font families. To review your fonts: Go to Design > Fonts. Select your preferred font theme
and its overall font size. Optionally, click Edit to customize your font theme (available on the Pro Website Plan or Pro/Ultimate Suite Plan). Learn more: Customizing fonts for
your website Colors WebsiteDesign3.png Your site’s background and accent colors are often your visitor’s first impression of your brand. Every Pixieset Website comes with dozens of
of ready-made palettes with the option to fully personalize them on select plans. To change your site colors: Go to Design > Colors. Select a color palette to apply it to your
site. Optionally, click ••• next to your current palette to modify any color inside it (available on the Pro Website Plan or Pro/Ultimate Suite Plan). Note: Modifying color
palettes is available on the Pro Website or Pro/Ultimate Suite plans. On the Free or Basic Plan, you can preview these changes, but they won’t apply to your live site until you
upgrade. Learn more: Adding colors to your website Animation WebsiteDesign4.png Explore adding animations to your site to grab your viewers’ attention as they browse your
portfolio. Your images and text can fade in, scale up, slide in, or appear through other effects to guide them through site sections. To add a site-wide animation: Go to Design >
Animations. Select an animation style and duration. Learn more: Adding animations to your website Spacing, Buttons, and Arrows WebsiteDesign5.png We know that the small details
matter for your business, and your site is no exception. Get creative with your page layouts by increasing or decreasing the padding between your content blocks, and add more
personality to your site by customizing the look of your buttons and arrows. These spacing and styling options are available in your Design tab. To learn more about spacing, see
Adjusting spacing for your website content Was this article helpful? Related articles Changing your website template Changing your website’s colors Customizing your website’s fonts
Adding a logo and favicon to your website Managing your Page Settings Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact
Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Website Design and Customization Search Articles in this section Sharing
your site’s content block designs Customizing your website's design Changing your website’s colors Customizing your website’s fonts Adjusting your website’s spacing Customizing
Layers with Flex Editor Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet Creating Galleries and Slideshows with Flex Editor Adding animations to your website How to personalize
branding on your website See more Changing your website’s colors Colors Splash.jpeg Pixieset Website provides elegant, ready-made color schemes curated for a wide range of
photography styles and brand aesthetics. Easily apply complementary colors to your entire site in one click, or build a custom palette from scratch for complete control of your
brand. On this page: Changing site colors Customizing with advanced color options Changing a content block’s colors Troubleshooting Changing site colors Your site template comes
with dozens of ready-made palettes that make it easy to change up the look of your site in a click. Each palette comes with different accent options (a scheme) ranging from light
to dark for endless possibilities. To change your site’s colors: Go to Design > Colors. Choose your palette and scheme. Re-publish your site so your changes go live. Tip: If you
plan to create a custom color palette for your site, we recommend working off a premade palette that most closely matches your vision to save time. Colors 1.gif Customizing with
advanced color options If you have a particular combination of colors in mind, you can modify any color within your current scheme down to the exact hex code. This advanced option
is useful if you have specific brand colors and want your website to match that exactly. Note: Customizing color schemes is a premium feature available on the Pro Website Plan and
Pro/Ultimate Suite Plans. If you are not on one of these plans, you will be able to preview these changes, but they won’t apply to your site until you upgrade. To customize a color
scheme: Go to Design > Colors. Click into the scheme you’d like to modify. Choose new colors for specific elements like background or headings. Re-publish your site so your changes
go live. Tip: You can build a color palette completely from scratch instead of working off of a premade palette. To do this, go to Colors and click Custom > Add Palette. Colors
2.gif Changing a content block’s colors You can apply color schemes globally across your site, as well as to individual blocks to highlight specific sections. When you assign a
different color scheme to a specific block, it does not affect other blocks. This is a great way to make a particular section of your site page stand out. To change the colors of a
specific content block: Hover over the content block you’d like to modify. Click Edit in the top right. Choose your preferred color scheme for the block. Colors 3.gif
Troubleshooting I customized my color scheme, but it is not showing on my live site. I made changes to a color scheme and want to undo it. I don’t see all the color options in my
site builder. I customized my color scheme, but it is not showing on my live site. Customizing preset color schemes is a premium feature available on the Pro Website Plan and
Pro/Ultimate Suite Plans. If you are on another plan, you will be able to preview your modifications in your site builder but you will need to upgrade to publish the changes to
your live site. I made changes to a color scheme and want to undo it. Whenever you modify a preset color, a gray dot will appear next to it to indicate this. You can click on the
dot to reset the color to the original preset. Alternatively, if you want to reset the entire color scheme, click Reset Color Scheme at the bottom. Colors 4.png I don’t see all the
color options in my site builder. If you are on Avery or West, these specific site templates have a limited range of color options. To access all the color options that Pixieset
Website offers, switch to another template. Colors 5.png Was this article helpful? Related articles Customizing your website’s fonts Customizing your website's design Customizing
your site with Flex Editor Adjusting your website’s spacing Adding a logo and favicon to your website Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back
to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Website Design and Customization Search
Articles in this section Sharing your site’s content block designs Customizing your website's design Changing your website’s colors Customizing your website’s fonts Adjusting your
website’s spacing Customizing Layers with Flex Editor Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet Creating Galleries and Slideshows with Flex Editor Adding animations to
your website How to personalize branding on your website See more Customizing your website’s fonts Fonts.png Your website’s fonts play a big part of your branding. For instance, a
minimalist serif font amplifies a timeless and elegant feel to a wedding portfolio, whereas a bold, sans serif font reflects the playfulness of family photography. With Pixieset
Website, personalize your site with designer font themes and advanced options fit for every style. This article will guide you through setting up a font theme that best suits your
brand, as well as further customizing your typography with the font theme editor. On this page: Choosing a font theme Customizing fonts Uploading fonts Best practices for
customizing fonts Troubleshooting Choosing a font theme Pixieset Website provides over 40 font themes designed to elevate your brand, no matter the type of photography you do. When
you first create a website, a default font theme will be applied based on the specific site template. To change your site’s font theme: Go to Design > Fonts. Select your preferred
font theme and size. Re-publish your site so your changes go live. Fonts1.gif Customizing fonts Pixieset Website comes with over 1,000 fonts to further personalize your site’s
typography. If you want to fully transform your current font theme’s weight, style, line height, and letter spacing, you can do so within the font theme editor. Note: Customizing
font themes is an upgraded feature available on the Pro Website Plan and Pro/Ultimate Suite Plans. If you are not on one of these plans, you will be able to preview these changes,
but they won’t apply to your site until you upgrade. To customize your site’s font theme: Go to Design > Fonts. Click Edit next to your current font theme. Navigate to the category
you’d like to customize (e.g. headings, paragraphs). Edit the font to your specifications. Re-publish your site so your changes go live. Tip: When you modify a styling option, a
gray dot will appear next to it. You can click it to reset the styling to its default state. Fonts2.gif Uploading fonts You can upload your own font files to use throughout your
Pixieset Website. Pixieset supports .woff, .woff2, .ttf, and .otf formats up to 4 MB each, with a maximum of 20 uploaded fonts. When using an uploaded font, you are responsible for
having the correct license, generally provided by the source where you purchased or downloaded it. Fonts can be uploaded to any site template, with the exception of classic
templates. Note: Uploading fonts is an upgraded feature available on the Pro Website Plan and Pro/Ultimate Suite Plans. To upload your own fonts: Go to Design > Fonts. Click Edit
next to your current font theme. Navigate to the category you’d like to customize (e.g. headings, paragraphs). Click the font name next to Font Family > then select Browse all
fonts. Click +Upload Font. Agree to the terms and upload your font. Once uploaded, your custom fonts will appear in your font list and can be applied throughout your site.
Re-publish your site so your changes go live. CustomFonts.gif Best practices for customizing fonts Choose fonts that complement each other. Using too many font families can make it
harder to maintain visual balance. We recommend limiting yourself to two, and using styling options like bold and italics to add diversity to your site typography without losing
cohesion. Prioritize readability. Ensure your modifications do not get in the way of your actual messaging. For example, using a script font can give your headings a stylish flair
but using it for paragraphs and buttons can be overwhelming. Maintain a hierarchy between your font families. If you are adjusting the sizes of your individual fonts, make sure
they don’t compete for attention with more important sections. For example, your paragraphs should remain smaller than your headings at all times. Preview all your changes.
Whenever you make changes to your fonts, use the site builder’s preview feature to see how the changes appear across desktop, tablet, and mobile devices. Troubleshooting I
customized my font theme, but it’s not showing on my live site. My text is overlapping. I customized my font theme, but it’s not showing on my live site. Customizing font themes is
an upgraded feature available on the Pro Website Plan and Pro/Ultimate Suite Plans. If you are on another plan, you will be able to preview your modifications in your site builder
but you will need to upgrade to publish the changes to your live site. My text is overlapping. This typically happens if you customize your font theme and set a font’s size,
height, or spacing to very small values. To troubleshoot, go to the affected font category (e.g. paragraphs) in your font theme and adjust its current styling settings. Note: If
your text box is overlapping with other elements, you can adjust the position of the individual elements through the Flex Editor. Fonts3.png Was this article helpful? Related
articles Customizing your website's design Customizing your site with Flex Editor Changing your website’s colors Logos & Branding Adjusting your website’s spacing Can't find what
you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us
Pixieset - Help Center Website Design and Customization Search Articles in this section Sharing your site’s content block designs Customizing your website's design Changing your
website’s colors Customizing your website’s fonts Adjusting your website’s spacing Customizing Layers with Flex Editor Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet Creating
Galleries and Slideshows with Flex Editor Adding animations to your website How to personalize branding on your website See more Adjusting your website’s spacing Spacing is an
important design element to consider when building your photography website. When representing your brand and portfolio, well-spaced content can make your site feel like organized
and intentional, encouraging visitors to stay and scroll through. Each of Pixieset’s templates optimize how your content is spaced out, ensuring your photo, heading, and calls to
action look their best across all devices. If you want finer control over the design, your site’s spacing can be customized with pixel-level precision. Note: Some content blocks
such as banners are designed to be edge to edge. These blocks will be unaffected by spacing settings. On this page: Max page width Site margin spacing Base block padding Individual
element spacing Max page width Your website’s max page width setting controls whether your content scales up or remains at a fixed width on larger screens. Increasing the page
width gives your content a spacious, edge-to-edge look. Decreasing the page width keeps your content centered and focused. To adjust your max page width: Go to Settings > Spacing.
Drag the slider or enter a custom pixel value to adjust your pages’ max width. Note: If your page width becomes larger than your current browser window, your content may appear to
stop scaling. We recommend previewing it on a larger screen to see the full effect. Website Spacing 1.gif Site margin spacing Your website’s site margin setting dictates how much
horizontal space is between your content and the edges of the screen. It is helpful to think of the site margin as a gap on each side of your content that prevents it from touching
the edge of your browser window. To adjust your site margin: Go to Settings > Spacing. Drag the slider or enter a custom width value to adjust your pages’ site margin. Website
Spacing 2.png Base block padding Base block padding is the amount of vertical space above and below each content block. You can think of it as breathing room between one section of
a page and the next. To adjust base block padding: Go to Settings > Spacing. Drag the slider or enter a custom width value to adjust your base block padding. Tip: If you want to
modify the padding of a specific block, hover over it and click its settings icon instead. Website Spacing 3.png Individual element spacing If you want to adjust how specific
elements (e.g. text, images, buttons, etc.) are laid out within a block, you can adjust this by accessing the block’s drag-and-drop Flex Editor. To customize the position of
individual elements in a block: Hover over the block and click Open Editor. In the editor, freely drag and drop existing elements. Website Spacing 4.png To learn how to freely
reposition elements of your content, see our guide on Flex Editor here. Was this article helpful? Related articles Customizing your website's menu and header Customizing your
website’s fonts Uploading Photos to Your Website - Tutorial Video Changing your website’s colors Privacy options for your website Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our
support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Website Design
and Customization Search Articles in this section Sharing your site’s content block designs Customizing your website's design Changing your website’s colors Customizing your
website’s fonts Adjusting your website’s spacing Customizing Layers with Flex Editor Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet Creating Galleries and Slideshows with Flex
Editor Adding animations to your website How to personalize branding on your website See more Customizing Layers with Flex Editor Any content block on a Pixieset Website consists
of layers of different elements such as photos, text and shapes. While standard blocks have preset designs, Flex blocks are unique because they give you full control over each
element and layer. If you haven’t already, be sure to check out our Creating a Flex block guide to go over the basics. This guide will show you how to create your own custom Flex
blocks by customizing their elements and layers. On this page: Adding a Flex Block Understanding Elements Types of Elements Arranging Layers Grouping Elements Right-Click Functions
Adding a Flex Block To add a Flex block, click any (+) icon on your site to review the block options, then go the Flex Block tab in the left hand side. Once placed, simply hover
your mouse over a Flex Block and click Open Editor. Understanding Elements Flex blocks consist of multiple elements such as images, text or shapes which can be customized, arranged
or removed however you like. You can also use the + Add Elements button to add any additional elements and design blocks just the way you want them. Simply drag and drop elements
to build your block! Types of elements With the Add Elements menu open, you can choose from a range of elements. You can add any combination of elements you wish to achieve your
desired design. Simply click on an element to add it and then drag and drop it into place. Double click an element or use the Edit button to access the settings for that element.
AllElements.png You can add any of the following elements to a Flex Block: Text: You can add text boxes anywhere within a Flex Block. Simply double click on text to type and reveal
the text formatting toolbar: Image: Image elements can be used for adding individual photos to a Flex Block. Easily customize aspects such as the crop, opacity, border and more.
Video: Video elements work similarly to standard video blocks. Using the URL of a YouTube or Vimeo video, you can directly embed them within a block. Shape: Shape elements are a
great way to get creative and add some extra depth to your block. The primary shape options are rectangles or circles which have plenty of options available such as changing color,
opacity and borders. Shapes can also be hyperlinked to serve a functional purpose or they can be used aesthetically. Button: Button elements are simple yet incredibly useful.
Buttons can be used to hyperlink other pages or serve as a functional shortcut to specific actions. Line: Line elements are another great way to be creative with your design. Set
the color, opacity and width of your lines to add extra framing or attention within a block. Image Carousel & Image Slideshow: 2 types of sliding gallery elements. These are great
options for creating a viewing experience of multiple photos in one place. Image Grid: Full grids of photos can be added as individual elements. Contact Form: Insert a contact form
into a unique design and entice potential clients to get in touch with you. Map: Easily add a customizable map. Great for highlighting your studio or shooting locations. Social
Links: Just like your footer, social link icons will reflect any social accounts you’ve added to your profile. Instagram Feed: Display a feed of photos that automatically reflects
your Instagram profile. Accordion: Ideal for FAQs, accordions can be used for displaying text that can be shown or hidden by visitors. Custom Code: If you have a Pro Website or Pro
Suite plan, you can use this element to insert code snippets. This is great if you have multiple embedding codes that you wish to display together. Arranging Layers Each element
exists on its own layer within a Flex Block. These can be easily arranged within the Layers tab on the left to move them in front or behind other elements. Click Layers to view all
of the block’s layers in the order they are stacked. Layers listed at the top will appear above all layers listed underneath. Clicking and dragging a layer up the Layers tab will
bring it forward, making it more visible as it sits on top of other layers. Likewise, you can move a layer down to arrange it behind other layers. Clicking on any element will also
reveal a toolbar containing more options for moving and aligning. Grouping elements Multiple elements can be arranged into a group so that they can be moved as a single layer. This
is useful if you have several elements arranged in a particular way and you’d like to treat them as a single layer. Simply drag your mouse or hold shift + click to select multiple
elements. Once the elements are selected, use right click > group to create a group. In the below example, we can see multiple elements being used to display a package. By grouping
the elements together, we can easily duplicate the group which can then be edited separately to display various packages. Right-Click functions You can perform a right-click over
any element to reveal another toolbar. This can help you quickly arrange, duplicate or delete the element. Was this article helpful? Related articles Customizing your site with
Flex Editor Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet Creating Galleries and Slideshows with Flex Editor Adjusting your website’s spacing Adding a custom embed code block
Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center
Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Website Design and Customization Search Articles in this section Sharing your site’s content block designs Customizing your website's design
Changing your website’s colors Customizing your website’s fonts Adjusting your website’s spacing Customizing Layers with Flex Editor Optimizing your site content for mobile and
tablet Creating Galleries and Slideshows with Flex Editor Adding animations to your website How to personalize branding on your website See more Optimizing your site content for
mobile and tablet Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet.jpg Your Pixieset Website is designed to switch between desktop, tablet, and mobile layouts depending on the
devices your site visitors are viewing from. You can preview these layouts from your site builder to understand how your content will be laid out. This article will go through some
ways to easily adjust your content’s layout on mobile and tablet layouts specifically. Note: The ability to independently adjust your site’s tablet and mobile layouts is available
on any site template. If you are using a classic template, you can still add Flex blocks to any page. On this page: Editing your site’s mobile and tablet layouts Adjusting the
position and size of elements Stacking elements Arranging overlapping elements Editing your site’s mobile and tablet layouts Desktop, mobile, and tablet views can be adjusted
independently of each other. This allows you maximum control over how your content appears, no matter the device. If you want to adjust how a part of your site appears on mobile
and tablet views, you can do this by accessing the specific block’s Flex Editor: Hover over the specific block and click Open Editor. At the top of the editor, shuffle between
desktop, tablet, and mobile views. Within a specific view, customize how your content is laid out with the tools available through the editor. Note: Your block’s desktop, tablet,
and mobile layouts must share the same elements, fonts, and colors settings. flexeditorPW.gif Adjusting the position and size of elements You can freely resize and reposition
existing elements (e.g. text, photos, buttons, etc.) in your mobile and tablet layouts. In the editor, click to highlight a specific element Drag it into your preferred position,
or drag its outline to resize it. Tip: Need more space for your elements while editing your mobile or tablet layout? At the bottom of the block, click and drag the green arrow
downwards to expand the block size. Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet3.gif Stacking elements To ensure an uncluttered viewing experience, elements that appear
side-by-side on larger screens are automatically stacked vertically on smaller, mobile-oriented layouts. You can rearrange the order in which a block’s elements appear: In the
editor’s mobile view, click to highlight a specific element. Click ↑ or ↓ to move the element into your preferred order. Tip: If you have multiple elements arranged together in a
specific format, consider grouping them so they move together. Do this by holding down shift to select your elements, and then press ⌘ + G (Mac) or Ctrl + G (Windows). Optimizing
your site content for mobile and tablet4.gif Arranging overlapping elements Blocks that contain overlapping elements can have some parts unintentionally covered when the layout is
adjusted to fit the narrower screen. In these cases, you can easily reorder your layers to make sure they are correctly stacked: In the editor, click the Layers icon in the top
right. Drag to reorder your elements. Layers at the top will appear above layers listed underneath. Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet5.gif Was this article
helpful? Related articles Creating Galleries and Slideshows with Flex Editor Customizing your website's design Adding photos and content to your website Setting up Google Analytics
for your Pixieset Website Adding animations to your website Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us
Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Website Design and Customization Search Articles in this section Sharing your
site’s content block designs Customizing your website's design Changing your website’s colors Customizing your website’s fonts Adjusting your website’s spacing Customizing Layers
with Flex Editor Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet Creating Galleries and Slideshows with Flex Editor Adding animations to your website How to personalize branding
on your website See more Creating Galleries and Slideshows with Flex Editor With the Flex Editor, you can easily create galleries of photos such as grids, carousels and slider
banners. The benefit of using Flex Blocks over classic gallery blocks is you have more customization over the design and finer details. You can also combine your galleries with
other elements such as text and shapes. If you’re new to the Flex Editor, you can learn the basics in our guide here. On this page: Adding an Image Slideshow or Image Carousel
Adding an Image Grid Adding a Slider Block How to Create Slides Navigation Elements Controls Indicators Tabs Slider Block Tutorial Adding an Image Slideshow or Image Carousel Image
Slideshows and Image Carousels are types of sliding galleries. These are great options for creating a viewing experience of multiple photos in one place. While using the Flex
Editor, click + Add Elements in the top left to reveal the available elements. From there you can add either an Image Slideshow or an Image Carousel. Once added, you can move or
resize just like any individual element. AddCarou1.gif Both Image Slideshow and Carousel elements have similar settings and options. Simply double click on the element to load the
settings panel. From there you will see options for uploading, customizing the appearance, setting the controls and more. Adding an Image Grid Image Grids are another great option
for adding multiple photos to a Flex Block. Grids are designed to display a collage of images across a block with plenty of customization options. While in the Editor mode of a
Flex Block, click + Add Elements and add an Image Grid. There are various options to design an image grid. Double click on the grid element to load the settings tab. From there you
will see options for uploading, editing the layout, spacing and more. Grid2.png Adding a Slider Block Slider blocks are a specific type of Flex Block that can be used to create
slides of content. You can use a combination of elements to create banners, images, testimonials or anything you can imagine! To add a slider block, go to the Flex Block tab select
any block that shows the Slides symbol. How to create slides After the block is added, you can open the Editor and start customizing elements just like a regular flex block. To
manage slides, click on the Edit Slides button. This can be accessed within the Editor or the main dashboard view. Under Slides, you can add, edit or view slides. You can also find
options such as Auto Play, Duration and Animation Type. SliderSettings1.png Note: Each slide shares the same layout of elements so if any element is adjusted or removed, that
change will reflect on all slides. This helps keep the viewing experience aligned and consistent between each slide. Navigation Elements While editing a slider block, you can find
additional navigation elements. These can be added to help visitors move through the slides. Controls Add arrows to the block to help visitors click through the slides. Click on
Edit Controls to customize the size and color of the arrows. You can also choose to stick with the default arrows of your theme or select your preferred style Indicators Use
indicators to help visitors see their progress through the slides. Choose between numbers, dots or a progress bar. Tabs Tab elements will automatically list the slide names.
Visitors can click on any slide name to jump to that tab. You can easily adjust the layout, text type, color and position the tabs within your slides. Slider Block Tutorial This
tutorial video covers the basics of using a Flex Slider Block. Use the chapters below if you wish to skip to a specific part of the video. 0:00 - Introduction 0:30 - How to add a
Flex slider block 1:00 - Managing slides 1:30 - Customizing the design 2:35 - Navigation elements Was this article helpful? Related articles Customizing your site with Flex Editor
Customizing slideshows in Client Gallery Adding animations to your website Setting up a Custom Domain for Pixieset Website Uploading Videos to your Collections Can't find what
you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us
Pixieset - Help Center Website Design and Customization Search Articles in this section Sharing your site’s content block designs Customizing your website's design Changing your
website’s colors Customizing your website’s fonts Adjusting your website’s spacing Customizing Layers with Flex Editor Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet Creating
Galleries and Slideshows with Flex Editor Adding animations to your website How to personalize branding on your website See more Adding animations to your website Site-wide
animations can easily guide your visitors’ attention as they scroll through your website. With only a few clicks, apply animation effects to your entire site and bring your brand
to life. For a demonstration of how animations can look on your site, scroll through our demo. On this page: Applying an animation Previewing your site animation Applying an
animation Apply animations to your site in a few quick steps. From your site builder: Go to Design > Animations. Select your preferred animation style and duration. Note:
Animations do not apply to elements that use custom code, such as the custom embed code block. Animations.gif Previewing your site animation When you select an animation option,
you will automatically see a preview of how it will appear within the site builder. You can also use the site builder’s preview function to see how the animation will appear for
your entire site across different devices. When you are ready, you can click Publish to make the animation live on your site. Was this article helpful? Related articles How to
personalize branding on your website Customizing your website's design Setting up a Custom Domain for Pixieset Website Adding videos to your website Optimizing your site content
for mobile and tablet Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved.
PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Website Design and Customization Search Articles in this section Sharing your site’s content block designs Customizing your
website's design Changing your website’s colors Customizing your website’s fonts Adjusting your website’s spacing Customizing Layers with Flex Editor Optimizing your site content
for mobile and tablet Creating Galleries and Slideshows with Flex Editor Adding animations to your website How to personalize branding on your website See more How to personalize
branding on your website We have created a number of website features that allow you to fully personalize your pages and highlight your brand. With these options, you can
accentuate your website with a custom logo, add your own Custom Domain, and remove Pixieset branding from your pages. On this page: Adding a custom domain Adding your own branding
Hiding Pixieset branding Adding a custom domain With an upgraded account, you can add a custom domain to remove 'mypixieset' from your page links. A custom domain allows you to
tailor your URL to further promote your brand and create a web address like 'www.yourdomain.com' in place of 'username.mypixieset.com'. To add a custom domain, go to Settings >
Domain, or you can click here. Branding 1.png To read more about connecting a Custom Domain for your website, click here! Adding your own branding Taking advantage of your Design
Options is the best way to tailor your website and highlight your brand. You can add a Custom Logo which will feature in your header on all of your website pages, an Alternative
Logo if you would like to switch this out for a different image on specific pages, and even a customized favicon to add that extra personal touch to your site. You can find all of
these settings by going to Design > Logo & Branding, or you can click here. Branding 2.png Hiding Pixieset Branding You may see a Pixieset banner or badge on your site pages. This
branding depends on your Website subscription: Free Plan: A “Powered by Pixieset” banner appears on your site pages. Plus Website Plan or Starter Suite Plan: The banner is replaced
with a Pixieset badge. Pro Website Plan or the Pro/Ultimate Suite Plan: You can remove the badge entirely for a white-labeled experience on your site pages. Pixieset banner
Branding 3.png Pixieset badge Branding 4.png Was this article helpful? Related articles Setting up a Custom Domain for Pixieset Website Adding a logo and favicon to your website
Connecting a Custom Domain to Client Gallery Customizing your site with Flex Editor All you need to know about Domains Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support
staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Website Design and
Customization Search Articles in this section Sharing your site’s content block designs Customizing your website's design Changing your website’s colors Customizing your website’s
fonts Adjusting your website’s spacing Customizing Layers with Flex Editor Optimizing your site content for mobile and tablet Creating Galleries and Slideshows with Flex Editor
Adding animations to your website How to personalize branding on your website See more Adding a logo and favicon to your website Adding a logo and favicon is crucial for launching
a photography website. It signals professionalism and quality for your company and helps visitors build familiarity with your brand. This article will guide you through uploading a
logo and favicon to your site pages, ensuring they appear optimally regardless of the viewing device. On this page: Site logo Best practices for logos Adding your logo Using an
alternative logo Favicon Best practices for favicons Adding your favicon Site logo As an essential part of your branding, your company logo will appear prominently at the top of
every page of your website. Visitors can click on it to be directed back to your site’s home page. Best practices for logos To ensure your logo appears optimally on your website
pages: Use a transparent logo file, such as PNG-24. Your file should be 2 MB or smaller. Choose a variant of your logo that will appear best across the majority of your pages,
taking color and background into consideration. Crop out blank space around your logo. The entire file will be used for your logo, so unnecessary space will make your logo look
smaller overall. Adding your logo When you are ready to add your logo to your website: Go to Design > Logo & Branding. Upload your file to Logo Image. (Optional) Resize your logo
with the Logo Height and Mobile Logo Height sliders. logo favicon 2.png Tip: You can change the position of your logo and navigation links to give your site menu a new look. Simply
hover over the logo and click Change Layout in the top right. Using an alternative logo Depending on the background or layout of your site pages, you may want to use a different
variant of your logo. In these cases, you can use an alternative logo for that specific page: Go to Design > Logo & Branding. Upload your file to Alternative Logo. Hover and click
Edit Site Header in the top right of the page you’d like to switch logos for. Under Page Logo, select Alternative. logo favicon 3.gif Favicon A favicon is a small square icon that
represents your site or brand. When a visitor views your photography site, your favicon will be displayed at the top of their browser tab, as well as their bookmarks, browser
