communicate updates with your clients directly. Learn more: Getting Started with Self Fulfillment Digital Delivery Digital download products are automatically fulfilled for you, by
Pixieset. You can offer digital images for sale in different resolutions, and your client can download the final files directly to their device. How does digital delivery work?
First, your client places an order in your Store for digital download products. Then, once the order has been paid for and processed, we send a download link to your client via
email for the files they have purchased, in the resolution you have selected. Learn more: Selling digital downloads Choosing a Fulfillment Option The fulfillment option used for
the orders you receive will be determined by your price sheet, and the products you have added. When creating a new price sheet, you can choose Automatic Fulfillment or Self
Fulfillment, and this cannot be changed after the price sheet has been created. fulfillment-type.png You can add Digital Download items to any price sheet to offer them alongside
your automatic or self fulfilled products. You can also add individual self fulfillment products to an automatic fulfillment price sheet, to offer both for sale in your gallery.
Learn more: Can I sell both automatic and self-fulfilled products? Was this article helpful? Related articles Print labs available with Pixieset Getting started with Automatic
Fulfillment All about Price Sheets All you need to know about Shipping Getting started with Self Fulfillment Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll
get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Getting Started with Selling
Search Articles in this section Which print lab am I using in my Store? Introduction to Pixieset Store Setting up your Store Preparing Image Files for Printing Order fulfillment
options Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment Getting started with Self Fulfillment How do I turn Store on? Print labs available with Pixieset How does the 0% commission fee
work? See more Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment With Automatic Fulfillment, you can easily sell prints online through your Client Galleries. Once your Store is set up,
one of our industry leading professional print lab partners will print your orders and ship the final products directly to your clients. af-hero.png You can also watch this video
tutorial about setting up your Store for a step by step walkthrough. If you’d prefer to handle fulfillment yourself, check out Getting started with Self Fulfillment instead. On
this page: How Automatic Fulfillment works Creating an Automatic Fulfillment price sheet Products available for sale Earning a profit in your Store Providing support to clients How
Automatic Fulfillment works Our Automatic Fulfillment system will handle everything from printing your orders to shipping them to your clients, making selling prints in your Store
a ‘hands-off’ experience. How does it work? First, you’ll create an Automatic Fulfillment price sheet and assign it to your Client Gallery collection. This will allow clients to
browse the available products and place their order right from the gallery! Once your client places an order, you’ll be able to review it in your Dashboard, to see what images and
products were purchased, and check on the order status. The order is automatically sent to a professional print lab, where it is printed and packaged for shipping to your client.
Orders are sent in white-label packages, meaning that there is no branding or information about the lab or Pixieset, creating a more seamless experience for your clients. The lab
ships the order directly to your client, using the shipping method they selected during checkout. Tracking details (if available) will automatically be sent to you and your client,
so they can easily keep an eye on delivery! Creating an Automatic Fulfillment price sheet Price sheets determine what products you are selling, and at what price. If you have
already connected a payment method, you can get started with Automatic Fulfillment by creating a new price sheet and assigning it to your galleries. Learn more: All about Price
Sheets Steps: From your dashboard, go to Store > Products and click on + Add Price Sheet. Enter a name and select Automatic Fulfillment. You can then choose which print lab to use
to fulfill your orders: Automatic: This will connect your price sheet with one of our professional lab partners depending on your business location Choose a specific lab: This
option will allow you to choose one specific lab from all of the available lab partners in your business location choose-lab.gif Click Create and your new price sheet will be
created and populated with all of the products available from the lab you selected. In your new price sheet, you can review the available products and decide on the final prices
for each item you want to sell. Learn more: Adding and pricing products in your Store Once your price sheet is ready, assign it to a Client Gallery collection to start selling!
Learn more: Assigning price sheets to a galleries Products available for sale We have partnered with professional print labs dedicated to delivering the highest quality print
products. Through our lab partners, you will be able to offer classic photographic prints, fine art prints, canvases, framed prints, metal prints, and much more! products.png The
exact product range available depends on the print lab you have chosen. Once you have created an Automatic Fulfillment price sheet connected with one of our lab partners, it will
automatically be populated with all of the available products from that lab. Learn more about our labs here: Print labs available with Pixieset Earning a profit in your Store When
setting up your price sheet, you are able to set your own prices and markup for the products in your Store. You can review the printing cost for each item, and adjust your pricing
as needed. Learn more: Adding and pricing products in your Store product-costs.png When your client places an order, they will pay the prices you have set for the items they’ve
selected, as well as the shipping cost for the order and any applicable sales tax. The printing cost for each item and the shipping cost for the order are then deducted, and sent
to the lab so that they can get started with the order. Any applicable processing fees are deducted by your payment processor (Stripe or PayPal), and the remaining amount from your
client’s payment is your profit! You can review the full cost breakdown of any order right from the order page in your Dashboard. cogs-breakdown.png Learn more about accepting
online payments: How do I get paid for client Orders? Note: On the Free plan, each order is also subject to a 15% commission fee. Pixieset does not charge any commission fees with
an upgraded Client Gallery or Suite subscription. Learn more: How does your 0% commission work? Providing support to clients Pixieset Support will help you deal with any questions
or issues that may come up with your clients’ orders. We do not communicate directly with your clients on your behalf or provide any direct support to clients for their orders, as
each business is unique and we do not know what specific arrangements may be in place. You will be responsible for communicating with your clients for any support they need, which
helps provide a seamless experience for your clients. You can review the order details and see the current order status any time from your Dashboard (go to Store > Orders), and if
your clients have any questions about their order that you are unable to answer, our Support Team is happy to help! Was this article helpful? Related articles Print labs available
with Pixieset Getting started with Store - Tutorial Video Getting started with Self Fulfillment Order fulfillment options Preparing Image Files for Printing Can't find what you're
looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset -
Help Center Store Getting Started with Selling Search Articles in this section Which print lab am I using in my Store? Introduction to Pixieset Store Setting up your Store
Preparing Image Files for Printing Order fulfillment options Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment Getting started with Self Fulfillment How do I turn Store on? Print labs
available with Pixieset How does the 0% commission fee work? See more Getting started with Self Fulfillment With Pixieset Store, you can take control of the fulfillment process and
offer products from any lab or printing service you want. With Self Fulfillment you can add your own custom products and shipping methods, and you’ll arrange for printing and
shipping the order to your client outside of Pixieset. If you would rather be hands-off with order fulfillment, check out our Automatic Fulfillment option: Getting started with
Automatic Fulfillment On this page: How Self Fulfillment works Creating a Self Fulfillment price sheet Adding and pricing new Self Fulfillment products Managing Self Fulfillment
orders How Self Fulfillment works With Self Fulfillment, you are in charge of fulfilling orders manually, outside of Pixieset. You are responsible for ordering prints from your own
preferred Lab, as well as arranging shipping to your clients. This is a great option for photographers who wish to take full control of the fulfillment process. How does it work?
First, you’ll create a Self Fulfillment price sheet and assign it to your Client Gallery collection. This will allow clients to browse the available products and place their order
right from the gallery! When your client places an order, they will pay the prices you have set for the items they’ve selected, as well as the shipping cost for the order and any
applicable sales tax. Any applicable processing fees are deducted by your payment processor (Stripe or PayPal), and the remaining amount is paid to you directly. Note: On the Free
plan, each order is also subject to a 15% commission fee. Pixieset does not charge any commission fees with an upgraded Client Gallery or Suite subscription. Learn more: How does
your 0% commission work? You’ll be able to review the order in your Dashboard, to see what images and products were purchased. You’ll manage the order status manually, so you can
easily keep track of your orders. You will arrange for the order to be printed and shipped to your client, outside of Pixieset. You’ll also manage any communication regarding the
order, such as letting your client know that their order is complete and providing any necessary tracking details. You can also add Self Fulfillment products to your existing price
sheets, and sell those items alongside other Automatic Fulfillment products: Selling both Automatic and Self Fulfillment products Creating a Self Fulfillment price sheet Price
sheets determine what products you are selling, and at what price. Learn more: All about Price Sheets Steps: From your dashboard, go to Store > Products and click on + Add Price
Sheet. Enter a name and select Self Fulfillment. self-fulfill-sheet.png Check the Add commonly sold products option to start your price sheet with some popular items including
prints, framed prints, and canvas prints, which you can edit or change as needed. Click Create, and your new price sheet will be created. In your new price sheet, you can add new
products and set the prices for each item you want to sell. Once your price sheet is ready, assign it to a Client Gallery collection to start selling! Learn more: Assigning price
sheets to a galleries Adding and pricing new Self Fulfillment products With a Self Fulfillment product, you have complete control over the product details and variations. You can
customize your Store with exactly the products you want to sell! Steps: From your dashboard, go to Store > Products and select your price sheet to open it. Click + Add Product and
select Self Fulfilled Item. Enter the details for your new product. Name - Name your product as you want customers to see it (e.g. Fine Art Prints). Description - Provide a
description for your product (up to 2000 characters). Images - Upload up to 5 images of your product. We recommend uploading square photos with a minimum resolution of 1500 x
1500px for best results. Price - The price of the product. If you are adding multiple product options, you’ll instead set the prices for each product variation individually. You’ll
want to make sure this covers the printing cost for that item, and includes the markup (profit) you want to earn each time it is sold. Extra Shipping - Any additional shipping
charge to add for the product. If you are adding multiple product options, you’ll instead add the additional shipping charge for each product variation individually. Category - The
type of product you’re offering (eg. Prints or Wall Art), which will determine where the product appears in your Print Store Product Options - You can add product options to allow
your client to customize their order. Click + Add product option to add new variations. You can use this to, for example, offer multiple sizes for your product. To set this up, set
the Name to Size, and add the different options as Values (eg. 8x10, 11x14, 16x20, etc). You can add multiple product options for things such as paper type, frame color, or any
other variations you want to offer. edit-options.png Once you have added all of your product options, you can set the prices for each variation. You can also add extra shipping
charges as necessary, or hide certain options if a particular variation is not available. options-prices.png Click Save to add the new product to your price sheet. It is ready to
sell, once your price sheet has been assigned to a collection. Learn more: Assigning price sheets to galleries Additional product options There are some additional options
available for your Self Fulfillment products. These can be used to customize the ordering process for the items when your client is placing an order. No Image Required: When
enabled, your product will not require that an image is selected for it, which is useful for non-photo items (e.g. USB drive). Exempt From Sales Tax: This product will be exempt
from sales tax calculations during checkout. Limit One Per Checkout: When enabled, this product can only be added to a client’s cart one time per purchase. Allow Bulk Purchase:
When enabled, your client will be able to add this product to their cart in bulk. Managing Self Fulfillment orders When your client has placed an order on a Self Fulfillment price
sheet, you will be able to review the order in your dashboard, and manage the order status manually to keep organized. Steps Locate the order in your dashboard by going to Store >
Orders and clicking View next to your client’s order. You can print a copy of the order details, or use the Export Filenames option to quickly export a .CSV file with all of the
ordered products, including product variations, quantities, and image filenames. You can also use the Lightroom Copy List to easily locate the images your client ordered in your
Lightroom catalog. You can review the images in the order and what products your client wants, then arrange for printing and shipping of those items with your preferred printing
lab. order-export.png The order status can be used to keep track of the fulfillment process for each order you receive. You will manually update the order status as you work on
fulfilling the order, using the Status dropdown. update-orderstatus.gif Pending - Order has been placed by your client and is ready for you to get started. Processing - Typically
means that you have submitted the order and it is currently in production with your printing lab. Completed - The order has been completed and has been shipped to the client.
Canceled - The order has been canceled. Note: Setting an order to cancelled status does not automatically refund your client. You will still need to process their refund. Learn
more: Refunding an order Changing the order status does not send any notification to your client, so you will be responsible for keeping your client updated about the order status
and any applicable tracking details once the order has been shipped. Was this article helpful? Related articles Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment Order fulfillment options
Print labs available with Pixieset Introduction to Pixieset Store Collection Download Settings Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you
within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Getting Started with Selling Search Articles
in this section Which print lab am I using in my Store? Introduction to Pixieset Store Setting up your Store Preparing Image Files for Printing Order fulfillment options Getting
started with Automatic Fulfillment Getting started with Self Fulfillment How do I turn Store on? Print labs available with Pixieset How does the 0% commission fee work? See more
How do I turn Store on? This article assumes that you have followed the Setting up your Store article. If you still do not see your store available, you will want to ensure that
you’ve uploaded files in a supported format for Store and can then review your Store status on a global and collection level. On this page: Check that filetypes are supported
Ensure that Store Global Status is on Review store settings on a collection level Check out the client shopping experience Check that filetypes are supported Only JPEG files are
supported for providing prints and physical products in your Store. If you’ve uploaded a different file type, you’ll need to export the files from your device in JPEG format and
then upload them again. You can use the replace duplicates feature to speed up this process! To learn more about this, see here. Ensure that Store Global Status is on This controls
your Store status for all collections. From your dashboard, go to Store > Settings Ensure that the Global Store Status is On 2020-05-26_14-43-53.png Review store settings on a
collection level For a single collection Review the individual collection to ensure that the Store Status is on for that particular collection. Head to your Client Gallery
dashboard > select your collection Under the Settings tab, click on Store settings Make sure that your Store Status is turned on for the collection TurnStoreOn.png For multiple
collections You can turn Store on in all of your collections at once by turning your Global Store Status off and on again. That said, if you’d like to change the Store Status on
just a few collections, you can follow these steps! From your Client Gallery dashboard, hover over the applicable collections and click the checkmark in the top left corner of the
thumbnail to select those collections. To select all collections, use a keyboard short cut (Ctrl+A or Cmd+A) or click on the collection selection count from the action bar > Select
All Click the Bulk Edit pencil icon from the action bar In the pop-up that appears, click the Store tab Under Store, click On > Apply TurnStoreOn2.png Check out the client shopping
experience Now the Print Store and the shopping cart should be displayed in the collection automatically!TurningStoreOn3.png In fact, there are multiple ways that your clients can
add items to their cart. Aside from heading to your Print Store directly, clients can hover over an image and click the shopping bag icon to easily add it to their cart. They can
also add products to their cart when they are browsing through enlarged images!TurningStoreOn4.gif Was this article helpful? Related articles Where do I get my PayPal API
Credentials? All about Price Sheets Print labs available with Pixieset Getting started with Store - Tutorial Video Getting Started with Client Gallery Can't find what you're
looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset -
Help Center Store Getting Started with Selling Search Articles in this section Which print lab am I using in my Store? Introduction to Pixieset Store Setting up your Store
Preparing Image Files for Printing Order fulfillment options Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment Getting started with Self Fulfillment How do I turn Store on? Print labs
available with Pixieset How does the 0% commission fee work? See more Print labs available with Pixieset We have partnered with industry-leading professional print labs so that you
can easily offer premium quality products in your Store. Our lab partners are known for their consistent quality and beautiful prints, and with Automatic Fulfillment you can ensure
that your clients will receive the best. labs-hero.png To learn how Automatic Fulfillment works, see our guide here: Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment On this page:
Pixieset's Partner Print Labs WHCC ProDPI Miller's Professional Imaging Mpix Loxley Colour Atkins Pro Lab Which print lab am I using in my store? How do I select a specific lab?
Questions about product offerings Pixieset's Partner Print Labs WHCC banner-whcc.png Serving professional photographers since 1977, White House Custom Color (WHCC), based in
Minnesota in the United States, has a long history and an excellent reputation in providing quality prints, canvases, and other products. Their commitment to quality and excellent
customer service has won over many professional photographers. Orders fulfilled by WHCC can be shipped to the USA, Canada, and internationally. Learn more: https://whcc.com/ ProDPI
banner-prodpi.png As a leading name in the professional photographic printing community, ProDPI is deeply committed to both quality and excellent customer service. Based in
Minnesota in the United States, they care about the relationships they share with clients and work hard to make sure that they are a partner your business can depend on. They
provide a carefully curated selection of products and services, and rely on customer feedback and product requests to guide future innovations. Orders fulfilled by ProDPI can be
shipped to the USA, Canada, and internationally. Learn more: https://prodpi.com/ Miller's Professional Imaging banner-millers.png Based out of Pittsburg, Kansas, Miller's
Professional Imaging is the largest professional lab organization in the United States. They provide professional prints and press products for professional photographers in all
fifty states. Since their inception, they have developed a reputation for having excellent quality products, customer service, and technologies in the industry. Orders fulfilled by
Miller’s can be shipped to the USA. Learn more: https://www.millerslab.com/ Mpix banner-mpix.png Mpix is a photo lab with a big heart for storytelling and creation. Located in
Pittsburg, Kansas, they believe in unparalleled quality and impeccable service and set out on a path to help you create premium quality photo products that stand the test of time.
Orders fulfilled by Mpix can be shipped to the USA. Learn more: https://www.mpix.com/ Loxley Colour banner-loxley.png Located in the United Kingdom, Loxley Colour has a long
history in the photographic industry which has given them the opportunity to see it develop and evolve into the unique place it is today. Providing new and innovative products for
photographers is what Loxley Colour strives for. They continuously invest time and energy in research and development to bring their clients products that can be treasured. Orders
fulfilled by Loxley Colour can be shipped anywhere in Europe or the UK, or to Canada or the United States. Learn more: https://www.loxleycolour.com/ Atkins Pro Lab
banner-atkins.png As the oldest photographic lab in Australia, Atkins Pro has been proudly making beautiful products for photographers for over 80 years. With their love of stories
and the images that tell them, Atkins Pro is committed to making life easier for professional photographers and design all their products to last a lifetime. Orders fulfilled by
Atkins Pro can be shipped to Australia, New Zealand, or internationally. Learn more: https://atkins.com.au/ Which print lab am I using in my Store? When viewing a price sheet, you
can confirm the lab name under the Fulfillment section. Learn more about understanding which lab is being used for your price sheet here: Which print lab am I using?
WhichPrintLab.png Note: If the Fulfilment area doesn’t specify a lab, note that North American based Store orders are sent to WHCC by default and Australian/New Zealand based Store
orders are sent to Atkins Pro. How do I select a specific lab? If you’re based in North America and you’d like to work with a different print lab, create a new price sheet and
choose your preferred lab. To see this in action, watch our tutorial video here: Choosing a specific print lab - Tutorial Video Note: It’s not possible to change the lab for an
existing price sheet since the lab’s product offerings differ. Questions about product offerings We are pleased to offer our partner print lab’s most popular selection of premium
quality products. If you have any questions about the products available in your Store, please get in touch with Pixieset via the "Contact Us" link below. We would be glad to help!
Was this article helpful? Related articles Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment Introduction to Pixieset Store Order fulfillment options Preparing Image Files for Printing
Getting started with Store - Tutorial Video Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025
Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Getting Started with Selling Search Articles in this section Which print lab am I using
in my Store? Introduction to Pixieset Store Setting up your Store Preparing Image Files for Printing Order fulfillment options Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment Getting
started with Self Fulfillment How do I turn Store on? Print labs available with Pixieset How does the 0% commission fee work? See more How does the 0% commission fee work?
Commission fees are only charged on orders placed while you are subscribed to the Client Gallery - Free plan. We do not charge commission fees on upgraded Client Gallery or Suite
plans. You can view all subscription options here. The commission fee is calculated based on the order subtotal, before any discounts, coupon codes, taxes, or shipping fees are
applied. Based on your plan, your commission fees would be as follows: Client Gallery - Basic, Plus, Pro, Ultimate: 0% Suite - Starter, Pro, Ultimate: 0% Studio 60, Studio 80,
Studio 120: 0% Free: 15% Note: The Pixieset commission fee would be in addition to any processing fees charged by your third-party payment processor (i.e. PayPal or Stripe) as well
as printing and shipping costs if you are using automatic fulfillment for your orders. Was this article helpful? Related articles Print labs available with Pixieset Introduction to
Pixieset Store How do I turn Store on? What is Personalized Product Preview? Linking a store to your website Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll
get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Getting Started with Selling
Search Articles in this section Which print lab am I using in my Store? Introduction to Pixieset Store Setting up your Store Preparing Image Files for Printing Order fulfillment
options Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment Getting started with Self Fulfillment How do I turn Store on? Print labs available with Pixieset How does the 0% commission fee
work? See more What is Personalized Product Preview? Personalized Product Preview will overlay photos in your galleries onto product images, creating a unique personalized store
experience. This helps maintain a strong emotional connection between your client's photos and products, inspiring your clients to purchase more print products. On this page: Where
are products with my photos displayed? Turning on/off Personalized Product Preview Photo Selections Preset Settings Where are Personalized Product Previews displayed? There are
primarily 3 places where store product images will use your gallery photos: Print Store product thumbnails Print Store banners Gallery store popup
Screen_Shot_2020-09-22_at_9.02.47_AM.jpg Turning On/Off Personalized Product Preview To turn on Personalized Product Preview: From your dashboard, go to Client Gallery > Select
your collection. Under the Settings tab, click on Store Settings. After assigning an Automatic Fulfillment Price Sheet, toggle on/off Personalized Product Preview PPP.png When
toggled off, your Store will use Pixieset's default images for product previews. Note: Personalized Product Preview is not available for legacy price sheets. Photo Selections
Automatic Photos from the first photo set in the gallery will automatically be used for product photos in your Store. These will be selected randomly. PPP-Auto.png Custom If you
prefer more control over the photos used, you can choose what collection photos to be used for the products. You can choose up to six photos, if you choose less the remaining
photos will be selected randomly for you. After selecting your photos, you can adjust the focal point by hovering over the preview and clicking the focal icon.PPP-Custom.png Preset
Settings You can manually turn on/off Personalized Product Preview under the store settings of each collection. However, if you want to disable Personalized Product Preview on new
collections moving forward, you can configure this using a preset. Screen_Shot_2020-09-21_at_4.15.50_PM.jpg Was this article helpful? Related articles Introduction to Pixieset
Store Preparing Image Files for Printing Print labs available with Pixieset Getting Started with Client Gallery Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment Can't find what you're
looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset -
Help Center Store Getting Started with Selling Search Articles in this section Which print lab am I using in my Store? Introduction to Pixieset Store Setting up your Store
Preparing Image Files for Printing Order fulfillment options Getting started with Automatic Fulfillment Getting started with Self Fulfillment How do I turn Store on? Print labs
available with Pixieset How does the 0% commission fee work? See more Upgrading from the Legacy Store The Pixieset Store was upgraded in May 2020, and the new version was rebuilt
from the ground up to provide an enhanced shopping experience, additional product options and customization possibilities, as well as additional tools and features to help
photographers manage their stores. You can check out a demo of the new Store here. If you were using Store prior to this launch, all you need to do to upgrade is create a new price
sheet and assign it to your galleries! store-hero.png On this page: The New Store Upgrading to the new Store Remaining on the Legacy Store system The New Store The upgraded Store
has been built from the ground up with a focus on improving product discoverability and increasing ease-of-use for your clients. Here are some key new features: Redesigned shopping
experience - The client gallery shopping experience has been completely redesigned to show off your beautiful products and to increase sales. See example gallery Storefront - A new
dedicated storefront designed to showcase and sell stunning products is now integrated right into your client galleries. See example store New premium products - Take your product
offerings to the next level by offering everything from photographic prints to framed prints to greeting cards. See more products Extended product options - You can now easily
offer products in a wide-range of sizes, paper type, finishes, and more. Bulk purchasing flow - If you are purchasing prints or single photo downloads from the Storefront, you can
now bulk purchase by selecting multiple photos at once. Wall art room preview - When purchasing wall products, your clients can now visualize what their photo might look like in a
room setting before adding to cart. Rearranging product categories - You can now re-organize your product categories in a way that suits your business needs (ie, do you always want
your clients to see Digital Downloads first? You can make that happen with the new store!) Personalized Product Preview - Overlay photos in your galleries onto product images,
creating a unique personalized store experience for your clients. Learn more: What is Personalized Product Preview? Upgrading to the new Store If you started using Pixieset after
May 2020, you’re already set up with the new system! When viewing your price sheets (Store > Products), any price sheets from the previous system will have a “Legacy” tag.
legacy-sheet.png As a result of all the new features and changes to the core Store system, it is not possible to automatically convert a legacy price sheet to use the new, upgraded
Store. If you currently have any Legacy price sheets assigned to your collections, you can upgrade to the new Store by simply creating a new price sheet. From the Products page
(Store > Products) click + Add Price Sheet. Give your new price sheet a name and select the fulfillment type. You can reference your previous Legacy price sheet(s) to apply the
same settings. You have the option to use our Recommended Pricing, which will automatically set the prices in your store according to our research and analytics to maximize sales
and profits. This way you’ll be ready to start earning right away! You can then adjust prices for products individually, according to your business. recommended-pricing.png Click
Create, then review the price sheet to see the products available, and update your prices as necessary. With our Bulk Markup tool, you can also update the prices for the entire
price sheet, or apply a bulk markup to specific product categories (framed prints, metal prints, etc). Learn more: Adding and Pricing Products in your Store product_bulk_markup.png
Assign your new price sheet to your Client Gallery collections. You can easily assign the new price sheet to all of your galleries at once, or set it as the default for new
collections, using the ••• menu. Learn more: Assigning price sheets to galleries assign-all.png That’s it! Check out your gallery to see your new, upgraded Store in action.
Remaining on the Legacy Store system For now, existing Legacy price sheets will continue to work as before. However, new legacy price sheets can no longer be created, and existing
legacy price sheets do not include any of the updated features or new products available in the new system. Galleries with a legacy price sheet attached will display the old Store
experience to your clients. Thousands of photographers have upgraded their Store to provide an enhanced shopping experience for their clients, and we recommend you make the switch
too! All you have to do is create a new price sheet and assign it to your galleries. Was this article helpful? Related articles All about Price Sheets Assigning price sheets to
collections Print labs available with Pixieset Introduction to Pixieset Store Selling digital downloads Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get
back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Payments Search Articles in this
section Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Accepting Store Payments with Stripe Accepting Store Payments with PayPal Accepting Offline Payments (cash, check, in person) in
Store Accepting digital wallet payments (Apple Pay, Google Pay) in Store Getting Paid for your Store Orders Where do I get my PayPal API Credentials? How do I fix payment errors at
checkout? Where can I see my profit on a store order? What is the cost of goods sold / application fee? See more Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Available Payment
Methods 1.png In order to accept payments in your Pixieset Store, you must have at least one payment method connected (Store Dashboard > Settings > Payment Methods). You can choose
to accept payments through Stripe, PayPal, or Offline Payments. On this page: Stripe PayPal Offline Payments Stripe Stripe is a quick and secure way to accept digital wallets and
credit or debit cards online in your Pixieset Store. By connecting Stripe, you will be able to accept the following: Visa (credit and debit cards) MasterCard (credit and debit
cards) American Express Discover (US merchants only) Digital Wallets - Apple Pay, Google Pay, Microsoft Pay (on supported devices) iDEAL | Wero payments (Netherlands merchants
only) Generally, Stripe charges a processing fee of 2.9% + $0.30 for each credit/debit card transaction. This rate may vary based on your country. You can visit Stripe's global
page to see a list of their supported countries. To connect Stripe to your Pixieset Store, follow our guide here: Accepting Store Payments with Stripe PayPal Connecting your PayPal
Business account will turn on PayPal Express Checkout in your Pixieset Store, allowing your clients to pay with their PayPal account balance, various credit cards and debit cards.
Your clients will be directed to a PayPal checkout page to complete their payment. Generally, PayPal charges a processing fee of 2.99% + 49¢ for each credit/debit card transaction,
and 3.49% + 49¢ for each PayPal account checkout transaction. This rate may vary based on your country. You can refer to PayPal’s global page to see a list of their supported
countries. Note: You must have a Business Account with PayPal (either Pro or Standard) in order to connect to Pixieset Store. To connect PayPal to your Pixieset Store, follow our
guide here: Accepting Store Payments with PayPal Offline Payments Offline payments are available for any upgraded Client Gallery or Suite subscription. This feature allows you to
present alternative payment methods in your Store with your client, such as cash, cheque, or email money transfer. When your client selects an offline payment option, they will be
able to complete the checkout process without submitting an online payment. You are responsible for securing the payment from your client offline before approving the order for
processing. To offer an offline payment in your Pixieset Store, follow our guide here: Accepting Offline Payments (cash, check, in person) in Store Was this article helpful?
Related articles Where do I get my PayPal API Credentials? Getting Paid for your Store Orders Setting up your Store Setting up Payment Methods in Studio Manager Print labs
available with Pixieset Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights
reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Payments Search Articles in this section Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Accepting Store Payments
with Stripe Accepting Store Payments with PayPal Accepting Offline Payments (cash, check, in person) in Store Accepting digital wallet payments (Apple Pay, Google Pay) in Store
Getting Paid for your Store Orders Where do I get my PayPal API Credentials? How do I fix payment errors at checkout? Where can I see my profit on a store order? What is the cost
