note that this doesn't necessarily mean your order has been refunded. Refer to Refunding an order Tracking an order Once an order has been shipped by the print lab, tracking
information for the shipment (if available for the shipping method) will be added to the order details. You will be able to find this under the shipping details section on the
order detail page. order-tracking.png Exporting orders You can export all your order details into a CSV file by clicking on the Export button on the orders page. export-orders.png
Changing or cancelling orders Our print lab partners have industry leading turn-around times. From the moment an order gets sent to production, the prints are being produced and
printed automatically within minutes. If you have received the our production notification email, it is usually too late to make changes or cancel the order. You can still get in
touch with us, and we will do the best we can to help. Contact Pixieset Support as soon as you can with the order number and any other information you think might be helpful.
Refunding orders If you want to refund your client, you will need to do this on your payment processor dashboard (e.g. Stripe or PayPal). For more instructions, refer to Refunding
an order I need help with an order Damaged or missing items? Shipment never arrived? We're sorry to hear that. But don't worry, we are here to help! Get in get in touch with
Pixieset via the "Contact Us" link below as soon as you can. We will do our best to assist and get any issues resolved for you and your client. Please include the order number in
your along with a detailed explanation of the issue. The more information you can provide, the quicker we can help in touch with the print lab to resolve this. Was this article
helpful? Related articles Setting up your Store What is the cost of goods sold / application fee? Introduction to Pixieset Store All you need to know about Customers Setting up a
Custom Domain for Pixieset Website Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All
rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Orders Search Articles in this section Managing Orders Reviewing Store Orders with Order Delay All you
need to know about Customers Adding Boutique Packaging to your orders Refunding a Store Order Getting help with a print order Troubleshooting "Pending" Order Statuses How do I
change or cancel an order? How will the images be cropped for printing? Reviewing Store Orders with Order Delay Your Pixieset Store comes with a setting called Order Delay that
lets you review new orders and ensure everything will be printed and shipped exactly as your client expects. This setting is great for any photographer that wants the chance to
double-check their clients’ selections or accommodate any last-minute changes. With this setting, new orders will be put on hold up from 6 hours to 7 days (depending on your store
checkout settings). During this period, you have the opportunity to review the order details and make any of the following actions if needed: Edit the shipping address Adjust crops
Replace ordered image files Add boutique packaging and more On this page: Setting up Order Delay Reviewing orders in Order Delay How do I replace images or edit the crop? Setting
up Order Delay To set up an order delay for your Store: Go to Store > Settings. Under Order Delay, select a delay period between 6 hours and 7 days. Once set up, all orders placed
in your galleries’ Store will be placed into a delay period moving forward. After the order is reviewed and approved by you (or if the delay period expires), the automatic
fulfillment items will be sent to the lab for processing and any digital downloads will be delivered to your client. Order Delay 1.png Reviewing orders in Order Delay
orderdelaystatus.png To review an order during its delay period, go to Store > Orders and click View next to the applicable order. On the order page, you will have the option to:
Edit the crops selected by your clients to make sure important parts of the subjects are not cropped out of the photos. Replace images used for fulfillment. For example, you can
replace proof files with your high-quality edits. Update the shipping address and client information to make sure deliveries and digital downloads are received. Cancel the order
before it is sent to the lab. Add boutique packaging. Add extra time to the Order Delay period if you need additional time to make updates. Send the order to the lab immediately
for printing. Once sent, changes can no longer be made. When you are ready, click on the Send Order button to submit the order to the lab. Otherwise, the order will be
automatically sent for processing when the order delay period expires. You will not be able to make further changes once the order is submitted. How do I replace images or edit the
crop? To edit or preview the crops submitted by your client at checkout, click on Edit Crop. You can also use the Replace Photo feature to upload new image files. Order Delay 3.png
Tip: Editing or replacing the images within the order only applies to automatic fulfillment products. With self fulfilled items, you are able to download, edit, and crop the photo
yourself before sending it to the lab of your choice. Was this article helpful? Related articles Adding Boutique Packaging to your orders Download Sizes - Available Resolutions
Preparing Image Files for Printing Order Delay - Tutorial Video How do I install the Lightroom Plugin? Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back
to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Orders Search Articles in this section
Managing Orders Reviewing Store Orders with Order Delay All you need to know about Customers Adding Boutique Packaging to your orders Refunding a Store Order Getting help with a
print order Troubleshooting "Pending" Order Statuses How do I change or cancel an order? How will the images be cropped for printing? All you need to know about Customers When an
order is placed through your Pixieset Store, it will create a corresponding Customer for your account. A Customer is connected to the email address provided at checkout, and you
can find out information about your Customer from your Store > Customers page: Customers1.png You can review information about Customers who have purchased through your Store by
looking at the All, New, and Returning tabs to see a summary of your Customer activity. You'll quickly see the Customers Name, the name of the Collection their most recent purchase
was from, the number of orders they've placed, and the total amount they've spent through your Store. Customers2.png If you'd like to review more information about a specific
Customer, simply click on their Name, and you'll see their detailed Customer information page. Customers3.png Was this article helpful? Related articles Managing Orders All about
Price Sheets Order fulfillment options What is the cost of goods sold / application fee? Adding videos to your website Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support
staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Orders Search
Articles in this section Managing Orders Reviewing Store Orders with Order Delay All you need to know about Customers Adding Boutique Packaging to your orders Refunding a Store
Order Getting help with a print order Troubleshooting "Pending" Order Statuses How do I change or cancel an order? How will the images be cropped for printing? Adding Boutique
Packaging to your orders Orders sent with Boutique Packaging will be shipped in a beautiful box secured with a ribbon to create a special first impression with your clients. You
can add Boutique Packaging to an order during the Order Delay period, and the exact packaging used will depend on which of our lab partners is fulfilling the order. On this page:
Boutique Packaging for each lab Adding Boutique Packaging to an order Boutique Packaging for each lab Boutique Packaging is an option provided by our lab partners WHCC, ProDPI,
Miller's, and Mpix, for cards and prints up to 11" x 14" in size. Boutique Packaging can be added to all applicable products in the order, and if the order contains larger prints
or other incompatible items, they will be packaged and shipped separately. WHCC Orders will be packaged in cream tissue paper, placed in a chocolate coloured box with natural cloth
ribbon. Learn more ProDPI Photos will be packaged in a black textured box, secured with a tied silver ribbon. Learn more Miller's Orders will be packaged in a light gray box with a
dark gray grosgrain bow. Boutique Packaging is not available for orders using economy shipping. Learn more Mpix Orders will be packaged in a light gray box with a dark gray
grosgrain bow. Boutique Packaging is not available for orders using economy shipping. Learn more Adding Boutique Packaging to an order The Boutique Packaging option is only
available for an order during the Order Delay period, so Order Delay must first be activated in your Store. Learn more: Reviewing orders with Order Delay Steps: From your
dashboard, go to the Orders page (Store > Orders) and click View next to the order you’d like to update. If the order contains cards or prints that are eligible for Boutique
Packaging, the option to add it to the order will appear. The price to add Boutique Packaging to the order will depend on the lab you have selected for fulfillment, and the number
of shipments in the order. If you change your mind, you can un-check this option before sending the order to print. boutique.png The cost for Boutique Packaging will be charged to
the credit card saved to your account when the order is submitted to the lab for fulfillment. The cost will also be listed in the Cost of Goods Sold for the order. Was this article
helpful? Related articles Reviewing Store Orders with Order Delay Print labs available with Pixieset All you need to know about Customers Adding Terms of Sale or a Digital Image
License to your Store Getting Started with Client Gallery Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright
2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Orders Search Articles in this section Managing Orders Reviewing Store Orders with
Order Delay All you need to know about Customers Adding Boutique Packaging to your orders Refunding a Store Order Getting help with a print order Troubleshooting "Pending" Order
Statuses How do I change or cancel an order? How will the images be cropped for printing? Refunding a Store Order If you need to issue a refund for an order, you can do so through
your payment processor's dashboard (e.g. Stripe and PayPal). On this page: Refunding with Stripe Refunding with PayPal Refunding Offline Payments Refunding with Stripe Payments
processed by Stripe can be refunded in full or partial amounts. Your client can expect to receive their refund within 5-10 business days after you process the refund in your Stripe
Dashboard. Steps: Go to your Stripe Dashboard > Payments > Overview. Locate the transaction and click ••• > Refund payment. In the pop-up that appears, enter the the refund amount,
select the reason for the refund, and click Refund. Refunding a Store Order 1.png Refunding with PayPal Payments processed by PayPal can be refunded in full or partial amounts
within 180 days from the purchase. Your client can expect to receive their refund within 5-10 business days after you process the refund in your PayPal Dashboard. Note: If you are
unable to refund the payment due to PayPal’s 180 day limit, you would need to send the funds to your client as a separate transaction. Steps: Go to your PayPal Dashboard >
Activity. Locate the transaction and click Issue a refund. Enter the amount to be refunded and click Issue Refund. Refunding a Store Order 2.png Refunding Offline Payments If an
order was placed using an Offline Payment method, you will need to refund your client manually outside of Pixieset using an applicable method of your choice. Was this article
helpful? Related articles Getting help with a print order Managing your Subscription How do I refund an invoice payment? What is the cost of goods sold / application fee? Available
Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All
rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Orders Search Articles in this section Managing Orders Reviewing Store Orders with Order Delay All you
need to know about Customers Adding Boutique Packaging to your orders Refunding a Store Order Getting help with a print order Troubleshooting "Pending" Order Statuses How do I
change or cancel an order? How will the images be cropped for printing? Getting help with a print order We always recommend referring to our Preparing Image Files for Printing
article to ensure your orders are set up for success. Additionally, our Order Delay tool is a great way to review orders before they are sent to the lab for printing. Damaged or
missing items? Shipment never arrived? We're sorry to hear that. But don't worry, we are here to help! Get in touch with Pixieset via the "Contact Us" link below as soon as you
can. We will do our best to assist and get any issues resolved for you and your client. So we can take action as soon as possible, please include the order number, details of the
issue, and photos of both the prints and the packaging where applicable. Was this article helpful? Related articles Managing Orders Preparing Image Files for Printing Reviewing
Store Orders with Order Delay How will the images be cropped for printing? All about Price Sheets Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to
you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Orders Search Articles in this section
Managing Orders Reviewing Store Orders with Order Delay All you need to know about Customers Adding Boutique Packaging to your orders Refunding a Store Order Getting help with a
print order Troubleshooting "Pending" Order Statuses How do I change or cancel an order? How will the images be cropped for printing? Troubleshooting "Pending" Order Statuses When
selling through the Store, you might see a few different statuses related to pending orders. This guide will walk you through what they mean and how to fix them. On this page:
“Pending PayPal” order status “Pending Fees” order status “Pending Payment” order status “Pending” order status “Pending PayPal” order status If your order is in “Pending PayPal”
status, the payment is in an unclaimed status with PayPal. The order cannot be sent to the lab for printing until you resolve this with PayPal, since the funds have not been
successfully sent to your PayPal account yet. You should also receive an email from PayPal with further instructions on how to claim the payment and receive the funds. Here are
some common reasons why PayPal may flag the incoming payment: You have not yet verified your PayPal account You have made changes to your PayPal account email address Your PayPal
account is in a different currency than the currency your client used to pay for their order Note: Payments not collected after 30 days could be returned to the sender, so we
recommend taking action as soon as possible to claim these funds. To resolve the order status: Log into your PayPal Dashboard and manually accept the payment. Head back to Store >
Orders and view your order. Click Confirm Payment. Pending PayPal .png “Pending Fees” order status If a store order is in “Pending Fees” status, we could not collect the fees for
the order’s cost of goods (e.g. printing and shipping costs) from the default payment method in your PayPal account. The lab requires these fees to be collected before they will
process the order. Pending Fee.png To resolve this status: Go to your PayPal Dashboard and update your default payment method. Alternatively, ensure your account has sufficient
funds to cover the fees. Go to your Store > Orders, view your order, and click Retry. “Pending Payment” order status This status appears for orders placed via your offline payment
method. Orders in this status are not processed until you confirm via the Mark Paid button that you have secured the funds from your client outside of Pixieset. Pending Payment
Offline.png Once you click Mark Paid to confirm that you have received the funds, we’ll charge your card on file for the cost of goods sold (i.e. printing and shipping costs) for
any automatic fulfillment items. These items will be sent to the lab immediately for processing and any digital downloads will be sent to your client. Note: If you also have Order
Delay set in your store, the order will be processed once the delay period expires. You can bypass the delay by using the Send Order button that appears after you mark the order as
paid. “Pending” order status Automatic fulfillment orders go into Pending status immediately after they are placed while waiting to be processed by our system. This is a temporary
status that will update automatically shortly. If you don’t see the order move out of this status, reach out to our support team for assistance by clicking the chat icon in the
bottom right corner of your Store Dashboard. Was this article helpful? Related articles How do I change or cancel an order? Managing Orders Reviewing Store Orders with Order Delay
Getting help with a print order My client has not received their Email Invite Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours.
Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Orders Search Articles in this section Managing Orders
Reviewing Store Orders with Order Delay All you need to know about Customers Adding Boutique Packaging to your orders Refunding a Store Order Getting help with a print order
Troubleshooting "Pending" Order Statuses How do I change or cancel an order? How will the images be cropped for printing? How do I change or cancel an order? Change or cancel an
order The automatic fulfillment process with our lab partners is highly optimized. From the moment an order gets sent to production, the prints are being produced and printed on
the production floor within minutes. If you'd like to review your orders and ensure they are as intended before being sent to production, you can use Order Delay. If you have
already received our production notification email, it is usually too late to make changes or cancel the order. You can still get in touch with us, and we will do the best we can
to help. Contact Pixieset Support as soon as you can with the order number and any other information you think might be helpful. Use order delay to review orders If you would like
to review your orders before they are sent to the lab for fulfillment, consider taking advantage of Order Delay. Order Delay allows you to temporarily hold an order for your
approval and review before being submitted for production automatically. While the order is in Order Delay status, you can adjust the crop, replace the photo, edit shipping
address, cancel the order and more. Learn more: Reviewing orders with Order Delay Was this article helpful? Related articles Reviewing Store Orders with Order Delay Managing your
Subscription Managing Orders Refunding a Store Order Choosing the right Subscription Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24
hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Orders Search Articles in this section Managing Orders
Reviewing Store Orders with Order Delay All you need to know about Customers Adding Boutique Packaging to your orders Refunding a Store Order Getting help with a print order
Troubleshooting "Pending" Order Statuses How do I change or cancel an order? How will the images be cropped for printing? How will the images be cropped for printing? The automatic
fulfillment products offered through Pixieset Store have various aspect ratios, which are defined by the ratio between the width and the height of the photo. Since the aspect ratio
of the print size might be different from your uploaded images, your clients may need to adjust the crops of the images in their shopping cart prior to placing the order. It is
important to note that the labs will print each file as ordered and won’t make any adjustments to the crops before printing. Here is an example of various print sizes for the most
common 3:2 aspect ratio: How will images be cropped for printing 1.png On this page: Crop adjustments for standard prints Crop adjustments for wrapped canvases How do I review my
client’s crops before they are printed? Crop adjustments for standard prints If your client has selected a print size that differs from the aspect ratio of the uploaded image, they
can use the crop tool to make adjustments before adding it to their cart. This will ensure important parts of the photo aren’t cut off when printed. How will images be cropped for
printing 2.gif Before proceeding to checkout, clients have a final opportunity to review selected crops and make any updates when reviewing their shopping cart. How will images be
cropped for printing 3.png Crop adjustments for wrapped canvases For wrapped canvases, part of the image will wrap around the wooden frame. When your client is adding a canvas to
their cart, they will be presented with the option to select their desired crop. The content of the blue border will be the portion of the image wrapped around the frame and will
not be visible on the front of the canvas, so it is important that any needed adjustments are made to the crop before placing the order. How will images be cropped for printing
4.gif If part of the image is appearing inside the blue border/crop preview area, you may want to edit the file before the order is submitted to the lab for printing. This can only
be done during the Order Delay period, so we recommend turning this helpful feature on in your Store! How will images be cropped for printing 5.png Each lab has different wrapping
requirements, but a 2-inch wrap is standard. For example, an 8 x 10” gallery wrap canvas will print the image at 12 x 14”, with two inches on each side wrapped around the frame.
This leaves only the 8 x 10” portion displayed. To extend your resized 8 x 10” images by two inches around all edges, open your photo in Photoshop > go to Image > Canvas Size > and
enter the width and height (in inches) that you would like added to your image, making sure the anchor point is set to the middle of the Anchor box as seen in the screenshot below.
How will images be cropped for printing 6.png How do I review my client’s crops before they are printed? You have the option of using the Order Delay feature to hold your Store
orders for up to 7 days for you to review before they are sent to the lab to be printed. While in order delay status, you can adjust the crops, replace the image files, edit the
shipping address, add boutique packaging, and cancel the order if needed. Learn more: Reviewing orders with Order Delay Was this article helpful? Related articles Reviewing Store
Orders with Order Delay Managing Orders File size and format requirements for Pixieset Adding Boutique Packaging to your orders All you need to know about Customers Can't find what
you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us
Pixieset - Help Center Store Products Search Articles in this section All about Price Sheets Can I sell both automatic and self-fulfilled products? Adding and Pricing Products in
your Store Selling digital downloads Selling Digital Download Packages Selling print and digital packages Selling albums and books Selling greeting cards Selling multi-image
products Assigning price sheets to collections See more All about Price Sheets Price sheets determine the products available for purchase in your Store. In order to sell, you must
set up at least one price sheet and assign it to your Client Gallery collections. You can create multiple price sheets and assign different price sheets to different collections.
This allows you to have different products and different prices available for galleries. For example, you can have one price sheet for wedding galleries, and another price sheet
for newborn or senior galleries. On this page: Automatic Fulfillment vs Self Fulfillment Creating new price sheet Adjusting your price sheet settings Managing and pricing products
Assigning price sheets to galleries Setting a default price sheet Automatic Fulfillment vs Self Fulfillment Print fulfillment is an important option to understand when dealing with
price sheets since it determines who is responsible for completing your clients' orders and what types of products are available for you to offer. You will set the fulfillment type
when creating your price sheet, and it cannot be changed later, however you can create as many different price sheets as you want. There are two options when it comes to
fulfillment: Automatic Fulfillment - print products in automatic price sheets will be automatically sent to one of our partner print labs for fulfillment. You can choose which of
our partner labs you'd like to complete your orders when creating your price sheet. Self Fulfillment - products in self fulfillment price sheets require you to manually fulfill the
order outside of Pixieset, using your preferred print lab and shipping solution. If there are items not currently available with our lab partners through automatic fulfillment, you
can offer these as self fulfilled items in your automatically fulfilled price sheets. We have a guide to this workflow here. Note: Digital Downloads will always be fulfilled by
Pixieset, in both automatic and self fulfillment price sheets. Learn more: Order fulfillment options Creating a new price sheet Creating and reviewing your price sheet is an
important step in deciding what you want to sell through your Store. Within your price sheet, you will be able to manage products and pricing which ultimately determines what your
clients can see. Steps: From the dashboard, go to Store > Products. Click Add Price Sheet button. Select options for your price sheet. Refer to Price sheet settings below for more
information. Click Create. Name - The name of your price sheet as shown within your dashboard. Print Fulfillment - Choose whether you want your print products to be fulfilled
automatically or manually. Learn more: Order fulfillment options Print Lab - Select Automatic to let Pixieset send print orders to recommended print labs depending on the products
ordered. If you would like to choose a specific lab to automatically fulfill your orders, select the Choose a specific lab radio button. A dropdown menu will appear with all of the
labs available in your area. Learn more: Print labs available with Pixieset Recommended pricing - Automatically set the prices for items on your price sheet with markup we’ve
calculated based on orders and sales data. This is a great starting point for the products in your store, and you can customize prices later on according to your business needs.
Advanced Options - The advanced options will allow you to choose whether your new price sheet should automatically be set as the default price sheet in your store, and whether it
should be immediately assigned to all of your existing collections. 2020-05-25_13-26-44.png Adjusting your price sheet settings Once you've created your price sheet, you can find
additional customization options in the Settings within your sheet: General Settings Minimum Order Amount - Set a minimum amount your clients have to add to their cart in order to
checkout. Lab Color Correction - Turn this on if you want our partnered print labs to color correct your photos before printing. Learn more: How does Lab Color Correct work?
Advanced Settings Only Sell Packages - Turn this on to only show the packages category, and hide all other products. You can learn more about creating packages on your price sheet
here: Selling Packages for prints and downloads Quick Buy - When this is enabled, popular print sizes and digital products will be shown above the regular product selection in your
store, to enable clients to quickly add those items to their cart. Quick_buy.jpg Managing and pricing products Once you have created a price sheet, some products will be
pre-populated for you. If you wish to add more products, there are three types you can add to your price sheet: Digital Download - single photo download or entire gallery download,
fulfilled by Pixieset. Package - a group of specified products to be purchased for a single price. Self Fulfilled Item - items that you are responsible for fulfilling manually,
outside of Pixieset. To start adding products, simply click on the + Add Product button and select the type of product you want to add. If you'd like to remove any pre-populated
products from your sheet, you can select the ••• button next to the product and click Hide Product or Delete. hide.png You can manage the prices for any product in your store by
clicking on that item, and expanding the toggle for each variation to reveal the prices for every product option. Learn more: Adding and pricing products in your store Assigning
price sheets to galleries Before your clients can make a purchase from your Store, you will need to assign your price sheet to a Client Gallery collection. Only one price sheet can
be assigned to a collection at a time. You can assign a single price sheet to all of your collections, or assign different price sheet to every collection to customize your
pricing. Learn more here: Assigning price sheets to galleries Setting a default price sheet There are a couple of ways to set a default price sheet for your collections: Option 1:
You can set a default price sheet by going to Store > Products, clicking ••• next to your chosen sheet, and selecting Set as Default. Setting a default price sheet means it will be
used for collections you create going forward (unless you have a separate preset in place as below). Option 2: You can make use of presets to create default settings for new
collections created. Learn more here: Using Presets to Create Collection Templates Was this article helpful? Related articles Print labs available with Pixieset Can I sell both
automatic and self-fulfilled products? Selling albums and books Upgrading from the Legacy Store How do I purchase prints at cost? Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our
support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Products
Search Articles in this section All about Price Sheets Can I sell both automatic and self-fulfilled products? Adding and Pricing Products in your Store Selling digital downloads
Selling Digital Download Packages Selling print and digital packages Selling albums and books Selling greeting cards Selling multi-image products Assigning price sheets to
collections See more Can I sell both automatic and self-fulfilled products? Your Pixieset Store allows you to easily sell prints and other products through our integrated Lab
partners (WHCC, ProDPI, Miller's, Mpix, and Loxley Colour). If there are specialty products you would like to sell that are not offered through our Labs, you can add them as "Self
Fulfilled Items" within your Automatic Fulfillment price sheet. This is a great way to have most of your prints automatically fulfilled by a Lab while having specialty items
fulfilled separately. Adding Self-Fulfilled Items to an Automatic Fulfillment Price Sheet: 1. Create a new Automatic Fulfillment price sheet, or select one of your existing
Automatic Fulfillment price sheets, by going to the Store Dashboard and clicking on Products. 2020-06-15_14-33-40.png 2. Click +Add Product on the top right of the screen, and
choose Self Fulfilled Item in the drop-down window. 2020-06-15_14-36-29.png 3. Enter all the details about your new Self Fulfilled product in the pop up window, and click Save.
2020-06-15_14-40-09.png Note: You should fill out the Extra Shipping field in order to cover your shipping cost for the Self Fulfilled item. Shipping methods for your Self
Fulfillment price sheets (under the shipping tab) will not apply to your Self Fulfilled items when they are added within an Automatic Fulfillment price sheet.
2020-06-15_14-42-40.png When a client places an Order You will be notified when an Order is placed, and you can view your Orders by going to the Store Dashboard and clicking on
Orders. Hint: The Category tabs allow you to easily filter through all items in the Order based on their fulfillment type. This makes it especially easy to view a list of only the
items you will need to Self Fulfill. 2020-06-15_15-04-15.png The status bar allows you to track the progress of the Lab fulfilled portion of your Order. Once the Lab has shipped
the Order to your client, the status will change to Lab Completed, confirming that the Lab portion of the Order is complete. When you have shipped the Self-fulfilled portion of the
Order, click the Mark Complete button to indicate that this Order has been fully completed. Lab5.png What will my clients see? When selecting a product through your Store, clients
will see the Self Fulfilled items listed under their appropriate category, which you selected (eg. Gift), among the Automatic Fulfillment items. To the client, they will not appear
any differently from the other items. 2020-06-15_15-15-47.png 2020-06-15_15-17-50.png Was this article helpful? Related articles All about Price Sheets Adding and Pricing Products
in your Store Selling digital downloads Print labs available with Pixieset Selling multi-image products Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get
back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Products Search Articles in this
section All about Price Sheets Can I sell both automatic and self-fulfilled products? Adding and Pricing Products in your Store Selling digital downloads Selling Digital Download
Packages Selling print and digital packages Selling albums and books Selling greeting cards Selling multi-image products Assigning price sheets to collections See more Adding and
Pricing Products in your Store The products that you sell in your Store can consist of print items, digital downloads, and packages. You can add the products you want to sell to
your price sheet, and then assign it to your galleries to make those items available for your clients. Note: This guide covers information specific to automatic fulfillment price
sheets. If you use self fulfillment instead, you can learn more about that here. On this page: Price sheet overview Adding new products Choosing product options (size, paper type,
color) Pricing your products Using the Bulk Markup tool for the entire price sheet Pricing individual products Pricing albums and books Maintaining your markup percentage Price
sheet overview What's available for sale in your store is determined by your price sheet and products. You can think of price sheets as catalogs of products. Products are added to
price sheets, and price sheets are then assigned to collections to ultimately determine what's for sale in your galleries. You can review all of your existing price sheets by going
to Store > Products, and from there you can click on a particular price sheet to review the products added to it. Learn more: All about Price Sheets Adding new products There are
four types of products you can sell in your store: print products, digital downloads, packages, and self-fulfilled items. Products are organized into categories, and you can
reorder products within categories or arrange the order of categories in your store. Learn more: Organizing products and product categories You can add a new product to your store
using the + Add Product button on any price sheet: AddingPricingProducts1.png Print products Print products are physical print products, like photographic prints, mounted prints,
and wall art items, fulfilled by our lab partners. These items are automatically added to your price sheets. You can choose to show or hide individual products that you would like
to offer by clicking on the ••• button for each product. Clicking on the product itself will allow you to manage product options and pricing. Digital Downloads These are digital
files of your photos, delivered automatically in the resolution of your choice by Pixieset. You can create a single photo download product and/or a full-gallery download product
that contains all images in the gallery. Learn more about Selling digital downloads Packages A package is a group of products from your price sheet to be sold together, at a set
price. Learn more about Selling print and digital packages Self Fulfilled Items These items are to be fulfilled by yourself manually, outside of Pixieset. This will allow you to
sell custom products or other items that are not available through automatic fulfillment. You can learn more about adding self-fulfilled items to your automatic fulfillment price
sheet here. Choosing product options (size, paper type, color) You can curate the product options you’d like to offer your clients for each product. For example, for photographic
prints, you can manage what print sizes (i.e. 4x6, 5x7, etc.) and paper type (Lustre, Glossy, etc.) are available for purchase. Updating your product options will add and remove
variations. We recommend reviewing your pricing for each variation if you have updated the product options. Steps: From your dashboard, go to your Store > Products > select price
sheet > select product. Click on Manage Options. Check/uncheck the options you wish to offer. Click Apply. ManageOptions.gif Pricing your products When you first create a price
sheet, markups are applied using data-driven insights so that you can get started selling right away. You can apply a bulk markup to your products, or customize prices
individually. Note: To help maintain your profit margin, your Store pricing will increase automatically to accommodate any cost increase from print labs. Learn more here. Using the
Bulk Markup tool for the entire price sheet If you would like to apply a bulk markup percentage to all of the products in your Store as a whole, you can do so using the Bulk Markup
Tool. When reviewing your price sheet, click on the ••• button and select Apply Bulk Markup to update the prices for all of your products at once. AddingPricingProducts3.png Markup
percent: Prices will be set to the base cost times the markup percentage, followed by rounding. Round prices up to: You can choose to round the prices to .00, .99, or no rounding.
Reset pricing: Reset your prices to our recommended data-driven pricing. If you selected the ‘Use recommended pricing’ option when creating your price sheet, your prices are
