in the Collection, as well as any related Collection activity (including Favorite Lists and Email Registrations). Delete collection.png Was this article helpful? Related articles
Managing Multiple Collections with Bulk Edit Managing your Subscription Hiding/Unpublishing a Collection Choosing the right Subscription Uploading Videos to your Collections Can't
find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center
Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Getting Started with Client Gallery Search Articles in this section Connecting a Custom Domain to Client Gallery Uploading Videos
to your Collections Adding and applying watermarks How do I upload from Lightroom? Getting Started with Client Gallery File size and format requirements for Pixieset Uploading to
Client Gallery Bulk creating collections in Client Gallery Sending email campaigns in Client Gallery Using folders to share and organize galleries See more Photo Resizing and
Sharpening Resizing When your photos are uploaded to Pixieset, we store the Original file, but we also resize your photo to accommodate a number of display sizes. The Original file
is used for Download and Store fulfillment, while the display sizes are used for optimal display across desktop and mobile devices. r_s_1.png Sharpening Any time an image is
resized or down-sampled, the image will lose sharpness (soften). The typical way to remedy this is to sharpen the photo after resizing. By default, Pixieset will automatically
apply Optimal Sharpening to the display sizes; your Original image file is not altered, and this is for display purposes only. The Optimal Sharpening level is a compromise between
portrait photographers who typically prefer softer photos, and landscape photographers who typically prefer sharper photos. To check your Sharpening Level, go to your Client
Gallery > Settings > Preferences: r_s_2.png You can choose None, Low or High for the level of Sharpening applied to your photos. This will give you better control on how you would
like your display sizes to look on the web. Turning Sharpening off (None) is not recommended, since your photos will very likely look softened. Note: Any changes to the Sharpening
Level will only be applied to images you upload moving forward. These changes will not alter the Sharpening on photos that have already been uploaded. If you are trying to test the
Sharpening level for your images, the best way to do this is to upload one image while you have the Level set to Optimal, and then change the setting to Low and upload the same
image again (to a different Set); repeat the same steps to set the Sharpening Level to None and/or High and compare the results to find your ideal setting. Was this article
helpful? Related articles Download Sizes - Available Resolutions File size and format requirements for Pixieset How do I install the Lightroom Plugin? Collection Download Settings
Managing your Client Gallery Homepage Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All
rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Getting Started with Client Gallery Search Articles in this section Connecting a Custom
Domain to Client Gallery Uploading Videos to your Collections Adding and applying watermarks How do I upload from Lightroom? Getting Started with Client Gallery File size and
format requirements for Pixieset Uploading to Client Gallery Bulk creating collections in Client Gallery Sending email campaigns in Client Gallery Using folders to share and
organize galleries See more Creating Collections & Sets In Client Gallery, you can create collections of photos and videos for your clients to view. Within each collection, you can
further organize the photos into different sets. For example, a wedding collection could consist of different sets such as “Getting Ready”, “First Looks”, Ceremony”, and so on. On
this page: Creating a collection Adding a set Can I group collections together? Creating a collection Collection Sets 1.png Create a new collection in two steps: Go to Collections
and click New Collection. In the New Collection page, enter a collection name and optional event date for your new collection. If you have a collection preset ready, you can apply
it to quickly apply your preferred settings. A draft collection will be created and you can immediately begin uploading photos and videos. Adding a set viewsets.png Within each
collection, you can further organize photos into different sets, each with an optional description to provide additional information for your clients. Sets are a great way to
highlight specific moments so your client can quickly find what they are looking for. For example, photos in a wedding collection can be split into the following sets: Getting
Ready, First Looks, Details, Ceremony, Reception, etc. To create sets for a collection: View the collection from your Collections page and click +Add Set.addset.png Give your set a
name and optional description, then click Save. You can now upload photos or videos to the new set, or move existing photos into it via the action bar. Repeat Steps #1-2 to add as
many sets to the collection as you’d like. When your collection has multiple sets, you can re-arrange them into any order by dragging them up and down in the sidebar. Can I group
collections together? Collection Sets 4.png If you have ongoing projects or do high volume photography that results in multiple collections related to a specific client/event, you
can group them under a folder. Since folders can be shared via a single link, they are a great way to help clients review all their past collections together. Folders also allow
you to bulk create and upload collections, helping you save time and stay organized when managing larger projects or busy seasons. Learn more about creating and organizing
collections with folders here: Using Folders to share and organize galleries Was this article helpful? Related articles Uploading to Client Gallery Managing your Client Gallery
Homepage Using Presets to Create Collection Templates Getting Started with Client Gallery Uploading Videos to your Collections Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our
support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery
Getting Started with Client Gallery Search Articles in this section Connecting a Custom Domain to Client Gallery Uploading Videos to your Collections Adding and applying watermarks
How do I upload from Lightroom? Getting Started with Client Gallery File size and format requirements for Pixieset Uploading to Client Gallery Bulk creating collections in Client
Gallery Sending email campaigns in Client Gallery Using folders to share and organize galleries See more Uploading RAW Files to Client Gallery RAWFileSupport.gif Pixieset’s Client
Gallery supports a wide range of file types including RAW files. If you work with RAW files directly with your clients, such as for photo proofing or final delivery, upload them
directly to your galleries to simplify your workflows. Note: RAW file support is available on the Pro and Ultimate Plans for Client Gallery and Suite. On this page: Uploading RAW
Files Supported RAW File Formats What can I use RAW files for? Uploading RAW Files To allow RAW uploads in your collections, go to Settings > Preferences and toggle on RAW Photo
Support. RAWToggleOn.png Note: If you use Lightroom Classic, Pixieset’s plug-in only supports JPEG files. You can upload your RAW files through Pixieset’s browser uploader instead.
Supported RAW File Formats Pixieset supports RAW file uploads that are: up to 100 MB per file .NEF, .RAF, .RAW, .PEF, .ARW, .DNG, .RW2, .ORF, .CR2, .CR3 formats Note: If you’re
selling print products, only JPEG files are supported. What can I use RAW files for? RAW files are an important part of many photographers’ editing workflows due to their high
image detail and increased color range. While file types like JPEG are the most common ways to deliver photos to clients, there are multiple ways you can use RAW files in Client
Gallery. For example, upload RAW files to: Speed up your proofing: Save time and skip converting your unedited images to JPEGs by uploading your RAW files right to a gallery
instead. Your clients can view, favorite, and comment on them just like any other photo. Deliver RAW files directly: If a client or collaborator require their images for large
print or commercial purposes, simply upload your edited RAW files and allow full resolution downloads in their gallery. Was this article helpful? Related articles Collection
Download Settings Uploading Videos to your Collections Pixieset and Proofing Using folders to share and organize galleries Getting Started with Client Gallery Can't find what
you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us
Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Getting Started with Client Gallery Search Articles in this section Connecting a Custom Domain to Client Gallery Uploading Videos to your
Collections Adding and applying watermarks How do I upload from Lightroom? Getting Started with Client Gallery File size and format requirements for Pixieset Uploading to Client
Gallery Bulk creating collections in Client Gallery Sending email campaigns in Client Gallery Using folders to share and organize galleries See more Embedding Videos in your
Collections You can add videos to a collection by embedding YouTube or Vimeo links. Clients can view them directly in the gallery or you can make a dedicated video set. You can see
this in action in the sample collection here. If you’d prefer to upload your videos, please check out our guide here. client_side.gif On this page: Embedding Videos in your
Collection Uploading your Video to YouTube/Vimeo Embedding Videos in your Collection If you have your video URL ready to go, you can embed this video in any collection from your
dashboard. Open your collection. Click +Add Media and click Embed. Add your video link to the field. embedvideos.png Uploading Your Video to YouTube/Vimeo Here are some tips on
uploading and managing your videos on YouTube/Vimeo. YouTube Users: Create or log in to your YouTube account Upload your video, or go to one you’ve uploaded already Disable overlay
ads to prevent ads from being displayed on your video Set the video to Public/Unlisted (and make sure to allow embedding) Copy the video’s share URL Vimeo Users: Create or log in
to your Vimeo account Upload your video, or go to one you’ve uploaded already Set the video to Anyone/Hidden and (make sure to allow embedding): Copy the video’s share URL Was this
article helpful? Related articles Uploading Videos to your Collections Adding videos to your website Using folders to share and organize galleries Getting Started with Client
Gallery Customizing slideshows in Client Gallery Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025
Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Getting Started with Client Gallery Search Articles in this section Connecting
a Custom Domain to Client Gallery Uploading Videos to your Collections Adding and applying watermarks How do I upload from Lightroom? Getting Started with Client Gallery File size
and format requirements for Pixieset Uploading to Client Gallery Bulk creating collections in Client Gallery Sending email campaigns in Client Gallery Using folders to share and
organize galleries See more Managing your Client Gallery Homepage Pixieset offers you the option to have a Homepage for your Client Gallery where all of your public collections can
be found in one place. This can be used, for example, as a client portal (from which clients can access their collections) or simply as a showcase of your work accessible via a
shareable URL. homepage1.png On this page: Setting up your Homepage Turning your Homepage On/Off Homepage Password Homepage Info Collection Sort Order Personalizing your Homepage
Organizing your Collections with Category Tags Controlling the Collections Shown on your Homepage Client Experience Setting up your Homepage Turning your Homepage On/Off This
Homepage is turned On by default, and can be turned Off at any time in your Client Gallery Dashboard by clicking Settings > Homepage and setting the toggle to Off. homepage2.png
Homepage Password You can add a Homepage Password if you want to have the Homepage turned On but accessible only by you and anyone with whom the password has been shared. To add a
password to your Pixieset Homepage go to Client Gallery Dashboard > Settings > Homepage. From there you will be able to set a password of your choice or use the Generate button to
have a password automatically generated for you. homepage3.png Important Note: Adding a Homepage Password does NOT add a Password to your Collections. If you are looking for
collection-level privacy settings please click here. Homepage Info If you would like to control what Profile information is displayed on your Homepage, you can do so by going to
Client Gallery > Settings > Homepage, and checking the options you want to display. This information is pulled from your Pixieset Profile, which can be updated at any time by
clicking on your Profile Icon. For a preview of what your homepage will look like, check out the right side of your Homepage Settings page. homepage4.png Collection Sort Order You
can sort collections on your Homepage to display them in your preferred order. To change the order, go to the Client Gallery Dashboard > Settings > Homepage and scroll down to the
Collection Sort Order section. Here, you can choose your preferred Homepage sorting option from the dropdown menu. homepage5.png Personalizing your Homepage Organizing your
Collections with Category Tags Tags are typically used to easily categorize the types of Collections or Events you upload to Pixieset. This way, clients can quickly filter for a
specific type of work by clicking on the relevant tag. These will appear at the top of your Homepage once they have been added to your Collections. You can read more on this here.
Controlling the Collections shown on your Homepage You may wish to hide specific collections from the homepage while still having them available at the collection URL. For example,
you may have certain clients with privacy needs, and others who are happy for their shoot to be publicly viewable. Open any Collection and click Settings > Privacy > Show on
Homepage and change it to Off. This allows you to still share your Collection with your clients, while keeping it hidden from your Pixieset Homepage. Only someone with the direct
link to the Collection and any necessary password will be able to view it. homepage6.png Note: You can also choose to show or hide folders from your homepage. If your collection is
part of a folder, its visibility on your homepage is determined by the settings of the folder in which it is contained. Client Experience If your Homepage is turned On, your
clients can access it at: yourusername.pixieset.com, where 'yourusername' is the username listed in your Pixieset Profile. From your Client Gallery Dashboard, click Settings >
Homepage > Homepage URL to access it. homepage7.png Note: If you wish to customize your Pixieset Homepage URL instead of using the default Pixieset format, you can also use your
Custom Domain. Click here for more information on setting up a Custom Domain for Client Gallery. Any public Collections will be accessible from your Pixieset Homepage. Collection
level privacy is still in place on the Homepage - if you have added a password to the Collection, anyone viewing it from the Homepage will still need the password to access it (and
there will be a ‘lock’ icon in place on the collection thumbnail to indicate this). homepage8.png Was this article helpful? Related articles Organizing Collections with Tags
Getting Started with Client Gallery Adding and applying watermarks Using Presets to Create Collection Templates Uploading Videos to your Collections Can't find what you're looking
for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help
Center Client Gallery Proofing Search Articles in this section How does proofing with Favorites work? How do I limit the number of photos my client can select for a Favorite List?
How can I review my client's Favorite Activity? How do I copy Favorites to a new Set/Collection? How do I download my client's Favorites? How do I send Favorites as Digital
Downloads to a client/vendor? How does my client access their Favorite Lists? How does my client add a note or a comment on a photo? How does my client create multiple Favorite
Lists? How does my client share or download their favorited images? See more How does proofing with Favorites work? The Favorite feature allows photographers to use their Pixieset
Collection as a proofing gallery. Clients can add photos to one or more Favorite Lists as they go through their Gallery, and easily share, download, and add notes to the photos in
their list. Photographers can view and manage all Favorite activities in their dashboard, as well as create Preset Favorite Lists, and limit the number of photos clients can choose
for album, retouching work, etc. Getting Started Using the Favorite Feature The Favorite feature can be turned on or off for each individual Gallery. To do this, simply open the
applicable Collection, and click on the Favorite section of the Collection’s Settings tab. Favorites 1.png When the Favorite feature is turned ON, clients will see a heart icon on
the images in their Gallery; they can click on the heart icon to add the image to a Favorite list. These Favorite lists are saved using the email address the client enters when
they first click the heart icon. Clients can come back at any time and access their lists by entering in the same email address. When viewing the Favorites, clients can also add
notes to the photos, and these notes will be shown in your dashboard. Favorites 2.png Favorites 3.png Viewing Favorite Activities To view and manage your client’s selections, go to
the Favorite Activities tab of the applicable Collection. Here you will see a list of Favorite Lists, arranged by your client’s email address. Favorites 4.png You can click into a
list to view the photos, edit list details such as the name, download all images from the list, and export a .CSV of filenames. If needed, you can download individual photos or
remove photos from the favorite list. Here you’ll also be able to view any notes added by the client (if applicable). Favorites 5.png From here, you can find many other options to
assist with your workflow: Lightroom Copy List: You can export a Lightroom Copy List. View in Gallery: You can view the Favorite List your client would, within their gallery. Send
as Download: You can send all the images in this list as a Digital Download to any email address. You can choose the download size (Web size, High resolution, or Original) and also
include a message. Copy to a new Set/Collection: You can copy the images in this list to a new Set or a new Collection. Create Mobile Gallery App: You can copy your client's
Favorites to a mobile gallery app. Delete Info: Permanently delete the Favorite List (this does not delete the images from the Collection). Favorites 6.png Preset Favorite Lists If
you are looking to have clients select a set of images for a specific purpose, such as for an album, or for further retouching, it might be helpful to pre-create a list for them.
Pre-creating a list allows you to assign this list to a specific email address, limit the number of photos in the list, as well as include optional instructions for your client.
This option can be found under your Collection’s Activities > Favorite Activity page or from your Collection’s Settings > Favorite page. Favorites 7.pngFavorites 8.pngFavorites
9.png Was this article helpful? Related articles Proofing with Favorites - Tutorial Video How does my client access their Favorite Lists? How does my client share or download their
favorited images? How can I review my client's Favorite Activity? Getting Started with Client Gallery Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back
to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Proofing Search Articles in
this section How does proofing with Favorites work? How do I limit the number of photos my client can select for a Favorite List? How can I review my client's Favorite Activity?
How do I copy Favorites to a new Set/Collection? How do I download my client's Favorites? How do I send Favorites as Digital Downloads to a client/vendor? How does my client access
their Favorite Lists? How does my client add a note or a comment on a photo? How does my client create multiple Favorite Lists? How does my client share or download their favorited
images? See more How do I limit the number of photos my client can select for a Favorite List? If you are looking to have clients select a set of images for a specific purpose,
such as for an album, or for further retouching, you may want to limit the number of photos they can select for a list. This can be easily done by creating a Preset Favorite List.
To create a Preset Favorite List, go to the Collection > Settings tab > Favorite or the Activity tab > Favorite Activity. settings.png Creating a Preset Favorite List simply allows
you to pre-define a Favorite List for a specific client (using their email address). You can enter a list name, an optional description, and set a limit to the number of photos
that can be added to this list. limit.png When clients view Favorites using the same email address, they will see the list that you have pre-created for them. They can add images
to this list, and send them back to you when they are done. The Maximum Selection you add for the Preset Favorites List means that your client will only be able to add images to
the List if they have not reached that limit. For example, if you have set the Max Selection to 15, they will not be able to select more than 15 for that list. Was this article
helpful? Related articles How does proofing with Favorites work? How can I review my client's Favorite Activity? How does my client share or download their favorited images? How
does my client add a note or a comment on a photo? Collection Download Settings Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24
hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Proofing Search Articles in this section How
does proofing with Favorites work? How do I limit the number of photos my client can select for a Favorite List? How can I review my client's Favorite Activity? How do I copy
Favorites to a new Set/Collection? How do I download my client's Favorites? How do I send Favorites as Digital Downloads to a client/vendor? How does my client access their
Favorite Lists? How does my client add a note or a comment on a photo? How does my client create multiple Favorite Lists? How does my client share or download their favorited
images? See more How can I review my client's Favorite Activity? You can view what your clients have Favorited by opening the applicable Collection within your Client Gallery
Dashboard, and clicking on the Favorite Activity section of the Activities tab. Here you will see all of the Favorite Lists that have been created for the Collection, organized by
email address. Favorite 1.png You can click into a list to view the photos, edit list details such as the name, download all images from the list, and export a .CSV of filenames.
If needed, you can download individual photos or remove photos from the favorite list. Here you’ll also be able to view any notes added by the client (if applicable). Favorite
Activity 2.png From here, you can find many other options to assist with your workflow: Lightroom Copy List: You can export a Lightroom Copy List. View in Gallery: You can view the
Favorite List your client would, within their gallery. Send as Download: You can send all the images in this list as a Digital Download to any email address. You can choose the
download size (Web size, High resolution, or Original) and also include a message. Copy to a new Set/Collection: You can copy the images in this list to a new Set or a new
Collection. Create Mobile Gallery App: You can copy your client's Favorites to a mobile gallery app. Delete Info: Permanently delete the Favorite List (this does not delete the
images from the Collection). Favorite Activity 3.png Was this article helpful? Related articles How does proofing with Favorites work? Viewing Client Favorites in Lightroom How
does my client add a note or a comment on a photo? How do I copy Favorites to a new Set/Collection? How does my client share or download their favorited images? Can't find what
you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us
Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Proofing Search Articles in this section How does proofing with Favorites work? How do I limit the number of photos my client can select for a
Favorite List? How can I review my client's Favorite Activity? How do I copy Favorites to a new Set/Collection? How do I download my client's Favorites? How do I send Favorites as
Digital Downloads to a client/vendor? How does my client access their Favorite Lists? How does my client add a note or a comment on a photo? How does my client create multiple
Favorite Lists? How does my client share or download their favorited images? See more How do I copy Favorites to a new Set/Collection? You can create a new Photo Set or a new
Collection using the Favorites List that your clients have created! Simply go to the Collection > Activities tab > Favorite Activity and click on the More icon to see the options
to Copy the images to a new Set or Collection. copy.png Note: It is important to wait for the images to finish processing in the new Set or new Collection before making any changes
or deleting the original files from Pixieset. If you delete the List or the original Collection before the images have finished processing, they cannot be recovered. Was this
article helpful? Related articles How do I download my client's Favorites? How does proofing with Favorites work? How do I send Favorites as Digital Downloads to a client/vendor?
Viewing Client Favorites in Lightroom How does my client share or download their favorited images? Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to
you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Proofing Search Articles in this
section How does proofing with Favorites work? How do I limit the number of photos my client can select for a Favorite List? How can I review my client's Favorite Activity? How do
I copy Favorites to a new Set/Collection? How do I download my client's Favorites? How do I send Favorites as Digital Downloads to a client/vendor? How does my client access their
Favorite Lists? How does my client add a note or a comment on a photo? How does my client create multiple Favorite Lists? How does my client share or download their favorited
images? See more How do I download my client's Favorites? You can download the images in your client's Favorite List at any time, or send these images directly to a specific email
address. You might find this feature useful for sending the images to a client after you have approved their selections. These options can be found in the Favorite Activity section
of the Activities Tab. Download Photos To download the photos in the list, click the More (•••) icon to the right of the list > Download all. You can also click on the list itself
and from the right side of the page, click the Download All button. download1.png download2.png Send Photos for Download by Email To send the Favorite List photos to an email
address for download, click on the Activities tab > Favorite Activity > then the click the More (•••) icon to the right of the list. From there, select Send as download.
sendfordownload.png Using Lightroom If you use Lightroom and are looking to download the images for further editing, you can also export the filenames to a Lightroom Copy List.
This will allow you to locate these images in Lightroom directly, and edit/export from there. From the Activities tab on your Collection > select Favorite Activity. Next, click the
More (•••) icon to the right of the list > Lightroom Copy List. lightroomcopy.png You can also copy these favorited images to a new Photo Set or a new Collection in your account,
or create a Mobile Gallery App. Was this article helpful? Related articles Viewing Client Favorites in Lightroom How does my client share or download their favorited images? How do
I send Favorites as Digital Downloads to a client/vendor? How can I review my client's Favorite Activity? Editing or removing a watermark Can't find what you're looking for?
Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center
Client Gallery Proofing Search Articles in this section How does proofing with Favorites work? How do I limit the number of photos my client can select for a Favorite List? How can
I review my client's Favorite Activity? How do I copy Favorites to a new Set/Collection? How do I download my client's Favorites? How do I send Favorites as Digital Downloads to a
client/vendor? How does my client access their Favorite Lists? How does my client add a note or a comment on a photo? How does my client create multiple Favorite Lists? How does my
client share or download their favorited images? See more How do I send Favorites as Digital Downloads to a client/vendor? You can quickly send the images from a Favorite List to a
specific email address or multiple email addresses. You can find this by opening the Collection, and navigating to the Activities tab > Favorite Activity > clicking the More icon
(•••) next to the Favorite List > Send as download. sendasdownload.png You can include a custom message, and select from the Download Sizes. Once you click Send, clients will
receive an email containing the download link allowing them to download a .ZIP file with all the images. custommessage.png Note: using the Send as Download feature will override
your collection's download settings. If you have configured your Sets so that some Sets cannot be downloaded, this feature will override that setting, and all of the selected
Favorites will be delivered. Was this article helpful? Related articles How does my client share or download their favorited images? How does my client access their Favorite Lists?
Download Sizes - Available Resolutions Limiting free downloads and other restrictions Limiting Downloads - Tutorial Video Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support
staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery
Proofing Search Articles in this section How does proofing with Favorites work? How do I limit the number of photos my client can select for a Favorite List? How can I review my
client's Favorite Activity? How do I copy Favorites to a new Set/Collection? How do I download my client's Favorites? How do I send Favorites as Digital Downloads to a
client/vendor? How does my client access their Favorite Lists? How does my client add a note or a comment on a photo? How does my client create multiple Favorite Lists? How does my
client share or download their favorited images? See more How does my client access their Favorite Lists? Your client can access their Favorite Lists at any time simply by clicking
on the heart icon at the top right corner when viewing their Gallery. galleryview.png If they have been logged out of their session, they may need to re-enter the email address
that they used to create the Favorite List. emaillogin.png After logging in, they will see all of the Favorite Lists created under that email address, and they can then click into
a list to view the images. viewlist.png From here, clients can Share, Download, or Add Notes to the images, if these options are enabled. Was this article helpful? Related articles
How does my client share or download their favorited images? How does proofing with Favorites work? How does my client add a note or a comment on a photo? Downloading photos to
mobile devices How can I review my client's Favorite Activity? Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us
Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Proofing Search Articles in this section How does proofing with
Favorites work? How do I limit the number of photos my client can select for a Favorite List? How can I review my client's Favorite Activity? How do I copy Favorites to a new
Set/Collection? How do I download my client's Favorites? How do I send Favorites as Digital Downloads to a client/vendor? How does my client access their Favorite Lists? How does
my client add a note or a comment on a photo? How does my client create multiple Favorite Lists? How does my client share or download their favorited images? See more How does my
client add a note or a comment on a photo? Adding a note or a comment on an image is a great way for clients to communicate specific photo requests with you. Clients are able to
add a note to any image that is in their Favorite list. You can view the note when you are viewing the images in the Collection's Favorite Activity page. On this page: Adding a
Note to a Favorite Image Viewing Client Notes Adding a Note to a Favorite Image Clients can add notes to any images they have added to a Favorites list, and can access their
Favorited photos by clicking on the heart icon at the top right corner of the Gallery. login.png Once they have entered their email address they will see the Lists they have
created and can click the name of the List to open the Favorites photos view. viewfavs.png When they are in the Favorite photos view, they will see an Add Note button when they
hover over an image. They can simply click on the button, type in the note, and click Save. addnote.png Viewing Client Notes As the photographer, you can view the notes on photos
in the Favorite Activity section of your Activities tab. Simply click into a favorite list to see the notes left by clients beside each photo. If you export the list, your client's
notes will be included in the CSV file. viewcomments.png If you don't want clients to add notes to images in their Favorite Lists, you can turn this option off by going to the
Collection > Settings tab > Favorite and changing the Notes option to Off. notesoff.png Was this article helpful? Related articles How does proofing with Favorites work? Getting
Started with Client Gallery How does my client share or download their favorited images? Uploading Videos to your Collections Organizing Collections with Tags Can't find what
you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us
Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Proofing Search Articles in this section How does proofing with Favorites work? How do I limit the number of photos my client can select for a
Favorite List? How can I review my client's Favorite Activity? How do I copy Favorites to a new Set/Collection? How do I download my client's Favorites? How do I send Favorites as
Digital Downloads to a client/vendor? How does my client access their Favorite Lists? How does my client add a note or a comment on a photo? How does my client create multiple
Favorite Lists? How does my client share or download their favorited images? See more How does my client create multiple Favorite Lists? Clients can easily create more than one
Favorite List by clicking on the Favorite button (heart icon) at the top right corner of their Collection. If they are not already signed in to their Favorites with their email
address, they will be asked to enter it. login.png Once they have signed in, they will see all of the existing Lists they have created as well as an option to Create a new List.
newlist.png Was this article helpful? Related articles How does my client share or download their favorited images? Proofing with Favorites - Tutorial Video Viewing Client
Favorites in Lightroom Download Sizes - Available Resolutions Managing your Client Gallery Homepage Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to
you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Proofing Search Articles in this
section How does proofing with Favorites work? How do I limit the number of photos my client can select for a Favorite List? How can I review my client's Favorite Activity? How do
I copy Favorites to a new Set/Collection? How do I download my client's Favorites? How do I send Favorites as Digital Downloads to a client/vendor? How does my client access their
Favorite Lists? How does my client add a note or a comment on a photo? How does my client create multiple Favorite Lists? How does my client share or download their favorited
images? See more How does my client share or download their favorited images? Once clients have compiled a list of their favorite images, they can easily view, share, or download
them from the Gallery (if these options are turned on). Learn more: How does proofing with Favorites work? On this page: Locating Favorite Lists Sharing Favorites Downloading
Favorites Locating Favorite Lists Clients can navigate to the Favorite List by clicking on the Heart icon at the top right corner of the Gallery, and entering the email address
linked to their Favorites. login.png Sharing Favorites Clients can click on the Share icon to bring up the list of Sharing options. share.png Email Favorites: This option gives
clients the ability to email favorites to a specific email address or addresses. Send to Photographer: Clients can use this option to notify you after they are done with their
selection. Get Link: This option will provide clients with the direct link to share this favorite list. Note: If your client is only seeing the option to Send to Photographer, you
need to ensure that your Social Sharing is turned on in the collection settings. Downloading Favorites Clients can click on the Download icon at the top right corner to bring up
the download options. download.png They will then be brought to the download page, where they can enter their email address, along with the 4-digit download PIN (this is the same
