that you’d like to display to potential clients. For your convenience, your booking site will automatically display your published, public session types. The order that these
sessions will appear on your site will mirror the way they appear in your Studio Manager Dashboard. Want to re-order them? From your Session Types page, click and drag the session
types into a different order. Your booking site will update to reflect the new order. Customizing your Booking Site 3.gif Customizing your Booking Site’s Branding Customizing your
Booking Site 4.gif The general appearance of your booking site is also determined by your Studio Manager’s Branding Settings. On this page, you can manage your logos, fonts, and
colors. If you are on an upgraded Studio Manager Plan or Suite Plan, you can also toggle Pixieset branding off here. This will remove the Pixieset icon from your booking site and
related pages. Note: Keep in mind that changes to your Studio Manager’s branding will also affect all your documents and email shares, in addition to the booking site. Was this
article helpful? Related articles Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Creating Mini Sessions Adding booking and scheduling to your website Creating Full Session Types
Connecting a Custom Domain to Client Gallery Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025
Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Booking & Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating Full Session
Types Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Customizing your
Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session Inquiry Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See more Manually
Booking a Session for a Client With your booking site in Studio Manager, your client can book and pay for sessions by themselves based on your availability. However, if you want to
set up a session manually for your client, you can easily do so right from your Studio Manager Dashboard! This article will provide a step-by-step breakdown of this process. Note:
Sessions can only be booked for future dates, and they cannot be backdated. On this page: Manually Booking a Session What does the client see? Manually Booking a Session Manually
Booking a Session 1.gif From your Studio Manager Dashboard, you can manually book a session in three quick steps: Go to Bookings > Sessions > New Session. Select an existing
session type or a one-off session, then a date and time. Select the client you’d like to book the session for. You have the option to create a new client during this step, if
needed. In the Send Session page, compose your email message for your client. Alternatively, you can choose to share the booking as a direct link. After you’ve created the session,
the session will be automatically added to your Sessions page to review at any time. It will remain in Pending status until the client has had time to review and complete the
booking on their end (e.g. applicable payments, intake documents, etc.). If you do not need your client to complete any of their session’s intake or payment steps, you can confirm
the pending session yourself by clicking Actions > Confirm Session in your Dashboard instead. What does the client see? When you share a session that you’ve manually created for
the client, they will be asked to review the pending session’s details and complete any required intake document or payment steps. After your client completes the booking, they
will see a confirmation page with a summary of their details. Manually Booking a Session 2.png In your Studio Manager Dashboard, the session will also move from Pending to
Confirmed status immediately. Was this article helpful? Related articles Responding to a Session Inquiry Creating Mini Sessions Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Creating
Full Session Types Adding booking and scheduling to your website Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us
Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Booking & Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating
Full Session Types Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons
Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session Inquiry Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See
more Responding to a Session Inquiry If your session type has “Session is by request only”, “Allow availability request”, or “Manually approve new sessions” toggled on, your
client’s bookings will be submitted as inquiries for your approval. Responding to a Client’s Session Inquiry KB 2.1.gif When you receive an inquiry from a potential client, you can
respond to it right from your Studio Manager Dashboard. While viewing the inquiry from your Sessions page, click Respond: If you accept the inquiry or suggest a new date/time, the
session status will update to pending. An email will be automatically sent to the client for them informing them of your decision and asking them to confirm the booking (including
completing any intake forms and/or payment). Once confirmed by your client, the pending session will move to confirmed status. If you decline the inquiry, the session status will
update to declined. An email will be automatically sent to the contact informing them that their inquiry was declined. Note: If you do not need your client to complete their
session’s intake documents or payment, you can confirm the pending session yourself by clicking Actions > Confirm Session in your Dashboard instead. What will the client see? When
you respond to an inquiry, your client will receive an email informing them of your response. If you accepted or proposed a new date/time, your client will see a call-to-action to
complete their booking. Responding to a Client’s Session Inquiry KB 2.2.png Was this article helpful? Related articles Manually Booking a Session for a Client Capturing Leads and
Contacts with Contact Forms Creating Full Session Types Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Creating Mini Sessions Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support
staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Booking
& Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating Full Session Types Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and
Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session Inquiry Syncing your Sessions to your
Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See more Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar If you’d like to see your sessions in your personal calendar, you can set this up by
connecting to Studio Manager’s Google Calendar Sync feature or by subscribing to a calendar feed. This article goes over both options. On this page: Connecting your Google Calendar
How the sync works Subscribing your Sessions to your third-party calendar Connecting your Google Calendar You can connect your Google Calendar to automatically sync your confirmed
sessions and avoid double bookings. Once successfully connected, Studio Manager will continuously sync any new changes over to your calendar. Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar
1.gif To connect Studio Manager to Google Calendar: In Bookings > Calendar, click Calendar Sync > Connect Google Calendar. Sign in to your Google account, and give Pixieset
permission to connect to your Google Calendar. Confirm which calendar in Google Calendar you’d like to add sessions to. As an optional but recommended step, you can also specify
which calendar(s) you’d like Studio Manager to check for conflicts. Once you click Save, Studio Manager will successfully connect to your Google Calendar, where it will
continuously review and sync any new changes within seconds. How the sync works By default, Google Calendar Sync will continuously complete the following as long as it remains
connected: Sync confirmed sessions to your Google Calendar: Any sessions in your Sessions page with the “Confirmed” status will be automatically synced over to your Google
Calendar. Send calendar invitations: After a client books a confirmed session, they will be automatically added as an attendee to your synced calendar event in Google Calendar.
Check calendars for conflict: If you have a busy event in the calendar(s) you’ve allowed Studio Manager to check for conflicts, any available time slots from your session types
that overlap with the busy event will be removed. As an example: You block off 10 AM - 11 AM on January 6 in your Google Calendar for a personal event (e.g. “Dentist Appointment”).
Studio Manager automatically reads this busy event and updates your session types so that any available time slots that fall within 10 AM - 11 AM on January 6 are removed. Note:
Any changes to a session must be made in your Studio Manager Dashboard. Modifying a session in your Google Calendar will not push the change to Studio Manager. Subscribing your
Sessions to your third-party calendar If you have a third-party calendar like Outlook or Apple Calendar, you can subscribe to a read only, one-way calendar feed of your Studio
Manager sessions to keep track of upcoming dates. Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar 2.gif You can set up your calendar feed by going to Bookings > Calendar > Calendar Sync >
Subscribe. If your third-party calendar is connected to your device’s calendar application or Outlook, click “Default Calendar” or “Outlook” respectively. You will be redirected to
your personal calendar to complete the set-up. Alternatively, click Copy Link to to save the direct link to your clipboard. From there, manually navigate to your third-party
calendar to set up the feed separately. For additional assistance with your third-party calendar, here are some help articles from common providers: Apple Calendar Yahoo Calendar
Outlook Calendar Was this article helpful? Related articles Creating Full Session Types Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Creating Mini Sessions Customizing your Booking
Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025
Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Booking & Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating Full Session
Types Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Customizing your
Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session Inquiry Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See more Adding Zoom
to Booking & Scheduling Do you offer virtual sessions or pre-shoot consultations for your clients? In Studio Manager, you can save time from manually sharing video call links with
the help of our Zoom integration. Upon connecting your Zoom account to Studio Manager, you can begin offering Zoom video calls to any clients booking a session with you. Once a
session is confirmed, you and your client will automatically receive a unique Zoom link as part of the session details. This article will go over how to connect and disconnect your
Zoom account to Studio Manager, as well as how to set up Zoom video calls for a session type or one-off session. On this page Connecting your Zoom Account Setting up Zoom in a
Session Type Setting up a Zoom in a one-off session Joining a session’s Zoom call What will my client see? Disconnecting your Zoom Account Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Connecting your Zoom Account Before Pixieset can generate unique Zoom links for your sessions, you will need to connect your Zoom account in Studio Manager: Go to Studio Manager
Dashboard > Settings > Integrations and click Connect Zoom under Zoom. Adding In the page that appears, sign into your Zoom account and authorize Pixieset to access the account.
Adding Once you connected your Zoom account, you can set up any of your session types or one-off sessions to offer Zoom video conferencing. Any clients that book will receive a
unique Zoom link as part of their confirmed session’s details. Setting up Zoom in a Session Type To set up Zoom video calls in a session type: Go to your Studio Manager Dashboard >
Bookings > Session Types. Then, click into the applicable session type you’d like to offer Zoom video calls for. Alternatively, if you haven’t created the session type yet, click
New Session Type. In the session type’s General section, scroll down to Location and select Zoom from its dropdown menu. Adding Once you are finished editing your session type,
click Done. Setting up a Zoom Link in a one-off session To set up Zoom in a one-off session: Go to Studio Manager Dashboard > Bookings > Sessions and click New Session. Then,
choose One-off session. In your one-off session’s General section, scroll down to Location and select Zoom from the dropdown menu that appears. Adding Fill out the rest of your
one-off session’s details and then click Done. Joining a session’s Zoom call When your client books a session, a unique Zoom link will be generated. You can review the link by
going to Studio Manager Dashboard > Bookings > Sessions and clicking into the specific session. Adding If you have connected your Google Calendar to Studio Manager, you can also
join the Zoom call directly within in your calendar. Adding For your convenience, you can also always access and join your upcoming session’s video call within the Zoom application
itself! Adding What will my client see? When your client books a session, they will receive their link to their upcoming Zoom call as part of their session details. They will be
able to use this exact link from their computer, tablet, or mobile device to join the call at the time of their session. Adding If you have connected your Google Calendar to Studio
Manager and activated Calendar Invitations, your client can also join the Zoom call directly within the session event in their calendar. Disconnecting your Zoom Account If you want
to disconnect your Zoom account from Studio Manager, you can do so from your Integrations page. Simply return to Studio Manager Dashboard > Settings > Integrations and click
Disconnect Zoom under Zoom. Adding Upon disconnecting your Zoom account, any session types that you are offering Zoom video conferencing for will automatically be set to “No
Location”. Any confirmed sessions with Zoom links already generated will be unaffected. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Does my client need to download Zoom or have a Zoom
account in order to join my call? How long will my sessions’ Zoom calls be? Does my client need to download Zoom or have a Zoom account in order to join my call? Zoom has a web
client that allows your client to join your video call via web browser — no downloads or account required. Zoom recommends Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox if your client is
joining via a browser. How long will my sessions’ Zoom calls be? The duration of your sessions’ Zoom calls are dependent on the limits of your Zoom account’s plan. For accounts on
Zoom’s Free Plan, there is a 40-minute limit per video call. Longer video call options are available with Zoom’s paid plans. Was this article helpful? Related articles Getting
Started with Booking & Scheduling Adding Google Meet to Booking & Scheduling Customizing your Booking Site Creating Mini Sessions Manually Booking a Session for a Client Can't find
what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us
Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Booking & Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating Full Session Types Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini
Sessions Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a
Session Inquiry Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See more Adding Google Meet to Booking & Scheduling Do you offer virtual sessions or
pre-shoot consultations for your clients? If you have connected to Studio Manager’s Google Calendar integration, you will automatically have the ability to offer video calls
through Google Meet to any clients booking a session with you. Once a session is confirmed, you and your client will automatically receive a unique Google Meet link as part of the
session details. This article will go over how to connect your Google account to Studio Manager, as well as how to set up Google Meet video calls for a session type or one-off
session. If you’d like to connect your Zoom account to Studio Manager, follow this article instead. On this page Connecting your Google account Setting up Google Meet in a session
type Setting up Google Meet in a one-off session Joining a session’s Google Meet call What will my client see? Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Connecting your Google account
Google Meet is available as soon as you connect your Google Account to Studio Manager’s Google Calendar integration. If you have not yet connected your Google Account, go to Studio
Manager Dashboard > Settings > Integrations. Then, under Google Calendar, click Connect Google Calendar. Adding You will be directed to Google’s sign in page where you can log in
and give Pixieset permission to connect and sync information over to your Google account. For more information on how our Google Calendar integration works, see our article here.
Note: In order to host Google Meet calls, you must select a calendar in your connected Google account to add your sessions to. If you do not select a calendar to sync sessions to,
you will not be able to select Google Meet in your session types or one-off sessions. Setting up Google Meet in a session type To set up Google Meet video calls in a session type:
Go to your Studio Manager Dashboard > Bookings > Session Types. Then, click into the applicable session type you’d like to offer Google Meet video calls for. Alternatively, if you
haven’t created the session type yet, click New Session Type. In the session type’s General section, scroll down to Location and select Google Meet from its dropdown menu.
Adding_Google_Meet_to_Booking___Scheduling_KB_2.png Once you are finished editing your session type, click Done. That’s it! Any clients that book a session with you will receive a
unique Google Meet link in their confirmed session’s details. You will also be able to review this Google Meet link by going to the session in your Sessions page or viewing your
Google Calendar. Setting up a Google Meet Link in a one-off session To set up Google Meet in a one-off session: Go to Studio Manager Dashboard > Bookings > Sessions and click New
Session. Then, choose One-off session. In your one-off session’s General section, scroll down to Location and select Google Meet from the dropdown menu that appears.
Adding_Google_Meet_to_Booking___Scheduling_KB_3.png Fill out the rest of your one-off session’s details and then click Done. Once your client confirms the pending session, they
will receive a unique Google Meet link in the session’s details. You will also be able to review this Google Meet link by going to the session in your Sessions page or viewing your
Google Calendar. Joining a session’s Google Meet call When your client books a session, a unique Google Meet link will be generated. You can review the link by going to Studio
Manager Dashboard > Bookings > Sessions and clicking into the specific session. Adding You can also join the Google Meet call directly within the session event in their calendar.
Adding What will my client see? When your client books a session, they will receive their link to their upcoming Google Meet call as part of their session details. They will be
able to use this exact link from their computer, tablet, or mobile device to join the call at the time of their session. Adding If you have connected your Google Calendar to Studio
Manager and activated Calendar Invitations, your client can also join the Google Meet call directly within the session event in their calendar. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Does my client need a Google account to join my video call? Does my client need to download an application to join my video call? What does the “You must select a calendar where
confirmed sessions will be added to host Google Meet video calls” message mean? Does my client need a Google account to join my video call? This depends on the Google account that
you have connected to Studio Manager. If your Google account is a personal account, you will be using the free version of Google Meet. In this case, your clients will need to be
signed into a Google Account to join your Google Meet video call. If your client does not have Google Account, they can create one with their personal email address prior to
joining. If you are a Google Workspace customer, your client can join even if they don’t have a Google Account. Does my client need to download an application to join my video
call? Your client can join from their computer using any supported web browser — no downloads necessary. On mobile devices, they can join from the Google Meet app. What does the
“You must select a calendar where confirmed sessions will be added to host Google Meet video calls” message mean? Google Calendar events are where Google Meet calls are hosted. If
you have not selected a calendar in your Google Calendar to sync sessions to, Google will not be able to generate your Google Meet video call links. In order to host Google Meet
calls, you must select a calendar in your connected Google account to sync your sessions to. To resolve this error message: Click Calendar Settings at the end of the error message.
Adding_Google_Meet_to_Booking___Scheduling_KB_6.png In the Google Calendar pop-up that appears, click on the dropdown menu under Add new sessions to Google Calendar and select a
calendar. Then, click Save. Adding_Google_Meet_to_Booking___Scheduling_KB_7.png Was this article helpful? Related articles Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar Getting Started
with Booking & Scheduling Creating Mini Sessions Responding to a Session Inquiry Creating Full Session Types Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll
get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Booking & Scheduling
Search Articles in this section Creating Full Session Types Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and Invoices
Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session Inquiry Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar
Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See more How do I collect a deposit/retainer for my session? If you are on an upgraded Studio Manager Plan or Suite Plan, you can split your
session fee into two. This is perfect if you require a deposit or retainer before the session is booked. How do I collect a deposit:retainer for my session 1.gif To set this up,
edit your session type from your Session Types page and follow these steps: Toggle Collect Payment on and specify the amount you’d like to collect in total. (You can skip this step
if you’ve already set up your session type’s total fee.) Go to Collect Partial Only and toggle it on. Then, specify the partial amount you’d like to immediately collect from a
client upon booking. By default, if you opt to collect only a partial payment upfront, Studio Manager will automatically generate a draft invoice for your client with the remaining
amount due. From there, you can review and send the invoice at a later date to collect the remainder. Note: The payment methods available for the remainder invoice will be the same
as the deposit invoice. You can adjust the available options before sharing with your client, if needed. Was this article helpful? Related articles Creating and Sending an Invoice
Creating Mini Sessions Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Using a GoDaddy Domain for your Pixieset Website How do clients book a session? Can't find what you're looking for?
Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center
Studio Manager Booking & Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating Full Session Types Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift
Cards for Sessions and Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session Inquiry
Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See more How do I include a questionnaire or contract as part of my session intake? How do I include a
questionnaire or contract as part of my session intake KB 1.1.gif With Studio Manager’s intake document feature, you can require clients to complete a questionnaire and contract as
part of your booking flow. This is a great way to ensure that you have all the necessary information and required agreements collected immediately. To see intake documents in
action, check out our demo here. Note: Intake forms are a feature available on any upgraded Studio Manager Plan or Suite Plan. On this page: Setting up Intake Documents Viewing
Completed Intake Documents Setting up Intake Documents You can use any questionnaire template or contract template from your Templates page as an intake document for your sessions.
To set up your session type’s intake documents: Add your documents as templates (You can skip this step if you have already created templates that you wish to use). Go to Studio
Manager Dashboard > Templates and add your intake document as a questionnaire template or contract template. Add the intake documents to your session type. Go to Bookings > Session
Types and click to edit the specific session type you’d like to add your intake document to. Under Intake Form, scroll down to Documents and select the templates you’d like to add
to your session type. How do I include a questionnaire or contract as part of my session intake 1.2.png Tip: Alternatively, you can add intake documents to one-off sessions. When
manually creating the one-off session, simply proceed to the session’s Intake Form section and add your intake forms. Once this is done, you are all good to go! When booking,
clients will be required to complete your intake document(s) before they can complete the booking. Note: If you have “Manually Approve New Sessions” or “Request Availability Only”
set up for your session type, your client will not be asked to complete the intake documents until after you approve their session. Viewing Completed Intake Documents You can
review a session’s associated intake documents by going to Bookings > Sessions and clicking into the specific session. The session intake documents will be available under the
session’s Documents. How do I include a questionnaire or contract as part of my session intake 1.3.png Note: Intake documents will also appear in other areas if applicable, such as
part of your Contracts page, Questionnaires page, or a related project. Was this article helpful? Related articles Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Manually Booking a
Session for a Client Creating Mini Sessions Responding to a Session Inquiry Setting up a Custom Domain for Pixieset Website Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support
staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Booking
& Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating Full Session Types Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and
Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session Inquiry Syncing your Sessions to your
Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See more How can I set a maximum number of sessions per day? If you want to prevent overbooking and better manage your workload, you
can set a maximum number of full sessions that clients can book per day. This helps maintain a balanced schedule and ensure you can deliver your best experience to every client.
Once the daily limit is reached, clients will no longer see availability for additional full sessions on that day. You can still manually create bookings that exceed the limit if
needed. Note: This setting limits how many full sessions can be booked by clients per day. Mini sessions and one-off sessions are not included in this limit. To set a maximum
booking limit for your full sessions: Go to Bookings > Availability Settings. Under Global Maximum Bookings Per Day, set a limit. Click Done. maximumbookings.png Was this article
helpful? Related articles Searching your collection photos Manually Booking a Session for a Client Creating Mini Sessions Creating Full Session Types Where can I add custom
business information to my invoice header? Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset.
All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Booking & Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating Full Session Types Advanced
Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Customizing your Booking Site
Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session Inquiry Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See more How do I block off time
across all my session types? As time goes by, you may need to block off certain dates in your calendar (e.g. vacation, personal events, etc.) to reflect when you’re unavailable.
Studio Manager’s Google Calendar Sync is the best way to manage blocked off time. As long as the integration is connected and checking for conflicts, you can simply set up a busy
event directly in your Google Calendar. Studio Manager will take care of the rest by ensuring clients cannot book any time slots that fall within that busy event. How do I block
off time across all my session types 1.png If you do not use Google Calendar, there is a Block Off Time option in your Dashboard’s Calendar page. Simply click Block Off Time and in
the pop-up that appears, enter the date and/or time range in which you will be unavailable. How do I block off time across all my session types 2.png If you block off time that
overlaps with upcoming sessions, don’t worry. Pre-existing sessions will remain on your calendar. Was this article helpful? Related articles Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar
Creating Mini Sessions Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Manually Booking a Session for a Client Customizing your Booking Site Can't find what you're looking for? Contact
our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio
Manager Booking & Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating Full Session Types Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift Cards for
Sessions and Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session Inquiry Syncing your
Sessions to your Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See more How do clients book a session? Studio Manager makes the booking process convenient for your clients
regardless of the device they are using. The easiest way to understand your client’s experience is to place a test booking yourself! You can do this within your own booking site,
or via our demo. How do clients book a session KB GIF.gif Generally, clients will book through your booking site or a direct link to one of your session types. From there, while
the booking process will vary depending on your specific settings, the typical process is as follows: Choose a service from your booking site and select an available time slot.
Enter contact information, as well as complete any required intake forms (i.e. questionnaire, contract). Pay a deposit or the full session fee to secure the booking. That’s it!
Once the booking flow has been successfully completed, your client will see a confirmation screen and receive an email. At the same time, you will receive a notification in Studio
Manager alerting you of your new session. Can I be double booked? When a client books a session for any one of your available session types, our system will automatically block off
the required time (i.e. the session duration and any buffer time) across all your session types. This means you will never need to worry about being double-booked in Studio
Manager. If you want to allow multiple sessions to overlap for though, you can always manually set up the additional sessions in your calendar. Was this article helpful? Related
articles Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Creating Mini Sessions Creating Full Session Types Can't
find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center
Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Booking & Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating Full Session Types Advanced Options for your Full Session Types
Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client
Responding to a Session Inquiry Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See more Can my session types share the same availability schedule? Do
you offer full session types that share the same availability? Studio Manager’s shared schedules allow you to easily manage your availability across multiple session types in one
go. If you decide to adjust your availability, simply update your shared schedule and all of the session types assigned to it will automatically reflect this! Setting up your
shared schedule is easy: Create your shared schedule. Go to Bookings > Session Types > Shared Availability. Then, optionally name your schedule and then specify your availability
in the List View below. Can my session types share the same availability schedule 1.1.gif Assign your shared schedule to your session types. Go to Bookings > Session Types and
click into the session types you’d like to assign the shared schedule to. Within each of your session types’ availability settings, select “Use a shared schedule”. Can my session
types share the same availability schedule 1.2.gif That’s it! Once assigned to your shared schedule, your session types will automatically update and you’re good to go. Tip: If
you’d like to limit how many bookings can be made per day across your full session types, consider using the Maximum bookings per day setting under Session Types > Shared
Availability. Was this article helpful? Related articles Creating Mini Sessions Creating Full Session Types Getting Started with Booking & Scheduling Customizing your Booking Site
Why aren’t my session type’s available slots showing up as expected? Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact
Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Studio Manager Booking & Scheduling Search Articles in this section Creating
Full Session Types Advanced Options for your Full Session Types Creating Mini Sessions Creating Gift Cards for Sessions and Invoices Offering Session Discounts with Coupons
Customizing your Booking Site Manually Booking a Session for a Client Responding to a Session Inquiry Syncing your Sessions to your Calendar Adding Zoom to Booking & Scheduling See
more Why aren’t my session type’s available slots showing up as expected? If you have set up your availability for your session type but are not seeing your time slots appear as
expected, you will want to review the following four settings first: Blocked off time and/or pre-existing sessions Maximum notice settings Buffer time (full session types only)
Maximum bookings per day (full session types only) Blocked off time and/or pre-existing sessions If time slots are missing from your session type despite them being within your
available hours, you may have a schedule conflict. To check, go to your Calendar page and review the specific calendar date for any pre-existing sessions or blocked off time. Why
aren't my session type KB 1.png If you’ve blocked off time in your calendar via the Block Off Time feature or Google Calendar Sync’s Check for Conflicts feature, available time
slots will not appear for those specific dates. If this is the case, depending on your requirements, you may like to adjust or remove the blocked off time to accommodate your
availability. Maximum notice settings Note: This setting is only available for full session types. If you are troubleshooting a mini session type, you can skip this. You can review
this setting under the Booking Rules section in your session type. If your How far into the future can clients book? setting is too restrictive, certain dates may not show up. Why
aren't my session type KB 1.1.png For example, if the setting is set to 30 days, none of your time slots that are more than a month away will appear to your clients to book! This
is because those slots are currently more than 30 days away from today’s date. If you find that your notice settings are preventing clients from booking your available slots as of
today’s date, adjust your minimum and/or maximum notices to accommodate. In most scenarios, this simply means increasing your How far into the future can clients book? setting.
Buffer time Note: This setting is only available for full session types. If you are building a mini session, this setting is deactivated, so it would not be causing any conflicts
with your mini session's slots. The buffer time setting can be located in your full session types’ Booking Rules section. It allows you to set an amount of additional time to block
off before and/or after a client’s confirmed session. Why aren't my session type KB 1.2.png If you are missing a specific time slot from your session type’s availability and you
have buffer time activated in your session types, go to your calendar and see if there’s a confirmed session that falls right before or after your missing time slot. If there is,
