already set according to these recommendations. Pricing individual products When reviewing your price sheet, you can click on a specific product to update the pricing. Use the
arrow icons to toggle open the variations for each product option, and you’ll see columns for Cost, Markup, Markup %, and Price. PricingIndividualProducts.gif Cost: The cost for
the lab to print that specific item. Markup: The difference between the cost and your selling price. This helps represent the potential profit you make each time that product is
sold in your store. Price: The price you set for clients to pay in your Store. You can manually adjust the prices for each product variation, or you can update all of the prices
for a specific product at once using the Apply Bulk Markup button. ApplyBulkMarkup.png Pricing albums and books There are hundreds of possible customization options for albums and
books. To help you keep track of your markup and make adjustments efficiently, the prices of your album and book variations can only be adjusted in bulk with the Pricing Markup %
tool. AddingPricingProducts6.png If you’re curious about what your selling price for specific variations would look like (e.g. an 8 x 8 Signature Photo Album with 10 spreads and a
Premium Leather cover), you can check out the Pricing Preview option located below the Pricing Markup % tool. Specify the Cover Type and Cover Material from the drop-down menus and
the prices for various album sizes will adjust accordingly below. With the customizable preview, you can review the Cost to print the album, the Markup you’ve applied, and the base
Price your client would pay. Any add-ons (e.g. rounded corners) would be extra. Using an 8 x 8 Signature Photo Album with 10 spreads and a Premium Leather cover as an example, we
would see the following: Base cost (10 spreads): $110.00 Your markup (30%): $33.00 Total price for the album: $143.00 Maintaining your markup percentage In the event that
Pixieset’s partner labs update their product costs, our system will automatically increase your prices to maintain your profit margin. This will be relative to the markup percent
you had per product, and rounded up to the nearest dollar by default. You can turn this setting off or adjust your rounding preferences in Store > Settings. For example: You have a
50% markup on a $2.40 cost print, so the price is $3.60. The print lab adjusts the cost to $2.60. Our system maintains your 50% markup, so the price changes to $3.90.
MaintainMarkup%.png Was this article helpful? Related articles Selling digital downloads Selling albums and books Available Payment Methods in Pixieset Store Introduction to
Pixieset Store Adding and applying watermarks Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025
Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Products Search Articles in this section All about Price Sheets Can I sell both
automatic and self-fulfilled products? Adding and Pricing Products in your Store Selling digital downloads Selling Digital Download Packages Selling print and digital packages
Selling albums and books Selling greeting cards Selling multi-image products Assigning price sheets to collections See more Selling digital downloads You can easily sell digital
downloads in your Store by adding a digital download product to any of your price sheets. Since digital download products are automatically fulfilled by Pixieset, a secure link to
download photos will be emailed to your client after their purchase. On this page: Creating Digital Download Products Delivering Files to Clients Resending Digital Download Orders
Taxes for Digital Downloads Using Automatic Tax for Your Store Using Manual Tax for Your Store Adding a Digital Image License Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Creating Digital
Download Products Steps: From your dashboard, go to Store > Products > Select a price sheet Click on the + Add Product button. Select Digital Download.AddDownload.png Specify the
product details. Download type: choose between creating a Single Photo product or an All Photos download product (which will provide your client with a copy of all files in the
collection). Download size: select your desired resolution for this digital download product. Name: name of your product. This is the product name your clients will see in your
Store. Price: the price you are selling the product for. Description: the description of the product your customer is buying. Click Save. Ensure your price sheet is assigned to
your collection so that your client can purchase your new digital download product. Learn more here: Assigning price sheets to galleries Note: If you would like digital downloads
to be available only through purchase in your Store, you’ll want to ensure that the Download Status is off in your collection’s settings — this is a separate feature from selling
digital downloads in your Store. Learn more here: Collection Download Settings Delivering Files to Clients Once your client has placed an order, they will receive an order
confirmation email. Once the order has been processed, we'll send them an email that contains a link to download the photos. For security purposes, this download link expires
automatically after 7 days. The image files will be delivered in the resolution your clients purchased, bundled in a .zip file. If the order contains a large number of images, they
will be bundled into separate smaller .zip files, so your client can easily manage their images. DownloadOrder.png Resending Digital Download Orders You can resend the download
link for digital download orders at any time directly from your store dashboard. This is especially useful if your client’s download link has expired! You can generate a new
download link for them, which will automatically be sent to the email that your client entered during checkout. Steps: From your dashboard, go to Store > Orders and click View next
to your order. Click the Resend Download link. The new download link will now be generated and sent in an email to your client. This may take some time depending on how large the
order is.ResendDownload.png Taxes for Digital Downloads Using Automatic Tax for Your Store TaxJar will automatically determine whether taxes apply to digital downloads depending on
your jurisdiction and local tax requirements. Learn more here: Automated Sales Tax Using Manual Tax for Your Store You have the option to create your tax rates so that they apply
to all products except Digital Downloads. When you are creating or updating tax rules, you can check or uncheck the Apply Tax on Digital Downloads option.DownloadTax.png Learn more
here: Setting up Taxes Manually Adding a Digital Image License You can easily create a digital image license for your Store. Your clients will be shown a link to your digital image
license on checkout, and by clicking the Place Order button they are agreeing to comply with the information listed in your Digital Image License. Important: Pixieset provides no
warranties for digital image licenses and is not liable for any dispute arising out of any digital image license agreement. Pixieset is also not responsible for enforcing any
digital image license agreements. Steps: From your dashboard, go to Store > Settings. Under Digital Image License, enter your license information. Click
Save.DigitalImageLicense.png Learn more here: Adding terms of sale or digital image license Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Can I provide my client with a specific number of
downloads for free? Can I sell a package that includes digital downloads? Can I only sell digital downloads in my Store? Can I edit my client’s purchased downloads before they are
sent to them? Will my client receive files with watermarks? Can I provide my client with a specific number of downloads for free? Yes, you can limit the number of photos you
provide your client for free. There are a couple of ways to do this! First, you can create a Free Giveaway coupon for your client to redeem at checkout to receive free digital
downloads. Any additional downloads can be added to the cart and purchased. Learn more here: Using Coupons to Offer Discounts Alternatively, you can provide your client with a
specific number of digital downloads from the collection itself. This way, they do not need to add downloads to their cart and submit an order in your Store. Learn more here:
Limiting Free Download and Other Restrictions Can I sell a package that includes digital downloads? Yes, you can sell packages that include some or all digital download products.
To do this, you must first create a digital download product so that you can include it in a package. Learn more here: Selling Print and Digital Packages Can I only sell digital
downloads in my Store? Yes, if you're only selling digital downloads, you can easily set up a price sheet that only contains digital downloads without any prints! There are two
options for setting this up. First, you can create an empty self fulfillment price sheet and then add your digital download products to it. Alternatively, when working with an
existing price sheet, you can hide any print products. Learn more here: Create a Download-Only Price Sheet - Tutorial Video Can I edit my client’s purchased downloads before they
are sent to them? Yes, when an order is in Order Delay status, you can replace the files with edited ones! Order Delay places a temporary hold on orders before they are submitted
so that you can review them and make updates. Learn more here: Reviewing Orders with Order Delay Will my client receive files with watermarks? Watermarks applied through Pixieset
will never appear on high-resolution downloads (original or 3600px) through your Store or through the collection itself. For web size downloads (640px, 1024px, or 2048px), you can
choose whether or not you would like your watermark applied. Learn more here: Adding and Applying a Watermark Was this article helpful? Related articles Selling print and digital
packages Selling albums and books Selling multi-image products Introduction to Pixieset Store Uploading Videos to your Collections Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our
support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Products
Search Articles in this section All about Price Sheets Can I sell both automatic and self-fulfilled products? Adding and Pricing Products in your Store Selling digital downloads
Selling Digital Download Packages Selling print and digital packages Selling albums and books Selling greeting cards Selling multi-image products Assigning price sheets to
collections See more Selling Digital Download Packages Digital Download Packages 1.png Digital download packages allow you to sell any number of individual digital downloads
together for a set price. These photo packages are a great way to encourage clients to purchase more from your Store, especially if you incentivize purchasing larger quantities of
downloads with a discounted price. On this page: Creating a Digital Download Package Client Experience Creating a Digital Download Package You can create a digital download package
in any price sheet: In Store > Products, select your price sheet and click +Add Product > Digital Download to create a Single Photo Download product. (If you’ve already added this
digital download item to your price sheet, skip this step.) From your price sheet, click on +Add Product, and select Package. Digital Download Packages 2.png Fill in the required
information to create your package: name, description, and price. Under Package Items, choose your Single Photo Download product and adjust the quantity as needed. Digital Download
Packages 3.png Click Save once you are finished creating your package. If you’d like to offer multiple digital download packages at different price points, simply repeat the above
steps for each variation! Client Experience Clients can easily add a package to their cart by clicking on the shopping bag icon on any image, or by heading to the Print Store and
selecting a package. Next, they can select the images they’d like to add to the package from the gallery. Digital Download Packages GIF.gif The easiest way to see how digital
download packages work is to preview your own gallery. Alternatively, see our demo store. Was this article helpful? Related articles Selling digital downloads Download Sizes -
Available Resolutions Selling albums and books Setting up your Store Selling greeting cards Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you
within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Products Search Articles in this section All
about Price Sheets Can I sell both automatic and self-fulfilled products? Adding and Pricing Products in your Store Selling digital downloads Selling Digital Download Packages
Selling print and digital packages Selling albums and books Selling greeting cards Selling multi-image products Assigning price sheets to collections See more Selling print and
digital packages Creating a package will allow you to sell a group of products together for a set price. It can be made up of digital downloads, print products, or both, and is a
great way to help you encourage clients to buy more from your Store. On this page: Creating a Package Advanced Settings Client Experience Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Creating
a Package Note: your packages can only include items that already exist on your price sheet. For example, you must add a digital download product to your price sheet before you can
create a package of digital downloads. Learn more here: Selling digital downloads Steps: From your dashboard, go to Store > Products and select a price sheet. Click on + Add
Product, and select Package.AddPackage.png Fill in the required information to create your package. Package name and description: the Name and Description will be shown to the
client. Package price: set a total price for this Package. If you are using an automatic fulfillment price sheet, the printing cost for the products in the package will be
calculated and shown in the Cost box. Click the + Add Product button to add items to your package. You can choose from any existing products on your price sheet. Further, you must
select the specific product variations like size and paper type for each item.EditPackage.gif There are some additional settings you can use to customize your package. Limit one
per checkout: when turned on, your client will only be able to add this package to their cart once. Single image restriction: when turned on, this option prompts your client to
choose one single image file to be used on every product in the package. Click Save once you are finished creating your package. Note: you can create packages that include a
combination of print and digital download items! Advanced Settings If you prefer to sell packages exclusively and not offer individual items, you can enable the Only Sell Packages
option in the advanced settings for your price sheet. To do this, head to your dashboard, then go to Store > Products and select a price sheet. From there, click Advanced to reveal
the Only Sell Packages setting. With this option turned on, your clients will only see packages in your store. OnlySellPackages.png Client Experience Clients can easily add a
package to their cart from their gallery, after which they can choose the images they’d like to use for each product. Your client will be able to find your packages along with any
other available products by clicking on the shopping bag icon on an image, or by selecting the package in the Print Store under the Packages category. After adding the package to
their cart, your client will be prompted to select photos for each item in the package. They can review and change their selected photos, and adjust the crop for any automatic
fulfillment prints that do not match the aspect ratio of the image. BuyPackage.gif The easiest way to see how packages work is to preview your own gallery. Alternatively, see our
demo store. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Can I sell digital download packages? Can I set up my package so that one single image is used on all products? Can my client choose
how many products they would like in their package? Can I sell digital download packages? Yes, you can sell packages that include prints, downloads, or a combination of both! You
must first add a digital download product to your price sheet before you can create a package that includes digital downloads. Learn more here: Selling digital downloads Can I set
up my package so that one single image is used on all products? Yes! When the package’s single image restriction setting is turned on, your client will be prompted to select a
single image they’d like to be used across the entire package. For example, if the single image restriction setting is turned on for your package that includes one 4x6 print, one
5x7 print, and one 8x10 print, the image selected by your client will be used on all three prints in the package. Can my client choose how many products they would like in their
package? If you'd like to offer packages in a variety of quantities (e.g. 15 images, 10 images, etc.) then a package product would need to be set up for each of your offerings.
When it comes to packages, clients will be prompted to select all images for the package. If they don't select an image for all items in the package, they will see an error message
that lets them know that packages must be completed to checkout. Was this article helpful? Related articles All about Price Sheets Selling digital downloads Introduction to
Pixieset Store Where do I get my PayPal API Credentials? Upgrading from the Legacy Store Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within
24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Products Search Articles in this section All about
Price Sheets Can I sell both automatic and self-fulfilled products? Adding and Pricing Products in your Store Selling digital downloads Selling Digital Download Packages Selling
print and digital packages Selling albums and books Selling greeting cards Selling multi-image products Assigning price sheets to collections See more Selling albums and books
Albums and books are a perfect way to commemorate life’s many milestones. With automatic fulfillment, your clients can customize and purchase a high quality album or book right
from their gallery store’s built-in designer tool. Clients get started by selecting one of the beautifully curated album or book products offered through your store that best
complements their special moments: the Signature Photo Album, Premium Layflat Book, or Everyday Hardcover Book. Albums1.png Once they’ve selected their preferred album or book
product, your client can use the integrated designer tool to add images from their collection into beautiful photo spreads. From there, your clients can apply their own personal
touches, such as selecting their cover material, adding custom text debossing, and more. Finally, their personalized album or book is drop-shipped directly to their home in
white-label packaging providing them with a seamless experience from start to finish. Note: Albums and books are currently available for stores based in the U.S. or Canada. All
albums and books ordered through the built-in designer tool are processed and fulfilled automatically by our lab partner, WHCC. For a visual walkthrough of the album designer, see
our video tutorial here. On this page: Selling albums and books in your Store Pricing your albums and books What will my client see? Product personalization and finish options
Processing and fulfilling album and book orders Using self fulfillment and selling albums and books Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Selling albums and books in your Store To find
your album and book products, go to Store > Products and click on your automatic fulfillment price sheet. Then, scroll to the bottom of the price sheet to the “Albums & Books”
category. Album2.gif Note: These products may be hidden (grayed out) on your price sheet. If they appear to be grayed out, click ••• > Show Product to make them available in your
Store. Pricing your albums and books There are hundreds of possible variations available for albums and books. To help you keep track of your markup and make adjustments
efficiently, the prices of your album and book variations can be adjusted in bulk with the Pricing Markup % tool. Albums3.png Learn more here: Adding and pricing products in your
Store What will my client see? By adding album and book products to your price sheet, your clients will see the option to purchase them while viewing their gallery’s storefront, as
well as when reviewing purchase options for any specific photo. Selecting an album or book product will direct your client straight to their gallery’s built-in designer tool where
they can start customizing their album or book right away. Albums4.gif Product personalization and finish options When your client enters the designer tool, they can start
customizing their album or book to match their unique style. There are countless combinations available to your client to help them make their album or book as personal and
timeless as possible! Albums5.gif If you’re interested in a comprehensive overview of your clients’ exact design options, the easiest way would be to simply view the album or book
designer tool through your client’s gallery, the same way they would when ordering. For a quick view though, click here to see an example Storefront with albums and books
available. Generally, your client can customize the following (in addition to selecting which photos and layouts to use on each page of their album): Album or book size and style:
Choose from different square and horizontal sizes, as well as multiple cover layouts for complete personalization. Cover Material: Select from a wide array of material and color
options to create the perfect album or book cover. Material options include luxurious leathers, classic silks, and textured fabrics such as 100% natural linen. Color options range
from vibrant to subdued shades to reflect any mood. Debossing: Optionally press customizable text into select cover materials with multiple font and location options. Paper Types:
Choose from luxurious paper options such as photo matte or silk, and more. Endleaf style: Endleaves are the protective paper that separates the inside spreads from the cover. For
Signature Photo Album designs specifically, select a color and texture to complement the overall album or book style. Insert boards: Choose between thick or thin insert boards in
black and white for the Signature Photo Album. These inserts live between the photo spreads and add more rigidity to the product. Corners: Choose between square or rounded corners
for the album pages. Note: The exact design options available to your client are unique to the product that they selected (e.g. a Signature Photo Album). Processing and fulfilling
album and book orders Album and book orders will be printed according to your client's design and shipped directly to your client. Just like with other print products, if you have
added a watermark to your images using our Watermark Tool, the final printed album or book will not include that watermark. Using self fulfillment and selling albums and books The
album and book designer tools are available for automatic fulfillment price sheets only. If you use self fulfillment for your orders instead, you can offer albums and books in your
store by adding your self-fulfillment products to an automatic fulfillment price sheet. Learn more here: Can I sell both automatic and self-fulfilled products? Frequently Asked
Questions (FAQs) If I watermarked my images, will the watermark appear in my client’s album or book? Is lab color correction available for albums and books? Can I review my
client’s album or book design before they order it? Can I edit my client’s album or book after they have placed their order? Is boutique packaging available for albums and books?
Can I curate an album or book for my client and seek their input before the design process? If I watermarked my images, will the watermark appear in my client’s album or book? When
you use our watermark tool, we only apply the watermark to the display versions of the images in your gallery while keeping the original, unwatermarked files saved on our servers
in the background. When your clients purchase albums or other print products, we'll provide the original file without the watermark to the lab for printing, ensuring your clients
receive their items with no watermark applied. Is lab color correction available for albums and books? Lab color correction is not available for automatic fulfillment albums or
books. Can I review my client’s album or book design before they order it? Yes! If your client would like your feedback about the album or book they’ve curated, they should add the
album to their cart, and from the cart, they can click the Preview button to obtain a link to preview the album. Further, we recommend signing into the cart by entering your email
address so that your progress is saved. AlbumPreview.png Note: You will be able to view their album or book in full (cover, spreads, etc.) but you cannot edit the product through
this link. Can I edit my client’s album or book after they have placed their order? Yes, if you had Order Delay turned on for your Store, you can review the order and do the
following while the order is in Order Delay status: Adjust the crops Change spread layouts Replace photos Update text for cover debossing Edit the shipping address Note: If your
changes result in an increase or decrease in the cost of the album or book, you will see an error when saving your changes and the product will revert back to the original client
settings. If you’d like to make adjustments that change the cost of the album or book, you will need to cancel the order and place a new one with the updated product selections. Is
boutique packaging available for albums and books? At this time, boutique packaging is only available for prints and cards up to 11" x 14" in size; it is not available for albums
and books. Can I curate an album or book for my client and seek their input before the design process? Absolutely! To design an album or book for your client, simply head to their
gallery’s storefront and begin designing the product just like they would. When you’re happy with the design, add the album to your cart, and from the cart, you can click the
Preview button to obtain a link to preview the album. You can share that link with your client to seek their input! Further, we recommend signing into the cart by entering your
email address so that your progress is saved. AlbumPreview.png Was this article helpful? Related articles All about Price Sheets Adding and Pricing Products in your Store Getting
started with Automatic Fulfillment Print labs available with Pixieset Download Sizes - Available Resolutions Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll
get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Products Search Articles in
this section All about Price Sheets Can I sell both automatic and self-fulfilled products? Adding and Pricing Products in your Store Selling digital downloads Selling Digital
Download Packages Selling print and digital packages Selling albums and books Selling greeting cards Selling multi-image products Assigning price sheets to collections See more
Selling greeting cards Specialized card designer software is available for your clients to order wedding, graduation, baby, and holiday cards through Automatic Fulfillment. Clients
can choose from hundreds of designs, and create their cards with images directly from your gallery! They can customize a number of options such as color styles, photo layouts, and
addressed envelopes. Selling_greeting_cards_1.png On this Page: Selling cards in your Store Purchase experience for clients Processing and fulfilling cards orders Using Self
Fulfillment and selling cards Selling cards in your Store Greeting card products are automatically added to Automatic Fulfillment price sheets. When viewing your price sheet (Store
> Products > click on your price sheet) you’ll find all of the card products listed at the bottom. Selling_greeting_cards_2.png Note: Cards are currently available for stores based
in the U.S. or Canada. For users based in Australia or New Zealand, our lab partner Atkins Pro offers single photo card designs that do not use our built-in card designer. You’ll
find these options on your Automatic Fulfillment price sheets. Purchase experience for clients To use the card designer, simply select an image to purchase by clicking on the
shopping bag icon on the image. Then, click on the Cards category > select a card product > and click See Designs to view the available designs. Selling_greeting_cards_3.gif In the
design selector, clients can filter their design options using the preferences on the left, and select a design that they’d like to use for their cards.
Selling_greeting_cards_4.gif Once a card design is selected, clients can drag and drop their photos into place, change the text, select different color styles and foil options, and
choose boutique cut shapes before adding the cards to their cart. Cards are sold in packages of 25 and come with matching envelopes that your client can also customize!
Selling_greeting_cards_5.gif Just like with other print products, if you have added a watermark to your images using our Watermark Tool, the final, printed cards will not include
that watermark. Processing and fulfilling cards orders All greeting cards ordered through the built-in card designer are processed and fulfilled automatically by our lab partner,
WHCC. The cards will be printed according to your client's design and shipped directly to your client. Note: Lab color correction is not available for automatic fulfillment cards.
Using Self Fulfillment and selling cards The card designer is available for Automatic Fulfillment price sheets only. If you use Self Fulfillment for your orders instead, you can
offer cards in your store by adding your self fulfillment products to an Automatic Fulfillment price sheet. To do this, follow the steps below! You can also learn more here:
Selling both automatic and self fulfilled products Go to Store > Products > + Add Price Sheet. Select Automatic Fulfillment under Print Fulfillment. Under Print Lab, choose
Automatic (Recommended) or you can select a specific lab. At the bottom of the new price sheet, you'll see all the card products automatically in place.Selling_greeting_cards_6.png
You can then add your self fulfilled items to your price sheet using + Add Product > Self Fulfilled Item. Once you have added all of your self fulfilled products to your price
sheet, they will be available alongside the cards when your client views their gallery. Learn more about creating self fulfillment products here: Getting started with self
fulfillment If there are some Automatic Fulfillment products that you would not like to offer in your store, you can hide those items by clicking ••• > Hide Product. Products that
are hidden will not be shown to your client.Selling_greeting_cards_7.png Assign this new automatic fulfillment price sheet to your galleries. Your clients will then be able to
purchase your usual self fulfilled items or use the card designer to purchase cards that will be printed and shipped to them directly by the lab. Learn more here: Assigning price
sheets to galleries Was this article helpful? Related articles Selling multi-image products Selling digital downloads Selling albums and books Download Sizes - Available
Resolutions Introduction to Pixieset Store Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset.
All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Products Search Articles in this section All about Price Sheets Can I sell both automatic and
self-fulfilled products? Adding and Pricing Products in your Store Selling digital downloads Selling Digital Download Packages Selling print and digital packages Selling albums and
books Selling greeting cards Selling multi-image products Assigning price sheets to collections See more Selling multi-image products You can sell collages, calendars, or other
multi-image products in your Store as self fulfilled products. To purchase one of these products, your client will add this item to their cart when placing their order, then add
the images they wish to select for their order to a Favorites List. From there, you can design the product and place an order with the lab of your choice, then arrange to have the
finished product delivered to your client. Learn more about how self fulfillment works here: Getting started with self fulfillment Note: If you want to sell albums and books in
your Store via automatic fulfillment, check out our Selling albums and books guide instead. On this page: Creating a self fulfilled multi-image product Example product Helping
clients select their photos Fulfilling the order Automatic fulfillment albums and books Creating a self fulfilled multi-image product To get started selling multi-image products,
create a self fulfillment item on your existing price sheet. Steps: From your dashboard, go to Store > Products and select your price sheet. Click on + Add Product > then Self
Fulfilled Item. Enter the product details. This includes: Name: The name of your product (e.g. Calendar, Collage, etc.) Description: Describe your multi-image product Images:
Upload up to 5 images of your product Price: The price you are charging for the product. If you are adding multiple product options, you’ll instead set the prices for each product
variation individually. Extra Shipping: Any additional shipping charge to add for the product. If you are adding multiple product options, you’ll instead add the additional
shipping charge for each product variation individually. Category: The type of product you’re offering which will determine where the product appears in your Print Store Product
Options: You can add product options to allow your client to customize their order. Click + Add product option to add new variations. For example, you can add an option to let your
client select how many images they’d like included in their collage. For this product option, set the Name to Images, and add the different variations as Values (e.g. 3, 5,
etc.).SellingMultiImageProducts1.png Once you have added all of your product options, you can set the prices for each variation. You can also add extra shipping charges as
necessary, or hide certain options if a particular variation is not available. Click Save to add the new product to your price sheet. It is ready to sell, once your price sheet has
been assigned to a collection. Learn more: Assigning price sheets to galleries Example product Here's an example of what a self fulfilled multi-image product would look like for
you and your clients. The item on your price sheet: SellingMultiImageProducts2.png SellingMultiImageProducts3.png What your clients would see: SellingMultiImageProducts4.png
Helping clients select their photos Once your clients have ordered the multi-image product in your Store, you can ask them to go back into the collection and create a Favorites
List containing the images they would like included in the product. You can also create a list for your client in advance, and set a specific number of photos for your client to
choose. To create a pre-set Favorites List for your client, go to the Favorite Activity tab in their collection, click + New Favorite List, and add your client’s email address, and
the maximum number of images your client can add to the list. Your client will then be able to log in with their email and save images to this list. Favorite1.png Favorite2.png
When your client has selected their favorites, you will be able to access the information from the Favorite section of the Activity tab. You can also download a list of the images
within the list to your computer or Lightroom Catalog. From there, you can design and fulfill the product at a vendor of your choice. Learn more: How does proofing with Favorites
work? Fulfilling the order Any self fulfilled products you offer will need to be fulfilled outside of Pixieset at your preferred vendor. Using the information your client provided
in their order and the images in their Favorites List, you can design the product and place an order with the lab of your choice, and arrange to have the finished product delivered
to your client. Learn more: Can I sell both automatic and self fulfilled products? Automatic fulfillment albums and books If you are based in North America, automatic fulfillment
price sheets in your Store include automatic fulfillment album and book products from one of our US-based lab partners which relies on their specialized design software. Learn
more: Selling albums and books Was this article helpful? Related articles Selling albums and books Selling print and digital packages Adding and Pricing Products in your Store
Selling greeting cards Collection Download Settings Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025
Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Store Products Search Articles in this section All about Price Sheets Can I sell both
automatic and self-fulfilled products? Adding and Pricing Products in your Store Selling digital downloads Selling Digital Download Packages Selling print and digital packages
Selling albums and books Selling greeting cards Selling multi-image products Assigning price sheets to collections See more Assigning price sheets to collections Once you have
created a price sheet, you should assign it to one of your collections. Each collection can have one price sheet assigned to it. The price sheet will determine the products and
pricing visitors will see in the collection. Learn more about managing price sheets and products here. On this page: Assigning a price sheet to a collection Assigning a price sheet
to multiple collections Assigning a price sheet to all collections Replacing existing price sheets Default options Assigning a price sheet to a collection Steps: From your Client
Gallery dashboard, select a collection Select the Settings tab Select Store to make sure the Store Status is turned on Select a Price Sheet AssignPriceSheet1.png Note: If you do
not see the Store and price sheet options listed here, check that your Global Store Status is turned On in your Store Settings (Store > Settings). Assigning a price sheet to
multiple collections Steps: From your Client Gallery dashboard, hover over the applicable collections and click the checkmark in the top left corner of the thumbnail to select
those collections. To select all collections, use a keyboard short cut (Ctrl+A or Cmd+A) or click on the collection selection count from the action bar > Select All Click the Bulk
Edit pencil icon from the action bar In the pop-up that appears, click the Store tab > Price Sheets Select the price sheet > Apply AssignPriceSheet2.png AssignPriceSheets3.png
