PIN used for gallery download), to generate the download. Was this article helpful? Related articles How does proofing with Favorites work? How does my client access their Favorite
Lists? How do I send Favorites as Digital Downloads to a client/vendor? How does my client create multiple Favorite Lists? How do I limit the number of photos my client can select
for a Favorite List? Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved.
PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Proofing Search Articles in this section How does proofing with Favorites work? How do I limit the number of
photos my client can select for a Favorite List? How can I review my client's Favorite Activity? How do I copy Favorites to a new Set/Collection? How do I download my client's
Favorites? How do I send Favorites as Digital Downloads to a client/vendor? How does my client access their Favorite Lists? How does my client add a note or a comment on a photo?
How does my client create multiple Favorite Lists? How does my client share or download their favorited images? See more Viewing Client Favorites in Lightroom For Lightroom users,
the Lightroom Copy List will make the process of finding your client's Favorites a lot easier. This feature will create a list of all images in a Favorite List, formatted perfectly
for Lightroom's search function. Simply copy the list, paste it into Lightroom's search field, and Lightroom will instantly pull up all the images (given that the images are in
your Lightroom Library). If you prefer, we also have a tutorial video for viewing Favorites in Lightroom. How do I use the Lightroom Copy List? Next to any Favorite List click the
More icon ****(•••) > ****and select Lightroom Copy List. copylist.png Once the popup opens, you will see a formatted list of all the images from the Favorite List. Select the text
in the text box and copy the list onto your clipboard, or simply click on the Copy button. copycta.png Note: You can use the Include Commas toggle to remove the comma delimiters if
you need the list for Capture One. We have a complete guide to using the Capture One copy list here. If you know the type of file you're looking for, you can also add a specific
extension to the copy list before searching in Lightroom! Simply use the Include File extension option to enter in the extension name (like .jpg, or .raw for example). Open up
Lightroom and select Library > Find from the menu. lr-find.png Make sure the following search settings are chosen: Any Searchable Field and Contains. lr-filter.png Paste the
pre-formatted list of filenames into the Library search box. Lightroom will then quickly pull up all the images matching the filenames listed. Once you have found the images, you
can create a new catalogue and proceed with editing and retouching the images as needed. lr-paste.png Why is the Lightroom Copy List bringing up additional images? When you use the
Contains filter while searching, Lightroom will pull up the specified sequence, including partial sequence for the filenames. If you are searching for IMG_1, for example, IMG_101
might come up as well. Our recommendation in this case is to start your file naming at 001 or 0001 to prevent this from happening. Learn more here: Lightroom Help / Finding photos
in the Catalog Important Note: If you use virtual copies when editing images, and export these virtual copies, the Lightroom Copy List will not pull the virtual copies up. This is
because Lightroom will only give the virtual copies a unique naming structure upon export, whereas within Lightroom they will be masked under the original filename. If you use
virtual copies, you will want to be sure to double-check to make sure all images are selected. Was this article helpful? Related articles How do I view my client's Favorites in
Lightroom? - Tutorial Video How do I upload from Lightroom - Tutorial Video Download Sizes - Available Resolutions Viewing Client Favorites in Capture One Getting Started with
Client Gallery Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved.
PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Proofing Search Articles in this section How does proofing with Favorites work? How do I limit the number of
photos my client can select for a Favorite List? How can I review my client's Favorite Activity? How do I copy Favorites to a new Set/Collection? How do I download my client's
Favorites? How do I send Favorites as Digital Downloads to a client/vendor? How does my client access their Favorite Lists? How does my client add a note or a comment on a photo?
How does my client create multiple Favorite Lists? How does my client share or download their favorited images? See more Viewing Client Favorites in Capture One Capture One users
can access a copy list from their Pixieset dashboard, making the process of finding your client's Favorites a lot easier! This feature will create a list of all images in a
Favorite List, formatted perfectly for Capture One’s option to Select by Filename List. Simply copy the list and paste it into the Select by Filename List field. Capture One will
pull up all the images (provided they are in your Capture One Library). Note: If you are looking for the Lightroom Copy List guide instead, you can find that here. How do I locate
the Copy List? Next to any Favorite List click More (•••) > Lightroom Copy List. copylist.png From the Lightroom Copy List popup, ensure the toggle for Include Commas is set to
Off. This will remove the commas and automatically format the list for Capture One. commasoff.png If you know the type of file you're looking for, you can also add a specific
extension to the copy list before searching! Simply use the Include File extension option to enter in the extension name (e.g. .jpg or .raw). Click the Copy button. In Capture One,
click Select > Select by… > Filename List co-filenamelist.png Use the dropdown to set the Delimiter to ‘Space’: co-space.png Paste the pre-formatted list of filenames into the
Search by Filename List box. This will pull up all the images matching the filenames listed. Was this article helpful? Related articles Viewing Client Favorites in Lightroom
Getting Started with Client Gallery How do I view my client's Favorites in Lightroom? - Tutorial Video How do I download my client's Favorites? Uploading Videos to your Collections
Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center
Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Digital Downloads Search Digital Downloads Collection Download Settings Limiting free downloads and other restrictions Download
Sizes - Available Resolutions Your client's download experience Downloading photos to mobile devices Reviewing Collection Download Activity What is my client’s Download PIN?
Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Digital Downloads Search Articles in this section Collection
Download Settings Limiting free downloads and other restrictions Download Sizes - Available Resolutions Your client's download experience Downloading photos to mobile devices
Reviewing Collection Download Activity What is my client’s Download PIN? Collection Download Settings Collection download settings1.png Each collection in Client Gallery has
customizable download settings to ensure you are in full control of what your clients can save to their devices. This guide will walk you through the general options available for
downloads. Note: For an overview of your client’s download experience, see our guide here. On this page: Photo download Additional options Photo download sizes Video download Video
download sizes Download PIN Advanced download settings Photo download The Photo Download setting controls whether visitors can download the photos in the collection for free. By
default this setting is toggled on with a 4-digit download PIN assigned to it. To view the photo download setting: In Collections, select the collection. Go to Settings > Download.
Look for the Photo Download toggle. Collection download settings2.png Additional options When the collection has photo downloads enabled, you can expand Additional options to
access more granular options: Gallery Download: Allow clients to save the full gallery of photos in one download. Single Photo Download: Allow clients to download individual photos
from the collection. Single Photo Download PIN: Require clients to enter the Download PIN to start downloading individual photos. Single Photo Download Email Tracking: Require
clients to submit an email address to start downloading individual photos. Restricted Single Photo Download Size: Limit individual photo downloads to one specific resolution size.
Note: The exact options shown in your collection’s settings are dependent on other settings you’ve enabled like Download PIN and available photo download sizes. Photo download
sizes Photo downloads can be provided in high resolution or web resolution. High resolution downloads are available in 3600px or original resolution (available on upgraded Client
Gallery or Suite Plans). Web size downloads are available in 2048px, 1024px, or 640px. For more information on Pixieset’s available resolutions, click here. Collection download
settings3.png Video download The Video Download setting controls whether visitors can download the videos in your collection. By default, this setting is toggled on with a 4-digit
download PIN assigned to it. To view the video download setting: In Collections, select the collection. Go to Settings > Download. Look for the Video Download toggle. Collection
download settings4.png Video download sizes Video downloads are always provided in the highest resolution possible based on a combination of the video size and your subscription:
On the Basic or Plus Plan for Client Gallery and the Starter Plan for Suite, videos are delivered up to 1080p (1920 x 1080px). On the Pro or Ultimate Plan for Client Gallery and
Suite, videos are delivered in up to 4K resolution (3840 x 2160px). Note: Pixieset does not upscale your videos. If a video is uploaded at HD and your subscription allows up to 4K,
Pixieset will deliver the video file in the original, HD resolution. Download PIN Pixieset automatically sets a 4-digit download PIN for collections, which applies to both photo
and video downloads. We always recommend keeping the download PIN in place for the protection of your work. To locate the download PIN for a collection: In Collections, select the
collection. Go to Settings > Download. Locate the Download PIN toggle. Tip: The download PIN is intended to be a default layer of protection for your images. To implement
additional protection, see our guide here. Collection download settings5.png Advanced download settings For information on advanced settings like download limits, see Limiting free
downloads and other restrictions Was this article helpful? Related articles Limiting free downloads and other restrictions Your client's download experience Download Sizes -
Available Resolutions Getting Started with Client Gallery Uploading Videos to your Collections Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you
within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Digital Downloads Search Articles in
this section Collection Download Settings Limiting free downloads and other restrictions Download Sizes - Available Resolutions Your client's download experience Downloading photos
to mobile devices Reviewing Collection Download Activity What is my client’s Download PIN? Limiting free downloads and other restrictions Limiting free downloads and other
restrictions1.png Every client relationship is unique and Pixieset’s download options give you full control over how clients can access their images. This guide will walk you
through the advanced settings available, from limiting the number of free photos to restricting downloads to specific clients. For more general settings like enabling downloads
overall, see Collection Download Settings. On this page: Limiting individual downloads Restricting downloads to specific contacts Selecting downloadable sets Limiting PIN usage for
gallery downloads Limiting individual downloads You can add a download limit (per collection or client) to restrict the number of photos that can be downloaded. This option is
useful if you offer a set number of downloads as part of your session package and require payment for additional downloads. To set a download limit: In Collections, select the
collection. Go to Settings > Download > Advanced Settings. Toggle on Limit Photo Downloads. Specify the number of photos that can be downloaded. Tip: If you want to apply the
download limit per client, use this setting alongside the Restrict Downloads to Specific Contacts setting. Limiting free downloads and other restrictions2.png Client experience If
a photo download limit is set for a collection, your client will see a callout each time they start a download showing how many photos they have remaining. Limiting free downloads
and other restrictions3.png Restricting downloads to specific contacts When allowing downloads in a collection, you can set it so that only specific contacts (email addresses) can
download the photos and videos. This option is useful in scenarios where the collection may be shared publicly but only your client has permission to download. In Collections,
select the collection. Go to Settings > Download > Advanced Settings. Toggle on Restrict Downloads to Specific Contacts. Select Add Contacts to create or choose a client email.
Limiting free downloads and other restrictions4.png Client experience If a collection's downloads are limited to specific contacts, anyone that uses a different email address will
see an error when attempting a download. Limiting free downloads and other restrictions5.png Selecting downloadable sets If your collection contains multiple photo sets, you can
choose which photo sets are available to download from. This option is useful if you want clients to download only their final selections while keeping proofs, alternates, or
behind-the-scenes images viewable but not downloadable. Note: This setting applies to gallery downloads, single photo downloads, and favorite list downloads. It does not impact
digital purchases from the collection’s storefront. To customize which sets can be downloaded: In Collections, select the collection. Go to Settings > Download > Advanced Settings.
Under Photo Sets Available for Download, select which sets have downloads enabled. Limiting free downloads and other restrictions6.png Client experience When a set is marked as
unavailable for download, your client will see a tooltip if they try to download a photo from that set. For gallery downloads, they will see a similar note that photos in that set
are excluded. Limiting free downloads and other restrictions7.png Limiting PIN usage for gallery downloads You can limit how many times a download PIN can be used overall for
gallery downloads. This option is useful if you want to discourage a download PIN from being reused or shared widely. Note: This setting only applies to gallery downloads, and it
is hidden if Limit Photo Downloads is turned on. To set a PIN usage limit: In Collections, select the collection. Go to Settings > Download > Advanced Settings. Under Limit PIN
Usage, specify a limit. Limiting free downloads and other restrictions8.png Client experience Once the download PIN limit is met, clients will see a notice explaining their PIN has
expired if they attempt a new gallery download. Limiting free downloads and other restrictions9.png Was this article helpful? Related articles Collection Download Settings Download
Sizes - Available Resolutions Your client's download experience Adding and applying watermarks Getting Started with Client Gallery Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our
support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery
Digital Downloads Search Articles in this section Collection Download Settings Limiting free downloads and other restrictions Download Sizes - Available Resolutions Your client's
download experience Downloading photos to mobile devices Reviewing Collection Download Activity What is my client’s Download PIN? Download Sizes - Available Resolutions Pixieset
makes it easy to provide your clients with different download options depending on your workflow. Photo downloads can be provided in high-resolution (3600px or original resolution)
or web size (640px, 1024px, or 2048px) offerings. Video downloads can be delivered in up to 3840 x 2160px (4K) format, depending on your Client Gallery or Suite plan. Learn more
about the available file types and sizes for uploading here: File size and format requirements for Pixieset On this page: Photo Downloads Download Resolutions Store Downloads Video
Downloads Video Resolution Photo Downloads Photos can be offered as single photo downloads and/or gallery downloads, in the resolution of your choice, depending on the download
settings for your collection. Original resolution downloads from the collection can be offered on any upgraded Client Gallery or Suite plan. resolutions1.png Download Resolutions
Web Size Photos Web size photo downloads are available in three resolutions - sized at 640px, 1024px, and 2048px on the width. As these files are smaller, they are quicker for both
downloading and uploading, and are perfect for sharing on social media. High Resolution Photos High resolution photos are available in 3600px or Original resolution (available on
upgraded Client Gallery or Suite plans): The 3600px files are 3600px on the long edge, which can typically be used to print photos up to poster size canvases (depending on the
original file size), and are more than sufficient for web use. This option provides a balance between download speed/ease of file management and quality. Original resolution files
provide the photo exactly as uploaded, with no compression or resizing. These files will take longer to download and will use more space. Note: If your original image files are
smaller than the resolution you are offering, they will be delivered at the original pixel dimensions. We do not enlarge or upscale your smaller images to fit the larger
resolution. For example, a 600 X 1200px image offered at 3600px resolution will still be delivered as 600 X 1200px. Store Downloads All photo download resolutions are available to
be added to your price sheets for Store purchases. You can choose the download type and size when you add a digital download product: resolutions2.png Learn more here: Selling
Digital Downloads Video Downloads With an upgraded Client Gallery or Suite subscription, you can use the Video Download toggle in your collection’s download settings to turn video
downloads On or Off for your Collection. Videos can be downloaded one at a time, directly to the client’s device. Your client downloads videos from the Collection using the
Download PIN, if required. Video Resolution When a video is downloaded by your client, they will receive an MP4 file in the highest available resolution for your subscription: On
the Basic or Plus Client Gallery plans, videos will be delivered up to 1080p (1920 x 1080px). On the Pro or Ultimate Client Gallery or Suite plans, videos will be delivered up to
4K resolution (3840 x 2160px). Note: Pixieset does not enlarge your videos. If a file is uploaded at 1920 x 1080px (HD) and your subscription allows up to 3840 x 2160px (4K),
Pixieset will not scale up the video to become 4K, and it will be delivered at the original HD resolution. Was this article helpful? Related articles Collection Download Settings
Your client's download experience Adding and applying watermarks Downloading photos to mobile devices Uploading Videos to your Collections Can't find what you're looking for?
Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center
Client Gallery Digital Downloads Search Articles in this section Collection Download Settings Limiting free downloads and other restrictions Download Sizes - Available Resolutions
Your client's download experience Downloading photos to mobile devices Reviewing Collection Download Activity What is my client’s Download PIN? Your client's download experience
Your client’s download experience1.png Your client’s collection is designed to make the download process effortless from start to finish. From full gallery downloads to single
images, videos, and digital orders, the process is built to be straightforward and easy to follow. This guide will go over how downloads work from a client’s perspective, so you
can feel confident in the experience you provide. Note: This guide goes over the download experience for desktop computers. For information on downloading to mobile devices, see
here. On this page: Downloading a full gallery Downloading individual photos Downloading videos Digital download orders Frequently asked questions (FAQ) Downloading a full gallery
If your clients want all their photos at once, the full gallery download option makes it simple. To download the full collection: In the top right, click the Download icon. Enter
an email address and download PIN (if applicable). Click Next. Confirm the sets, download size, and destination. Click Start Download. The gallery download will begin processing
immediately. Your client can leave their browser window open or leave and be notified by email once their photos are ready. Once the gallery download is ready, your client will
receive a ZIP file containing their photos. Your client’s download experience2.gif Downloading individual photos For moments when clients only need one or a few images, they can
download individual photos right from the collection. To download an individual photo: Hover over the photo and click the Download icon. Enter an email address and download PIN (if
applicable). Click Sign in. Confirm the download size and destination. Click Start Download. Once your client has successfully downloaded a photo, they can download additional
images without re-entering their email address or download PIN during the same browser session. Note: If you set a single photo download limit, your client will see the remaining
number of photos they are able to download after entering their email address and PIN. Your client’s download experience3.gif Downloading videos When a collection includes video,
clients can download each clip individually. This process follows the familiar, easy-to-navigate flow of individual photo downloads. To download a video: Hover over the video.
Click the Download icon. Enter an email address and download PIN (if applicable). Click Sign in. Videos are delivered in an MP4 format at the highest available resolution (up to
4K), based on your Pixieset subscription and the original uploaded file. The video download will save to the client’s default browser download folder on their device. Your client’s
download experience4.gif Digital download orders If you sell digital downloads, clients can purchase them through their collection’s storefront. Digital files are delivered via
email upon checkout. To purchase a digital download: Hover over the photo and click Buy. In the Digital section, add the download product to your cart. Click the Cart icon to
proceed to checkout. Note: Clients can also bulk add digital downloads by clicking Print Store and selecting the digital download product. Your client’s download experience5.gif
After purchasing a digital download: The client receives an order confirmation email immediately after purchase. Once the downloads are ready, the client receives a second email
with the download link. You will also receive a copy of this email. The download link opens a webpage where the client can download a ZIP file containing their photos. For security
reasons, the download link expires after 7 days, but you can resend the files at any time. Note: If you enabled Order Delay, digital downloads are temporarily held so you can
review or edit the files before they are delivered. Your client’s download experience6.png Frequently asked questions (FAQ) What is the collection’s download PIN? Why did my client
receive a ZIP file? How do I download as a Pixieset user? What is the collection’s download PIN? By default, each collection requires visitors enter a 4-digit PIN to download its
photos and videos. You can view, change, or deactivate the PIN within the specific collection’s settings. To view a collection’s Download PIN: In Collections, select the
collection. Click Settings > Download. Locate the PIN under Download PIN. Tip: When you send a collection to a client via an email invite, you have the option to include the
Download PIN as part of the invite. Your client’s download experience7.png Why did my client receive a ZIP file? When a client initiates a gallery download, Pixieset delivers the
photos in a ZIP file to make the download faster and more reliable. ZIP files bundle all photos into a single package without affecting image quality. Once the download is
complete, clients can simply unzip the file to view their images. Note: For very large collections, downloads may be split into multiple ZIP files to ensure all images are
delivered without interruption. How do I download as a Pixieset user? As a Pixieset user, you can download photos from your collection in the same way your clients would. Before
downloading, we recommend checking your collection settings to make sure your photos are available in their original resolution. Was this article helpful? Related articles
Collection Download Settings Downloading photos to mobile devices The downloaded file won’t open Selling digital downloads Downloads Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our
support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery
Digital Downloads Search Articles in this section Collection Download Settings Limiting free downloads and other restrictions Download Sizes - Available Resolutions Your client's
download experience Downloading photos to mobile devices Reviewing Collection Download Activity What is my client’s Download PIN? Downloading photos to mobile devices When your
clients view their collections on the go, they can download photos and videos right to their mobile device. This process can differ slightly from the desktop experience, and this
article will walk through the steps. Note: Your collection’s settings determine the download options the client sees. For more information, see Collection Download Settings. On
this page: Downloading a full gallery Downloading individual photos Downloading videos Downloading a full gallery To download the entire collection on a mobile device: In the top
right, tap ⋮ > Download. Enter an email address and download PIN (if applicable). Tap Next. Confirm the sets, download size, and destination. Tap Start Download. When saving
locally to an iPhone or Android, full gallery downloads are delivered in a ZIP file to ensure a faster, reliable transfer. If saving to Google Photos and Dropbox, clients will be
prompted to sign in to the service and complete the download. Tip: Your client’s mobile device can unzip files natively. Learn how to unzip files on iPhone here or Android here.
Downloading on mobile devices1.png Downloading individual photos To download a single photo in the collection: Tap on the image. Select the Download icon. Enter an email address
and download PIN (if applicable). Tap Next. Select the download size and destination. Tap Download Photo. On iPhone, a new browser window opens with instructions to long-press the
photo to save it. On Android, the photo downloads immediately. If saving to Google Photos or Dropbox, clients will be prompted to sign in to the service and complete the download.
Tip: Depending on the application’s settings, the photos may be organized by their metadata (e.g. date taken). We recommend sorting by date saved, where applicable. Downloading on
mobile devices2.png Downloading videos To download a video in the collection: On the video, tap the Download icon. Enter an email address and download PIN (if applicable). In the
pop-up that appears, select Download. Videos are always downloaded directly to the mobile device’s local storage, typically the Files app for both iPhone and Android. Downloading
on mobile devices3.png Was this article helpful? Related articles Collection Download Settings Your client's download experience Downloads Download Sizes - Available Resolutions
Reviewing Collection Download Activity Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All
rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Digital Downloads Search Articles in this section Collection Download Settings Limiting free
downloads and other restrictions Download Sizes - Available Resolutions Your client's download experience Downloading photos to mobile devices Reviewing Collection Download
Activity What is my client’s Download PIN? Reviewing Collection Download Activity In Pixieset it’s easy to review your client’s download activity within their Collection. This
guide will walk you through reviewing activity for full Gallery Downloads, Single Photo, and Video Downloads. You’ll also learn how to help your clients locate and receive their
download links. You can learn more about adjusting your Download Settings here. On this Page: Accessing the Collection’s Download Activity Reviewing Gallery Downloads Reviewing
Single Photo Downloads Reviewing Video Downloads Troubleshooting Missing Gallery Download Links Accessing the Collection’s Download Activity From your Collection’s Download
Activities area, you will be able to review which clients generated full Gallery Downloads, Single Photos and Video Downloads from their gallery directly. From your Collection
Listings page, select the Collection > Activities tab > Download. DL-activity1.png Note: Digital Downloads that are purchased through your Store will not be listed within the
Download Activities page. You can review these by going to Store > Orders. Reviewing Gallery Downloads You can review each gallery download initiated from the Collection from the
Gallery tab on the page as shown above. You'll be shown the resolution that was chosen, which Sets were downloaded, which PIN was used (if applicable), as well as the date the
download was initiated. You can easily export a .CSV File of the collection's download activity using the "Export" button. Reviewing Single Photo Downloads By clicking on the
Single photo tab, you'll be able to review the Single Photo downloads that have been initiated from the Collection. DL-activity2.png Single Photo Downloads will only be shown on
this page if the Single Photo Download Email Tracking option has been checked for Single Photo Downloads. To set this up, head to the Settings tab > Download > ensure that Photo
Downloads are turned On > and under the Photo Download Options, select Single Photo Download Email Tracking. DL-activity3.png Reviewing Video Downloads By clicking on the Single
video tab, you'll be able to review the video downloads that were initiated from the Collection. DL-activity4.png Troubleshooting Missing Gallery Download Links If your client has
initiated a Gallery Download but is having trouble receiving or using the link there are a few ways you can help them: Larger Gallery Downloads (5-10 GB or more) can take some time
to generate, but your client will receive the download link via email as soon as the download has been processed. Your client may have entered their email address with a typo which
you can review through the Gallery Download Activity. This can help you advise your client to generate the download again using the correct address. If your client has entered
their email address correctly, but it has not been received, it may be in their Junk or Spam folders. If your client notices their download link has expired, this is because all
download links are designed to expire after 7 days for security purposes. They can simply generate a new download from your gallery to receive a new link. Was this article helpful?
Related articles Collection Download Settings Downloading photos to mobile devices Downloads Setting up Google Analytics for your Client Galleries Getting Started with Client
Gallery Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help
Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Digital Downloads Search Articles in this section Collection Download Settings Limiting free downloads and other
restrictions Download Sizes - Available Resolutions Your client's download experience Downloading photos to mobile devices Reviewing Collection Download Activity What is my
client’s Download PIN? What is my client’s Download PIN? Pixieset automatically sets a 4-digit download PIN for each collection, which applies to both photo and video downloads. We
always recommend keeping the download PIN in place for the protection of your work. To locate the download PIN for a collection: In Collections, select the collection. Go to
Settings > Download. Locate the Download PIN toggle. DownloadPIN.png Tip: When sharing a collection via email, you can include the Download PIN so your client has everything they
need to access their photos. DownloadPIN2.png Was this article helpful? Related articles Collection Download Settings Uploading Videos to your Collections Download Sizes -
Available Resolutions Limiting free downloads and other restrictions Using Gallery Assist with Your Collections Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll
get back to you within 24 hours. Contact Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Troubleshooting
Search Articles in this section Troubleshooting Upload Errors and Processing Issues Why is my upload speed really slow? Why is the File Size Small on Download? My Client Cannot
Access Their Collection With The Collection Password Why do my uploaded images look different on Pixieset or Mobile? The downloaded file won’t open How do I install the Lightroom
Plugin? How do I check my Lightroom Pixieset Plugin Export Settings? Reviewing a Collection's Email Invite History My client has not received their Email Invite See more
Troubleshooting Upload Errors and Processing Issues Seeing an error while uploading your files into a collection? Find out why, and troubleshoot in three steps.
troubleshooting1.png If you’re having trouble uploading your files in Client Gallery, your dashboard will provide more information on how to resolve this. Helpful messages will be
displayed in the uploader next to the files in question, which should point you in the right direction. If you’re stuck, we recommend the troubleshooting steps below as a starting
point. Note: If you’re experiencing slow upload speeds specifically, we have a troubleshooting guide here. On this page: Common error messages Troubleshooting Common error messages
File type not supported: The file you’re trying to upload is not a supported format in Pixieset. Check your file extension (ie. JPEG, GIF). If you’re unsure you can refer to our
helpful guide to supported image and video files here. Size exceeds specified limit: The file you’re trying to upload exceed the maximum size supported for files of this type in
Pixieset. The limit (depending on the type of file) will be shown in the error message, but you can also refer to our guide here for more information. Troubleshooting If your
dashboard doesn't show a clear error message about why your files aren't uploading or processing successfully, try these steps in order: Double-check your file sizes and format.
Please ensure that there are no special characters in your filenames, and that you are uploading supported files. You can always refer to our file size/format guide here. Update
your browser. Make sure you are using the most up-to-date version of Chrome, Safari, or Firefox. Clear your browser cache or switch browsers to see if this helps. Troubleshoot your
internet connection. Restart your device and router, or test using a different internet connection. You may also wish to run a network speed test, which you can do here:
https://www.speedtest.net/ If you require further assistance, please contact our support team. Be sure to detail your experience and the troubleshooting tips you’ve tried. We're
always happy to help. Was this article helpful? Related articles File size and format requirements for Pixieset Uploading Videos to your Collections Download Sizes - Available
Resolutions Getting Started with Client Gallery Creating Mini Sessions Can't find what you're looking for? Contact our support staff. We'll get back to you within 24 hours. Contact
Us Copyright 2025 Pixieset. All rights reserved. PIXIESET Help Center Contact Us Pixieset - Help Center Client Gallery Troubleshooting Search Articles in this section
Troubleshooting Upload Errors and Processing Issues Why is my upload speed really slow? Why is the File Size Small on Download? My Client Cannot Access Their Collection With The
Collection Password Why do my uploaded images look different on Pixieset or Mobile? The downloaded file won’t open How do I install the Lightroom Plugin? How do I check my
Lightroom Pixieset Plugin Export Settings? Reviewing a Collection's Email Invite History My client has not received their Email Invite See more Why is my upload speed really slow?
If you are experiencing slow uploads there could be a variety of factors for this. This article will help guide you through troubleshooting steps to help ensure your files upload
quickly to Pixieset. If you are experiencing other uploading or processing issues, please refer to our guide Troubleshooting Uploading and Processing Issues/Errors. Step 1: Check
your upload speed Your download and upload speed are limited by your Internet Service Provider (e.g. AT&T). To get a feel for how fast your connection is, restart your device and
router then run a speed test at https://www.speedtest.net/. We recommend an upload speed of at least 10000 Kbps. (10 Mbps). If you're experiencing much slower upload speeds to our
server as compared to your speed test results, you can proceed to the next step. Step 2: Troubleshoot your browser Your browser may be the cause of slow uploading speeds. We
currently support Chrome, Safari, and Firefox for uploading to Pixieset. There are a few things you can do to solve the problem: Clear Cache: Clearing your browser’s cache may help
speed things up. You can find the steps for your browser using the article here. Update your browser: We generally recommend using the most updated version of your browser. Switch
your browser: To help rule out browser-related issues, you can try a different browser and see if the upload experience is any different. Step 3: Troubleshoot your network Your
