self-expression and the praise of photography as a superior way of putting the self at reality's service there is not as much difference as might appear. Both presuppose that
photography provides a unique system of disclosures: that it shows us reality as we had not seen it before. This revelatory character of photography generally goes by the polemical
name of realism. From Fox Talbot's view that the camera produces "natural images" to Berenice Abbott's denunciation of "pictorial" photography to Cartier-Bresson's On Photography
93 warning that "the thing to be feared most is the artificially contrived," most of the contradictory declarations of photographers converge on pious avowals of respect for
things-as-they-are. For a medium so often considered to be merely realistic, one would think photographers would not have to go on as they do, exhorting each other to stick to
realism. But the exho11ations continue-another instance of the need photographers have for making something mysterious and urgent of the process by which they appropriate the
world. To insist, as Abbott does, that realism is the very essence of photography does not, as it might seem, establish the superiority of one pru1icular procedure or standard;
does not necessarily mean that photo-documents (Abbott's word) are better than pictorial photographs.· Photography's commitment to realism can accommodate any style, any approach
to subject matter. Sometimes it will be defined more narrowly, as the making of images which resemble, and inform us about, the world. Interpreted more broadly, echoing the
distrust of mere likeness which has inspired painting for more than a centwy, photographic realism can be-is more and more-defined not as what is "really" there but as what I
"really" perceive. While all modern forms of art claim some privileged relation to reality, the claim seems particularly justified in the case of photography. Yet photography has
not, finally, any more immune than painting has to the most characteristic modern doubts about any straightforward relation to reality-the inability to take for granted the world
as observed. Even Abbott cannot help assuming a change in the veq nature of reality: that it needs the selective, more acute eye of the camera, there being simply much more of it
than ever before. "Today, we ' The original meaning of pictorial was, of course, the positive one popularized by the most famous of the nineteenth-century art photographers, Henry
Peach Robinson, in his book Pictorial Effect in Photography (1869). "His system was to flatter everything," Abbott says in a manifesto she wrote in 1951, "Photography at the
Crossroads." Praising Nadar, Brady, Atget, and Hine as masters of the photo-document, Abbott dismisses Stieglitz as Robinson's heir, founder of a "superpictorial school" in which,
once again, "subjectivity predominated." On Photography 94 are confronted with reality on the vastest scale mankind has known," she declares, and this puts "a greater
responsibility on the photographer." All that photography's program of realism actually implies is the belief that reality is hidden. And, being hidden, is something to be
unveiled. Whatever the camera records is a disclosure-whether it is imperceptible, fleeting parts of movement, an order that natural vision is incapable of perceiving or a
"heightened reality" (Moholy-Nagy's phrase), or simply the elliptical way of seeing. What Stieglitz describes as his "patient waiting for the moment of equilibrium" makes the same
assumption about the essential hiddenness of the real as Robet1 Frank's waiting for the moment of revealing disequilibrium, to catch reality off-guard, in what he calls the
"in-between moments." Just to show something, anything, in the photographic view is to show that it is hidden. But it is not necessary for photographers to point up the mystery
with exotic or exceptionally striking subjects. When Dorothea La nge urges her colleagues to concentrate on "the familiar," it is with the understanding that the familiar, rendered
by a sensitive use of the camera, will thereby become mysterious. Photography's commitment to realism does not limit photography to ce1tain subjects, as more real than others, but
rather illustrates the formalist understanding of what goes on in every work of ru1: reality is, in Viktor Shklovsky's word, de-familiarized. What is being urged is an aggressive
relation to all subjects. Armed with their machines, photographers are to make an assault on reality-which is perceived as recalcitrant, as only deceptively available, as unreal.
"The pictures have a reality for me that the people don't," Avedon has declared. "It is through the photographs that I know them." To claim that photography must be realistic is
not incompatible with opening up an even wider gap between image and reality, in which the mysteriously acquired knowledge (and the enhancement of reality) supplied by photographs
presumes a prior alienation from or devaluation of reality. As photographers describe it, picture-taking is both a limitless On Photography 95 technique for appropnatmg the
objective world and an unavoidably solipsistic expression ofthe singular self. Photographs depict realities that already exist, though only the camera can disclose them. And they
depict an individual temperament, discovering itself through the camera's cropping of reality. For Moholy-Nagy the genius of photography lies in its ability to render "an objective
portrait: the individual to be photographed so that the photographic result shall not be encumbered with subjective intention." For Lange every portrait of another person is a
"self-portrait" of the photographer, as for Minor White-promotin g "self-discovery through a camera"-landscape photographs are really "inner landscapes." The two ideals are
antithetical. Insofar as photography is (or should be) about the world, the photographer counts for little, but insofar as it is the instrument of intrepid, questing subjectivity,
the photographer is all. Moholy-Nagy's demand for the photographer's self-effacement follows from his appreciation of how edifying photography is: it retains and upgrades our
powers of observation, it brings about "a psychological transformation of our eyesight.', (In an essay published in 1936, he says that photography creates or enlarges eight
distinct varieties of seeing: abstract, exact, rapid, slow, intensified, penetrative, simultaneous, and distorted.) But self-effacement is also the demand behind quite different,
anti-scientific approaches to photography, such as that expressed in Robert Frank's credo: "There is one thing the photograph must contain, the humanity of the moment." In both
views the photographer is proposed as a kind of ideal observer-for Moholy-Nagy, seeing with the detachment of a researcher; for Frank, seeing "simply, as through the eyes of the
man in the street." One attraction of any view of the photographer as ideal observer-whether impersonal (Moholy-Nagy) or friendly (Frank)-is that it implicitly denies that
picture-taking is in any way an aggressive act. That it can be so described makes most professionals extremely defensive. Cartier-Bresson and Avedon are among the very few to have
talked honestly (if ruefully) about On Photography 96 the exploitative aspect of the photographer's activities. Usually photographers feel obliged to protest photography's
innocence, claiming that the predatory attitude is incompatible with a good picture, and hoping that a more affirmative vocabula1y will put over their point. One of the more
memorable examples of such verbiage is Ansel Adams's description of the camera as an "instrument of love and revelation"; Adams also urges that we stop saying that we "take" a
picture and always say we "make" one. Stieglitz's name for the cloud studies he did in the late 1920s-"Equivalents," that is, statements ofhis inner feelings-is another, soberer
instance of the persistent effort of photographers to feature the benevolent character of picture-taking and discount its predatory implications. What talented photographers do
cannot of course be characterized either as simply predatory or as simply, and essentially, benevolent. Photography is the paradigm of an inherently equivocal connection between
self and world-its version of tl1e ideology of realism sometimes dictating an effacement of the self in relation to the world, sometimes authorizing an aggressive relation to the
world which celebrates the self. One side or the other of the connection is always being rediscovered and championed. An important result of the coexistence of these two
ideals-assault on reality and subrnission to reality-is a recurrent ambivalence toward photography's means. Whatever the claims for photography as a form of personal expression on
a par with painting, it remains true that its originality is inextricably linked to the powers ofthe machine: no one can deny the informativeness and formal beauty of many
photographs made possible by the steady growth of these powers, like Harold Edge1ton's high -speed photographs of a bullet hitting its target, of the swirls and eddies of a tennis
stroke, or Lennart Nilsson's endoscopic photographs of the interior of the human body. But as cameras get ever more sophisticated, more automated, more acute, some photographers
are tempted to disarm themselves or to suggest that they are really not armed, and prefer to submit themselves to the limits imposed by a pre-modern camera technology-a cruder,
less high-powered machine being thought to give more interesting or expressive On Photography 97 results, to leave more room for the creative accident. Not using fancy equipment
has been a point of honor for many photographers-including Weston, Brandt, Evans, Cattier-Bresson, Frank-some sticking with a battered camera of simple design and slow lens that
they acquired early in their careers, some continuing to make their contact prints with nothing more elaborate than a few trays, a bottle of developer, and a bottle ofhypo
solution. The camera is indeed the instrument of «fast seeing," as one confident modernist, Alvin Langdon Coburn, declared in 1 9 1 8, echoing the Futurist apotheosis of machines
and speed. Photography's present mood of doubt can be gauged by Cartier-Bresson's recent statement that it may be too fast. The cult of the future ( offaster and faster seeing)
alternates with the wish to return to a more artisanal, purer past-when images still had a handmade quality, an aura. This nostalgia for some pristine state of the photographic
enterprise underlies the current enthusiasm for daguerreotypes, stereograph cards, photographic cartes de visite, family snapshots, the work offorgotten nineteenth­ and
early-twentieth-century provincial and commercial photographers. But the reluctance to use the newest high-powered equipment is not the only or indeed the most interesting way in
which photographers express their attraction to photography's past. The primitivist hankerings that inform em-rent photographic taste are actually being aided by the ceaseless
innovativeness of camera technology. For many of these advances not only enlarge the camera's powers but also recapitulate-in a more ingenious, less cumbersome form-earlier,
discarded possibilities ofthe medium. Thus, the development of photography hinges on the replacement of the daguerreotype process, direct positives on metal plates, by the
positive-negative process, whereby from an original (negative) an unlimited number ofprints (positives) can be made. (Although invented simultaneously in the late 1 830s, it was
Daguerre's government-supported invention, announced in 1839 with great publicity, rather than Fox Talbot's positive-negative process, that was the first photographic process in
general use.) But now the On Photography 98 camera could be said to be turning back upon itself. The Polaroid camera revives the principle of the daguerreotype camera: each print
is a unique object. The hologram (a three-dimensional image created with laser light) could be considered a variant on the heliogram-the first, cameraless photographs made in the
1820s by Nicephore Niepce. And the increasingly popular use of the camera to produce slides-images which cannot be displayed permanently or stored in wallets and albums, but can
only be projected on walls or on paper (as aids for drawing)-goes back even further into the camera's pre-history, for it amounts to using the photographic camera to do the work of
the camera obscura. "History is pushing us to the brink of a realistic age," according to Abbott, who summons photographers to make the jump themselves. But while photographers are
perpetually urging each other to be bolder, a doubt persists about the value of realism which keeps them oscillating between simplicity and irony, between insisting on control and
cultivating the unexpected, between the eagerness to take advantage of the complex evolution of the medium and the wish to reinvent photography from scratch. Photographers seem to
need periodically to resist their own knowingness and to remystifywhat they do. Questions about knowledge are not, historically, photography's first line of defense. The earliest
controversies center on the question of whed1er photography's fidelity to appearances and dependence on a machine did not prevent it from being a fine art-as distinct from a merely
practical art, an arm of science, and a trade. (That photographs give useful and often startling kinds of information was obvious from the beginning. Photographers only started
worrying about what they knew, and what kind ofknowledge in a deeper sense a photograph supplies, after photography was accepted as an art.) For about a century the defense of
photography was identical with the struggle to establish it as a fine art. Against the charge that photography was a soulless, mechanical copying of reality, photographers asserted
that it was a vanguard revolt against ordinary standards of seeing, no less worthy an art than painting. On Photography 99 Now photographers are choosier about the claims they
make. Since photography has become so entirely respectable as a branch of the fine arts, they no longer seek the shelter that the notion of art has intermittently given the
photographic enterprise. For all the important American photographers who have proudly identified their work with the aims of art ( like Stieglitz, White, Siskind, Callahan, Lange,
Laughlin), there are many more who disavow the question itself. Whether or not the camera's "results come under the category of Art is irrelevant," Strand wrote in the 1920s; and
Moholy-Nagy declared it "quite unimportant whether photography produces 'art' or not." Photographers who came to maturity in the 1940s or later are bolder, openly snubbing art,
equating art with artiness. They generally claim to be finding, recording, impartially observing, witnessing, exploring themselves-anything but making works of art. At first, it
was photography's commitment to realism that placed it in a permanently ambivalent relation to art; now it is its modernist heritage. The fact that important photographers are no
longer willing to debate whether photography is or is not a fine art, except to proclaim that their work is not involved with art, shows the extent to which they simply take for
granted the concept of art imposed by the triumph of modernism: the better the art, the more subversive it is of the traditional aims of art. And modernist taste has welcomed this
unpretentious activity that can be consumed, almost in spite of itself, as high art. Even in the nineteenth century, when photography was thought to be so evidently in need of
defense as a fine art, the line of defense was far from stable. Julia Margaret Cameron's claim that photography qualifies as an art because, like painting, it seeks the beautiful
was succeeded by Henry Peach Robinson's Wildean claim that photography is an art because it can lie. In the early twentieth century Alvin Langdon Coburn's praise of photography as
"the most modern of the arts," because it is a fast, impersonal way of seeing, competed with Weston's praise of photography as a new means of individual visual creation. In recent
decades the notion of art has been exhausted as an instrument of polemic; indeed, a good part of the immense prestige that photography On Photography 100 has acquired as an art
form comes from its declared ambivalence toward being an art. When photographers now deny that they are making works of art, it is because they think they are doing something
better than that. Their disclaimers tell us more about the harried status of any notion of art than about whether photography is or isn't one. Despite the efforts of contemporary
photographers to exorcise the specter of art, something lingers. For instance, when professionals object to having their photographs printed to the edge of the page in books or
magazines, they are invoking the model inherited from another art: as paintings are put in frames, photographs should be framed in white space. Another instance: many photographers
continue to prefer black-and-white images, which are felt to be more tactful, more decorous than color-or less voyeuristic and less sentimental or crudely lifelike. But the real
basis for this preference is, once again, an implicit comparison with painting. In the introduction to his book of photographs The Decisive Moment ( 1952), Cartier-Bresson
justified his unwillingness to use color by citing technical limitations: the slow speed of color film, which reduces the depth of focus. But with the rapid progress in color-film
technology during the last two decades, making possible all the tonal subtlety and high resolution one might desire, Cartier-Bresson has had to shift his ground, and now proposes
that photographers renounce color as a matter of principle. In Ca11ier-Bresson' s version of that persistent myth according to which-following the camera's invention-a division of
territory took place between photography and painting, color belongs to painting. He enjoins photographers to resist temptation and keep up their side of the bargain. Those still
involved in defining photography as an a11 are always trying to hold some lille. But it is impossible to hold the line: any attempt to restrict photography to certain subjects or
certain techniques, however fruitful these have proved to be, is bound to be challenged and to collapse. For it is in the very nature of photography that it be a promiscuous form
of seeing, and, in talented hands, an infallible medium of creation. (As John Szarkowski observes, "a skillful photographer can photograph On Photography I0l anything well.")
Hence, its longstanding quarrel with art, which (until recently) meant the results of a discriminating or purified way of seeing, and a medium of creation governed by standards
that make genuine achievement a rarity. Understandably, photographers have been reluctant to give up the attempt to define more narrowly what good photography is. The history of
photography is punctuated by a series of dualistic controversies-such as the straight print versus the doctored print, pictorial photography versus documentary photography-each of
which is a different form of the debate about photography's relation to art: how close it can get while still retaining its claim to unlimited visual acquisition. Recently, it has
become common to maintain that all these controversies are now outmoded, which suggests that the debate has been settled. But it is unlikely that the defense of photography as art
will ever completely subside. As long as photography is not only a voracious way of seeing but one which needs to claim that it is a special, distinctive way, photographers will
continue to take shelter (if only covertly) in the defiled but still prestigious precincts of art. Photographers who suppose they are getting away from the pretensions of art as
exemplified in painting by taking pictures remind us of those Abstract Expressionist painters who imagined they were getting away from art, or A11, by the act of painting (that is,
by treating the canvas as a field of action rather than as an object). And much of the prestige that photography has recently acquired as an art is based on the convergence of its
claims with those of more recent painting and sculpture: The · The claims ofphotography are, of course, much older. For the now familiar practice that substitutes encOtmter for
fabrication, found objects or situations for made (or made-up) ones, decision for effort, the prototype is photography's instant att through the mediation of a machine. It was
photography that first put into circulation the idea of an art that is produced not by pregnancy and childbirth but by a blind date (Duchamp's theory of "rendezvous" ). But
professional photographers are much less secure thau their Duchamp-influenced contemporaries in the estabushed fu1e arts, and generally hasten to point out that a moment's decision
presupposes a long training of On Photography 102 seemingly insatiable appetite for photography in the 1970s expresses more than the pleasure of discovering and exploring a
relatively neglected art form; it derives much of its fervor from the desire to reaffirm the dismissal of abstract a11 which was one of the messages of the pop taste of the 1960s.
Paying more and more attention to photographs is a great reliefto sensibilities tired of, or eager to avoid, the mental exertions demanded by abstract art. Classical modernist
painting presupposes highly developed skills oflooking, and a familiarity with other a11 and with certain notions about the history of art. Photography, like pop art, reassures
viewers that art isn't hard; it seems to be more about subjects than about art. Photography is the most successful vehicle of modernist taste in its pop version, with its zeal for
debunking the high culture of the past (focusing on shards, junk, odd stuff; excluding nothing); its conscientious courting of vulgarity; its affection for kitsch; its skill in
reconciling avant-garde ambitions with the rewards of commercialism; its pseudoradical patronizing ofart as reactionary, elitist, snobbish, insincere, artificial, out oftouch with
the broad truths of everyday life; its transformation of art into cultural document. At the same time, photography has gradually acquired all the anxieties and self-consciousness
of a classic modernist art. Many professionals are now worried that this populist strategy is being carried too far, and that the public will forget that photography is, after all,
a noble and exalted activity-in short, an art. For the modernist promotion of nai:ve a11 always contains a joker: that one continue to honor its hidden claim to sophistication. It
cannot be a coincidence that just about the time that photographers stopped discussing whether photography is an art, it was acclaimed as one by the general public and photography
entered, in force, into the museum. The musewn's naturalization of photography as art is the conclusive victory of the century-long sensibility, of the eye, and to insist that the
effortlessness of picture-taking does not make the photographer any less of an artificer than a painter. On Photography 103 campaign waged by modernist taste on behalf ofan
open-ended definition of art, photography offering a much more suitable terrain than painting for this effort. For the line between amateur and professional, primitive and
sophisticated is not just harder to draw with photography than it is with painting-it has little meaning. NaiVe or commercial or merely utilitarian photography is no different in
kind from photography as practiced by the most gifted professionals: there are pictures taken by anonymous amateurs which are just as interesting, as complex formally, as
representative of photography's characteristic powers as a Stieglitz or an Evans. That all the different kinds of photography form one continuous and interdependent tradition is
the once stattling, now obvious-seeming assumption which underlies contemporary photographic taste and authorizes the indefinite expansion of that taste. To make this assumption
only became plausible when photography was taken up by curators and historians and regularly exhibited in museums and art galleries. Photography's career in the museum does not
reward any particular style; rather, it presents photography as a collection of simultaneous intentions and styles which, however different, are not perceived as in any way
conttadictory. But while the operation has been a huge success with the public, the response of photography professionals is mixed. Even as they welcome photography's new
legitimacy, many of them feel threatened when the most ambitious images are discussed in direct continuity with all sorts of images, from photojournalism to scientific photography
to family snapshots-charging that this reduces photography to something trivial, vulgar, a mere craft. The real problem with bringing functional photographs, photographs taken for
a practical purpose, on commercial assignment, or as souvenirs, into the mainstream of photographic achievement is not that it demeans photography, considered as a fine art, but
that the procedure contradicts the nature of most photographs. In most uses of the camera, the photograph's na'ive or descriptive function is paramount. But when viewed in their
new context, the museum or gallery, photographs cease to be On Photography 104 "about" their subjects in the same direct or primary way; they become studies in the possibilities of
photography. Photography's adoption by the museum makes photography itself seem problematic, in the way experienced only by a small number of self-conscious photographers whose
work consists precisely in questioning the camera's ability to grasp reality. The eclectic museum collections reinforce the arbitrariness, the subjectivity of all photographs,
including the most straightforwardly descriptive ones. Putting on shows of photographs has become as featured a musewn activity as mounting shows of individual painters. But a
photographer is not like a painter, the role of the photographer being recessive in much of serious picture-taking and virtually irrelevant in all the ordinary uses. So far as we
care about the subject photographed, we expect the photographer to be an extremely discreet presence. Thus, the very success of photojournalism lies in the difficulty of
distinguishing one superior photographer's work from another's, except insofar as he or she has monopolized a particular subject. These photographs have their power as images (or
copies) of the world, not of an individual artist's consciousness. And in the vast majority of photographs which get taken-for scientific and industrial purposes, by the press, by
the military and the police, by families-any trace of the personal vision of whoever is behind the camera interferes with the primary demand on the photograph: that it record,
diagnose, inform. It makes sense that a painting is signed but a photograph is not (or it seems bad taste if it is). The very nature of photography implies an equivocal relation to
the photographer as auteur, and the bigger and more varied the work done by a talented photographer, the more it seems to acquire a kind of corporate rather than individual
authorship. Many of the published photographs by photography's greatest names seem like work that could have been done by another gifted professional of their period. [t requires a
formal conceit (like Todd Walker's solarized photographs or Duane Michals's narrative-sequence photographs) or a thematic obsession (like Eakins with the male nude or On
Photography lOS Laughlin with the Old South) to make work easily recognizable. For photographers who don't so limit themselves, their body of work does not have the same integrity
as does comparably varied work in other art forms. Even in those careers with the sharpest breaks of period and style-think of Picasso, of Stravinsky--one can perceive the unity of
concerns that transcends these breaks and can (retrospectively) see the inner relation of one period to another. Knowing the whole body of work, one can see how the same composer
could have written Le Sacre du printemps, the Dumbarton Oaks Concerto, and the late neo-Schoenbergian works; one recognizes Stravinsky's hand in all these compositions. But there
is no internal evidence for identifying as the work of a single photographer (indeed, one of the most interesting and original of photographers) those studies of human and animal
motion, the documents brought back from photo-expeditions in Central America, the government-sponsored camera surveys of Alaska and Yosemite, and the "Clouds, and "Trees, series.
Even after knowing they were all taken by Muybridge, one still can't relate these series of pictures to each other (though each series has a coherent, recognizable style), any more
than one could infer the way Atget photographed trees from the way he photographed Paris shop windows, or connect Roman Vishniac's pre-war portraits of Polish Jews with the
scientific microphotographs he has been taking since 1945. In photography the subject matter always pushes through, with different subjects creating unbridgeable gaps between one
period and another of a large body of work, confounding signature. Indeed, the very presence of a coherent photographic style-think of the white backgrounds and flat lighting of
Avedon' s portraits, of the distinctive grisaille ofAtget's Paris street studies-seems to imply unified material. And subject matter seems to have the largest part in shaping a
viewer's preferences. Even when photographs are isolated from the practical context in which they may originally have been taken, and looked at as works of art, to prefer one
photograph to another seldom means only that the photograph is judged to be superior formally; it almost always means-as in more casual kinds oflooking-that On Photography 106 the
viewer prefers that kind of mood, or respects that intention, or is intrigued by (or feels nostalgic about) that subject. The formalist approaches to photography cannot account for
the power of what has been photographed, and the way distance in time and cultural distance from the photograph increase our interest. Still, it seems logical that contemporary
photographic taste has taken a largely formalist direction. Although the natural or na'ive status of subject matter in photography is more secure than in any other representational
art, the very plurality of situations in which photographs are looked at complicates and eventually weakens the primacy of subject matter. The conflict of interest between
objectivity and subjectivity, between demonstration and supposition, is unresolvable. While the authority of a photograph will always depend on the relation to a subject (that it
is a photograph of something), all claims on behalf of photography as art must emphasize the subjectivity of seeing. There is an equivocation at the heart of all aesthetic
evaluations of photographs; and this explains the chronic defensiveness and extreme mutability of photographic taste. For a brief time-say, from Stieglitz through the reign of
Weston-it appeared that a solid point of view had been erected with which to evaluate photographs: impeccable lighting, skill of composition, clarity of subject, precision of
focus, perfection of print quality. But this position, generally thought of as Westonian-essentially technical criteria for what makes a photograph good-is now bankrupt. (Weston's
deprecating appraisal of the great Atget as "not a fine technician" shows its limitations.) What position has replaced Weston's? A much more inclusive one, with criteria which
shift the center of judgment from the individual photograph, considered as a fmished object, to the photograph considered as an example of ((photographic seeing." What is meant by
photographic seeing would hardly exclude Weston's work but it would also include a large number of anonymous, unposed, crudely lit, asymmetrically composed photographs formerly
dismissed for their lack of composition. The new position aims to liberate photography, as art, from the On Photography 107 oppressive standards of technical perfection; to
liberate photography from beauty, too. It opens up the possibility of a global taste, in which no subject (or absence of subject) , no technique (or absence of technique)
disqualifies a photograph. While in principle all subjects are worthy pretexts for exercising the photographic way of seeing, the convention has arisen that photographic seeing is
clearest in offbeat or trivial subject matter. Subjects are chosen because they are boring or banal. Because we are indifferent to them, they best show up the ability of the camera
to "see." When Irving Penn, known for his handsome photographs of celebrities and food for fashion magazines and ad agencies, was given a show at the Museum of Modern Art in 1975,
it was for a series of close-ups of cigarette butts. "One might guess," commented the director of the museum's Department of Photography, John Szarkowski, "that [Penn] has only
rarely enjoyed more than a cursory interest in the nominal subjects of his pictures." Writing about another photographer, Szarkowski commends what can "be coaxed from subject
matter" that is "profow1dly banal." Photography's adoption by the museum is now firmly associated with those important modernist conceits: the "nominal subject" and the "profoundly
banal." But this approach not only diminishes the importance of subject matter; it also loosens the photograph from its connection with a single photographer. The photographic way
of seeing is far from exhaustively illustrated by the many one-photographer shows and retrospectives that museums now put on. To be legitimate as an art, photography must cultivate
the notion of the photographer as auteur and of all photographs taken by the same photographer as constituting a body of work. These notions are easier to apply to some
photographers than to others. They seem more applicable to, say, Man Ray, whose style and purposes straddle photographic and painterly norms, than to Steichen, whose work includes
abstractions, portraits, ads for consumer goods, fashion photographs. and aerial reconnaissance photographs (taken during his militatycareer in both world wars). But the meanings
that a photograph acquires when seen as part of an individual body of work are not particularly to the point On Photography 108 when the criterion is photographic seeing. Rather,
such an approach must necessarily favor the new meanings that any one picture acquires when juxtaposed-in ideal anthologies, either on museum walls or in books-with the work of
other photographers. Such anthologies are meant to educate taste about photography in general; to teach a form of seeing which makes all subjects equivalent. When Szarkowski
describes gas stations, empty living rooms, and other bleak subjects as "patterns of random facts in the service of [the photographer's] imagination," what he really means is that
these subjects are ideal for the camera. The ostensibly formalist, neutral criteria of photographic seeing are in fact powerfully judgmental about subjects and about styles. The
revaluation of na'ive or casual nineteenth-century photographs, particularly those which were taken as humble records, is partly due to their sharp-focus style-a pedagogic
corrective to the "pictorial" soft focus which, from Cameron to Stieglitz, was associated with photography's claim to be an art. Yet the standards of photographic seeing do not
imply an unalterable commitment to sharp focus. Whenever serious photography is felt to have been purged of outmoded relations to art and to prettiness, it could just as well
accommodate a taste for pictorial photography, for abstraction, for noble subjects rather than cigarette butts and gas stations and turned backs. The language in which photographs
are generally evaluated is extremely meager. Sometimes it is parasitical on the vocabulary of painting: composition, light, and so forth. More often it consists in the vaguest
sorts of judgments, as when photographs are praised for being subtle, or interesting, or powerful, or complex, or simple, or-a favorite-deceptively simple. The reason the language
is poor is not fortuitous: say, the absence of a rich tradition of photographic criticism. It is something inherent in photography itself, whenever it is viewed as an art.
Photography proposes a process of imagination and an appeal to taste quite different from that of painting (at least as traditionally conceived) . Indeed, the difference between a
good On Photography 109 photograph and a bad photograph is not at all like the difference between a good and a bad painting. The norms of aesthetic evaluation worked out for
painting depend on criteria of authenticity (and fakeness), and of craftsmanship-criteria that are more permissive or simply non-existent for photography. And while the tasks of
connoisseurship in painting invariably presume the organic relation of a painting to an individual body ofwork with its own integrity, and to schools and iconographical traditions,
in photography a large individual body of work does not necessarily have an inner stylistic coherence, and an individual photographer's relation to schools of photography is a much
more superficial affair. One criterion of evaluation which painting and photography do share is innovativeness; both paintings and photographs are often valued because they impose
new formal schemes or changes in the visual language. Another criterion which they can share is the quality of presence, which Walter Benjamin considered the defining
characteristic of the work of art. Benjamin thought that a photograph, being a mechanically reproduced object, could not have genuine presence. It could be argued, however, that
the very situation which is now determinative of taste in photography, its exhibition in museums and galleries, has revealed that photographs do possess a kind of authenticity.
Furthermore, although no photograph is an original in the sense that a painting always is, there is a large qualitative difference between what could be called originals-prints
made from the original negative at the time (that is, at the same moment in the technological evolution of photography) that the picture was taken-and subsequent generations of the
same photograph. (What most people know of the famous photographs-in books, newspapers, magazines, and so forth-are photographs of photographs; the originals, which one is likely
to see only in a museum or a gallery, offer visual pleasures which are not reproducible.) The result of mechanical reproduction, Benjamin says, is to "put the copy of the original
into situations which would be out of reach for the original itself." But to the extent that, say, a Giotto can still be said to possess an aura in the situation of museum display,
where On Photography 110 it too has been wrenched from its original context and, like the photograph, "meets the beholder halfway" (in the strictest sense of Benjamin's notion of
the aura, it does not), to that extent an Atget photograph printed on the now unobtainable paper he used can also be said to possess an aura. The real difference between the aura
that a photograph can have and that of a painting lies in the different relation to time. The depredations of time tend to work against paintings. But part of the built-in interest
of photographs, and a major source of their aesthetic value, is precisely the transformations that time works upon them, the way they escape the intentions of their makers. Given
