she photographs. Of course, we do. And the very range of Arbus's subjects itself constitutes a judgment. Brassai:, who photographed people like those who interested Arbus-see his
"La Mome Bijou" of l932-also did tender cityscapes, portraits of famous artists. Lewis Hine's «Mental Institution, New Jersey, 1924" could be a late Arbus photograph (except that
the pair of Mongoloid children posing on the lawn are photographed in profile rather than frontally); the Chicago street portraits Walker Evans took in 1946 are Arbus material, as
are a number of photographs by Robert Frank. The difference is in the range of other subjects, other emotions that Hine, Brassai:, Evans, and Frank photographed. Arb us is an
auteur in the most limiting sense, as special a case in the history of photography as is Giorgio Morandi, who spent a half century doing still lifes of bottles, in the history of
modern European painting. She does not, like most ambitious photographers, play the field of subject matter-even a little. On the contrary, all her subjects are equivalent. And
making equivalences between freaks, mad people, suburban couples, and nudists is a very powerful judgment, one in complicity with a recognizable political mood shared by many
educated, left-liberal Americans. The subjects of Arbus's photographs are all members of the same family, inhabitants of a single village. Only, as it happens, the idiot village is
America. Instead of showing identity between things which are different (Whitman's democratic vista), everybody is shown to look the same. Succeeding the more buoyant hopes for
America has come a bitter, sad embrace of experience. There is a particular melancholy in the American photographic project. But the melancholy was already latent in the heyday of
Whitmanesque affirmation, as represented by Stieglitz and his Photo-Secession circle. Stieglitz, pledged to redeem the world with his camera, was still shocked by modern material
civilization. He photographed New York in On Photography 38 the 1 9 1 Os in an almost quixotic spirit-camera/lance against skyscraper/windmill. Paul Rosenfeld described Stieglitz's
efforts as a "perpetual affirmation." The Whitmanesque appetites have turned pious: the photographer now patronizes reality. One needs a camera to show patterns in that "dull and
marvelous opacity called the United States." Obviously, a mission as rotten with doubt about America--even at its most optimistic-was bound to get deflated fairly soon, as
post-World War I America committed itself more boldly to big business and consumerism. Photographers with less ego and magnetism than Stieglitz gradually gave up the struggle. They
might continue to practice the atomistic visual stenography inspired by Whitman. But, without Whitman's delirious powers of synthesis, what they documented was discontinuity,
detritus, loneliness, greed, sterility. Stieglitz, using photography to challenge the materialist civilization, was, in Rosenfeld's words, "the man who believed that a spiritual
America existed somewhere, that America was not the grave of the Occident." The implicit intent of Frank and Arbus, and of many of their contemporaries and juniors, is to show that
America is the grave of the Occident. Since photography cut loose from the Whitrnanesque affirmation-since it has ceased to understand how photographs could aim at being literate,
authoritative, transcendent-the best of American photography (and much else in American culture) has given itself over to the consolations of Surrealism, and America has been
discovered as the quintessential Surrealist country. It is obviously too easy to say that America is just a freak show, a wasteland-the cut-rate pessimism typical of the reduction
of the real to the surreal. But the American partiality to myths of redemption and damnation remains one of the most energizing, most seductive aspects of our national culture.
What we have left ofWhitman's discredited dream of cultural revolution are paper ghosts and a sharp-eyed witty program of despair. On Photograph}' 39 Melancholy Objects Photography
has the unappealing reputation of being the most realistic, therefore facile, of the mimetic arts. In fact, it is the one art that has managed to carry out the grandiose,
century-old threats of a Surrealist takeover of the modern sensibility, while most of the pedigreed candidates have dropped out of the race. Painting was handicapped from the start
by being a fine art, with each object a unique, handmade original. A further liability was the exceptional tech nical virtuosity of those painters usually included in the
Surrealist canon, who seldom imagined the canvas as other than figurative. Their paintings looked sleekly calculated, complacently well made, undialectical. They kept a long,
prudent distance from Surrealism's contentious idea of blurring the lines between art and so-called life, between objects and events, between the intended and the unintentional,
between pros and amateurs, between the noble and the tawdry, between craftsmanship and lucky blunders. The result was that Surrealism in painting amounted to little mme than the
contents of a meagerly stocked dream world: a few witty fantasies, mostly wet dreams and agoraphobic nightmares. (Only when its libertarian rhetoric helped to nudge Jackson Pollock
and others into a new kind of irreverent abstraction did the Surrealist mandate for painters finally seem to make wide creative sense.) Poetry, the other art to which the early
Surrealists were particularly devoted, has yielded almost equally disappointing results. The arts in which Surrealism has come into its own are prose fiction (as content, mainly,
but much more abundant and more complex thematically than that On Photography 40 claimed by painting), theater, the arts of assemblage, and-most triumphantly-photography. That
photography is the only art that is natively surreal does not mean, however, that it shares the destinies of the official Surrealist movement. On the contrary. Those photographers
(many of them ex-painters) consciously influenced by Smrealism count almost as little today as the nineteenth-century "pictorial" photographers who copied the lookof Beaux-Arts
painting. Even the loveliest trouvailles of the 19 20s-the solarized photographs and Rayographs of Man Ray, the photograms of Laszl6 Moholy-Nagy, the multiple-exposure studies of
Bragaglia, the photomontages of John Heartfield and Alexander Rodchenko-are regarded as marginal exploits in the history of photography. The photographers who concentrated on
interfering with the supposedly superficial realism of the photograph were those who most narrowly conveyed photography's surreal properties. The Surrealist legacy for photography
came to seem trivial as the Surrealist repertoire of fantasies and props was rapidly absorbed into high fashion in the 1930s, and Surrealist photography offered mainly a mannered
style of portraiture, recognizable by its use of the same decorative conventions introduced by Surrealism in other arts, particularly painting, theater, and advertising. The
mainstream of photographic activity has shown that a Surrealist manipulation or theatricalization of the real is unnecessary, if not actually redundant. Surrealism lies at the
heart of the photographic enterprise: in the very creation of a duplicate world, of a reality in the second degree, narrower but more dramatic than the one perceived by natural
vision. The less doctored, the less patently crafted, the more naive-the more authoritative the photograph was likely to be. Surrealism has always coUI·ted accidents, welcomed the
uninvited, flattered disorderly presences. What could be more surreal than an object which virtually produces itself, and with a minimum of effort? An object whose beauty,
fantastic disclosures, emotional weight are likely to be further enhanced by any accidents that might befall it? It is photography that has best shown how to juxtapose the sewing
machine and the umbrella, On Photography 41 whose fortuitous encounter was hailed by a great Surrealist poet as an epitome of the beautiful. Unlike the fine-art objects of
pre-democratic eras, photographs don't seem deeply beholden to the intentions of an artist. Rather, they owe their existence to a loose cooperation (quasi-magical,
quasi-accidental) between photographer and subject-mediated by an ever simpler and more automated machine, which is tireless, and which even when capricious can produce a result
that is interesting and never entirely wrong. (The sales pitch for the first Kodak, in 1888, was: "You press the button, we do the rest." The purchaser was guaranteed that the
picture would be "without any mistake.") In the fairy tale of photography the magic box insures veracity and banishes error, compensates for inexperience and rewards innocence. The
myth is tenderly parodied in a 1928 silent film, The Cameraman, which has an inept dreamy Buster Keaton vainly struggling with his dilapidated apparatus, knocking out windows and
doors whenever he picks up his tripod, never managing to take one decent picture, yet finally getting some great footage (a photojournalist scoop of a tong war in New York's
Chinatown)-by inadvertence. It is the hero's pet monkey who loads the camera with film and operates it part of the time. The error of the Surrealist militants was to imagine the
surreal to be something universal, that is, a matter of psychology, whereas it turns out to be what is most local, ethnic, class-bound, dated. Thus, the earliest surreal
photographs come from the 1850s, when photographers first went out prowling the streets of London, Paris, and New York, looking for their unposed slice of life. These photographs,
concrete, particular, anecdotal (except that the anecdote has been effaced)-moments of lost time, of vanished customs-seem far more surreal to us now than any photograph rendered
abstract and poetic by superimposition, under-printing, solarization, and the like. Believing that the images they sought came from the unconscious, whose contents they assumed as
loyal Freudians to be timeless as well as universal, the Surrealists misunderstood what was most brutally moving, irrational, On Photography 42 unassimilable, mysterious-time
itself. What renders a photograph surreal is its irrefutable pathos as a message from time past, and the concreteness of its intimations about social class. Surrealism is a
bourgeois disaffection; that its militants thought it universal is only one of the signs that it is typically bourgeois. As an aesthetics that yearns to be a politics, Surrealism
opts for the underdog, for the rights of a disestablished or unofficial reality. But the scandals flattered by Surrealist aesthetics generally turned out to be just those homely
mysteries obscured by the bourgeois social order: sex and poverty. Eros, which the early Surrealists placed at the summit of the tabooed reality they sought to rehabilitate, was
itself part of the mystery of social station. While it seemed to flourish luxuriantly at extreme ends of the scale, both the lower classes and the nobility being regarded as
naturally libertine, middle-class people had to toil to make their sexual revolution. Class was tl1e deepest mystery: the inexhaustible glamour of the rich and powerful, the opaque
degradation of the poor and outcast. The view of reality as an exotic prize to be tracked down and captured by the diligent hunter-with-a-camera has informed photography from the
beginning, and marks the confluence of the Surrealist counter-culture and middle-class social adventurism. Photography has always been fascinated by social heights and lower
depths. Documentarists (as distinct from courtiers witl1 cameras) prefer the latter. For more than a century, photographers have been hovering about the oppressed, in attendance at
scenes of violence-with a spectacularly good conscience. Social misery has inspired the comfortably-off with the urge to take pictures, the gentlest of predations, in order to
document a hidden reality, that is, a reality hidden from them. Gazing on other people's reality with curiosity, with detachment, with professionalism, the ubiquitous photographer
operates as if that activity transcends class interests, as if its perspective is universal. In fact, photography first comes into its own as an extension of the eye of the
middle-classjlcmeur, whose sensibility was so accurately charted by Baudelaire. The On Photography 43 photographer is an armed version of the solitary walker reconnoitering,
stalking, cruising the urban inferno, the voyeuristic stroller who discovers the city as a landscape of voluptuous extremes. Adept of the joys of watching, connoisseur of empathy,
the flaneur finds the world "picturesque." The findings of Baudelaire's fltmeur are variously exemplified by the candid snapshots taken in the 1890s by Paul Martin in London
streets and at the seaside and by Arnold Genthe in San Francisco's Chinatown (both using a concealed camera), by Atget's twilight Paris of shabby streets and decaying trades, by
the dramas of sex and loneliness depicted in Brassal's book Paris de nuit ( 1933), by the image of the city as a theater of disaster in Weegee's Naked City ( 1945). The jlaneur is
not attracted to the city's official realities but to its dark seamy corners, its neglected populations-an unofficial reality behind the fa<;:ade of bourgeois life that the
photographer "apprehends," as a detective apprehends a criminal. Returning to The Cameraman: a tong war among poor Chinese makes an ideal subject. [t is completely exotic,
therefore worth photographing. Pa11 of what assures the success of the hero's film is that he doesn't understand his subject at all. (As played by Buster Keaton, he doesn't even
understand that his life is in danger.) The perennial surreal subject is How the Other HalfLives, to cite the innocently explicit title that Jacob Riis gave to the book of
photographs of the New York poor that he brought out in 1890. Photography conceived as social documentation was an instrument of that essentially middle-class attitude, both
zealous and merely tolerant, both curious and indifferent, called humanism-which found slums the most enthralling of decors. Contemporary photographers have, of course, learned to
dig in and limit their subject. Instead of the chutzpa of "d1e other half," we get, say, East lOOth Street (Bruce Davidson's book of Harlem photographs published in 1970). The
justification is still the same, that picture-taking serves a high purpose: uncovering a hidden truth, conserving a vanishing past. (The hidden truth is, moreover, often identified
with d1e vanishing past. Between 1874 and 1886, On Photography 44 prosperous Londoners could subscribe to the Society for Photographing the Relics of Old London.) Starting as
artists of the urban sensibility, photographers quickly became aware that nature is as exotic as the city, rustics as picturesque as city slum dwellers. In 1897 Sir Benjamin Stone,
rich industrialist and conservative MP from Birmingham, founded the National Photographic Record Association with the aim of documenting traditional English ceremonies and rural
festivals which were dying out. "Every village," Stone wrote, "has a history which might be preserved by means of the camera." For a wellborn photographer of the late nineteenth
century like the bookish Count Giuseppe Prirnoli, the street life of the underprivileged was at least as interesting as the pastimes of his fellow aristocrats: compare Primoli's
photographs of King Victor Emmanuel's wedding with his photographs ofthe Naples poor. It required the social immobility of a photographer of genius who happened to be a small
child, Jacques-Henri Lartigue, to confine subject matter to the outlandish habits of the photographer's own family and class. But essentially the camera makes everyone a tourist in
other people's reality, and eventually in one's own. Perhaps the earliest model of the sustained look downward are the thirty-six photographs in Street Life in London ( 1877 -78)
taken by the British traveler and photographer John Thomson. But for each photographer specializing in the poor, many more go after a wider range of exotic reality. Thomson himself
had a model career of this kind. Before turning to the poor of his own country, he had already been to see the heathen, a sojourn which resulted in his four-volume Illustrations of
China and Its People ( 1873-74). And following his book on the street life of the London poor, he turned to the indoor life of the London rich: it was Thomson who, around 1880,
pioneered the vogue of at-home photographic portraiture. From the beginning, professional photography typically meant the broader kind of class tourism, with most photographers
combining surveys of social abjection witl1 portraits of celebrities or commodities (high fashion, advertising) or studies of the nude. Many of the exemplary photographic careers
of this century (like On Photography 45 those of Edward Steichen, Bill Brandt, Henri Cartier-Bresson, Richard Avedon) proceed by abrupt changes in the social level and ethical
importance of subject matter. Perhaps the most dramatic break is that between the pre-war and the post-warwork of Bill Brandt. To have gone from the tough-minded photographs of
Depression squalor in northern England to his stylish celebrity portraits and semi-abstract nudes of the last decades seems along journey indeed. But there is nothing particularly
idiosyncratic, or perhaps even inconsistent, in these contrasts. Traveling between degraded and glamorous realities is part of the very momentum of the photographic
enterprise,unless the photographer is locked into an extremely private obsession (like the thing Lewis Carroll had for little girls or Diane Arbus had for the Halloween crowd).
Poverty is no more surreal than wealth; a body clad in filthy rags is not more surreal than a principessa dressed for a ball or a pristine nude. What is surreal is the distance
imposed, and bridged, by the photograph: the social distance and the distance in time. Seen from the middle-class perspective of photography, celebrities are as intriguing as
pariahs. Photographers need not have an ironic, intelligent attitude toward their stereotyped material. Pious, respectful fascination may do just as well, especially with the most
conventional subjects. Nothing could be farther from, say, the subtleties of Avedon than the work of Ghitta Carell, Hungarian-born photographer of the celebrities of the Mussolini
era. But her portraits now look as eccentric as Avedon's, and far more surreal than Cecil Beaton's Surrealist-influenced photographs from the same period. By setting his
subjects-see the photographs he took of Edith Sitwell in 1927, of Cocteau in 1936-in fanciful, luxurious decors, Beaton turns them into overexplicit, unconvincing effigies. But
Carell's innocent complicity with the wish of her Italian generals and aristocrats and actors to appear static, poised, glamorous exposes a hard, accmate truth about them. The
photographer's reverence has made them interesting; time has made them harmless, all too human. Some photographers set up as scientists, others as moralists. The On Photography 46
scientists make an inventory of the world; the moralists concentrate on hard cases. An example of photography-as-science is the project August Sander began in 1911: a photographic
catalogue of the German people. In contrast to George Grosz's drawings, which summed up the spirit and variety of social types in Weimar Germany through caricature, Sander's
"archetype pictures" (as he called them) imply a pseudo-scientific neutrality similar to that claimed by the covertly partisan typological sciences that sprang up in the nineteenth
century like phrenology, criminology, psychiatry, and eugenics. It was not so much that Sander chose individuals for their representative character as that he assumed, correctly,
that the camera cannot help but reveal faces as social masks. Each person photographed was a sign of a certain trade, class, or profession. All his subjects are representative,
equally representative, of a given social reality-their own. Sander's look is not unkind; it is permissive, unjudging. Compare his 1930 photograph "Circus People" with Diane
Arbus's studies of circus people or with the portraits of demimonde characters by Lisette Model. People face Sander's camera, as they do in Model's and Arbus's photographs, but
their gaze is not intimate, revealing. Sander was not looking for secrets; he was observing the typical. Society contains no mystery. Like Eadweard Muybrjdge, whose photographic
studies in the 1880s managed to dispel misconceptions about what everybody had always seen (how horses gallop, how people move) because he had subdivided the subject's movements
into a precise and lengthy enough sequence of shots, Sander aimed to shed light on the social order by atomizing it, into an indefinite number of social types. It doesn't seem
surprising that in 1934, five years after its publication, the Nazis impounded the unsold copies of Sander's book Antlitz der Zeit (The Face of Our Time) and destroyed the printing
blocks, thus bringing his national-portrait project to an abrupt end. (Sander, who stayed in Germany throughout the Nazi period, switched to landscape photography.) The charge was
that Sander's project was anti-social. What might well have seemed anti-social to Nazis was his idea of the photographer as an On Photography 47 impassive census-taker, the
completeness of whose record would render all commentary, or even judgment, superfluous. Unlike most photography with a documentary intention, enthralled either by the poor and
unfamiliar, as preeminently photographable subjects, or by celebrities, Sander's social sample is unusually, conscientiously broad. He includes bureaucrats and peasants, servants
and society ladies, factory workers and industrialists, soldieTs and gypsies, actors and clerks. But such variety does not rule out class condescension. Sander's eclectic style
gives him away. Some photographs are casual, fluent, naturalistic; others are na'ive and awkward. The many posed photographs taken against a flat white background are a cross
between superb mug shots and old-fashioned studio portraits. U nselfconsciously, Sander ad justed his style to the social rank of the person he was photographing. Professionals and
the rich tend to be photographed indoors, without props. They speak for themselves. Laborers and derelicts are usually photographed iil a setting (often outdoors) which locates
them, which speaks for them-as if they could not be assumed to have the kinds of separate identities normally achieved in the middle and upper classes. In Sander's work everybody
is in place, nobody is lost or cramped or off-center. A cretin is photographed in exactly the same dispassionate way as a bricklayer, a legless World War I veteran like a healthy
young soldier in uniform, scowling Communist students like smiling Nazis, a captain of industry like an opera singer. "It is not my intention either to criticize or describe these
people," Sander said. While one might have expected that he would have claimed not to have criticized his subjects, by photographing them, it is interesting that he thought he
hadn't described them either. Sander's complicity with everybody also means a distance from everybody. His complicity with his subjects is not na'ive (like Carell's) but
nihilistic. Despite its class realism, it is one of the most truly abstract bodies of work in the history of photography. It is hard to imagine an American attempting an equivalent
of Sander's comprehensive taxonomy. The great photographic On Photography 48 portraits of America-like Walker Evans's American Photographs ( 1938) and Robert Frank's The Americans
( 1959)-have been deliberately random, while continuing to reflect the traditional relish of documentary photography for the poor and the dispossessed, the nation's forgotten
citizens. And the most ambitious collective photographic project ever undertaken in this country, by the Farm Security Administration in 1935, under the direction of Roy Emerson
Stryker, was concerned exclusively with "low-income groups."" The FSA project, conceived as "a pictorial documentation of our rural areas and rural problems" (Stryker's words), was
unabashedly propagandistic, with Stryker coaching his team about the attitude they were to take toward their problem subject. The purpose of the project was to demonstrate the
value of the people photographed. Thereby, it implicitly defined its point of view: that of middle-class people who needed to be convinced that the poor were really poor, and that
the poor were dignified. It is instructive to compare the FSA photographs with those by Sander. Though the poor do not lack dignity in Sander's photographs, it is not because of
any compassionate intentions. They have dignity by juxtaposition, because they are looked at in the same cool way as everybody else. American photography was rarely so detached.
For an approach reminiscent of Sander's, one must look to people who documented a dying or superseded part of America-like Adam Clark Vroman, who photographed Indians in Arizona
and New Mexico between 1895 and 1904. Vroman's handsome photographs are unexpressive, uncondescending, unsentimental. Their mood is the very opposite of the FSA photographs: they
are not moving, � Though that changed, as is indicated in a memo from Stryker to his staffin 1942, when the new morale "needs of World War II made the poor too downbeat a subject.
"We must have at once: pictures of men, women and children who appear as if they really believed in the U.S. Get people with a little spirit. Too many in our file now paint the
U.S. as an old person's home and that just about everybody is too old to work and too malnourished to care much what happens. . . . We particularly need young men and women who
work in our factories . . . . Housewives in their kitd1en or in their yard picking flowers. More contented-looking old couples . . . ." On Photography 49 they are not idiomatic,
they do not invite sympathy. They make no propaganda for the Indians. Sander didn't know he was photographing a disappearing world. Vroman did. He also knew that there was no
saving the world that he was recording. Photography in Europe was largely guided by notions of the picturesque (i.e., the poor, the foreign, the time-worn), the important (i.e.,
the rich, the famous), and the beautiful. Photographs tended to praise or to aim at neutrality. Americans, less convinced of the permanence of any basic social arrangements,
experts on the «reality" and inevitability of change, have more often made photography partisan. Pictures got taken not only to show what should be admired but to reveal what needs
to be confronted, deplored-and fiXed up. American photography implies a more summaq, less stable connection with history; and a relation to geographic and social reality that is
both more hopeful and more predatory. The hopeful side is exemplified in the well-known use of photographs in America to awaken conscience. At the beginning of the centuq Lewis
Hine was appointed staff photographer to the National Child Labor Committee, and his photographs of children working in cotton mills, beet fields, and coal mines did influence
legislators to make child labor illegal. During the New Deal, Sttyker's FSA project (Sttykerwas a pupil of Hine's) brought back information about migrant workers and sharecroppers
to Washington, so that bureaucrats could figure out how to help them. But even at its most moralistic, docwnentary photography was also imperious in another sense. Both Thomson's
detached traveler's report and the impassioned muckraking of Riis or Hine reflect the urge to appropriate an alien reality. And no reality is exempt from appropriation, neither one
that is scandalous (and should be corrected) nor one that is merely beautiful (or could be made so by the camera). Ideally, the photographer was able to make the two realities
cognate, as illustrated by the title of an interview with Hine in 1920, "Treating labor Artistically." The predatory side of photography is at the heart of the alliance, evident
earlier in the United States than anywhere else, between On Photography 50 photography and tourism. After the opening of the West in 1869 by the completion of the transcontinental
railroad came the colonization through photography. The case of the American Indians is the most brutal. Discreet, serious amateurs like Vroman had been operating since the end of
the Civil War. They were the vanguard of an army of tourists who arrived by the end of the century, eager for "a good shot" of Indian life. The tourists invaded the Indians'
privacy, photographing holy objects and the sacred dances and places, if necessary paying the Indians to pose and getting them to revise their ceremonies to provide more photogenic
material. But the native ceremony that is changed when the tourist hordes come sweeping down is not so different from a scandal in the inner city that is corrected after someone
photographs it. Insofar as the muckrakers got results, they too altered what they photographed; indeed, photographing something became a routine part of the procedure for altering
it. The danger was of a token change-limited to the narrowest reading of the photograph's subject. The particular New York slum, Mulberry Bend, that Riis photographed in the late
1880s was subsequently torn down and its inhabitants rehoused by order of Theodore Roosevelt, then state governor, while other, equally dreadful slums were left standing. The
photographer both loots and preserves, denounces and consecrates. Photography expresses the American impatience with reality, the taste for activities whose instrumentality is a
machine. "Speed is at the bottom of it all," as Hart Crane said (writing about Stieglitz in 1923 ), "the hundredth of a second caught so precisely that the motion is continued from
the picture indefinitely: the moment made eternal." Faced with the awesome spread and alienness of a newly settled continent, people wielded cameras as a way of taking possession
of the places they visited. Kodak put signs at the entrances of many towns listing what to photograph. Signs marked the places in national parks where visitors should stand with
their cameras. Sander is at home in his own country. American photographers are often on the road, overcome with disrespectful wonder at On Photography 51 what their country offers
in the way of surreal surprises. Moralists and conscienceless despoilers, children and foreigners in their own land, they will get something down that is disappearing-and, often,
hasten its disappearance by photographing it. To take, like Sander, specimen after specimen, seeking an ideally complete inventory, presupposes that society can be envisaged as a
comprehensible totality. European photographers have assumed that society has something of the stability of nature. Natme in America has always been suspect, on the defensive,
cannibalized by progress. In America, every specimen becomes a relic. The American landscape has always seemed too varied, immense, mysterious, fugitive to lend itself to
scientism. "He doesn't know, he can't say, before the facts," Henry James wrote in The American Scene ( 1907), and he doesn't even want to know or to say; the facts themselves
loom, before the understanding, in too large a mass for a mere mouthful: it is as if the syllables were too numerous to make a legible word. The illegible word, accordingly, the
great inscrutable answer to questions, hangs in the vast American sky, to his imagination, as something fantastic and abracadabrant, belonging to no known language, and it is under
this convenient ensign that he travels and considers and contemplates, and, to the best of his ability, enjoys. Americans feel the reality of their country to be so stupendous, and
mutable, that it would be the rankest presumption to approach it in a classifying, scientific way. One could get at it indirectly, by subterfuge-breaking it off into strange
fragments that could somehow, by synecdoche, be taken for the whole. American photographers (like American writers) posit something ineffable in the national reality-something,
possibly, that has never been seen before. Jack Kerouac begins his introduction to Robert Frank's book The Americans: On Photography 52 That crazy feeling in America when the sun
is hot on the streets and music comes out of the jukebox or from a nearby funeral, that's what Robert Frank has captured in these tremendous photographs taken as he travelled on
the road around practically forty-eight states in an old used car (on Guggenheim Fellowship) and with the agility, mystery, genius, sadness and strange secrecy of a shadow
photographed scenes that have never been seen on film.... After seeing these pictures you end up finally not knowing any more whether a jukebox is sadder than a coffin. Any
inventory of America is inevitably anti-scientific, a delirious "abracadabrant" confusion of objects, in which jukeboxes resemble coffins. James at least managed to make the wry
judgment that "this pa11icular effect of the scale of things is the only effect that, throughout the land, is not directly adverse to joy." For Kerouac-for the main tradition of
American photography-the prevailing mood is sadness. Behind the ritualized claims of American photographers to be looking around, at random, without preconceptions-lighting on
subjects, phlegmatically recording them-is a mournful vision of loss. The effectiveness of photography's statement of loss depends on its steadily enlarging the familiar
iconography of mystery, mo11ality, transience. More traditional ghosts are summoned up by some older American photographers, such as Clarence John Laughlin, a self-avowed exponent
of "extreme romanticism" who began in the mid- 1930s photographing decaying plantation houses of the lower Mississippi, funerary monuments in Louisiana's swamp burial grounds,
Victorian interiors in Milwaukee and Chicago; but the method works as well on subjects which do not, so conventionally, reek of the past, as in a Laughlin photograph from 1962,
"Spectre of Coca-Cola." In addition to romanticism (extreme or not) about the past, photography offers instant romanticism about the present. In America, the photographer is not
simply the person who records the past but the one who invents it. As Berenice Abbott writes: "The photographer is the On Photography 53 contemporary being par excellence; through
his eyes the now becomes past." Returning to New York from Paris in 1929, after the years of apprenticeship with Man Ray and her discovery (and rescue) of the then barely known
work of Eugene Atget, Abbott set about recording the city. In the preface to her book of photographs that came out in 1939, Changing New York, she explains: "If I had never left
America, I would never have wanted to photograph New York. But when I saw it with fresh eyes, I knew it was my country, something I had to set down in photographs." Abbott's
purpose ("I wanted to record it before it changed completely") sounds like that of Atget, who spent the years between 1898 and his death in 1927 patiently, furtively documenting a
small-scale, time-worn Paris that was vanishing. But Abbott is setting down something even more fantastic: the ceaseless replacement of the new. The New York of the thirties was
very different from Paris: "not so much beauty and tradition as native fantasia emerging from accelerated greed." Abbott's book is aptly titled, fot she is not so much
memorializing the past as simply documenting ten years of the chronic self-destruct quality of American experience, in which even the recent past is constantly being used up, swept
away, torn down, thrown out, traded in. Fewer and fewer Americans possess objects that have a patina, old furniture, grandparents' pots and pans-the used things, warm with
generations of human touch, that Rilke celebrated in The Duino Elegies as being essential to a human landscape. Instead, we have our paper phantoms, transistorized landscapes. A
featherweight portable museum. Photographs, which turn the past into a consumable object, are a short cut. Any collection of photographs is an exercise in Surrealist montage and
the Surrealist abbreviation of history. As Kurt Sthwitters and, more recently, Bruce Conner and Ed Kienholz have made brilliant objects, tableaux, environments out of refuse, we
now make a history out of our detritus. And some virtueJ of a civic kind appropriate to a democratic society, is attached to the practice. The true modernism is not austerity but
On Photography 54 a garbage-strewn plenitude-the willful travesty of Whitman's magnanimous dream. Influenced by the photographers and the pop artists, architects like Robert
Venturi learn from Las Vegas and fmd Times Square a congenial successor to the Piazza San Marco; and Reyner Banham lauds Los Angeles's "instant architecture and instant townscape"
for its gift of freedom, of a good life impossible amid the beauties and squalors of the European city'---extolling the liberation offered by a society whose consciousness is
built, ad hoc, out of scraps and junk. America, that surreal country, is full of found objects. Our junk has become art. Our junk has become history. Photographs are, of course,
artifacts. But their appeal is that they also seem, in a world littered with photographic relics, to have the status of found objects-unpremeditated slices of the world. Thus, they
trade simultaneously on the prestige of art and the magic of the real. They are clouds of fantasy and pellets of information. Photography has become the quintessential art of
affluent, wasteful, restless societies-an indispensable tool of the new mass culture that took shape here after the Civil War, and conquered Europe only after World War II,
although its values had gained a foothold among the well-off as early as the 1850s when, according to the splenetic description of Baudelaire, ccour squalid society" became
narcissistically entranced by Daguerre's cccheap method of disseiuinating a loathing for history." The Surrealist purchase on history also implies an undertow of melancholy as well
as a surface voracity and impertinence. At the very beginning of photography, the late 1830s, William H. Fox Talbot noted the camera's special aptitude for recording "the injuries
of time." Fox Talbot was talking about what happens to buildings and monuments. Forus, the more interesting abrasions are not of stone but of flesh. Through photographs we follow
in the most intimate, troubling way the reality of how people age. To look at an old photograph of oneself, of anyone one has known, or of a much photographed public person is to
feel, first of all: how much younger I (she, he) was then. Photography is the inventory of mortality. A touch of the finger now suffices to invest a moment with posthumous irony.
Photographs show people On Photography 55 being so irrefutably there and at a specific age in their lives; group together people and things which a moment later have already
disbanded, changed, continued along the course of their independent destinies. One's reaction to the photographs Roman Vishniac took in 1938 of daily life in the ghettos of Poland
is overwhelmingly affected by the knowledge of how soon all these people were to perish. To the solitary stroller, all the faces in the stereotyped photographs cupped behind glass
and affixed to tombstones in the cemeteries of Latin countries seem to contain a portent of their death. Photographs state the innocence, the vulnerability of lives heading toward
