lavishly from photographic imagery.) The other important aspect of the relation between painting and photography omitted in the standard account is that the frontiers of the new
territory acquired by photography immediately started expanding, as some photographers refused to be confined to turning out those ultra-realistic triumphs with which painters
could not compete. Thus, of the two famous inventors of photography, Daguerre never conceived of going beyond the naturalist painter's range of representation, while Fox Talbot
immediately grasped the camera's ability to isolate forms which normally escape the naked eye and which painting had never recorded. Gradually photographers joined in the pursuit
of more abstract images, professing scruples reminiscent of the modernist painters' dismissal of the mimetic as mere picturing. Painting's revenge, if you will. The claim made by
many professional photographers to do something quite different from recording reality is the clearest index of the inunense counter-influence that painting has had on photography.
But however much photographers have come to share some of the same attitudes about the inherent value of perception exercised for perception's sake and the (relative) unimportance
of subject matter which have dominated advanced painting for more than a century, their applications of these attitudes cannot duplicate those of painting. For it is in the nature
of a photograph that it can never entirely transcend its subject, as a painting can. Nor can a photograph ever transcend the visual itself, which is in some sense the ultimate aim
of modernist painting. The version of the modernist attitude most relevant to On Photography 74 photography is not to be found in painting-even as it was then (at the time of its
conquest, or liberation, by photography), certainly as it is now. Except for such marginal phenomena as Super Realism, a revival of Photo-Realism which is not content with merely
imitating photographs but aims to show that painting can achieve an even greater illusion of verisimilitude, painting is still largely ruled by a suspicion of what Duchamp called
the merely retinal. The ethos of photography-that of schooling us (in Moholy-Nagy's phrase) in "intensive seeing"-seems closer to that of modernist poetry than that of painting. As
painting has become more and more conceptual, poetry (since Apollinaire, Eliot, Pound, and William Carlos Williams) has more and more defined itself as concerned with the visual.
("No truth but in things," as Williams declared.) Poetry's commitment to concreteness and to the autonomy ofthe poem's language parallels photography's commitment to pure seeing.
Both imply discontinuity, disarticulated forms and compensatory unity: wrenching things from their context (to see them in a fresh way), bringing things together elliptically,
according to the imperious but often arbitrary demands of subjectivity. While most people taking photographs are only seconding received notions of the beautiful, ambitious
professionals usually think they are challenging them. According to heroic modernists like Weston, the photographer's venture is elitist, prophetic, subversive, revelatory.
Photographers claimed to be performing the Blakean task of cleansing the senses, "revealing to others the living world around them," as Weston described his own work, "showing to
them what their own unseeing eyes had missed." Although Weston (like Strand) also claimed to be indifferent to the question of whether photography is an at1, his demands on
photography still contained all the romantic assumptions about the photographer as Artist. By the century's second decade, certain photographers had confidently appropriated the
rhetoric of a vanguard art: armed with cameras, they were doing rude battle with conformist sensibilities, busy fulfilling Pound's summons to Make It New. Photography, not "soft,
gutless On Photography 75 painting," says Weston with virile disdain, is best equipped to "bore into the spirit of today." Between l930 and 1932 Weston's diaries of Daybooks are
full of effusive premonitions ofimpending change and declarations of the importance of the visual shock therapy that photographers were administering. "Old ideals are crashing on
all sides, and the precise uncompromising camera vision is, and will be more so, a world force in the revaluation of life." Weston's notion of the photographer's agon shares many
themes with the heroic vitalism of the 1920s popularized by D. H. Lawrence: affirmation of the sensual life, rage at bourgeois sexual hypocrisy, self-righteous defense of egotism
in the service of one's spiritual vocation, manly appeals for a union with nature. (Weston calls photography "a way of self-development, a means to discover and identify oneself
with all the manifestations of basic forms-with nature, the source.") But while Lawrence wanted to restore the wholeness of sensory appreciation, the photographer-even one whose
passions seem so reminiscent of Lawrence's-necessarily insists on the preeminence of one sense: sight. And, contrary to what Weston asserts, the habit of photographic
seeing-oflooking at reality as an array of potential photographs--creates estrangement from, rather than union with, nature. Photographic seeing, when one examines its claims,
turns out to be mainly the practice of a kind of dissociative seeing, a subjective habit which is reinforced by the objective discrepancies between the way that the camera and the
human eye focus and judge perspective. These discrepancies were much remarked by the public in the early days of picture-taking. Once they began to think photographically, people
stopped talking about photographic distortion, as it was called. (Now, as William Ivins, Jr., has pointed out, they actually hunt for that distortion. ) Thus, one of the perennial
successes ofphotography has been its strategy ofturning living beings into things, things into living beings. The peppers Weston photographed in 1929 and 1930 are voluptuous in a
way that his female nudes rarely are. Both the nudes and the pepper are photographed for the play of forms-but the body is On Photography 76 characteristically shown bent over upon
itself, all the extremities cropped, with the flesh rendered as opaque as normal lighting and focus allow, thus decreasing its sensuality and heightening the abstractness of the
body's form; the pepper is viewed close-up but in its entirety, the skin polished or oiled, and the result is a discovery of the erotic suggestiveness of an ostensibly neutral
form, a heightening of its seeming palpability. It was the beauty of forms in industrial and scientific photography that dazzled the Bauhaus designers, and, indeed, the camera has
recorded few images more interesting formally than those taken by metallurgists and crystallographers. But the Bauhaus approach to photography has not prevailed. No one now
considers the beauty revealed in photographs to be epitomized by scientific microphotography. In the main tradition of the beautiful in photography, beauty requires the imprint of
a human decision: that this would make a good photograph, and that the good picture would make some comment. It proved more important to reveal the elegant form of a toilet bowl,
the subject of a series of pictures Weston did in Mexico in 1925, than the poetic magnjtude of a snowflake or a coal fossil. For Weston, beauty itselfwas subversive-as seemed
confu·med when some people were scandalized by his ambitious nudes. (In fact, it was Weston-followed by Andre Kertesz and Bill Brandt-who made nude photography respectable.) Now
photographers are more likely to emphasize the ordinary humanity of theit revelations. Though photographers have not ceased to look for beauty, photography is no longer thought to
create, under the aegis of beauty, a psychic breakthrough. Ambitious modernists, like Weston and Cartier-Bresson, who understand photography as a genuinely new way of seeing
(precise, intelligent, even scientific), have been challenged by photographers of a later generation, like Robert Frank, who want a camera eye that is not piercing but democratic,
who don't claim to be setting new standards for seeing. Weston's assertion that "photography has opened the blinds to a new world vision" seems typical of the overoxygenated hopes
of modernism in all the arts during the first third of the century-hopes since abandoned. On Photography 77 Although the camera did make a psychic revolution, it was hardly in the
positive, romantic sense that Weston envisaged. Insofar as photography does peel away the dry wrappers of habitual seeing, it creates another habit of seeing: both intense and
cool, solicitous and detached; charmed by the insignificant detail, addicted to incongruity. But photographic seeing has to be constantly renewed with new shocks, whether ofsubject
matter or technique, so as to produce the impression ofviolating ordinary vision. For, challenged by the revelations ofphotographers, seeing tends to accommodate to photographs.
The avant-garde vision ofStrand in the twenties, ofWeston in the late twenties and early thirties, was quickly assimilated. Their rigorous close-up studies of plants, shells,
leaves, time-withered trees, kelp, driftwood, eroded rocks, pelicans' wings, gnarled cypress roots, and gnarled workers' hands have become cliches of a merely photographic way of
seeing. What it once took a very intelligent eye to see, anyone can see now. Instructed by photographs, everyone is able to visualize that once purely literary conceit, the
geography of the body: for example, photographing a pregnant woman so that her body looks like a hillock, a hillock so that it looks like the body of a pregnant woman. Increased
familiarity does not entirely explain why certain conventions of beauty get used up while others remain. The attrition is moral as well as perceptual. Strand and Weston could
hardly have imagined how these notions ofbeauty could become so banal, yet it seems inevitable once one insists-as Weston did-on so bland an ideal of b�auty as perfection. Whereas
the painter, according to Weston, has always "tried to improve nature by self-imposition," the photographer has "proved that nature offers an endless number of perfect
'compositions,'-order everywhere." Behind the modernist's belligerent stance ofaesthetic purism lay an astonishingly generous acceptance of the world. For Weston, who spent most of
his photographic life on the California coast near Carmel, the Walden of the 1920s, it was relatively easy to find beauty and order, while for Aaron Siskind, a photographer of the
generation after Strand and a New Yorker, who began his career by taking architectural photographs and On Photography 78 genre photographs of city people, the question is one of
creating order. "When I make a photograph," Siskind writes, "I want it to be an altogether new object, complete and self-contained, whose basic condition is order." For
Cartier-Bresson, to take photographs is "to find d1e structure ofthe world-to revel in the pure pleasure of form," to disclose that "in all this chaos, there is order." (It may
well be impossible to talk about the perfection of the world without sounding unctuous.) But displaying the perfection ofthe world was too sentimental, too a historical a notion of
beauty to sustain photography. It seems inevitable that Weston, more committed than Strand ever was to abstraction, to the discovery of forms, produced a much narrower body of work
than Strand did. Thus Weston never felt moved to do socially conscious photography and, except for the period between 1923 and 1927 that he spent in Mexico, shunned cities. Strand,
like Cartier-Bresson, was attracted to the picturesque desolations and damages ofurban life. But even far from nature, both Strand and Cartier-Bresson (one could also cite Walker
Evans) still photog raph with the same fastidious eye that discerns order everywhere. The view ofStieglitz and Strand and Weston-that photographs should be, first of all, beautiful
(that is, beautifully composed)-seems thin now, too obtuse to the truth ofdisorder: even as the optimism about science and technology which lay behind the Bauhaus view of
photography seems almost pernicious. Weston's in1ages, however admirable, however beautiful, have become less interesting to many people, while those taken by the
mid-nineteenth-century English and French primitive photographers and by Atget, for example, enthrall more than ever. The judgment ofAtget as "not a fine technician" that Weston
entered in his Daybooks perfecdy reflects the coherence of Weston's view and his distance from contemporary taste. "Halation destroyed much, and the color correction not good,"
Weston notes; "his instinct for subject matter was keen, but his recording weak,-his construction inexcusable . . . so often one feels he missed the real thing." Contemporary taste
faults Weston, with his devotion to the perfect print, rather than Atget and the On Photography 79 other masters of photography's demotic tradition. Imperfect technique has come to
be appreciated precisely because it breaks the sedate equation of Nature and Beauty. Nature has become more a subject for nostalgia and indignation than an object of contemplation,
as marked by the distance of taste which separates both the majestic landscapes of Ansel Adams (Weston's best-known disciple) and the last important body of photographs in the
Bauhaus tradition, Andreas Feininger's The Anatomy of Nature ( 1965), from current pl1otographic imagery of nature defiled. As these formalist ideals of beauty seem, in retrospect,
linked to a certain historical mood, optimism about the modern age (the new vision, the new era), so the decline of the standards of photographic purity represented by both Weston
and the Bauhaus school has accompanied the moral letdown experienced in recent decades. In the present historical mood of disenchantment one can make less and less sense out of the
formalist's notion of timeless beauty. Darker, time-bound models of beauty have become prominent, inspiring a reevaluation of the photography of the past; and, in an apparent
revulsion against the Beautiful, recent generations of photographers prefer to show disorder, prefer to distill an anecdote, more often than not a disturbing one, rather than
isolate an ultimately reassuring "simplified form" (Weston's phrase) . But notwithstanding the declared aims of indiscreet, unposed, often harsh photography to reveal truth, not
beauty, photography still beautifies. Indeed, the most enduring triumph of photography has been its aptitude for discovering beauty in the humble, the inane, the decrepit. At the
very least, the real has a pathos. And that pathos is-beauty. (The beauty of the poor, for example.) Weston's celebrated photograph of one of his fiercely loved sons, "Torso of
Neil," 1925, seems beautiful because of the shapeliness of its subject and because of its bold composition and subtle lighting-a beauty that is the result of skill and taste. Jacob
Riis's crude flashlit photographs taken between 1887 and 1890 seem beautiful because of the force of their subject, grimy shapeless New York slum-dwellers of indeterminate age, and
On Photography 80 because of the rightness of their "wrong" framing and the blunt contrasts produced by the lack of control over tonal values-a beauty that is the result of
amateurism or inadvertence. The evaluation of photographs is always shot through with such aesthetic double standards. Initially judged by the notms of painting, which assume
conscious design and the elimination of nonessentials, the distinctive achievements of photographic seeing were until quite recently thought to be identical with the work of that
relatively small number of photographers who, through reflection and effort, managed to transcend the camera's mechanical nature to meet the standards of art. But it is now clear
that there is no inherent conflict between the mechanical or naive use ofthe camera and formal beauty of a very high order, no kind of photograph in which such beauty could not
turn out to be present: an unasswning functional snapshot may be as visually interesting, as eloquent, as beautiful as the most acclaimed fine-art photographs. This democratizing
offormal standards is the logical counterpart to photography's democratizing of the notion of beauty. Traditionally associated with exemplary models (the representative art of the
classical Greeks showed only youth, the body in its perfection), beauty has been revealed by photographs as existing everywhere. Along with people who pretty themselves for the
camera, the unattractive and the disaffected have been assigned their beauty. For photographers there is, finally, no difference-no greater aesthetic advantage-between the effort
to embellish the world and the counter-effort to rip off its mask. Even those photographers who disdained retouching their portraits-a mark of honor for ambitious portrait
photographers from Nadar on-tended to protect the sitter in certain ways from the camera's too revealing gaze. And one of the typical endeavors of portrait photographers,
professionally protective toward famous faces ( like Garbo's) which really are ideal, is the search for "real" faces, generally sought among the anonymous, the poor, the socially
defenseless, the aged, the insane-people indifferent to (or powerless to protest) the camera's aggressions. Two portraits that Strand did in 1 9 16 of urban casualties, "Blind
Woman" and On Photography 81 "Man," are among the first results of this search conducted in close-up. In the worst years of the German depression Helmar Lerski made a whole
compendium of distressing faces, published under the title Kopfe des Alltags (Everyday Faces) in 1931. The paid models for what Lerski called his "objective character studies"-with
their rude revelations of over-enlarged pores, wrinkles, skin blemishes-were out-of-work servants procured from an employment exchange, beggars, street sweepers, vendors, and
washerwomen. The camera can be lenient; it is also expert at being cruel. But its cruelty only produces another kind of beauty, according to the surrealist preferences which rule
photographic taste. Thus, while fashion photography is based on the fact that something can be more beautiful in a photograph than in real life, it is not surprising that some
photographers who serve fashion are also drawn to the non-photogenic. There is a perfect complementarity between Avedon's fashion photography, which flatters, and the work in which
he comes on as The One Who Refuses to Flatter-for example, the elegant, rutllless portraits Avedon did in 1972 of his dying father. The traditional function of portrait painting,
to embellish or idealize the subject, remains the aim of everyday and ofcommercial photography, but it has had a much more limited career in photography considered as an art.
Generally speaking, the honors have gone to the Cordelias. As the vehicle of a certain reaction against the conventionally beautiful, photography has served to enlarge vastly our
notion of what is aesthetically pleasing. Sometimes this reaction is in the name of truth. Sometimes it is in the name of sophistication or of prettier lies: thus, fashion
photography has been developing, over more than a decade, a repertoire of paroxysmic gestures that shows the unmistakable influence ofSurrealism. ("Beauty will be convulsive,"
Breton wrote, "or it will not be at all.") Even the most compassionate photojournalism is under pressure to satisfy simultaneously two sorts of expectations, those arising from our
largely surrealist way of looking at all photographs, and those created by our belief that some photographs give real and important information about the world. The photographs
that On Photography 82 W. Eugene Smith took in the late 1960s in the Japanese fishing village ofMinamata, most of whose inhabitants are crippled and slowly dying of mercury
poisoning, move us because they document a suffering which arouses our indignation-and distance us because they are superb photographs of Agony, conforming to surrealist standards
ofbeauty. Smith's photograph of a dying girl writhing on her mother's lap is a Pieta for the world of plague victims which Artaud invokes as the true subject of modern dramaturgy;
indeed, the whole series of photographs are possible images for Artaud's Theater of Cruelty. Because each photograph is only a fragment, its moral and emotional weight depends on
where it is inserted. A photograph changes according to the context in which it is seen: thus Smith's Minamata photographs will seem different on a contact sheet, in a gallery, in
a political demonstration, in a police file, in a photographic magazine, in a general news magazine, in a book, on a livi.ng-room wall. Each of these situations suggests a
different use for the photographs but none can secure their meaning. As Wittgenstein argued for words, that the meaning is the use-so for each photograph. And it is in this way
that the presence and proliferation of all photographs contributes to the erosion of the very notion of meaning, to that parceling out of the truth into relative truths which is
taken for granted by the modern liberal consciousness. Socially concerned photographers assume that their work can convey some kind of stable meaning, can reveal truth. But partly
because the photograph is, always, an object in a context, this meaning is bound to drain away; that is, the context which shapes whatever immediate-in particular, political-uses
the photograph may have is inevitably succeeded by contexts in which such uses are weakened and become progressively less relevant. One of the central characteristics of
photography is that process by which original uses are modified, eventually supplanted by subsequent uses-most notably, by the discourse of art into which any photograph can be
absorbed. And, being images themselves, some photographs right from the start refer us to other images as well as to life. The photograph that the Bolivian authorities On
Photography 83 transmitted to the world press in October 1967 ofChe Guevara's body, laid out in a stable on a stretcher on top ofa cement trough, surrounded by a Bolivian colonel,
a U.S. intelligence agent, and several journalists and soldiers, not only summed up the bitter realities of contemporary Latin American history but had some inadvertent
resemblance, as John Berger has pointed out, to Mantegna's "The Dead Christ" and Rembrandt's "The Anatomy Lesson of Professor Tulp." What is compelling about the photograph partly
derives from what it shares, as a composition, with these paintings. Indeed, the very extent to which that photograph is unforgettable indicates its potential for being
depoliticized, for becoming a timeless image. The best writing on photography has been by moralists-Marxists or would-be Marxists-hooked on photographs but troubled by the way
photography inexorably beautifies. As Walter Benjamin observed in 1934, in an address delivered in Paris at the Institute for the Study of Fascism, the camera is now incapable of
photographing a tenement or a rubbish-heap without transfiguring it. Not to mention a river dam or an electric cable factory: in front of these, photography can only say, 'How
beautiful.' . . . It has succeeded in turning abject poverty itself, by handling it in a modish, technically perfect way, into an object of enjoyment. Moralists who love
photographs always hope that words will save the picture. (The opposite approach to that of the musewn curator who, in order to turn a photojournalist's work into art, shows the
photographs without their original captions.) Thus, Benjamin thought that the right caption beneath a picture could "rescue it from the ravages of modishness and confer upon it a
revolutionary use value." He urged that writers start taking photographs, to show the way. Socially concerned writers have not taken to cameras, but they are often enlisted, or
volunteer, to spell out the truth to which photographs testify-as James Agee did in the texts he wrote to On Photography 84 accompany Walker Evans's photographs in Let Us Now
Praise Famous Men, or as John Berger did in his essay on the photograph of the dead Che Guevara, this essay being in effect an extended caption, one that attempts to firm up the
political associations and moral meaning of a photograph that Berger found too satisfying aesthetically, too suggestive iconographically. Godard and Gorin's short film A Letter to
Jane ( 1972) amounts to a kind of counter-caption to a photograph-a mordant criticism of a photograph ofJane Fonda taken during a visit to North Vietnam. (The film is also a model
lesson on how to read any photograph, how to decipher the m1-innocent nature of a photograph's framing, angle, focus.) What the photograph-it shows Fonda listening with an
expression of distress and compassion as an unidentified Vietnamese describes the ravages of American bombing-meant when it was published in the French picture magazine L 'Express
in some ways reverses the meaning it had for the North Vietnamese, who released it. But even more decisive than how the photograph was changed by its new setting is how its
revolutionary use-value to the North Vietnamese was sabotaged by what L'Express furnished as a caption. "Tllis photograph, like any photograph," Godard and Gorin point out, "is
physically mute. It talks through the mouth of the text written beneath it." In fact, words do speak louder than pictures. Captions do tend to override the evidence of our eyes;
but no caption can permanently restrict or secure a picture's meaning. What the moralists are demanding from a photograph is that it do what no photograph can ever do-speak. The
caption is the missing voice, and it is expected to speak for truth. But even an entirely accurate caption is only one interpretation, necessarily a limiting one, of the photograph
to which it is attached. And the caption-glove slips on and off so easily. It cannot prevent any argument or moral plea which a photograph (or set of photographs) is intended to
support from being undermined by the plurality of meanings that every photograph carries, or from being qualified by the acquisitive mentality implicit in all picture-taking-and
picture-collecting-and by the aesthetic relation to their subjects which all photographs inevitably propose. On Photography 85 Even those photographs which speak so laceratingly of
a specific historical moment also give us vicarious possession of their subjects under the aspect of a kind of eternity: the beautiful. The photograph ofChe Guevara is fmally . . .
beautiful, as was the man. So are the people of Minamata. So is the small Jewish boy photographed in 1943 during a round-up in the Warsaw Ghetto, his arms raised, solemn with
terror-whose picture the mute heroine of Bergman's Persona has brought with her to the mental hospital to meditate on, as a photo-souvenir of the essence of tragedy. In a consumer
society, even the most well-intentioned and properly captioned work of photographers issues in the discovery of beauty. The lovely composition and elegant perspective of Lewis
Hine's photographs of exploited children in turn-of-the-century American mills and mines easily outlast the relevance of their subject matter. Protected middle-class inhabitants of
the more affluent corners of the world-those regions where most photographs are taken and consumed-learn about the world's horrors mainly through the camera: photographs can and do
distress. But the aestheticizing tendency of photography is such that the mediurn which conveys distress ends by neutralizing it. Cameras miniaturize experience, transform history
into spectacle. As much as they create sympathy, photographs cut sympathy, distance the emotions. Photography's realism creates a confusion about the real which is (in the long
run) analgesic morally as well as (both in the long and in the short run) sensorially stimulating. Hence, it clears our eyes. This is the fresh vision everyone has been talking
about. Whatever the moral claims made on behalf of photography, its main effect is to convert the world into a department store or museum-without-walls in which every subject is
depreciated into an article of consumption, promoted into an item for aesthetic appreciation. Through the camera people become customers or tourists of reality-or Realites, as the
name of the French photo-magazine suggests, for reality is understood as plural, fascinating, and up for grabs. Bringing the exotic near, rendering On Photography 86 the familiar
and homely exotic, photographs make the entire world available as an object of appraisal. For photographers who are not confined to projecting their own obsessions, there are
arresting moments, beautiful subjects everywhere. The most heterogeneous subjects are then brought together in the fictive unity offered by the ideology of humanism. Thus,
according to one critic, the greatness of Paul Strand's pictures from the last period of his life-when he turned from the brilliant discoveries of the abstracting eye to the
touristic, world-anthologizing tasks of photography-consists in the fact that "his people, whether Bowery derelict, Mexican peon, New England farmer, Italian peasant, French
artisan, Breton or Hebrides fisherman, Egyptian fellahin, the village idiot or the great Picasso, are all touched by the same heroic quality-humanity." What is this humanity? It is
a quality things have in common when they are viewed as photographs. The urge to take photographs is in principle an indiscriminate one, for the practice of photography is now
identified with the idea that everything in the world could be made interesting through the camera. But this quality of being interesting, like that of manifesting humanity, is an
empty one. The photographic purchase on the world, with its limitless production of notes on reality, makes everything homologous. Photography is no less reductive when it is being
reportorial than when it reveals beautiful forms. By disclosing the thingness of human beings, the humanness of things, photography transforms reality into a tautology. When
Cartier-Bresson goes to China, he shows that there are people in China, and d1at they are Chinese. Photographs are often invoked as an aid to understanding and tolerance. In
humanist jargon, the highest vocation of photography is to explain man to man. But photographs do not explain; they acknowledge. Robert Frank was only being honest when he declared
that «to produce an authentic contemporary document, the visual impact should be such as will nullify explanation." If photographs are messages, the message is both transparent and
mysterious. "A photograph is a secret about a secret," as Arbus observed. "The more it tells you the less you On Photography 87 know." Despite the illusion of giving understanding,
what seeing through photographs really invites is an acquisitive relation to the world that nourishes aesthetic awareness and promotes emotional detachment. The force of a
photograph is that it keeps open to scrutiny instants which the normal flow of time immediately replaces. This freezing of time-the insolent, poignant stasis of each photograph-has
produced new and more inclusive canons of beauty. But the truths that can be rendered in a dissociated moment, however significant or decisive, have a very narrow relation to the
needs of understanding. Contrary to what is suggested by the humanist claims made for photography, the camera's ability to transform reality into something beautiful derives from
its relative weakness as a means of conveying truth. The reason that humanism has become the reigning ideology of ambitious professional photographers--displacing formalist
justifications of their quest for beauty-is that it masks the confusions about truth and beauty underlying the photographic enterprise. On Photography 89 Photographic Evangels Like
other steadily aggrandizing enterprises, photography has inspired its leading practitioners with a need to explain, again and again, what they are doing and why it is valuable. The
era in which photography was widely attacked (as parricidal with respect to painting, predatory with respect to people) was a brief one. Painting of course did not expire in 1839,
as one French painter hastily predicted; the finicky soon ceased to dismiss photography as menial copying; and by 1854 a great painter, Delacroix, graciously declared how much he
regretted that such an admirable invention came so late. Nothing is more acceptable today than the photographic recycling of reality, acceptable as an everyday activity and as a
branch of high art. Yet something about photography still keeps the first-rate professionals defensive and hortatory: virtually every important photographer right up to the present
has written manifestoes and credos expounding photography's moral and aesthetic mission. And photographers give the most contradictoty accounts of what kind ofknowledge they
possess and what kind of art they practice. The disconcerting ease with which photographs can be taken, the inevitable even when inadvertent authority ofthe camera's results,
suggest a very tenuous relation to knowing. No one would dispute that photography gave a tremendous boost to the cognitive claims of sight, because-through close-up and remote
sensing-it so greatly enlarged the realm of the visible. But about the ways in which any subject within the range of unaided vision is furtl1er On Photography 90 known through a
photograph or d1e extent to which, in order to get a good photograph, people need to know anything about what they are photographing, there is no agreement. Picture-taking has been
interpreted in two entirely different ways: either as a lucid and precise act of knowing, of conscious intelligence, ot as a pre-intellectual, intuitive mode of encounter. Thus
Nadar, speaking ofhis respectful, expressive pictures ofBaudelaire, Dore, Michelet, Hugo, Berlioz, Nerval, Gautier, Sand, Delacroix, and other famous friends, said "the portrait I
do best is of the person I know best," while Avedon has observed that most of his good portraits are of people he met for the first time when photographing them. In this century,
the older generation of photographers described photography as a heroic effort of attention, an ascetic discipline, a mystic receptivity to the world which requires that the
photographer pass through a cloud of unknowing. According to Minor White, "the state of mind of the photographer while creating is a blank . . .when looking for pictures. . . . The
photographer projects himself into everything he sees, identifying himself with everything in order to know it and to feel it better." Cartier-Bresson has likened himself to a Zen
archer, who must become the target so as to be able to hit it; "thinking should be done beforehand and afterwards," he says, "never while actually taking a photograph." Thought is
regarded as clouding the transparency of the photographer's consciousness, and as infringing on the autonomy of what is being photographed. Determined to prove that photographs
could-and when they are good, always do-transcend literalness, many serious photographers have made of photography a noetic paradox. Photography is advanced as a form ofknowing
without knowing: a way of outwitting the world, instead of making a frontal attack on it. But even when ambitious professionals disparage thinking -suspicion of the intellect being
a recurrent theme in photographic apologetics-they usually want to assert how rigorous d1is permissive visualizing needs to be. "A photograph is not an accident-it is a concept,"
Ansel Adams insists. "The On Photography 91 'machine-gun' approach to photography-by which many negatives are made with the hope that one will be good-is fatal to serious results."
To take a good photograph, runs the common claim, one must already see it. That is, the image must exist in the photogtaphet's mind at or before the moment when the negative is
exposed. Justifying photography has for the most part precluded admitting that the scattershot method, especially as used by someone experienced, may yield a thoroughly
satisfactory result. But despite their reluctance to say so, most photographers have always had-with good reason-an almost superstitious confidence in the lucky accident. Lately,
the secret is becoming avowable. As the defense of photography enters its present, retrospective phase, there is an increasing diffidence in claims about the alert, knowing state
of mind that accomplished picture-taking presumes. The anti-intellectual declarations of photographers, commonplaces of modernist thinking in the arts, have prepared the way for
the gradual tilt ofserious photography toward a skeptical investigation of its own powers, a commonplace of modernist practice in the arts. Photography as knowledge is succeeded by
photography as-photography. In sharp reaction against any ideal of authoritative representation, the most influential of the younger American photographers reject any ambition to
pre-visualize the image and conceive their work as showing how different things look when photographed. Where the claims of knowledge falter, the claims of creativity take up the
slack. As if to refute the fact that many superb pictures are by photographers devoid of any serious or interesting intentions, the insistence that picture-taking is first of all
the focusing of a temperament, only secondarily of a machine, has always been one of the main themes of the defense of photography. This is the theme stated so eloquently in the
finest essay ever written in praise of photography, Paul Rosenfeld's chapter on Stieglitz in Port of New York. By using "his machinery"-as Rosenfeld puts it-"unmechanically,"
Stieglitz shows that the camera not only "gave him an opportunity of expressing himself' but supplied images with a wider and "more On Photography 92 delicate" gamut "than the hand
can draw." Similarly, Weston insists over and over that photography is a supreme opportunity for self-expression, far superior to that offered by painting. For photography to
compete with painting means invoking originality as an important standard for appraising a photographer's work, originality being equated with the stamp of a unique, forceful
sensibility. What is exciting "are photographs that say something in a new manner," Harry Callahan writes, " not for the sake of being different, but because the individual is
different and the individual expresses himself." For Ansel Adams "a great photograph" has to be "a full expression of what one feels about what is being photographed in the deepest
sense and is, thereby, a true expression of what one feels about life in its entirety." That there is a difference between photography conceived as "true expression" and
photography conceived (as it more commonly is) as faithful recording is evident; though most accounts of photography's mission attempt to paper over the difference, it is implicit
in the starkly polarized terms that photographers employ to dramatize what they do. As modem forms of the quest for self-expression commonly do, photography recapitulates both of
the traditional ways of radically opposing self and world. Photography is seen as an acute manifestation of the individualized "I," the homeless private self astray in an
overwhelming world-mastering reality by a fast visual anthologizing of it. Or photography is seen as a means of finding a place in the world (still experienced as overwhelming,
alien) by being able to relate to it with detachment-bypassing the interfering, insolent claims of the self. But between the defense of photography as a superior means of
