their own destruction, and this link between photography and death haunts all photographs of people. Some working-class Berliners in Robert Siodmak's film Menschen am Sonntag (
1929) are having their pictures taken at the end of a Sw1day outing. One by one they step before the itinerant photographer's black box-grin, look anxious, clown, stare. The movie
camera lingers in close-up to let us savor the mobility of each face; then we see the face frozen in the last of its expressions, embalmed in a still. The photographs shock, in the
flow of the movie-transmuting, in an instant, present into past, life into death. And one of the most disquieting films ever made, Chris Marker's La Jetee ( 1963 ) , is the tale of
a man who foresees his own death, narrated entirely with still photographs. As the fascination that photographs exercise is a reminder of death, it is also an invitation to
sentimentality. Photographs turn the past into an object of tender regard, scrambling moral distinctions and disarming historical judgments by the generalized pathos of looking at
time past. One recent book arranges in alphabetical order the photographs of an incongruous group of celebrities as babies or children. Stalin and Gertrude Stein, who face outward
from opposite pages, look equally solemn and huggable; Elvis Presley and Proust, another pair of youthful page-mates, slightly resemble each other; Hubert Humphrey (age 3 ) and
Aldous Huxley ( age 8), side by side, have in common that both already display the forceful exaggerations of character for which they were to be known as adults. No picture in the
book is without interest and charm, given what we know (including, On Photography 56 in most cases, photographs) of the famous creatures those children were to become. For this and
similar ventures in Surrealist irony, na!ve snapshots or the most conventional studio portraits are most effective: such pictures seem even more odd, moving, premonitory.
Rehabilitating old photographs, by finding new contexts for them, has become a major book industry. A photograph is only a fragment, and with the passage of time its moorings come
unstuck. It drifts away into a soft abstract pastness, open to any kind of reading (or matching to other photographs). A photograph could also be described as a quotation, which
makes a book of photographs like a book of quotations. And an increasingly common way of presenting photographs in book form is to match photographs themselves with quotes. One
example: Bob Adelman's Down Home (1972), a portrait of a rural Alabama county, one of the poorest in the nation, taken over a five-year period in the 1960s. Illustrating the
continuing predilection of documentary photography for losers, Adelman's book descends from Let Us Now Praise Famous Men, whose point was precisely that its subjects were not
famous, but forgotten. But Walker Evans's photographs were accompanied by eloquent prose written (sometimes overwritten) by James Agee, which aimed to deepen the reader's empathy
with the sharecroppers' lives. No one presmnes to speak for Adelman's subjects. (It is characteristic of the liberal sympathies which inform his book that it purp011s to have no
point of view at all-that is, to be an entirely impa11ial, non-empathic look at its subjects.) Down Home could be considered a version in miniature, county-wide, of August Sander's
project: to compile an objective photographic record of a people. But these specimens talk, which lends a weight to these unpretentious photographs that they would not have on
their own. Paired with their words, their photographs characterize the citizens of Wilcox County as people obliged to defend or exhibit their territory; suggest that these lives
are, in a literal sense, a series of positions or poses. Another example: Michael Lesy's Wiscomin Death Trip ( 1973), which also constructs, with the aid of photographs, a portrait
of On Photography 57 a rural county-but the time is the past, between 1890 and 1910, years of severe recession and economic hardship, and Jackson County is reconstructed by means
of found objects dating from those decades. These consist of a selection of photographs taken by Charles Van Schaick, the county seat's leading commercial photographer, some three
thousand of whose glass negatives are stored in the State Historical Society of Wisconsin; and quotations from period sources, mainly local newspapers and the records of the county
insane asylum, and fiction about the Midwest. The quotations have nothing to do with the photographs but are correlated with them in an aleatoric, intuitive way, as words and
sounds by John Cage are matched at the time of performance with the dance movements already choreographed by Merce Curmingham. The people photographed in Down. Home are the authors
of the declarations we read on the facing pages. White and black, poor and well-off talk, exhibiting contrasting views (particularly on matters of class and race). But whereas the
statements that go with Adelman's photographs contradict each other, the texts that Lesy has collected all say the same thing: that an astonishing number of people in
turn-of-the-century America were bent on hanging themselves in barns, throwing their children into wells, cutting their spouses' throats, taking off their clothes on Main Street,
burning their neighbors' crops, and sundry other acts likely to land them in jail or the loony bin. In case anyone was thinking that it was Vietnam and all the domestic funk and
nastiness of the past decade which had made America a country of darkening hopes, Lesy argues that the dream had collapsed by the end of the last century-not in the inhuman cities
but in the farming communities; that the whole country has been crazy, and for a long time. Of course, Wisconsin. Death Trip doesn't actually prove anything. The force of its
historical argument is the force of collage. To Van Schaick's disturbing, handsomely time-eroded photographs Lesy could have matd1ed other texts from the period-love letters,
diaries-to give another, perhaps less desperate impression. His book is rousing, fashionably pessimistic polemic, and totally whimsical as history. On Photography 58 A number of
American authors, most notably Sherwood Anderson, have written as polemically about the miseries of small-town life at roughly the time covered by lesy's book. But although works
of photo-fiction like Wisconsin Death Trip explain less than many stories and novels, they persuade more now, because they have the authority of a document. Photographs--and
quotations-seem, because they are taken to be pieces of reality, more authentic than extended literary narratives. The only prose that seems credible to more and more readers is
not the fine writing of someone like Agee, but the raw record-edited or unedited talk into tape recorders; fragments or the integral texts of sub-literary documents (court records,
letters, diaries, psychiatric case histories, etc.); self-deprecatingly sloppy, often paranoid first-person reportage. There is a rancorous suspicion in America of whatever seems
literary, not to mention a growing reluctance on the part of young people to read anything, even subtitles in foreign movies and copy on a record sleeve, which partly accounts for
the new appetite for books of few words and many photographs. (Of course, photography itself increasingly reflects the prestige of the rough, the self-disparaging, the offhand, the
undisciplined-the "anti-photograph.") ((All of the men and women the writer had ever known had become grotesques," Anderson says in the prologue to Winesburg, Ohio ( 1919), the
title of which was originally supposed to be The Book of the Grotesque. He goes on: ((The grotesques were not all horrible. Some were amusing, some almost beautif ul.. .. "
Surrealism is the art of generalizing the grotesque and then discovering nuances (and charms) in that. No activity is better equipped to exercise the Surrealist way of looking than
photography, and eventually we look at all photographs surrealistically. People are ransacking their attics and the archives of city and state historical societies for old
photographs; ever more obscure or forgotten photographers are being rediscovered. Books of photography pile higher and higher-measuring the lost past (hence, the promotion of
amateur photography), taking the temperature of the present. Photographs furnish instant history, instant sociology, instant pa11icipation. But there is something On Photography 59
remarkably anodyne about these new forms of packaging reality. The Surrealist strategy, which promised a new and exciting vantage point for the radical criticism of modern culture,
has devolved into an easy irony that democratizes all evidence, that equates its scatter of evidence with history. Surrealism can only deliver a reactionary judgment; can make out
of history only an accumulation of oddities, a joke, a death trip. The taste for quotations (and for the juxtaposition of incongruous quotations) is a Surrealist taste. Thus,
Walter Benjamin-whose Surrealist sensibility is the most profound of anyone's on record-was a passionate collector of quotations. In her magisterial essay on Benjamin, Hannah
Arendt recounts that "nothing was more characteristic of him in the thirties than the little notebooks with black covers which he always carried with him and in which he tirelessly
entered in the form of quotations what daily living and reading netted him in the way of <pearls' and <coral.' On occasion he read from them aloud, showed them around like items
from a choice and precious collection." Though collecting quotations could be considered as merely an ironic mimetism-victirnless collecting, as it were-this should not be taken to
mean that Benjamin disapproved of, or did not indulge in, the real thing. For it was Benjamin's conviction that reality itself invited-and vindicated-the once heedless, inevitably
destructive ministrations of the collector. In a world that is well on its way to becoming one vast quarry, the collector becomes someone engaged in a pious work of salvage. The
course of modern history having ah-eady sapped the traditions and shattered the living wholes in which precious objects once found their place, the collector may now in good
conscience go about excavating the choicer, more emblematic fragments. The past itself, as historical change continues to accelerate, has become the most surreal of subjects-making
it possible, as Benjamin said, to see a new beauty in what is vanishing. From the start, photographers not only set theinselves the task of recording a disappearing world but were
so employed by those hastening its disappearance. (As early as 1842, that indefatigable On Photography 60 improver of French architectural treasures, Viollet-le-Duc, commissioned a
series of daguerreotypes of Notre Dame before beginning his restoration of the cathedral.) "To renew the old world," Benjamin wrote, "that is the collector's deepest desire when he
is driven to acquire new things." But the old world cannot be renewed-certainly not by quotations; and this is the rueful, quixotic aspect of the photographic enterprise.
Benjamin's ideas are worth mentioning because he was photography's most original and important critic-despite (and because of) the inner contradiction in his account of photography
which follows from the challenge posed by his Surrealist sensibility to his Marxist/Brechtian principles-and because Benjamin's own ideal project reads like a sublimated version of
the photographer's activity. This project was a work of literary criticism that was to consist entirely of quotations, and would thereby be devoid of anything that might betray
empathy. A disavowal of empathy, a disdain for message-mongering, a claim to be invisible-these are strategies endorsed by most professional photographers. The history of
photography discloses a long tradition of ambivalence about its capacity for partisanship: the taking of sides is felt to undermine its perennial assumption that all subjects have
validity and interest. But what in Benjamin is an excruciating idea offastidiousness, meant to permit the mute past to speak in its own voice, with all its unresolvable complexity,
becomes-when generalized, in photography-the cumulative de-creation of the past (in the very act of preserving it), the fabrication of a new, parallel reality that makes the past
immediate while underscoring its comic or tragic ineffectuality, that invests the specificity of the past with an unlimited irony, that transforms the present into the past and the
past into pastness. Like the collector, the photographer is animated by a passion that, even when it appears to be for the present, is linked to a sense of the past. But while
traditional arts of historical consciousness attempt to put the past in order, distinguishing the innovative from the retrograde, the central from the marginal, the relevant from
the irrelevant or merely interesting, the photographer's approach-like that of the collector-is On Photography 61 unsystematic, indeed anti-systematic. The photographer's ardor for
a subject has no essential relation to its content or value, that which makes a subject classifiable. It is, above all, an affirmation of the subject's thereness; its rightness
(the rightness of a look on a face, of the arrangement of a group of objects), which is the equivalent of the collector's standard of genuineness; its quiddity-whatever qualities
make it unique. The professional photographer's preeminently willful, avid gaze is one that not only resists the traditional classification and evaluation of subjects but seeks
consciously to defy and subvert them. For this reason, its approach to subject matter is a good deal less aleatoric than is generally claimed. In principle, photography executes
the Surrealist mandate to adopt an uncompromisingly egalitarian attitude toward subject matter. (Everything is "real.") In fact, it has-like mainstream Surrealist taste
itself-evinced an inveterate fondness for trash, eyesores, rejects, peeling surfaces, odd stuff, kitsch. Thus, Atget specialized in the marginal beauties ofjerry-built wheeled
vehicles, gaudy or fantastic window displays, the raffish a11 of shop signs and carousels, ornate porticoes, curious door knockers and wrought-iron grilles, stucco ornaments on the
fac;ades of run-down houses. The photographer-and the consumer of photographs-follows in the footsteps of the ragpicker, who was one of Baudelaire's favorite figures for the modern
poet: Everything that the big city threw away, everything it lost, everything it despised, everything it crushed underfoot, he catalogues and collects . . .. He sorts things out
and makes a wise choice; he collects, like a miser guarding a treasure, the refuse which will assume the shape of useful or gratifying objects between the jaws of the goddess
oflndustry. Bleak factory buildings and billboard-cluttered avenues look as beautiful, through the camera's eye, as churches and pastoral landscapes. More beautiful, by modern
taste. Recall that it was Breton and other Surrealists who invented the secondhand store as a temple of vanguard taste and upgraded visits to flea markets into a mode of aesthetic
pilgrimage. The Surrealist ragpicker's On Photography 62 acuity was directed to finding beautiful what other people found ugly or without interest and relevance-bric-a-brac, nai:ve
or pop objects, urban debris. As the structuring of a prose fiction, a painting, a film by means of quotations-think of Borges, of Kitaj, of Godard-is a specialized example of
Surrealist taste, so the increasingly common practice of putting up photographs on living-room and bedroom walls, where formerly hung reproductions of paintings, is an index of the
wide diffusion of Surrealist taste. For photographs themselves satisfy many of the criteria for Surrealist approbation, being ubiquitous, cheap, unprepossessing objects. A painting
is commissioned or bought; a photograph is found (in albums and drawers), cut out (of newspapers and magazines) , or easily taken oneself. And the objects that are photographs not
only proliferate in a way that paintings don't but are, in a certain sense, aesthetically indestructible. Leonardo's "The Last Supper)) in Milan hardly looks better now; it looks
terrible. Photographs, when they get scrofulous, tarnished, stained, cracked, faded still look good; do often look better. (In this, as in other ways, the art that photography does
resemble is architecture, whose works are subject to the same inexorable promotion through the passage of time; many buildings, and not only the Parthenon, probably look better as
ruins.) What is true of photographs is true of the world seen photographically. Photography extends the eighteenth-century literati's discovery ofthe beauty of ruins into a
genuinely popular taste. And it extends that beauty beyond the romantics' ruins, such as those glamorous forms of decrepitude photographed by Laughlin, to the modernists'
ruins-reality itself. The photographer is willy-nilly engaged in the enterprise of antiquing reality, and photographs are themselves instant antiques. The photograph offers a
modern counterpart of that characteristically romantic architectural genre, the artificial ruin: the ruin which is created in order to deepen the historical character of a
landscape, to make nature suggestive-suggestive of the past. The contingency of photographs confirms that everything is perishable; the arbitrariness of photographic evidence
indicates On Photography 63 that reality is fundamentally unclassifiable. Reality is summed up in an array of casual fragments--an endlessly alluring, poignantly reductive way of
dealing with the world. illustrating that partly jubilant, partly condescending relation to reality that is the rallying point of Surrealism, the photographer's insistence tl1at
everything is real also implies that the real is not enough. By proclaiming a fundamental discontent with reality, Surrealism bespeaks a posture of alienation which has now become
a general attitude in those parts of the world which are politically powerful, industrialized, and camera-wielding. Why else would reality ever be thought of as insufficient, flat,
overordered, shallowly rational? In the past, a discontent with reality expressed itself as a longing for another world. In modern society, a discontent with reality expresses
itself forcefully and most hauntingly by tl1e longing to reproduce this one. As if only by looking at reality in the form of an object-through the fix of the photograph-is it
really real, that is, surreal. Photography inevitably entails a certain patronizing of reality. From being "out there," the world comes to be "inside" photographs. Our heads are
becoming like those magic boxes that Joseph Cornell filled with incongruous small objects whose provenance was a France he never once visited. Or like a hoard of old movie stills,
of which Cornell amassed a vast collection in the same Surrealist spirit: as nostalgia-provoking relics of the original movie experience, as means of a token possession of the
beauty of actors. But the relation of a still photograph to a film is intrinsically misleading. To quote from a movie is not the same as quoting from a book. Whereas the reading
time of a book is up to the reader, the viewing time of a film is set by the filmmaker and the in1ages are perceived only as fast or as slowly as tl1e editing permits. Thus, a
still, which allows one to linger over a single moment as long as one likes, contradicts the very form of film, as a set of photographs that freezes moments in a life or a society
contradicts their form, which is a process, a flow in tin1e. The photographed world stands in the same, essentially inaccurate relation to the real world as stills do to movies.
Life is not about On Photography 64 significant details, illuminated a flash, fixed forever. Photographs are. The lure of photographs, their hold on us, is that they offer at one
and the same time a connoissem's relation to the world and a promiscuous acceptance of the world. For this connoisseur's relation to the world is, through the evolution of the
modernist revolt against traditional aesthetic norms, deeply implicated in the promotion of kitsch standards of taste. Though some photographs, considered as individual objects,
have the bite and sweet gravity of imp011ant works of art, the proliferation of photographs is ultimately an affirmation ofkitsch. Photography's ultra-mobile gaze flatters the
viewer, creating a false sense of ubiquity, a deceptive mastery ofexperience. Surrealists, who aspire to be cultural radicals, even revolutionaries, have often been under the
well-intentioned illusion that they could be, indeed should be, Marxists. But Surrealist aestheticism is too suffused with irony to be compatible with the twentieth century's most
seductive form of moralism. Marx reproached philosophy for only trying to understand the world rather than trying to change it. Photographers, operating within the terms of the
Surrealist sensibility, suggest the vanity of even trying to understand the world and instead propose that we collect it. On Photograph}' 65 The Heroism of Vision Nobody ever
discovered ugliness through photographs. But many, through photographs, have discovered beauty. Except for those situations in which the camera is used to document, or to mark
social rites, what moves people to take photographs is finding something beautiful. (The name under which Fox Talbot patented the photograph in 1841 was the calotype: from kalos,
beautiful.) Nobody exclaims, "Isn't that ugly! 1 must take a photograph of it." Even if someone did say that, all it would mean is: "I find that ugly thing. . . beautiful." It is
common for those who have glimpsed something beautiful to express regret at not having been able to photograph it. So successful has been the camera's role in beautifying the world
that photographs, rather than the world, have become the standard of the beautiful. House-proud hosts may well pull out photographs of the place to show visitors how really
splendid it is. We learn to see ourselves photographically: to regard oneself as attractive is, precisely, to judge that one would look good in a photograph. Photographs create the
beautiful and-over generations of picture-taking-use it up. Certain glories of nature, for example, have been all but abandoned to the indefatigable attentions of amateur camera
buffs. The image-surfeited are likely to find sunsets corny; they now look, alas, too mud1 like photographs. Many people are anxious when they're about to be photographed: not
because they fear, as primitives do, being violated but because they fear the camera's disapproval. People On Photography 66 want the idealized image: a photograph of d1emselves
looking their best. They feel rebuked when the camera doesn't return an image of themselves as more attractive than they really are. But few are lucky enough to be
"photogenic"-that is, to look better in photographs (even when not made up or flattered by the lighting) than in real life. That photographs are often praised for their candor,
their honesty, indicates that most photographs, of course, are not candid. A decade after Fox Talbot's negative-positive process had begun replacing the daguerreotype ( the first
practicable photographic process) in the mid - 1840s, a German photographer invented the first technique for retouching the negative. His two versions of the same portrait--one
retouched, the other not-astounded crowds at the Exposition U niverselle held in Paris in 1855 (the second world fair, and the first with a photography exhibit) .. The news that
the camera could lie made getting photographed much more popular. The consequences of lying have to be more central for photography than they ever can be for painting, because the
flat, usually rectangular linages which are photographs make a claim to be true that paintings can never make. A fake painting (one whose attribution is false) falsifies the
history of art. A fake photograph (one which has been retouched or tampered with, or whose caption is false) falsifies reality. The history of photography could be recapitulated as
the struggle between two different imperatives: beautification, which comes from the fine arts, and truth-telling, which is measured not only by a notion of value-free truth, a
legacy from the sciences, but by a moralized ideal of truth-telling, adapted from nineteenth-century literary models and from the (then) new profession of independent journalism.
Like the post-romantic novelist and the reporter, the photographer was supposed to unmask hypocrisy and combat ignorance. This was a task which painting was too slow and cumbersome
a procedure to take on, no matter how many nineteenth-century painters shared Millet's beliefthat le beau c'est le vrai. Astute observers noticed that there was something naked
about the truth a photograph conveyed, even when its maker did not mean to pry. In The House of the Seven Gables ( 18 5 1 ) On Photography 67 Hawthorne has the young photographer,
Holgrave, remark about the daguerreotype portrait that "while we give it credit only for depicting the merest surface, it actually brings out the secret character with a truth that
no painter would ever venture upon, even could he detect it." Freed from the necessity ofhaving to make narrow choices (as painters did) about what images were wo11h contemplating,
because of the rapidity with which cameras recorded anything, photographers made seeing into a new kind of project: as if seeing itself, pursued with sufficient avidity and
single-mindedness, could indeed reconcile the claims of truth and the need to find the world beautiful. Once an object of wonder because of its capacity to render reality
faithfully as well as despised at first for its base accuracy, the camera has ended by effecting a tremendous promotion of the value ofappearances. Appearances as the camera
records them. Photographs do not simply render reality-realistically. It is reality which is scrutinized, and evaluated, for its fidelity to photographs. "In my view,'' the
foremost ideologue ofliterary realism, Zola, declared in 1901 after fifteen years of amateur picture-taking, "you cannot claim to have really seen something until you have
photographed it." Instead of just recording reality, photographs have become the norm for the way things appear to us, thereby changing the very idea of reality, and of realism.
The earliest photographers talked as if the camera were a copying machine; as if, while people operate cameras, it is the camera that sees. The invention of photography was
welcomed as a means of easing the burden of ever accumulating information and sense impressions. In his book of photographs The Pencil of Nature ( 1844-46), Fox Talbot relates that
the idea of photography came to him in 1833, on the Italian Journey that had become obligatory for Englishmen of inherited wealth like himself, while making some sketches of the
landscape at Lake Como. Drawing with the help of a camera obscura, a device which projected the image but did not fix it, he was led to reflect, he says, "on the inimitable beauty
of the pictures of nature's painting which the glass lens of On Photography 6S the camera throws upon the paper" and to wonder "if it were possible to cause these natural images to
imprint themselves durably." The camera suggested itself to Fox Talbot as a new form of notation whose allure was precisely that it was impersonal-because it recorded a "natural"
image; that is, an image which comes into being "by the agency of Light alone, without any aid whatever from the artist's pencil." The photographer was thought to be an acute but
non-interfering observer-a scribe, not a poet. But as people quickly discovered that nobody takes the same picture ofthe same thing, the supposition that cameras furnish an
impersonal, objective image yielded to the fact that photographs are evidence not only of what's there but of what an individual sees, not just a record but an evaluation ofthe
world: lt became clear that there was not just a simple, unitary activity called seeing (recorded by, aided by cameras) but "photographic seeing," which was both a new way for
people to see and a new activity for them to perform. A Frenchman with a daguerreotype camera was already roaming the Pacific in 184 1 , the same year that the first volume of
Excursions daguerriennes: Vues et monuments les plus remarquables du globe was published in Paris. The 1850s was the great age of photographic Orientalism: Maxime Du Camp, making a
Grand Tour of the Middle East with Flaubert between 1849 and · The restriction of photography to impersonal seeing has of comse continued to have its advocates. Among the
Surrealists, photography was thought to be liberating to the extent that it transcended mere personal expression: Breton starts his essay of 1920 on Max Ernst by calling the
practice of automatic writing "a true photography of ; thought," the camera being regarded as "a blind instrwnent' whose superiority in "the imitation of appearances" had "dealt a
mortal blow to the old modes of e}..-pression, in painting as well as poetry." h1 the opposing aesthetic camp, the Bauhaus theoreticiallS took a not dissimilar view, treating
photography as a branch of design, like architec­ ture-creative but impersonal, unencumbered by such vanities as the painterly surface, the personal touch. In his book Painti11g,
Photography, Film ( 1925) Moholy-Nagy praises the camera for imposing "the hygiene of the optical,'' which will eventually "abolish that pictorial and imaginative association
pattern. . .whid1 has been stamped upon our vision by great individual painters." On Photography 69 1851, centered his picture-taking activity on attractions like the Colossus
ofAbu Simbel and the Temple ofBaalbek, not the daily life of fellahin. Soon, however, travelers with cameras annexed a wider subject matter than famous sites and works of art.
Photographic seeing meant an aptitude for discovering beauty in what everybody sees but neglects as too ordinary. Photographers were supposed to do more than just see the world as
it is, including its already acclaimed marvels; they were to create interest, by new visual decisions. There is a peculiar heroism abroad in the world since the invention of
cameras: the heroisrn ofvision. Photography opened up a new model of freelance activity-allowing each person to display a certain unique, avid sensibility. Photographers departed
on their cultural and class and scientific safaris, searching for striking images. They would entrap the world, whatever the cost in patience and discomfort, by this active,
acquisitive, evaluating, gratuitous modality of vision. Alfred Stieglitz proudly reports that he had stood three hours during a blizzard on February 22, 1893, "awaiting the proper
moment" to take his celebrated picture, "Fifth Avenue, Winter." The proper moment is when one can see things (especially what everyone has already seen) in a fresh way. The quest
became the photographer's trademark in the popular imagination. By the 1920s the photographer had become a modern hero, like the aviator and the anthropologist-without necessarily
having to leave home. Readers of the popular press were invited to join "our photographer" on a "journey of discovery," visiting such new realms as "the world from above," "the
world under the magnifying glass," "the beauties of every day," "the unseen universe," "the miracle of light," "the beauty of machines,�' the picture that can be "found in the
street." Everyday life apotheosized, and the kind of beauty that only the camera reveals-a corner of material reality that the eye doesn't see at all or can't normally isolate; or
the overview, as from a plane-these are the main targets of the photographer's conquest. For a while the close-up seemed to be photography's most original method of seeing.
Photographers found that as they more narrowly cropped reality, magnificent forms appeared. In On Photography 70 the early 1840s the versatile, ingenious Fox Talbot not only
composed photographs in the genres taken over from painting-p011rait, domestic scene, townscape, landscape, still life-but also trained his camera on a seashell, on the wings of a
butterfly (enlarged with the aid of a solar microscope), on a portion of two rows of books in his study. But his subjects are still recognizably a shell, butterfly wings, books.
When ordinary seeing was further violated-and the object isolated from its surroundings, rendering it abstract-new conventions about what was beautiful took hold. What is beautiful
became just what the eye can't (or doesn't) see: that fracturing, dislocating vision that only the camera supplies. In 1 9 15 Paul Strand took a photograph which he titled
"Abstract Patterns Made by Bowls." In 1 9 1 7 Strand turned to close-ups of machine forms, and throughout the twenties did close-up nature studies. The new procedure-its heyday was
between 1920 and 1 935-seemed to promise unlimited visual delights. It worked with equally stunning effect on homely objects, on the nude (a subject one might have supposed to be
virtually exhausted by painters), on the tiny cosmologies of nature. Photography seemed to have found its grandiose role, as the bridge between art and science; and painters were
admonished to learn from the beauties of microphotographs and aerial views in Moholy-Nagy's book Von Material zur A rchitektur, published by the Bauhaus in 1928 and translated into
English as The New Vision. It was the same year as the appearance of one of the first photographic best-sellers, a book by Albe11. Renger-Patzsch entitled Die Welt ist schOn (The
World Is Beautiful), which consisted of one hundred photographs, mostly close-ups, whose subjects range from a colocasia leaf to a potter's hands. Painting never made so shameless
a promise to prove the world beautiful. The abstracting eye-represented with particular brilliance in the period between the two world wars by some of the work of Strand, as well
as of Edward Weston and Minor White-seems to have been possible only after the discoveries made by modernist painters and sculptors. Strand and Weston, who both acknowledge a
similarity between their ways of seeing and those ofKandinsky On Photography 71 and Brancusi, may have been attracted to the hard edge of Cubist style in reaction to the softness
of Stieglitz's images. But it is just as true that the influence flowed the other way. In 1909, in his magazine Camera Work, Stieglitz notes the undeniable influence of photography
on painting, although he cites only the Impressionists-whose style of "blurred definition" inspired his own: And Moholy-Nagy in The New Vision correctly points out that "the
technique and spirit ofphotography directly or indirectly influenced Cubism." But for all the ways in which, from the 1840s on, painters and photographers have mutually influenced
and pillaged each other, their procedures are fundamentally opposed. The painter constructs, the photographer discloses. That is, the identification of the subject of a photograph
always dominates our perception of it-as it does not, necessarily, in a painting. The subject ofWeston's "Cabbage Leaf," taken in 1931, looks like a fall of gathered cloth; a title
is needed to identify it. Thus, the image makes its point in two ways. The form is pleasing, and it is (surprise!) the form of a cabbage leaf. If it were gathered cloth, it
wouldn't be so beautiful. We already know that beauty, from the fine arts. Hence the formal qualities of style-the central issue in painting-are, at most, of secondary importance
in photography, while what a photograph is ofis always of primary importance. The assumption underlying all uses of photography, that each photograph is a piece of the world, means
that we don't • The large influence that photography exercised upon the Impressionists is a com­ monplace of art history. Indeed, it is Jlot much of an exaggeration to say, as
Stieglitz does, that "the impressionist painters adhere to a style of composition that is strictly photographic." The camera's translation of reality into highly polarized areas of
light and dark, the free or arbitrary croppin g of the image in photographs, the indifference of photographers to making space, particularly background space, intelligible--these
were the main inspiration tor the Impressionist painters' professions ofscientific interest in the properties aflight, for their e>.'Jleriments in flattened perspective and
tmfamiliar angles ru1d decentralized forms that are sliced off by the picture's edge. ("They depict life iJ1 scraps and fragments,'' as Stieglitz observed in 1909.) A historical
detail: the very first Impressionist exhibition, in April 1874, was held in Nadar's photography studio on the Boulevard des Capucines in Paris. On Photography 72 know how to react
to a photograph (if the image is visually ambiguous: say, too closely seen or too distant) until we know what piece of the world it is. What looks like a bare coronet-the famous
photograph taken by Harold Edgetton in 1936-becomes far more interesting when we find out it is a splash of milk. Photography is commonly regarded as an instrument for knowing
things. When Thoreau said, "You can't say more than you see," he took for granted that sight had pride of place among the senses. But when, several generations later, Thoreau's
dictum is quoted by Paul Strand to praise photography, it resonates with a different meaning. Cameras did not simply make it possible to apprehend more by seeing (through
microphotography and teledetection). They changed seeing itself, by fostering the idea of seeing for seeing's sake. Thoreau still lived in a polysensual world, though one in which
observation had already begun to acquire the stature of a moral duty. He was talking about a seeing not cut off from the other senses, and about seeing in context ( the context he
called Nature), that is, a seeing linked to cettain presuppositions about what he thought was worth seeing. When Strand quotes Thoreau, he assumes another attitude toward the
sensorium: the didactic cultivation of perception, independent of notions about what is worth perceiving, which animates all modernist movements in the arts. The most influential
version of this attitude is to be found in painting, the art which photography encroached on remorselessly and plagiarized from enthusiastically from its beginnings, and with which
it still coexists in febrile rivalry. According to the usual account, what photography did was to usurp the painter's task of providing images that accurately transcribe reality.
For this "the painter should be deeply grateful," insists Weston, viewing this usurpation, as have many photographers before and since, as in fact a liberation. By taking over the
task of realistic picturing hithetto monopolized by painting, photography freed painting for its great modernist vocation-abstraction. But photography's impact on painting was not
as dear-cut as that. For, as photography was entering the scene, painting was already, on its own, beginning its long retreat from realistic On Photography 73 representation-Turner
was born in 1775, Fox Talbot in 1 800-and the territory photography came to occupy with such rapid and complete success would probably have been depopulated anyway. (The
instability of nineteenth-century painting's strictly representational achievements is most clearly demonstrated by the fate of portraiture, which came more and more to be about
painting itself rather tl1an about sitters-and eventually ceased to interest most ambitious painters, with such notable recent exceptions as Francis Bacon and Warhol, who borrow
