informative than any snapshot. And even the very wealthy usually owned just one portrait of themselves or any of their forebears as children, that is, an image of one moment of
childhood, whereas it is common to have many photographs of oneself, the camera offering the possibility of possessing a complete record, at all ages. The point of the standard
portraits in the bourgeois household of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries was to confirm an ideal of the sitter (proclaiming social standing, embellishing personal
appearance); given this purpose, it is clear why their owners did not feel the need to have more than one. What the photograph-record confirms is, more modestly, simply that the
subject exists; therefore, one can never have too many. The fear that a subject's uniqueness was leveled by being photographed was never so frequently expressed as in the 1850s,
the years when portrait photography gave the first example of how cameras could create instant fashions and durable industries. In Melville's Pierre, published at the start of the
decade, the hero, another fevered champion of voluntary isolation, considered with what infinite readiness now, the most faithful portrait of any one could be taken by the
Daguerreotype, whereas in former times a faithful portrait was only within the power of the moneyed, or mental aristocrats of the earth. How natural then the inference, that
instead of, as in old times, immortalizing a genius, a portrait now only dayalized a dunce. Besides, when every body has his portrait published, true distinction lies in not having
yours published at all. But ifphotographs demean, paintings distort in the opposite way: they make grandiose. Melville's intuition is that all forms of portraiture in the business
civilization are compromised; at least, On Photography 130 so it appears to Pierre, a paragon of alienated sensibility. Just as a photograph is too little in a mass society, a
painting is too much. The nature of a painting, Pierre observes, makes it better entitled to reverence than the man; inasmuch as nothing belittling can be imagined concerning the
portrait, whereas many m1avoidably belittling things can be fancied as touching the man. Even if such ironies can be considered to have been dissolved by the completeness of
photography's triumph, the main difference between a painting and a photogJaph in the matter of portraiture still holds. Paintings invariably sum up; photographs usually do not.
Photographic images are pieces of evidence in an ongoing biography or history. And one photograph, unlike one painting, implies that there will be others. "Ever-the Human Document
to keep the present and the future in touch with the past," said Lewis Hine. But what photography supplies is not only a record of the past but a new way of dealing with the
present, as the effects of the countless billions of contemporary photograph-documents attest. While old photographs fill out our mental image of the past, the photographs being
taken now transform what is present into a mental image, like the past. Cameras establish an inferential relation to the present (reality is known by its traces), provide an
instantly retroactive view of experience. Photographs give mock forms of possession: of the past, the present, even the future. In Nabokov's Invitation to a Beheading ( 1938), the
prisoner Cincinnatus is shown the "photohoroscope" of a child cast by the sinister M'siem Pierre: an album of photographs of little Emmie as an infant, then a small child, then
pre-pubescent, as she is now, then-by retouching and using photographs of her mother-of Emmie the adolescent, the bride, the thirty-year-old, concluding with a photograph at age
forty, Emmie on her deathbed. A "parody of the work oftime" is what Nabokov calls this exemplary artifact; it is also a parody of the work of photography. Photography, which has so
many narcissistic uses, is also a On Photography 131 powerful instrument for depersonalizing om relation to the world; and the two uses are complementary. Like a pair of binoculars
with no right or wrong end, the cainera makes exotic things near, intimate; and familiar things small, abstract, strange, much farther away. It offers, in one easy, habit-forming
activity, both participation and alienation in our own lives and those of others-allowing us to participate, while confirmin g alienation. War and photography now seem inseparable,
and plane crashes and other horrific accidents always attract people with cameras. A society which makes it normative to aspire never to experience privation, failure, misery,
pain, dread disease, and in which death itself is regarded not as natural and inevitable but as a cruel, unmerited disaster, creates a tremendous curiosity about these events-a
curiosity that is partly satisfied through picture-taking. The feeling of being exempt from calamity stimulates interest in looking at painful pictures, and looking at them
suggests and strengthens the feeling that one is exempt. Partly it is because one is «here,'' not "there,'' and partly it is the character of inevitability that all events acquire
when they are transmuted into images. In the real world, something is happening and no one knows what is going to happen. In the image-world, it has happened, and it will forever
happen in that way. Knowing a great deal about what is in the world (art, catastrophe, the beauties ofnature) through photographic images, people are frequently disappointed,
surprised, unmoved when they see the real thing. For photographic linages tend to subtract feeling from something we experience at first hand and the feelings they do arouse are,
largely, not those we have in real life. Often something disturbs us more in photographed form than it does when we actually experience it. In a hospital in Shanghai in 1973,
watching a factory worker with advanced ulcers have nine-tenths of his stomach removed under acupuncture anesthesia, I managed to follow the three-hour procedure (the first
operation I'd ever observed) without queasiness, never once feeling the need to look away. In a movie theater in Paris a year later, the less gory operation in Antonioni's China
documentary Chung Kuo made me flinch at the first cut of the scalpel and avert my eyes several On Photography 132 times during the sequence. One is vulnerable to disturbing events
in the form of photographic images in a way that one is not to the real thing. That vulnerability is part of the distinctive passivity of someone who is a spectator twice over,
spectator of events already shaped, first by the participants and second by the image maker. For the real operation I had to get scrubbed, don a surgical gown, then stand alongside
the busy surgeons and nurses with my roles to play: inhibited adult, well-mannered guest, respectful witness. The movie operation precludes not only this modest participation but
whatever is active in spectatorship. In the operating room, I am the one who changes focus, who makes the close-ups and the medium shots. In the theater, Antonioni has already
chosen what parts of the operation I can watch; the camera looks for me-and obliges me to look, leaving as my only option not to look. Further, the movie condenses something that
takes hours to a few minutes, leaving only interesting parts presented in an interesting way, that is, with the intent to stir or shock. The dramatic is dramatized, by the
didactics oflayout and montage. We turn the page in a photo-magazine, a new sequence starts in a movie, making a contrast that is sharper than the contrast between successive
events in real time. Nothing could be more instructive about the meaning of photography for us-as, among other things, a method ofhyping up the real-than the attacks on Antonioni'
s film in the Chinese press in early 1974. They make a negative catalogue of all the devices of modern photography, still and ftlm.* While for us - See A Vicious .Motive,
Despicable Tricks-A Criticism ofAntonioni'sA nti-China Film "China" (Peking: Foreign Languages Press, 1974), an eighteen -page pamphlet ( w1signed) which reproduces an article that
appeared in the paper Renminh Ribao on January 30, 1974; and "RepudiatingADtonioni's Anti-China Film," Peking Re11iew, No. 8 (February 22, 1974), which supplies abridgedversions
ofthree other articles published that month. The aim of these articles is not, of course, to expound a view of photography-their interest on that score is inadvertent-but to
construct a model ideological enemy, as in other mass educationa.l campaigns staged during this period. Given this purpose, it was as nnnecessary for the tens of millions mobilized
in meetings held in schools, fac­ tories, army units, and communes arotmd the country to "Criticize Antonioni's Anti- On Photography 133 photography is intimately connected with
discontinuous ways of seeing (the point is precisely to see the whole by means of a part-an arresting detail, a striking way of cropping), in China it is connected only with
continuity. Not only are there proper subjects for the camera, those which are positive, inspirational (exemplary activities, smiling people, bright weather), and orderly, but
there are proper ways of photographing, which derive from notions about the moral order of space that preclude the very idea of photographic seeing. Thus Antonioni was reproached
for photographing things that were old, or old-fashioned-"he sought out and took dilapidated walls and blackboard newspapers discarded long ago"; paying "no attention to big and
small tractors working in the fields, [he] chose only a donkey pulling a stone roller"-and for showing w1decorous moments-"he disgustingly filmed people blowing their noses and
going to the latrine"-and undisciplined movement-"instead of taking shots of pupils in the classroom in our factory-run primary school, he filmed the children running out of the
classroom after a class." And he was accused of denigrating the right subjects by his way of photographing them: by using " dim and dreaty colors" and hiding people in "dark
shadows"; by treating the same subject with a variety of shots-"there are sometimes long-shots, sometimes close-ups, sometimes from the front, and sometimes from behind"-that is,
for not showing things from the point of view of a single, ideally placed observer; by using high and low angles-"The camera was intentionally turned on this magnificent modem
bridge from very bad angles in order to make it appear crooked and tottering"; and by not taking enougll full shots-"He racked his brain to get such close-ups in an attempt to
distort the people's image and uglify their spiritual outlook." Besides the mass-produced photographic iconography of revered leaders, revolutionary kitsch, and cultural treasures,
one often sees photographs of a private so11 in China. Many people possess pictures of their loved ones, tacked to the wall or stuck China Film" to have actually seen Chung Kuo as
it was for the participants in the "Criticize Lin Piao and Confucius" campaign of 1976 to have rea.d a text of Confucius. On Photography 134 under the glass on top of the dresser
or office desk. A large number of these are the sort of snapshots taken here at family gatherings and on trips; but none is a candid photograph, not even of the kind that the most
unsophisticated camera user in this society finds normal-a baby crawling on the floor, someone in mid-gesture. Sports photographs show the team as a group, or only the most
stylized balletic moments of play: generally, what people do with the camera is assemble for it, then line up in a row or two. There is no interest in catching a subject in
movement. This is, one supposes, partly because of certain old conventions of decorum in conduct and imagery. And it is the characteristic visual taste of those at the first stage
of camera culture, when the image is defined as something that can be stolen from its owner; thus, Antonioni was reproached for "forcibly taking shots against people's wishes,"
like "a thief." Possession of a camera does not license intrusion, as it does in this society whether people like it or not. (The good manners of a camera culture dictate that one
is supposed to pretend not to notice when one is being photographed by a stranger in a public place as long as the photographer stays at a discreet distance-that is, one is
supposed neither to forbid the picture-taking nor to start posing.) Unlike here, where we pose where we can and yield when we must, in China taking pictures is always a ritual; it
always involves posing and, necessarily, consent. Someone who "deliberately stalked people who were unaware of his intention to film them'' was depriving people and things of their
right to pose, in order to look their best. Antonioni devoted nearly all of the sequence in Chung Kuo about Peking's Tien An Men Square, the country's foremost goal of political
pilgrimage, to the pilgrims waiting to be photographed. The interest to Antonioni of showing Chinese performing that elementary rite, having a trip documented by the camera, is
evident: the photograph and being photographed are favorite contemporary subjects for the camera. To his critics, the desire of visitors to Tien An Men Square for a photograph
souvenir On Photography 135 is a reflection of their deep revolutionary feelings. But with bad intentions, Antonioni, instead of showing this reality, took shots only of people's
clothing, movement, and expressions: here, someone's ruffled hair; there, people peering, their eyes dazzled by the sun; one moment, their sleeves; another, their trousers . . . .
The Chinese resist the photographic dismemberment of reality. Close-ups are not used. Even the postcards of antiquities and works ofart sold in museums do not show part of
something; the object is always photographed straight on, centered, evenly lit, and in its entirety. We find the Chinese nai:ve for not perceiving the beauty of the cracked peeling
door, the picturesqueness of disorder, the force ofthe odd angle and the significant detail, the poetry of the turned back. We have a modern notion ofembellishment-beauty is not
inherent in anything; it is to be found, by another way of seeing-as well as a wider notion of meaning, which photography's many uses illustrate and powerfully reinforce. The more
numerous the variations of something, the richer its possibilities of meaning: thus, more is said with photographs in the West d1an in China today. Apart from whatever is true
about Chung Kuo as an item of ideological merchandise (and the Chinese are not wrong in finding the film condescending), Antonioni's images simply mean more than any images the
Chinese release of themselves. The Chinese don't want photographs to mean very much or to be very interesting. They do not want to see the world from an unusual angle, to discover
new subjects. Photographs are supposed to display what has already been described. Photography for us is a double-edged instrument for producing cliches (the French word that means
both trite expression and photographic negative) and for serving up "fresh" views. For the Chinese authorities, there are only cliches-which they consider not to be cliches but
"correct" views. In China today, only two realities are acknowledged. We see reality as hopelessly and interestingly plmal. In China, what is defined as an issue for debate is one
about which there are "two On Photography 136 lines," a right one and a wrong one. Our society proposes a spectrum of discontinuous choices and perceptions. Theirs is constructed
around a single, ideal observer; and photographs contribute their bit to the Great Monologue. For us, there are dispersed, interchangeable ('points of view"; photography is a
polylogue. The current Chinese ideology defines reality as a historical process structured by recurrent dualisms with clearly outlined, morally colored meanings; the past, for the
most part, is simply judged as bad. For us, there are historical processes with awesomely complex and sometimes contradictory meanings; and arts which draw much of their value from
our consciousness of time as history, like photography. (This is why the passing oftime adds to the aesthetic value of photographs, and the scars oftime make objects more rather
than less enticing to photographers.) With the idea of history, we certify our interest in knowing the greatest number of things. The only use the Chinese are allowed to make of
their history is didactic: their interest in history is narrow, moralistic, deforming, uncurious. Hence, photography in our sense has no place in their society. The limits placed
on photography in China only reflect the character of their society, a society unified by an ideology of stark, unremitting conflict. Our unlimited use of photographic images not
only reflects but gives shape to this society, one unified by the denial of conflict. Our very notion of the world-the capitalist twentieth century's "one world"-is like a
photographic overview. The world is "one" not because it is united but because a tour of its diverse contents does not reveal conflict but only an even more astounding diversity.
This spurious unity of the world is effected by translating its contents int:o images. Images are always compatible, or can be made compatible, even when the realities they depict
are not. Photography does not simply reproduce the real, it recycles it-a key procedure of a modern society. In the form of photographic images, things and events are put to new
uses, assigned new meanings, which go beyond the distinctions between the beautiful and the ugly, the true and the false, the useful and the useless, good taste and bad.
Photography is one of the chief On Photography 137 means for producing that quality ascribed to things and situations which erases these distinctions: "the interesting." What makes
something interesting is that it can be seen to be like, or analogous to, something else. There is an mi and there are fashions of seeing things in order to make them interesting;
and to supply this art, these fashions, there is a steady recycling ofthe artifacts and tastes of the past. Cliches, recycled, become meta-cliches. The photographic recycling makes
cliches out of unique objects, distinctive and vivid a11ifacts out of cliches. Images of real things are interlayered with images of images. The Chinese circumscribe the uses of
photography so that there are no layers or strata of images, and all images reinforce and reiterate each other.' We make of photography a means by which, precisely, anything can be
said, any purpose served. What in reality is discrete, images join. In the form of a photograph the explosion of an A-bomb can be used to advertise a safe. To us, the difference
between the photographer as an individual eye and the photographer as an objective recorder seems fundamental, the difference often regarded, mistakenly, as separating photography
as art from photography as document. But both are logical extensions of what photography means: ' The Chinese concern for the reiterative function of images (and of words) inspires
the distributing of additional images, photographs that depict scenes in which, dearly, no photographer could have been present; and the continuing use of such photographs suggests
how slender is the population's understanding of what photographic images and picture-tal'ing imply. In his book Chinese Shadows, Simon Leys gives an example from the "Movement to
Emulate Lei Feng," a mass campaign of the mid-1960s to in­ culcate the ideals of Maoist citizenship bttilt arow1d the apotheosis of an Unknown Citizen, a conscript named Lei Feng
who ilied at twenty in a banal accident. Lei Feng Exhibitions organized in the .large cities included "photographic docwnents, such as 'Lei Feng helping an old woman to cross the
street,' 'Lei Feng secretly [sic] doing his comrade's washing,' 'Lei Feng giving his lunch to a comrade who forgot his lw1eh box,' and so forili," with, apparently, nobody
questioning "the providential presence of a photographer dudng the various incidents in thelife ofthat humble, hithetto unknown soldier." I.n China, what makes an image true is
that it is good for people to see it. On Photography 138 note-taking on, potentially, everything in the world, from every possible angle. The same Nadar who took the most
authoritative celebrity portraits of his time and did the first photo-interviews was also the first photographer to take aerial views; and when he performed "the Daguerreian
operation" on Paris from a balloon in 1 855 he immediately grasped the future benefit of photography to warmakers. Two attitudes underlie this presumption that anything in the
world is material for the camera. One finds that there is beauty or at least interest in everything, seen with an acute enough eye. (And the aestheticizing of reality that makes
everything, anything, available to the camera is what also permits the co-opting of any photograph, even one of an utterly practical sort, as art.) The other treats everything as
the object of some present or future use, as matter for estimates, decisions, and predictions. According to one attitude, there is nothing that should not be seen; according to the
other, there is nothing that should not be recorded. Cameras implement an aesthetic view of reality by being a machine-toy that extends to everyone the possibility of making
disinterested judgments about importance, interest, beauty. ('' Thatwould make a good picture.") Cameras implement the instrumental view of reality by gathering information that
enables us to make a more accurate and much quicker response to whatever is going on. The response may ofcourse be either repressive or benevolent: military reconnaissance
photographs help snuff out lives, X-rays help save them. Though these two attitudes, the aesthetic and the instrwnental, seem to produce contradictory and even incompatible
feelings about people and situations, that is the altogether characteristic contradiction ofattitude which members ofa society that divorces public from private are expected to
share in and live with. And there is perhaps no activity which prepares us so well to live with these contradictory attitudes as does picture-taking, which lends itself so
brilliantly to both. On the one hand, cameras arm vision in d1e service of power-of the state, of industry, of science. On the other hand, cameras make vision expressive in that
mythical space known as private life. In China, where no space is left over On Photography 139 from politics and moralism for expressions of aesthetic sensibility, only some things
are to be photographed and only in certain ways. For us, as we become ftu1her detached from politics, there is more and more free space to fill up with exercises of sensibility
such as cameras afford. One of the effects ofthe newer camera technology (video, instant movies) has been to tmn even more of what is done with cameras in private to narcissistic
uses-that is, to self-surveillance. But such currently popular uses of image-feedback in the bedroom, the therapy session, and the weekend conference seem far less momentous than
video's potential as a tool for surveillance in public places. Preswnably, the Chinese will eventually make the same instrumental uses of photography that we do, except, perhaps,
this one. Our inclination to treat character as equivalent to behavior makes more acceptable a widespread public installation of the mechanized regard from the outside provided by
cameras. China's far more repressive standards of order require not only monitoring behavior but changing hea11s; there, surveillance is internalized to a degree without precedent,
which suggests a more limited future in their society for the camera as a means of surveillance. China offers the model of one kind of dictatorship, whose master idea is "the
good," in which the most unsparing limits are placed on all forms of expression, including images. The future may offer another kind of dictatorship, whose master idea is "the
interesting," in which images of all sorts, stereotyped and eccentric, proliferate. Something like this is suggested in Nabokov's Invitation to a Beheading. Its po1trait of a model
totalitarian state contains only one, omnipresent art: photography-and the friendly photographer who hovers around the hero's death cell turns out, at the end of the novel, to be
the headsman. And there seems no way (short of undergoing a vast historical amnesia, as in China) of limiting the proliferation of photographic images. The only question is whether
the function of the image-world created by cameras could be other than it is. The present function is dear enough, if one considers in what contexts photographic images are seen,
what dependencies they On Photography 140 create, what antagonisms they pacify-that is, what institutions they buttress, whose needs they really serve. A capitalist society
requires a culture based on images. It needs to furnish vast amounts of entertainment in order to stimulate buying and anesthetize the injuries of class, race, and sex. And it
needs to gather unlimited amounts of information, the better to exploit natural resources, increase productivity, keep order, make war, give jobs to bureaucrats. The camera's twin
capacities, to subjectivize reality and to objectify it, ideally serve these needs and strengthen them. Cameras define reality in the two ways essential to the workings of an
advanced industrial society: as a spectacle (for masses) and as an object of surveillance (for rulers) . The production o fimages also furnishes a ruling ideology. Social change is
replaced by a change in linages. The freedom to consume a plurality of images and goods is equated with freedom itself. The narrowing of free political choice to free economic
consumption requires the unlimited production and conswnption of images. The final reason for the need to photograph everything lies in the very logic of consumption itself. To
consume means to burn, to use up-and, therefore, to need to be replenished. As we make images and consume them, we need still more images; and still more. But images are not a
treasure for which the world must be ransacked; they are precisely what is at hand wherever the eye falls. The possession of a camera can inspire something akin to lust. And like
all credible forms oflust, it cannot be satisfied: first, because the possibilities of photography are infinite; and, second, because the project is finally self-devouring. The
attempts by photographers to bolster up a depleted sense of reality contribute to the depletion. Our oppressive sense of the transience of everything is more acute since cameras
gave us the means to <'fix" the fleeting moment. We consume images at an ever faster rate and, as Balzac suspected cameras used up layers of the body, images consume reality.
Cameras are the antidote and the disease, a means of appropriating reality and a means of making it obsolete. On Photography 141 The powers of photography have in effect
de-Platonized our understanding of reality, making it less and less plausible to reflect upon our experience according to the distinction between linages and things, between copies
and originals. It suited Plato's derogatory attitude toward images to liken them to shadows-transitory, miniJnally infoTmative, unmaterial, impotent co-presences of the real things
which cast them. But the force of photographic images comes from their being material realities in their own right, richly informative deposits left in the wake of whatever emitted
them, potent means for turning the tables on reality-for turning it into a shadow. Images are more real than anyone could have supposed. And just because they are an unlllnited
resource, one that cannot be exhausted by consumerist waste, there is all the more reason to apply the conservationist remedy. If there can be a better way for the real world to
include the one of images, it will require an ecology not only of real things but of images as well. On Photography 143 A BriefAnthology of Quotations [HOMAGE TO W.B.] I longed to
arrest all beauty that came before me, and at length the longing has been satisfie d. -Julia Margaret Cameron I long to have such a memorial of every being dear to me in the world.
It is not merely the likeness which is precious in such cases-but the association and the sense of nearness involved in the thing . . .the fact of the very shadow of the person
lying there fixed forever! It is the very sanctification of portraits I think-and it is not at all monstrous in me to say, what my brothers cry out against so vehemently, that I
would rather have such a memorial of one I dearlyloved, than the noblest artist's work ever produced. -Elizabeth Barrett ( 1 843, letter to Mary Russell Mitford) Your photography
is a record ofyour living, for anyone who really sees. You may see and be affected by other people's ways, you may even use them to find your own, but you will have eventually to
free yourself of them. That is what Nietzsche meant when he said, "I have just read Schopenhauer, now I have to get rid of him." He knew how insidious other people's ways could be,
particularly those which have the forcefulness of profound experience, if you let them get between you and your own vision. On Photography 144 -Paul Strand That the outer man is a
picture of the inner, and the face an expression and revelation of the whole character, is a presumption likely enough in itself, and therefore a safe one to go on; borne out as it
is by the fact that people are always anxious to see anyone who has made himself famous . . . . Photography . . . offers the most complete satisfaction of our curiosity.
-Schopenhauer To experience a thing as beautiful means: to experience it necessarily wrongly. -Nietzsche Now, for an absurdly small sum, we may become familiar not only with every
famous locality in the world, but also with almost every man of note in Europe. The ubiquity of the photographer is something wonderful. All of us have seen the Alps and know
Chamonix a11d the Mer de Glace by heart, though we have never braved the horrors of the Channel . . . . We have crossed the Andes, ascended Tenerife, entered Japan, "done" Niagara
and the Thousand Isles, dtunk delight of battle with our peers (at shop windows), sat at the councils of the mighty, grown familiar with kings, emperors and queens, prirna donnas,
pets of the ballet, and "well graced actors." Ghosts have we seen and have not trembled; stood before royalty and have not uncovered; and looked, in short, through a three-inch
lens at every single pomp and vanity of this wicked but beautiful world. -"D.P.," columnist in Once a Week [London], June 1, 1861 It has quite jusdy been said of Atget that he
photographed [ deserted Paris streets] like scenes of crime. The scene of a crime, too, is dese11ed; it is photographed for the purpose of establishing evidence. With Atget,
photographs become standard evidence On Photography 145 for historical occurrences, and acqmre a hidden political significance. -Walter Benjamin Ifl could tell the story in words,
I wouldn't need to lug a camera. -Lewis Hine 1 went to Marseille. A small allowance enabled me to get along, and I worked with enjoyment. I had just discovered the Leica. It became
the extension of my eye, and I have never been separated from it since I found it. I prowled the streets all day, feeling very strung-up and ready to pounce, determined to "trap"
life-to preserve life in the act of living. Above all, I craved to seize the whole essence, in the confines of one single photograph, of some situation that was in the process
ofunrolling itselfbefore my eyes. -Henri Cartier-Bresson It's hard to tell where you leave off and the camera begins. A Minolta 35mm SLR makes it almost effortless to capture the
world around you. Or express the world within you. It feels comfortable in your hands. Your fingers fal l into place naturally. Everything works so smoothly that the camera becomes
a pa11 of you. You never have to take your eye from the viewfinder to make adjustments. So you can concentrate on creating the picture . . . . And you're free to probe the limits
of your imagination with a Minolta. More than 40 lenses in the superbly crafted Rokkor-X and Minolta/Celtic systems let you bridge distances or capture a spectacular "fisheye"
panorama . . . MINOLTA When you are the camera and the camera is you -advertisement ( 1976) On Photography 146 1 photograph what I do not wish to paint and I paint what I cannot
photograph. -Man Ray Only with effort can the camera be forced to lie: basically it is an honest medium: so the photographer is much more likely to approach nature in a spirit of
inquiry, of communion, instead of with the saucy swagger of self-dubbed "artists." And contempora1y vision, the new life, is based on honest approach to all problems, be they
morals or art. False fronts to buildings, false standards in morals, subterfuges and mummery of all kinds, must be, will be scrapped. -Edward Weston I attempt, through much ofmy
work, to animate all things-even so-called "inanimate" objects-with the spirit of man. I have come, by degrees, to realize that this extremely animistic projection rises,
ultimately, from my profound feat and disquiet over the accelerating mechanization of man's life; and the resulting attempts to stamp out individuality in all the spheres of man's
activity-this whole process being one of the dominant expressions of our military-industrial society. . .. The creative photographer sets free the human contents of objects; and
imparts humanity to the inhuman world around him. -Clarence John Laughlin You can photograph anything now. -Robert Frank I always prefer to work in the studio. It isolates people
from their environment. They become in a sense . . . symbolic of themselves. I often feel that people come to me to be photographed as they would go to a doctor or a fortune
teller-to find out how they are. So they're dependent on me. I have to engage them. Otherwise there's nothing to photograph. The concentration has to come On Photography 147 from
me and involve them. Sometimes the force of it grows so strong that sounds in the studio go unheard. Time stops. We share a brief, intense intimacy. But it's unearned. It has no
past . . . no future. And when the sitting is over-when the picture is done-there's nothing left except the photograph . . . the photograph and a kind of embarrassment. They leave
. . . and I don't know them. I've hardly heard what they've said. If l meet them a week later in a room somewhere, I expect they won't recognize me. Because I don't feel I was
really there. At least the part of me that was . . .is now in the photograph. And the photographs have a reality for me that the people don't. It's through the photographs that I
know them. Maybe it's in the nature of being a photographer. I'm never really implicated. I don't have to have any real knowledge. It's all a question of recognitions. -Richard
Avedon The daguerreotype is not merely an instrument which serves to draw nature . . . [it] gives her the power to reproduce herself. -Louis Daguerre ( 1838, from a notice
circulated to attract investors) The creations of man or nature never have more grandeur than in an Ansel Adams photograph, and his image can seize the viewer with more force than
the natural object from which it was made. -advertisement for a book of photographs by Adams ( 1974) This Polaroid SX-70 photograph is part of the collection of the Museum of
Modern Art. The work is by Lucas Samaras, one of America's foremost artists. It is part of one of the world's most important collections. It was produced using the finest instant
photographic system in the world, the Polaroid SX-70 Land camera. That same camera is owned by millions. A camera of extraordinary quality and On Photography 148 versatility
capable of exposures from 10.4 inches to infinity. . . . Samaras' work of art from the SX-70, a work of art in itself. -advertisement ( 1977) Most ofmy photographs are
compassionate, gentle, and personal. They tend to let the viewer see himself. They tend not to preach. And they tend not to pose as art. -Bruce Davidson New forms in art are
created by the canonization of peripheral forms. -Viktor Shklovsky . . . a new industry has arisen which contributes not a little to confirming stupidity in its faith and to
ruining what might have remained of the divine in the French genius. The idolatrous crowd postulates an ideal worthy of itself and appropriate to its nature-that is perfectly
understandable. As far as painting and sculpture are concerned, the current credo of the sophisticated public, above all in France . . . is this: "I believe in Nature, and I
believe only in Nature (there are good reasons for that). I believe that Art is, and cannot be other than, the exact reproduction of Nature . . . . Thus an industry that could give
us a result identical to Nature would be the absolute of art." A vengeful God has granted the wishes of this multitude. Daguerre was his Messiah. And now the public says to itself:
"Since photography gives us every guarantee of exactitude that we could desire (they really believe that, the idiots!), then photography and Art are the same thing." From that
moment our squalid society rushed, Narcissus to a man, to gaze at its trivial image on a scrap of metal . . . . Some democratic writer ought to have seen here a cheap method of
disseminating a loathing for history and for painting among the people . . . . -Baudelaire On Photography 149 Life itself is not the reality. We are the ones who put life into
stones and pebbles. -Frederick Sommer The yow1g artist has recorded, stone by stone, the cathedrals of Strasbourg and Rheims in over a hundred different prints. Thanks to him we
have climbed all the steeples . . . what we never could have discovered through our own eyes, he has seen for us . . . one might think the saintly artists o.f the Middle Ages had
foreseen the daguerreotype in placing on high their statues and stone carvings where birds alone circling the spires could marvel at their detail and perfection . . . . The entire
cathedral is reconstructed, layer on layer, in wonderful effects of swilight, shadows, and rain. M. Le Secq, too, has built his monument. -H. de Lacretelle, in La Lumiere, March
20, 1852 The need to bring things spatially and humanly "nearer" is almost an obsession today, as is the tendency to negate the unique or ephemeral quality of a given event by
reproducing it photographically. There is an ever-growing compulsion to reproduce the object photographically, in dose-up . . . . -Walter Benjamin It is no accident that the
photographer becomes a photographer any more than the lion tamer becomes a lion tamer. -Dorothea Lange If I were just curious, it would be very hard to say to someone, "I want to
come to your house andl have you talk to me and tell me the story of your life." I mean people are going to say, "You're crazy." Plus they're going to keep mighty guarded. But the
camera is a kind oflicense. A lot of people, they want to be paid that much attention and that's a reasonable kind of attention to be paid. -Diane Arbus On Photography ISO . . .
Suddenly a small boy dropped to the ground next to me. I realized then that the police were not firing warning shots. They were shooting into the crowd. More children fell. . . . I
began taking pictures ofthe little boy who was dying next to me. Blood poured from his mouth and some children knelt next to him and tried to stop the flow of blood. Then some
children shouted they were going to kill me . . .. I begged them to leave me alone. I said I was a reporter and was there to record what happened. A young girl hit me on the head
