enough time, many photographs do acquire an aura. (The fact that color photographs don't age in the way black-and-white photographs do may partly explain the marginal status which
color has had until very recently in serious photographic taste. The cold intimacy of color seems to seal off the photograph from patina. ) For while paintings or poems do not get
better, more attractive simply because they are older, all photographs are interesting as well as touching if they are old enough. It is not altogether wrong to say that there is
no such thing as a bad photograph-only less interesting, less relevant, less mysterious ones. Photography's adoption by the museum only accelerates that process which time will
bring about anyway: making all work valuable. The role ofthe museum in forming contemporary photographic taste cannot be overestimated. Museums do not so much arbitrate what
photographs are good or bad as offer new conditions for looking at all photographs. This procedure, which appears to be creating standards of evaluation, in fact abolishes them.
The museum cannot be said to have created a secure canon for the photographic work of the past, as it has for painting. Even as it seems to be sponsoring a particular photographic
taste, the museum is undermining the very idea of normative taste. Its role is to show that there are no fixed standards of evaluation, that there is no canonical tradition of
work. Under the museum's attentions, the very idea of a canonical tradition is exposed as redundant. On Photography Ill What keeps photography's Great Tradition always in flux,
constantly being reshuffled, is not that photography is a new art and therefore somewhat insecure-this is part of what photographic taste is about. There is a more rapid sequence
of rediscovery in photography than in any other art. Illustrating that law oftaste given its definitive formulation by T. S. Eliot whereby each important new work necessarily
alters our perception of the heritage of the past, new photographs change how we look at past photographs. (For example, Arbus's work has made it easier to appreciate the greatness
of the work of Hine, another photographer devoted to portraying the opaque dignity of victims.) But the swings in contemporary photographic taste do not only reflect such coherent
and sequential processes of reevaluation, whereby like enhances like. What they more commonly express is the complementarity and equal value of antithetical styles and themes. For
several decades American photography has been dominated by a reaction against "Westonism"-that is, against contemplative photography, photography considered as an independent
visual exploration of the world with no evident social urgency. The technical perfection of Weston's photographs, the calculated beauties of White and Siskind, the poetic
constructions of Frederick Sommer, the self-assured ironies ofCartier-Bresson-all these have been challenged by photography that is, at least programmatically, more nai:ve, more
direct; that is hesitant, even awkward. But taste in photography is not that linear. Without any weakening of the current commitments to informal photography and to photography as
social document, a perceptible revival of Weston is now taking place-as, with the passage of enough time, Weston's work no longer looks timeless; as, by the much broader definition
of naivete with which photographic taste operates, Weston's work also looks nai:ve. Finally, there is no reason to exclude any photographer from the canon. Right now there are
mini-revivals ofsuch long-despised pictorialists from another era as Oscar Gustav Rejlander, Henry Peach Robinson, and Robert Demachy. As photography takes the whole world as its
subject, there is room for every kind of taste. On Photography 112 Literary taste does exclude: the success of the modernist movement in poetry elevated Donne but diminished
Dryden. With literature, one can be eclectic up to a point, but one can't like everything. With photography, eclecticism has no limits. The plain photographs from the 1870s
ofabandoned children admitted to a London institution called Doctor Barnardo's Home (taken as "records") are as moving as David Octavius Hill's complex portraits of Scottish
notables of the 1840s (taken as «art") . The clean look ofWeston's classic modern style is not refuted by, say, Benno Friedman's ingenious recent revival of pictorial blurriness.
This is not to deny that each viewer likes the work of some photographers more than others: for example, most experienced viewers today prefer Atget to Weston. What it does mean is
that, by the nature of photography, one is not really obliged to choose; and that preferences of that sort are, for the most part, merely reactive. Taste in photography tends to
be, is perhaps necessarily, global, eclectic, permissive, which means that in the end it must deny the difference between good taste and bad taste. This is what makes all the
attempts of photography polemicists to erect a canon seem ingenuous or ignorant. For there is something fake about all photographic controversies-and the attentions ofthe museum
have played a crucial role in making this clear. The museum levels up all schools of photography. Indeed, it makes little sense even to speak of schools. In the history of
painting, movements have a genuine life and function: painters are often much better understood in terms of the school or movement to which they belonged. But movements in the
history of photography are fleeting, adventitious, sometimes merely perfunctory, and no first-rate photographer is better understood as a member of a group. (Think of Stieglitz and
Photo-Secession, Weston and .f64, Renger-Patzsch and the New Objectivity, Walker Evans and the Farm Security Administration project, Cartier-Bresson and Magnum.) To group
photographers in schools or movements seems to be a kind of misunderstanding, based (once again) on the irrepressible but invariably misleading analogy between photography and
painting. The leading role now played by museums in forming and On Photography 113 clarifying the nature o f photographic taste seems to mark a new stage from which photography
cannot turn back Accompanying its tendentious respect for the profoundly banal is the museum's diffusion of a historicist view, one that inexorably promotes the entire history of
photography. Small wonder that photography critics and photographers seem <mxious. Underlying many of the recent defenses of photography is the fear that photography is already a
senile art, littered by spurious or dead movements; that the only task left is curatorship and historiography. (While prices skyrocket for photographs old and new.) It is not
surprising that this demoralization should be felt at the moment of photography's greatest acceptance, for the true extent of photography's triumph as art, and over art, has not
really been understood. Photography entered the scene as an upstart activity, which seemed to encroach on and diminish an accredited art painting. For Baudelaire, photography was
painting's «mortal enemy"; but eventually a truce was worked out, according to which photography was held to be painting's liberator. Weston employed the most common formula for
easing the defensiveness of painters when he wrote in 1930: "Photography has, or will eventually, negate much painting-for which the painter should be deeply grateful." Freed by
photography from the drudgery of faithful representation, painting could pursue a higher task: abstraction: ' valery claimed that photographyperformed the same service for writing,
by exposing the "illusory" claim of language to "convey the idea of a visual object with any degree of precision." But writers should not fear that photography "might ultimately
restrict the importance of the art of writing and act as its substitute," Valery says in "The Centenary of Photography" ( L929). 1fphotography "discourages us from describing," he
argues, we are thus reminded of the limits oflanguage and are advised, as V\rriters, to put our tools to a use more befitting their true nature. A literature would purify itself if
itlet :f to other modes ofe>;pression and production the tasks which theycan perform far more effectively, and devoted itselfto ends it alone can accomplish . . . one ofwhich [isl
the perfecting of language that constructs or expounds abstract thought, the other e>..-ploring all the variety of poetic patterns and resonances. On Photography I 14 Indeed, the
most persistent idea in histories of photography and in photography criticism is this mythic pact concluded between painting and photography, which authorized both to pursue their
separate but equally valid tasks, while creatively influencing each other. In fact, the legend falsifies much of the history of both painting and photography. The camera's way of
fixing the appearance of the external world suggested new patterns of pictorial composition and new subjects to painters: creating a preference for the fragment, raising interest
in glimpses of humble life, and in studies of fleeting motion and the effects of light. Painting did not so much turn to abstraction as adopt the camera's eye, becoming (to borrow
Mario Praz's words) telescopic, microscopic, and photoscopic in structure. But painters have never stopped attempting to imitate the realistic effects of photography. And, far from
confining itself to realistic representation and leaving abstraction to painters, photography has kept up with and absorbed all the anti-naturalistic conquests of painting. More
generally, this legend does not take into account the voraciousness of the photographic enterprise. In the transactions between painting and photography, photography has always had
Valery's argw11ent is not convincing. Although a photograph may be said to record or show or present, it does not ever, properly speaking, "describe"; only language de­ scribes,
which is an event in time. Valery suggests opening a passport as "proof' of his argument: "the description scrawled there does not bear comparison with the snapshot stapled
alongside it." But this is using description in the most debased, impoverished sense; there are passages in Dickens or Nabokov which describe a face or a part of the body better
than any photograph. Nor does it argue for the inferior descriptive powers of literature to say, as Valery does, that "the writer who depicts a landscape or a face, no matter how
skillful he may be at his craft, will suggest as many differellt visions as he has readers." The same is true of a photograph. As the stiU photograph is thought to have freed
writers from the obligation ofdescrib­ ing, movies are often held to have usurped the novelist's task of narrating or story­ telling-thereby, some claim, freeing the novel for
other, less realistic tasks. This version of the argument is more plausible, because movies are a temporal art. But it does not do justice to the relation between novels and films.
On Photography I 15 the upper hand. There is nothing surprising in the fact that painters from Delacroix and Turner to Picasso and Bacon have used photographs as visual aids, but
no one expects photographers to get help from painting. Photographs may be incorporated or transcribed into the painting (or collage, or combine), but photography encapsulates art
itself. The experience oflooking at paintings may help us to look better at photographs. But photography has weakened our experience of painting. (In more than one sense,
Baudelaire was right.) Nobody ever found a lithograph or an engraving of a painting-the popular older methods of mechanical reproduction-more satisfying or more exciting than the
painting. But photographs, which turn interesting details into autonomous compositions, which transform true colors into brilliant colors, provide new, irresistible satisfactions.
The destiny of photography has taken it far beyond the role to which it was originally thought to be limited: to give more accurate reports on reality (including works of art).
Photography is the reality; the real object is often experienced as a letdown. Photographs make normative an experience of art that is mediated, second-hand, intense in a different
way. (To deplore that photographs of paintings have become substitutes for the paintings for many people is not to support any mystique of"the original" that addresses the viewer
without mediation. Seeing is a complex act, and no great painting communicates its value and quality without some form of preparation and instruction. Moreover, the people who have
a harder time seeing the original work of art after seeing the photographic copy are generally those who would have seen very little in the original.) As most wmks of art
(including photographs) are now known from photographic copies, photography-and the art activities derived from the model of photography, and the mode of taste derived from
photographic taste-has decisively transformed the traditional fine a11s and the traditional norms of taste, including the very idea of the work of art. Less and less does the work
of art depend on being a unique object, an original made by an individual artist. Much of painting today aspires to the qualities of reproducible objects. Finally, photographs have
become so On Photography I 16 much the leading visual experience that we now have works of art which are produced in order to be photographed. In much of conceptual art, in
Christo's packaging of the landscape, in the e:u1hworks ofWalter De Maria and Robert Smithson, the artist's work is known principally by the photographic report of it in galleries
and museums; sometimes the size is such that it can only be known in a photograph (or from an airplane). The photograph is not, even ostensibly, meant to lead us back to an
original experience. It was on the basis ofthis presumed truce between photography and painting that photography was-grudgingly at first, then enthusiastically-acknowledged as a
fine art. But the very question of whether photography is or is not an art is essentially a misleading one. Although photography generates works that can be called art-it requires
subjectivity, it can lie, it gives aesthetic pleasure-photography is not, to begin with, an art form at all. Like language, it is a medium in which works of art (among other
things) are made. Out of language, one can make scientific discourse, bureaucratic memoranda, love letters, grocery lists, and Balzac's Paris. Out of photography, one can make
passpm1 pictures, weather photographs, pornographic pictures, X-rays, wedding pictures, and Atget's Paris. Photography is not an art like, say, painting and poetry. Although the
activities of some photographers conform to the traditional notion of a fine art, the activity of exceptionally talented individuals producing discrete objects that have value in
themselves, from the beginning photography has also lent itself to that notion of art which says that a11 is obsolete. The power of photography-and its centrality in present
aesthetic concerns-is that it confirms both ideas of art. But the way in which photography renders art obsolete is, in the long run, stronger. Painting and photography are not two
potentially competitive systems for producing and reproducing images, which simply had to arrive at a proper division of territory to be reconciled. Photography is an enterprise of
another order. Photography, though not an art form in itself, has the peculiar capacity to turn all its subjects into works of art. Superseding the issue ofwhether On Photography I
17 photography is or is not an art is the fact that photography heralds (and creates) new ambitions for the arts. It is the prototype of the characteristic direction taken in our
time by both the modernist high arts and the commercial ru1s: the transformation of at1s into meta-a11s or media. (Such developments as ftlm, TV, video, the tape-based music of
Cage, Stockhausen, and Steve Reich are logical extensions of the model established by photography.) The traditional fine arts are elitist: their characteristic form is a single
work, produced by an individual; they imply a hierarchy of subject matter in which some subjects are considered important, profound, noble, and others unimportant, trivial, base.
The media are democratic: they weaken the role of the specialized producer or auteur (by using procedures based on chance, or med1anical techniques which anyone can learn; and by
being corporate or collaborative efforts); they regard the whole world as material. The traditional fine arts rely on the distinction between authentic and fake, between original
and copy, between good taste and bad taste; the media blur, if they do not abolish outright, these distinctions. The fme arts assume that certain experiences or subjects have a
meaning. The media are essentially contentless (this is the truth behind Marshall McLuhan's celebrated remark about the message being the medium itself); their characteristic tone
is ironic, or dead-pan, or parodistic. It is inevitable that more and more art will be designed to end as photographs. A modernist would have to rewrite Pater's dictum that all art
aspires to the condition of music. Now all at1 aspires to the condition of photography. On Photograph}' 119 The Image-World Reality has always been interpreted through the reports
given by images; and pl1ilosophers since Plato have tried to loosen our dependence on images by evoking the standard of an image-free way of apprehending the real. But when, in the
mid-nineteenth century, the standard finally seemed attainable, the retreat of old religious and political illusions before the advance of humanistic and scientific thinking did
not-as anticipated-create mass defections to the real. On the contrary, the new age of unbelief strengthened the allegiance to images. The credence that could no longer be given to
realities understood in the form of images was now being given to realities understood to beimages, illusions. In the preface to the second edition ( 1843) of The Essence of
Christianity, Feuerbach observes about "our era" that it "prefers the image to the thing, the copy to the original, the representation to the reality, appearance to being"-while
being aware of doing just that. And his premonitory complaint has been transformed in the twentieth century into a widely agreed-on diagnosis: that a society becomes "modern" when
one of its chief activities is producing and consuming linages, when images that have extraordinary powers to determine our demands upon reality and are themselves coveted
substitutes for firsthand experience become indispensable to the health of the economy, the stability of the polity, and the pursuit of private happiness. Feuerbach' s words-he is
writing a few years after the invention of the camera-seem, more specifically, a presentiment of the impact of photography. For the images that have vil·tually On Photography 120
unlimited authority in a modern society are mainly photographic images; and the scope of that authority stems from the properties peculiar to images taken by cameras. Such images
are indeed able to usurp reality because first of all a photograph is not only an image (as a painting is an image), an interpretation of the real; it is also a trace, something
directly stenciled off tl1e real, like a footprint or a death mask. While a painting, even one that meets photographic standards of resemblance, is never more than the stating of
an interpretation, a photograph is never less than the registering of an emanation (light waves reflected by objects)-a material vestige ofits subject in a way that no painting can
be. Between two fantasy alternatives, that Holbein the Younger had lived long enough to have painted Shakespeare or that a prototype of the camera had been invented early enough to
have photographed him, most Bardolators would choose the photograph. This is not just because it would presumably show what Shakespeare really looked like, for even if the
hypothetical photograph were faded, barely legible, a brownish shadow, we would probably still prefer it to another glorious Holbein. Having a photograph of Shakespeare would be
like having a nail from the True Cross. Most contemporary expressions ofconcern that an image-world is replacing the real one continue to echo, as Feuerbach did, the Platonic
depreciation of the linage: true insofar as it resembles something real, sham because it is no more than a resemblance. But this venerable naive realism is somewhat beside the
point in the era of photographic images, for its blunt contrast between the image ("copy") and the thing depicted (the "original")-which Plato repeatedly illustrates with the
example of a painting-does not fit a photograph in so simple a way. Neither does the contrast help in understanding image-making at its origins, when it was a practical, magical
activity, a means of appropriating or gaining power over something. The further back we go in history, as E. H. Gombrich has observed, the less sharp is the distinction between
images and real things; in primitive societies, the thing and its image were simply two different, that is, physically distinct, manifestations of the same energy or spirit. Hence,
the supposed On Photography 121 efficacy of images in prop1t1atmg and gammg control over powerful presences. Those powers, those presences were present in them. For defenders of
the real from Plato to Feuerbach to equate image with mere appearance-that is, to presume that the image is absolutely distinct from the object depicted-is part of that process of
desacralization which separates us irrevocably from the world of sacred times and places in which an image was taken to pa11icipate in the reality of the object depicted. What
defines the originality of photography is that, at the very moment in the long, increasingly secular history of painting when secularism is entirely triumphant, it revives-in
wholly secular terms-something like the primitive status of images. Our irrepressible feeling that the photographic process is something magical has a genuine basis. No one takes
an easel painting to be in any sense co-substantial with its subject; it only represents or refers. But a photograph is not only like its subject, a homage to the subject. It is
part of, an extension of that subject; and a potent means of acquirir1g it, of gaining control over it. Photography is acquisition in several forms. In its simplest form, we have
in a photograph surrogate possession ofa cherished person or thing, a possession which gives photographs some of the character of unique objects. Through photographs, we also have
a conswner's relation to events, both to events which are part of our experience and to those which are not-a distinction between types of experience that such habit-forming
consumership blurs. A third form of acquisition is that, through image-making and image-duplicating machines, we can acquire something as information (rather than experience).
Indeed, the importance ofphotographic images as the medium through which more and more events enter our experience is, finally, only a byproduct of their effectiveness in
furnishing knowledge dissociated from and independent of experience. This is the most inclusive form of photographic acquisition. Through being photographed, something becomes part
of a system of information, fitted into schemes of classification and storage which range from the crudely chronological order of On Photography 122 snapshot sequences pasted in
family albums to the dogged accumulations and meticulous filing needed for photography's uses in weather forecasting, astronomy, microbiology, geology, police work, medical
training and diagnosis, military reconnaissance, and art history. Photographs do more than redefine the stuff of ordinary experience (people, things, events, whatever we see-albeit
differently, often inattentively-with natural vision) and add vast amounts of material that we never see at all. Reality as such is redefined-as an item for exhibition, as a record
for scrutiny, as a target for surveillance. The photographic exploration and duplication of the world fragments continuities and feeds the pieces into an interminable dossier,
thereby providing possibilities of control that could not even be dreamed of under the earlier system of recording information: writing. That photographic recording is always,
potentially, a means of control was already recognized when such powers were in their infancy. In 1850, Delacroix noted in his journal the success of some ((experiments in
photography" being made at Cambridge, where astronomers were photographing the sun and the moon and had managed to obtain a pinhead-size impression of the star Vega. He added the
following ((curious" observation: Since the light of the star which was daguerreotyped took twenty years to traverse the space separating it from the earth, the ray which was fixed
on the plate had consequently left the celestial sphere a long time before Daguerre had discovered the process by means ofwhich we have just gained control of this light. Leaving
behind such puny notions of control as Delacroix's, photography's progress has made ever more literal the senses in which a photograph gives control over the thing photographed.
The technology that has already minimized the extent to which the distance separating photographer from subject affects the precision and magnitude of the image; provided ways to
photograph things which are unirnaginably small as well as those, like stars, which are unimaginably far; rendered picture-taking On Photography 123 independent oflight itself
(infrared photography) and freed the picture-object from its confinement to two dimensions (holography); shrunk the interval between sighting the picture and holding it in one's
hands (from the first Kodak, when it took weeks for a developed roll of film to be returned to the amateur photographer, to the Polaroid, which ejects the image in a few seconds);
not only got images to move (cinema) but achieved their simultaneous recording and transmission (video)-this technology has made photography an incomparable tool for deciphering
behavior, predicting it, and interfering with it. Photography has powers that no other image-system has ever enjoyed because, unlike the earlier ones, it is not dependent on an
image maker. However carefully the photographer intervenes in setting up and guiding the image-making process, the process itself remains an optical-chemical (or electronic) one,
the workings of which are automatic, the machinery for which will inevitably be modified to provide still more detailed and, therefore, more useful maps of the real. The mechanical
genesis of these images, and the literalness of the powers they confer, amounts to a new relationship between image and reality. And if photography could also be said to restore
the most primitive relationship-the partial identity of image and object-the potency of the image is now experienced in a very different way. The primitive notion of the efficacy
of images presumes that images possess the qualities of real things, but our inclination is to attribute to real things the qualities of an image. As everyone knows, primitive
people fear that the camera will rob them of some part of their being. In the memoir he published in 1900, at the end of a very long life, Nadar reports that Balzac had a similar
"vague dread" of being photographed. His explanation, according to Nadar, was that every body in its natural state was made up of a series of ghostly images superimposed in layers
to infinity, wrapped in infinitesimal films . . . . Man never having been able to create, that is to make something material from an apparition, from something impalpable, or to
make from On Photography 124 nothing, an object-each Daguerreian operation was therefore going to lay hold of, detach, and use up one of the layers of the body on which it focused.
It seems fitting for Balzac to have had this particular brand of trepidation-"Was Balzac's fear of the Daguerreotype real or feigned?" Nadar asks. "It was real . . . "-since the
procedure of photography is a materializing, so to speak, of what is most original in his procedure as a novelist. The Balzacian operation was to magnify tiny details, as in a
photographic enlargement, to juxtapose incongruous traits or items, as in a photographic layout: made expressive in this way, any one thing can be connected with everything else.
For Balzac, the spirit of an entire milieu could be disclosed by a single material detail, however paltry or arbitrary-seeming. The whole of a life may be summed up in a momentary
appearance.' And a change in appearances is a change in the person, for he refused to posit any "real" person ensconced behind these appearances. Balzac's fanciful theory,
expressed to Nadar, that a body is composed of an infinite series of "ghostly images," eerily parallels the supposedly realistic theory expressed in his novels, that a person is an
aggregate of appearances, appearances which can be made to yield, by proper focusing, infinite layers of significance. To view reality as an endless set of situations which minor
each other, to extract analogies from the most dissimilar things, is to anticipate the characteristic form of '1 am drawing on the account of Balzac's realism in Erich Auerbach's
Mimesis. The passage that Auerbach a11alyzes from the beginning of Le Pere Goriot ( 1834)-Balzac is desa-ibing the dining room ofthe Vauquer pension at seven in the morning and the
entry ofMadame Vauquer-could hardly be more explicit (or proto-Proustian). "Her whole person," Balzac writes, "explains the p ension, as the pension implies her person.... The
short-statured woman's blowsy etnbonpoint is the product ofthe life here, as typhoid is the consequence of the exhalations of a hospital. Her k nitted wool petticoat, which is
longer than her outer skirt (made of an old dress), and whose wadding is escaping by the gaps in the splitti11g material, sums lilp the drawing-room, the dining room, the little
garden, annowKes the cooking and gives an inkling of the boarders. When she is there, the spectacle is complete." On Photography 125 perception stimulated by photographic images.
Reality itself has started to be understood as a kind of writing, which has to be decoded--even as photographed images were themselves first compared to writing. (Niepce's name for
the process whereby the image appears on the plate was heliography, sun-writing; Fox Talbot called the camera "the pencil of nature.") The problem with Feuerbad1's contrast of
"original" with "copy" is its static definitions of reality and image. It assumes that what is real persists, unchanged and intact, while only images have changed: shored up by the
most tenuous claims to credibility, they have somehow become more seductive. But the notions of image and reality are complementary. When the notion of reality changes, so does
that of the image, and vice versa. "Our era" does not prefer images to real things out of perversity but partly in response to the ways in which the notion of what is real has been
progressively complicated and weakened, one of the early ways being the criticism of reality as fas:ade which arose among the enlightened middle classes in the last century. (This
was of course the very opposite of the effect intended.) To reduce large parts of what has hitherto been regarded as real to mere fantasy, as Feuerbach did when he called religion
"the dream of the human mind" and dismissed theological ideas as psychological projections; or to inflate the random and trivial details ofeveryday life into ciphers of hidden
historical and psychological forces, as Balzac did in his encyclopedia of social reality in novel form-these are themselves ways of experiencing reality as a set of appearances, an
image. Few people in this society share the primitive dread of cameras that comes from thinking of the photograph as a material part of themselves. But some trace of the magic
remains: for example, in our reluctance to tear up or throw away the photograph of a loved one, especially of someone dead or far away. To do so is a ruthless gesture of rejection.
In Jude the Obscure it is Jude's discovery that Arabella has sold the maple frame with the photograph of himself in it which he gave her on their wedding day that signifies to Jude
"the utter death of every sentiment in his wife" and is "the conclusive little stroke to demolish all sentiment in him." But the On Photography 126 true modern primitivism is not
to regard the image as a real thing; photographic images are hardly that real. Instead, reality has come to seem more and more like what we are shown by cameras. It is common now
for people to insist about their experience of a violent event in which they were caught up-a plane crash, a shoot-out, a terrorist bombing-that "it seemed like a movie." This is
said, other descriptions seeming insufficient, in order to explain how real it was. While many people in non-industrialized countries still feel apprehensive when being
photographed, divining it to be some kind of trespass, an act of disrespect, a sublimated looting of the personality or the culture, people in industrialized countries seek to have
their photographs taken-feel that they are images, and are made real by photographs. A steadily more complex sense of the real creates its own compensatory fervors and
simplifications, the most addictive of which is picture-taking. It is as if photographers, responding to an increasingly depleted sense of reality, were looking for a
transfusion-traveling to new experiences, refreshing the old ones. Their ubiquitous activities amount to the most radical, and the safest, version of mobility. The urge to have new
experiences is translated into the urge to take photographs: experience seeking a crisis-proofform. As the taking of photographs seems almost obligatory to those who travel about,
the passionate collecting of them has special appeal for those confmed--either by choice, incapacity, or coercion-to indoor space. Photograph collections can be used to make a
substitute world, keyed to exalting or consoling or tantalizing images. A photograph can be the starting point of a romance (Hardy's Jude had already fallen in love with Sue
Bridehead's photograph before he met her), but it is more common for the erotic relation to be not only created by but understood as limited to the photographs. In Cocteau's Les
Enfants Terribles, the narcissistic brother and sister share their bedroom, their "secret room," with images of boxers, movie stars, and murderers. Isolating themselves in their
lair to live out their private legend, the two adolescents put up these photographs, a On Photography 127 private pantheon. On one wall of cell No. 426 in Fresnes Prison in the
early 1940s Jean Genet pasted the photographs of twenty criminals he had clipped from newspapers, twenty faces in which he discerned "the sacred sign of the monster," and in their
honor wrote Our Lady of the Flowers; they served as his muses, his models, his erotic talismans. "They watch over my little routines," writes Genet-conflating reverie,
masturbation, and writing-and "are all the family I have and my only friends.)) Fm stay-at-homes, prisoners, and the self-imprisoned, to live among the photographs of glamorous
strangers is a sentimental response to isolation and an insolent challenge to it. J. G. Ballard's novel Crash ( 1973) describes a more specialized collecting of photographs in the
service of sexual obsession: photographs of car accidents which the narrator's friend Vaughan collects while preparing to stage his own death in a car crash. The acting out of his
erotic vision of car death is anticipated and the fantasy itself further eroticized lby the repeated perusal of these photographs. At one end of the spectrum, photographs are
objective data; at the other end, they are items of psychological science fiction. And as in even the most dreadful, or neutral-seeming, reality a sexual imperative can be found,
so even the most banal photograph-document can mutate into an emblem of desire. The mug shot is a clue to a detective, an erotic fetish to a fellow thief. To Hofrat Behrens, in The
Magic Mountain, the pulmonary X-rays of his patients are diagnostic tools. To Hans Castorp, serving an indefinite sentence in Behrens's TB sanatorium, and made lovesick by the
enigmatic, unattainable Clavdia Chauchat, "Clavdia's X-ray portrait, showing not her face, but the delicate bony structure of the upper half of her body, and the organs of the
thoracic cavity, surrounded by the pale, ghostlike envelope of flesh," is the most precious of trophies. The "transparent portrait" is a far more intimate vestige of his beloved
than the Hofrat's painting of Clavdia, that "exterior portrait," which Hans had once gazed at with such longing. Photographs are a way of imprisoning reality, understood as
recalcitrant, inaccessible; of making it stand stilL Or they enlarge a reality that is felt to be shrunk, hollowed out, perishable, remote. On Photography 128 One can't possess
reality, one can possess (and be possessed by) images-as, according to Proust, most ambitious of voluntary prisoners, one can't possess the present but one can possess the past.
Nothing could be more unlike the self-sacrificial travail of an attist like Ptoust than the effortlessness of picture-taking, which must be the sole activity resulting in
accredited works of art in which a single movement, a touch of the finger, produces a complete work. While the Proustian labors presuppose that reality is distant, photography
implies instant access to the real. But the results of this practice of instant access are another way of creating distance. To possess the world in the form of images is,
precisely, to reexperience the unreality and remoteness of the real. The strategy of Prouses realism presumes distance from what is normally experienced as real, the present, in
order to reanimate what is usually available only in a remote and shadowy form, the past-which is where the present becomes in his sense real, that is, somed1ing that can be
possessed. In this effort photographs were of no help. Whenever Proust mentions photographs, he does so disparagingly: as a synonym for a shallow, too exclusively visual, merely
voluntary relation to the past, whose yield is insignificant compared with the deep discoveries to be made by responding to cues given by all the senses-me technique he called
"involuntary memory." One can't imagine the Overture to Swann's Way ending with the narrator's coming across a snapshot of the parish church at Combray and the savoring of that
visual crumb, instead of the taste of the humble madeleine dipped in tea, making an entire part ofhis past spring into view. But this is not because a photograph cannot evoke
memories (it can, depending on the quality of the viewer rather than of the photograph) but because of what Proust makes clear about his own demands upon imaginative recall, that
it be not just extensive and accurate but give the texture and essence of things. And by considering photographs only so far as he could use them, as an instrument of memory,
Proust somewhat misconstrues what photographs are: not so much an instrument of memory as an invention of it or a replacement. It is not reality that photographs make immediately
accessible, On Photography 129 but images. For example, now all adults can know exactly how they and their parents and grandparents looked as children-a knowledge not available to
anyone before the invention of cameras, not even to that tiny minority among whom it was customary to commission paintings of their children. Most of these portraits were less
