with a rock. I was dazed, but still on my feet. Then they saw reason and some led me away. All the time helicopters circled overhead and there was the sound of shooting. It was
like a dream. A dream I will never forget. -from the account by AlfKhumalo, a black reporter on the Johannesburg Sunday Times, of the outbreak of riots in Soweto, South Africa,
published in The Observer [London], Sunday, June 20, 1976 Photography is the only "language" understood in all parts ofthe world, and bridging all nations and cultures, it links
the family of man. Independent of political influence-where people are free-it reflects ttuthfully life and events, allows us to share in the hopes and despair of others, and
illuminates political and social conditions. We become the eye-witnesses of the humanity and inhumanity of mankind . . . -Helmut Gernsheim ( Creative Photography [ 1962])
Photography is a system ofvisual editing. At bottom, it is a matter of surrounding with a frame a portion of one's cone of vision, while standing in the right place at the right
time. Like chess, or writing, it is a matter of choosing from among given possibilities, but in the case of photography the number of possibilities is not finite but infinite.
-John Szarkowski On Photography 151 Sometimes 1 would set up the camera in a corner o fthe room, sit some distance away from it with a remote control in my hand, and watch our
people while Mr. Caldwell talked with them. It might be an hour before their fa.ces or gestures gave us what we were trying to express, but the instant it occurred the scene was
imprisoned on a sheet of film before they knew what had happened. -Margaret Bourke-White The picture ofMayor William Gaynor ofNew York at the moment of being shot by an assassin in
1910. The Mayor was about to board a ship to go on holiday in Europe as an American newspaper photographer arrived. He asked the Mayor to pose for a picture and as he raised his
camera two shots were fired from the crowd. In the midst of this confusion the photographer remained calm and his picture of the blood-spattered Mayor lurching into the arms of an
aide has become part of photographic history. -a caption in " Click": A Pictorial History of the Photograph ( 1974) I have been photographing our toilet, that glossy enameled
receptacle of extraordinary beauty. . . . Here was every sensuous curve of the "human figure divine" but minus the imperfections. Never did the Greeks reach a more significant
consummation to their culture, and it somehow reminded me, forward movement of finely progressing contours, of the Victory of Samothrace. -Edward Weston Good taste at this time in
a technological democracy ends up to be nothing more than taste prejudice. If all that art does is create good or bad taste, then it has failed completely. In the question of taste
analysis, it is just as easy to express good or bad taste in the kind of refrigerator, carpet or armchair that you have in your home. What good camera artists are trying to do now
is to raise art beyond the level of mere taste .. Camera Art must be completely On Photography 152 devoid oflogic. The logic vacuum must be there so that the viewer applies his own
logic to it and the work, in fact, makes itselfbefore the viewer's eyes. So that it becomes a direct reflection of the viewer's consciousness, logic, morals, ethics and taste. The
work should act as a feedback mechanism to the viewer's own working model of himself. -Les Levine ("Camera Art," in Studio International, July/August 1975) Women and men-it's an
impossible subject, because there can be no answers. We can find only bits and pieces ofclues. And this small portfolio is just the crudest sketches of what it's all about. Maybe,
today, we're planting the seeds of more honest relationships between women and men. -Duane Michals "Why do people keep photographs?" "Why? Goodness knows! Why do people keep
things-junk-trash, bits and pieces. They do-that's all there is to it!" "Up to a point I agree with you. Some people keep things. Some people throw everything away as soon as they
have done with it. That, yes, it is a matter of temperament. But I speak now especially of photographs. Why do people keep, in particular, photographs?" "As I say, because they
just don't throw things away. Or else because it reminds them-" Poirot pounced on the words.. "Exactly. It reminds them. Now again we ask-why? Why does a woman keep a photograph of
herself when young? And I say that the first reason is, essentially, vanity. She has been a pretty girl and she keeps a photograph of herself to remind her of what a pretty girl
she was. It encourages her when her mirror tells her unpalatable things. She says, perhaps, to a friend, 'That was me when I was eighteen . . . ' and she sighs . . . You agreet'
"Yes-yes, I should say that's true enough." On Photography 153 "Then that is reason No. l . Vanity. Now reason No. 2. Sentiment." "That's the same thing?" "No, no, not quite.
Because this leads you to preserve, not only your own photograph but that of someone else . . .A picture of your married daughter-when she was a child sitting on a hearthrug with
tulle round her. . . . Very embarrassing to the subject sometimes, but mothers like to do it. And sons and daughters often keep pictures of their mothers, especially, say, if their
mother died young. 'This was my mother as a girl."' ''I'm beginning to see what you're driving at, Poirot." "And there is, possibly, a third category. Not vanity, not sentiment,
not love-perhaps hate-what do you say?" "Hate?" '<yes. To keep a desire for revenge alive. Someone who has injured you-you might keep a photograph to remind you, might you not.("
-from Agatha Christie's Mrs. McGinty's Dead ( 1951) Previously, at dawn that day, a commission assigned to the task had discovered the corpse of Antonio Consel11eiro. It was lying
in one of the huts next to the arbor. After a shallow layer of earth had been removed, the body appeared wrapped in a sorry shroud-a filthy sheet-over which pious hands had strewn
a few withered flowers. There, resting upon a reed mat, were the last remains of the "notorious and barbarous agitator" . . . . They carefully disinterred the body, precious relic
that it was-the sole prize, the only spoils of war this conflict had to offer!-taking the greatest of precautions to see that it did not fall apart . . .. They photographed it
afterward and drew up an affidavit in due form, certifying its identity; for the entire nation must be thoroughly convinced that at last this terrible foe had been done away with.
-from Euclides da Cunl1a' s Rebellion in the Backlands ( 1902) On Photography 154 Men still kill one another, they have not yet understood how they live, why they live; politicians
fail to observe that the earth is an entity, yet television (Telehor) has been invented: the "Far Seer"-tomorrow we shall be able to look into the heart of our fellow-man, be
evetywhere and yet be alone; illustrated books, newspapers, magazines are printed-in millions. The unambiguousness of the real, the truth in the everyday situation is there for all
classes. The hygiene of the optical, the health of the visible is slowly filtering through. -Laszlo Moholy-Nagy ( 1925) As I progressed further with my project, it became obvious
that it was really unimportant where I chose to photograph. The particular place simply provided an excuse to produce work. . . . you can only see what you are ready to see-what
mirrors your mind at that particular time. -George Tice I photograph to find out what something will look like photographed. -Garry Winogrand The Guggenheim trips were like
elaborate treasure hunts, with false clues mixed among the genuine ones. We were always being directed by friends to their own favorite sights or views or formations. Sometimes
these tips paid offwith real Weston prizes; sometimes the recommended item proved to be a dud . . . and we drove for miles with no payoffs. By that time, I had reached the point of
taking no pleasure in scenery that didn't call Edward's camera out, so he didn't risk much when he settled back against the seat saying, ''I'm not asleep-just resting my eyes"; he
knew my eyes were at his service, and that the moment anything with a "Weston" look appeared, I would stop the car and wake him up. -Charis Weston (quoted in Ben Maddow, Edward
Weston: Fifty Years [ 197 3 ] ) On Photography 155 Polaroid's SX-70. It won't let you stop. Suddenly you see a picture everywhere you look. . . . Now you press the red electric
button. Whirr. . . whoosh . . . and there it is. You watch your picture come to life, growing more vivid, more detailed, until minutes later you have a print as real as life. Soon
you're taking rapid-fire shots-as fast as every 1 .5 seconds!-as you search for new angles or make copies on the spot. The SX-70 becomes like a part ofyou, as it slips through life
effortlessly . . . . -advertisement ( 1 975) . . .we regard the photograph, the picture on our wall, as the object itself (the man, landscape, and so on) depicted there. This need
not have been so. We could easily imagine people who did not have this relation to such pictures. Who, for example, would be repelled by photographs, because a face without colour
and even perhaps a face in reduced proportions struck them as inhuman. -Wittgenstein Is it an instant picture of. . . the destructive test of an axle? the proliferation of a virus?
a forgettable lab setup? the scene of the crime? the eye of a green turtle? the divisional sales cha11? chromosomal aberrations? page 1 73 of Gray's Anatomy? an electrocardiogram
read-out? a line conversion of half-tone a11? the three-millionth 8e Eisenhower stamp? a hairline fracture of the fom1h vertebra? a copy of that irreplaceable 35mm slide? your new
diode, magnified 13 times? a metallograph of vanadium steel? On Photography 156 reduced type for mechanicals? an enlarged lymph node? the electrophoresis results? the world's worst
malocclusion? the world's best-corrected malocclusion? As you can see from the list . . . there's no limit to the kind of material that people need to record. Fortunately, as you
can see from the list of Polaroid Land cameras below, there's almost no limit to the kind of photographic records you can get. And, since you get them on the spot, if anything's
missing, you can re-shoot o n the spot . . . . -advertisement ( 1976) An object that tells of the loss, destruction, disappearance of objects. Does not speak of itself. Tells of
others. Will it include them? -Jasper Johns Belfast, Northern Ireland-The people of Belfast are buying picture postcards of their city's torment by the hundreds. The most popular
shows a boy throwing a stone at a British armored car. . . . Other cards show burned -out homes, troops in battle positions on city streets and children at play amid smoking
rubble. Each card sells for approximately 25 cents in the three Gardener's shops. "Even at that price, people have been buying them in bundles of five or six at a time," said Rose
Lehane, manager of one shop. Mrs. Lehane said that nearly 1,000 cards were sold in four days. Since Belfast has few tourists, she said, most of the buyers are local people, mostly
young men who want them as "souvenirs." Neil Shawcross, a Belfast man, bought two complete sets of the cards, explaining, "I think they're interesting mementoes of the times and I
want my two children to have them when they grow up." "The cards are good for people," said Alan Gardener, a director of the chain. "Too many people in Belfast try to cope with the
On Photography 157 situation here by closing their eyes and pretending it doesn't exist. Maybe something like this will jar them into seeing again." "We have lost a lot of money
through the troubles, with our stores being bombed and bmned down," Mr. Gardener added. "If we can get a bit of money back from the troubles, well and good." -from The New York
Times, October 29, 1974 ("Postcards of Belfast Strife Are Best-Sellers There�>) Photography is a tool for dealing with things everybody knows about but isn't attending to. My
photographs are intended to represent something you don't see. -Emmet Gowin The camera is a fluid way of encountering that other reality. -Jerry N. Uelsmann Oswiecim, Poland-Nearly
30 years after Auschwitz concentration camp was dosed down, the underlying horror of the place seems diminished by the souvenir stands, Pepsi-Cola signs and the tourist -attraction
atmosphere. Despite chilling autumn rain, thousands of Poles and some foreigners visit Auschwitz every day. Most are modishly dressed and obviously too young to remember World War
II. They troop through the former prison barracks, gas chambers and crematoria, looking with interest at such gruesome displays as an enormous showcase filled with some of the
human hair the S.S. used to make into cloth . . .. At the souvenir stands, visitors can buy a selection ofAuschwitz lapel pins in Polish and German, or picture postcards showing
gas chambers and crematoria, or even souvenir Auschwitz ballpoint pens which, when held up to the light, reveal similar pictures. -from The New York Times, November 3, 1974 ("At
Auschwitz, a Discordant Atmosphere of Tourism'') On Photography 158 The media have substituted themselves for the older world. Even if we should wish to recover that older world we
can do it only by an intensive study of the ways in which the media have swallowed it. -Marshall McLuhan . . . Many of the visitors were from the countryside, and some, unfamiliar
with city ways, spread out newspapers on the asphalt on the other side of the palace moat, unwrapped their home-cooking and chopsticks and sat there eating and chatting while the
crowds sidestepped. The Japanese addiction to snapshots rose to fever pitch under the impetus of the august backdrop of the palace gardens. Judging by the steady clicking of the
shutters, not only everybody present but also every leaf and blade of grass must now be recorded on film, in all their aspects. -from The New York Times, May 3, 1977 ("Japan Enjoys
3 Holidays of'Golden Week' by Taking a 7-Day Vacation from Work") I'm always mentally photographing everything as practice. -Minor White The daguerreotypes of all things are
preserved . . . the imprints of all that has existed live, spread out through the diverse zones of infinite space. -Ernest Renan These people live again in print as intensely as
when their images were captured on the old dry plates of sixty years ago . . . . I am walking in their alleys, standing in their rooms and sheds and workshops, looking in and out
oftheir windows. And they in turn seem to be aware of me. -Ansel Adams (from the Preface to jacob A. Riis: Photographer & Citizen [ 1974]) On Photography 159 Thus in the
photographic camera we have the most reliable aid to a beginning of objective vision. Everyone will be compelled to see that which is optically true, is explicable in its own
terms, is objective, before he can arrive at any possible subjective position. This will abolish that pictorial and imaginative association pattern which has remained unsuperseded
for centuries and which has been stamped upon our vision by great individual painters. We have-through a hundred years of photography and two decades of film-been enormously
enriched in this respect. We may say that we see the world with entirely different eyes. Nevertheless, the total result to date amounts to little more than a visual encyclopaedic
achievement. This is not enough. We wish to produce systematically, since it is important for life that we create new relationships. -Liszl6 Moholy-Nagy ( 1925) Any one who knows
what the worth of family affection is among the lower classes, and who has seen the array of little portraits stuck over a labourer's fireplace . . . will perhaps feel with me that
in counteracting the tendencies, social and industrial, which every day are sapping the healthier family affections, the sixpenny photograph is doing more for the poor than all the
philanthropists in the world. -Macmillan's Magazine [London], September 1871 Who, in his opinion, would buy an instant movie camera? Dr. Land said he expects the housewife to be a
good prospect. «All she has to do is point the camera, press the shutter release and in minutes relive her child's cute moment, or perhaps, birthday party. Then, there is the large
number of people who prefer pictures to equipment. Golf and tennis fans can evaluate their swings in instant replay; industry, schools and other areas where instant replay coupled
with easy-to-use equipment would be helpful. . .. Polavision's bounda1·ies are as wide as your imagination. There is no end to the uses that will be found for this and future
Polavision cameras." On Photography 160 -from The New York Times, May 8, 1977 ("A Preview of Polaroid's New Instant Movies") Most modern reproducers of life, even including the
camera, really repudiate it. We gulp down evil, choke at good. -Wallace Stevens The war had thrust me, as a soldier, into the heart of a mechanical atmosphere. Here I discovered
the beauty ofthe fragment. I sensed a new reality in the detail of a machine, in d1e common object. I tried to find the plastic value of these fragments of our modern life. I
rediscovered them on the screen in the close-ups of objects which impressed and influenced me. -Fernand Leger ( 1923) 575.20 fields of photography aerophotography, aerial
photography astrophotography candid photography chromophotography chronophotography cinematography cinephotomicrography cystophotography heliophotography infrared photography
macrophotography microphotography miniature photography phonophotography photogrammetry On Photography 161 photomicrography photospectroheliography phototopography photo typography
phototypy pyrophotography radiography radio photography sculptography skiagraphy spectroheliography spectrophotography stroboscopic photography telephotography uranophotography
X-ray photography -from Roget's International Thesaurus, Third Edition The weight ofwords. The shock of photos. -Paris-Match, advertisement June 4, 1857.-Saw today, at the Hotel
Drouot, the first sale of photographs. Everything is becoming black in this century, and photography seems like the black clothing of things. November 15, 1861 .-I sometimes think
the day will comewhen all modern nations will adore a sort of American god, a god who will have been someone who lived as a human being and about whom much will have been written
in the popular press: images ofthis god will be set up in the churches, not as the imagination of each individual painter may fancy him, not floating on a On Photography 162
Veronica cloth, but fu::ed once and for all by photography. Yes, I foresee a photographed god, wearing spectacles. -from the Journal of Edmond and Jules de Goncourt In the spring
of 192 1 , two automatic photographic machines, recently invented abroad, were installed in Prague, which reproduced six or ten or more exposures of the same person on a single
print. When I took such a series of photographs to Kafka I said light-heartedly: "For a couple of krone one can have oneself photographed from every angle. The apparatus is a
mechanical Know-Thyself" "You mean to say, the Mistake-Thyself," said Kafka, with a faint smile. I protested: "What do you mean? The camera cannot lie!" "Who told you that?" Kafka
leaned his head toward his shoulder. "Photography concentrates one's eye on the superficial. For that reason it obscures the hidden life which glimmers through the outlines of
things like a play of light and shade. One can't catch that even with the sharpest lens. One has to grope for it by feeling . . . . This automatic camera doesn't multiply men's
eyes but only gives a fantastically simplified fly's eye view." -from Gustav Janouch's Conversations with Kafka Life appears always fully present along the epidermis of his body:
vitality ready to be squeezed forth entire in fixing the instant, in recording a brief weary smile, a twitch of the hand, the fugitive pour of sun through clouds. And not a tool,
save the camera, is capable of registering such complex ephemeral responses, and expressing the full majesty of the moment. No hand can express it, for the reason that the mind
cannot retain the unmutated truth of a moment sufficiently long to permit the slow fingers to notate large masses of related detail. The impressionists tried in vain to achieve the
notation. For, consciously or unconsciously, what they were striving to demonstrate with their effects of light was the truth of moments; impressionism has ever sought to fix the
On Photography 163 wonder ofthe here, the now. But the momentary effects oflighting escaped them while they were busy analyzing; and their "impression" remains usually a series of
impressions superimposed one upon the other. Stieglitz was better guided. He went directly to the instrument made for him. -Paul Rosenfeld The camera is my tool. Through it I give
a reason to everything around me. -Andre Kertesz A double leveling down, or a method of leveling down which double-crosses itself With the daguerreotype everyone will be able to
have their portrait taken-formerly it was only the prominent; and at the same time everything is being done to make us all look exactly the same-so that we shall only need one
portrait. -Kierkegaard ( 1854) Make picture ofkaleidoscope. -William H. Fox Talbot (note dated February 18, 1839) On Photographr 165 About this Title RosettaBooks is the leading
publisher dedicated exclusively to electronic editions of great works of fiction and non-fiction that reflect our world. Rosetta Books strives to improve the quality of its
electronic books. We welcome your comments and suggestions. Please write to Editor@RosettaBooks.com We hope you enjoyed On Photography. If you are interested in learning more about
the book and Susan Sontag, we suggest you visit the RosettaBooks Connection at: www.RosettaBookscom.com/OnPhotography