able to get that output per in tokens. Now, what we can see, though, is from because they made a very good choice to be able to open sour some of that model. So as we can see here,
we've got the ability to actually download itself, host Deep Seek through the path like Gitub locally we'd be able to do that as well and so you can find these if you want to use
them. Let's come back across a Deep. We're going to do start now, because this is going to open the chat interface. As we can see here, we've got the C history on the left hand
side. We've got the ability to download the app as well, and then we've got the settings and everything else in the bottom left. If we come into the middle here, we've got that
deep thinking or one capabilities that we can use as well, as well as the ability to search things we need to. We can also update the files that we're using, that makes it nice and
easy to take some really good app. So we can stuff on there, we can say, drop me an email to a customer about their shipment being played. But we'll see here? Is theT is gonna go
off was, this is using their V3 model at the as you can see who are getting that. What we're gonna see is the technality is really good to see what' give some concise points back
and we'll be to remain any changes that we want at the end. We we don't have as much customizability you need to be like we did and like you one of the. For example, you't change
the outfits at the bottom and it's not abs, but it's still very good. Let's come through and we can tell you, please summarize this report into five bullet points. Once this is up,
we'll be able to send it off. We're using a do just through. I' quite long document, lots of information on AI. It's also in our resour want to get access to it produc, and is,
going off and starting to provide our responses back for us. It's going to come back with the key points that we need. This is like we have with CBT to give those responses back in
the structure format that we need, but not doing as much in the future around image generation, video generation, or at least not them,atively in the app as well. Boy'd also be
able to do is come across the scene they've got their ADIWs it's come back to him, you want to come. These were model, as well as number three, locally on the computer, as well as
other options are doing other type of computer. N is been leading metce model get direct access to it versus closed sos like trapVT are where we don't get even to access those
modes directly and be able to run locally. And they've got four different types of models, so as we can see here, we've got that sc, which is like we CVT 4.1 or Nan is that light
touch, like a really good for those quick, quick initial tasks that they're not that effect. Americans in the root, that's your looking at like a normal GT model. That's give some
really good responses, not too convelex, not too slow, and. But is still in training, so it's released, that's your deep reasoning model for better. So this is going to be
comparable to your,T. If it comes down here you'll be able to see some of the scores, as we can see we've got some of the image reasoning. It looks like it's going to be performing
incredibly well. That's where you're multodal you having text and images coming up and being analyzed can be used as we can see here compared to CT all that Gemized. It looks like
you've got the m performing as well. If across a scout can see here, it looks like it's gonna be one of the leadingformers in multiple different areas.'re gonna keep on that
understanding, that multiv capabilities, the cing scores,'s really good. It's been. be great to models and loc have a real coning exp version, that you' be to that as well. If we
come to the top, we're going to do come across to 4, this is going to have more details. There's a key part here're trying to living below, which is all around the herd, and why
these modules are so powerful. One of the key parts is because we've got this ability here, around the preraining and the Xs. Your experts are really good unique aspect to models.
What we' able to see here is there because, being a lawyerentist all these different aspects, what we've actually got from the ability to understand what is and send it to a
specific agent, a expert, to go back, analy it across different ones, and that response back. That's a really quick explanation for it. I'll make sure to a really a bit more detail
if you got some interest. And if you want to learn more about what is like this, this's really good figure here from. It's about a year ago now, but it really explains a really
quick what is why different cheated and wise. Now he wants to be able to four or three, what we going to need to do is make sure that we can come across we have our platforms here
and we can download others. We're need to add all of our information here and then we'll download the. What we able to do is come across to here, where we Oana I'll make sure we
can it below, and this is but be connected to the. All we need to do we have it downloaded, it's all windows, you need to do is download the MacS and it'll be your source.
different modly support, we've got a variety of them here, deep, we've got Google's Gem, Quen, we've Lama, all of these different ones that we're gonna show you exactly how to get
it set up. So for example, here 4, last two weeks ago, there's different requirements on your computer for how much power is going. For example, here, Maverick and Scout, you can
run them on the M1 chicks on Apple really looking for something more powerful when you. at the 288 parameter to best through provide that response back. As we can see here, lots
and lots of detail, whether it was used, howstated data is, and much more if we come back across, we're going to come down and find out about 3.1, just because this is one of the
previous models a bit by touch we're going to use this AB gr because it's in about five gigabytes to use, if we come back to where we've got on the 4, for example, that's be 67
gigabyt to use. So it really depends on what you need. We're going to come back to 3 and get this all set up. So make when you've got a st is mention, when you actually have it
store, you have something that let's have it like this, and you'll be able to get it running through the terminal or on if you've got windows. You' also have the top there just in
you're press. We're gonna'sors and as we can see here we've got the run of the first model. So we're gonna copy this. We're also going to open up our terals, we're going to pick
this up here. that to one side, we'll be able to paste the prom in here soe the one in there. And now we's gonna be able to go down and download a 3.2 Frost be able toload. That's
all we need to do. Then you'll be able to it in internal interface. This takes a little mark to go through, which way for us to come back. So the go is now finalizing that last.
You will get success that comes back we're all good to go and then we should get a chatting face that pops up and he said, "No and we'll be able to chat back through it. So we is
now ready for us to have a chat with this we can say hi there and now we're able to actually rudally and we can get a response back. We can say who are you as if it comes back as
you can see there you can say which model are you? And then it should come back as you can see that, to back and those responses back. And we're connected to the internet here.
We're able to do this locally you have as many conversations as ones, it's going to be a white as well. Now if you want to include some other models, all you need to do is, that's
and we're gonna be running terminal for the rest of these changes. So here, we've got the run of 3. We're exactly the same models. So we're gonna close this down we're going to
determin. We're actually going to come through and opening up again for terminal, and now we're going to come back across the long. There we go, as we see, we got 3.1 here and if
you want to actually install any, you need to do is find the latest version, so for example 3.1, you click on that, you're going to update you've got run 3.1b and you can install
that. That's exactly the same as perhaps if you want DCR1. You've got the latest version hereaby, you've got 1.1 gigabyte for Deep 1.5 billion parameters. It really depends on what
you're looking to. Let's come back. We're 3.1 and we'll be able to install this in the latest here. Cop this, we come back across to our terminal, and then we're going to do this
piece in there and now we're gonna be able to have that 3.1 model installed, as you can see, it' going take minutes to go through. That's purely dependent on what your Wi is to to
download that model which is waiting for this to come back and then we'll show you exactly how to get interface, step one another and step two around getting the model. So he's
nowating that last part here, so now should have those that 3.2 model as well as the model here ready to go. so please write me alog story abouton, and then it's go off the talk
give our response back. What I'm going to do is which way is to come back and then we're going to close this down and show you exactly how it's get the list and all of the
different what you install. so you can just keep track of them and if you want to remove them, I'll show exactly how we can do that as well. So as we can see here it's coming back.
We're just going to terminate this. We're going to redo a terminminal again. I'll if you do a list, you'll be able to see the models that we've got and when it was last modified
and if you wanted to delete them, piss command in here and what this is do is gonna stop their model from running off you want to remove it through here, do RM instead of instead
of then what will do you'll be able to remove that specific. We'll uninsted from the device as today's all deled and we go and five people back back in the case. Now let's get rid
of this. Now we're going to come to show how to do a nice easy case. We're going to come across the. I' make sure we keep it in blue. You want to download the one thatable from the
machine? Once's all installed,. I want, you can skip past that I've already want a set up. So we' see that. Once you installed something like, you'll be able to receive and b
anything we're, which is you, I the next access. It's nice and easy, and then we'll looking forward is where you've got the command to be able to install it locally on otherwise.
So keep coming down. And then for example, here, if O is on the computer, make sure to use this command. So all we need to do is copy him, they're going to open up our terminals be
able. And then all we want to do is copy this command, piece the cross, and then it will run through you automatically, and through it and allow it will then go through, and you
should give you a local be to run in a second. It just needs to go and install a couple of elements for able to use it. This is an incredibly quick run and then you're going to be
able to access to the really nice interface where you move for CGPT or claw versus having to have more command lens, you would have you with. So up with downloaded and we've got
the access to use it.. All we need to do is make sure we come back across to docket as we can see here, we've got a brand container.ball set up. It's for automatically trainway.
Make sure you've got any veM turn off, and then all we're going to do is click on port and do here. We're going to get. We're going to add our email and password now all in. We can
do, let's go. And then we be able to see the top left any of the models to be downloaded in and we've got the chat in focusks that's going to work off because you can see the top
here, we've got local host us. locally, you that, I recommend coming across to we've rock and you'll be able to use it. And, you've got access to hundreds and hundreds different
models you'll be use all the differentiders. here and a version, Maverick, all these different ones. All you need to do is click into it. We're gonna do chats and then'll be able
to put your in the bottom here so I'll send this stuff and you'll be able to use it his face. On you give us a details. That's a quick, just how to get set up locally movemitted, L
3, as well as having can run other models blue. locally as well. Hey, babe. Hey, Ma. Mia and Pearl gonna meet Charlotte to graduation. Okay. Yeah, just send the tickets or
whatever. Where are y'all gonna be sitting at the just be y'all up there. Okay, I don't know if they have. Well, I I I will I don't know if they'd have a seat number on them. I
think it's just.. Yeah, yeah, no, I'm just saying we are wherever y're thinking Saleen mentioned. just let me know and then we are going to meet each other. I' probably leave
around five. Sorry, six or 630? It's not 630. Yeah, and they'll probably leave around 5 Well, probably around what? I'll probably leave around 5, 5:30. Okay, Ben. All right, city.
Bye. Okay.. Get down. Pink. Me a lot of news. In this weird week of recovering? What is Gwen? Why is are we going to use? How to set up a talk called Oama, that we need us to run
all of these models, locally run off the computer, and how we can use. Have you ever wanted to have O'nor? Now, the first thing is what is source? Well, it's different tools like
chat tea or Claude from open because we've got access to the code, to free you, tweak, and adjust to exactly what we need. And this is great because it gives us multiple
flexibility in the output and fun tuning those models to our specific use case. But it also means that we can run it locally on our computer, totally for free, without any internet
connection. So what is goingwen? Or Gwen is Michael CPT. It's an L&M that comes from a Chinese company, that enables us to do deep research, we development thinking, searching, and
multivot to understand exactly like you would use a CPT crawled to get the textilep. We've also dos overview and as you can see here, it's really good thinking deeply through
consolving problems, writing, click and search, we not able to use, unless you connect to the version and you coming through all of this doct as you in. So there's lots of detail
here, but how do we actually know how good it is? Well, we're going to come across to analysis, AI. This is a totallyally independent, third party analysis platform that analyzes
how well is AIs are performing. Now, we previously covered about deep and mul and how to use that. the reason we'rering Gwen is because, as you can see here,5 billion total is the
fourth best that you can use. It's key to here that the 120 or the 235 are the number of parameters involved? So it's30 billion or 235 billionameters. And what this means is more
intelligence to put it simply behind the reasoning to give them an output. So that's why these models are significantly knowger that the models need to versus some of the smaller
ones for us to use. Now, to be able to run this quickly, you're unlikely to be able to have the fire space, to have the 150 billion per models, saying that the media models, you
may be willing to give up that space for small models, but actually, we can use some of the tiny ones to really help rewords and emails, maybe we're flying, we don't have an
internet connection, or you just want a quick reworder or adjustments for specific parts. So, as you can see here, that Gwen 3 is the best performed model in at this space. So how
do we access to it? Well, we're gonna come across to a platform called Olaava. This can be running all of these models locally and just nice and simple to set up. All you need to
do is press download, and then it will give you the instructions and the commands, whether you' on Mac, Windows, or li. Press and get it install. No, we want to check out all of
the different models, so we'll come across to the models tab. And as we can see here, we've now got all of the different ones that we can choose from. If I come back to the top,
and we search for Gwen, we can see that we've got Gwen 3, Gwen 3, Coda, and Gwen 3VL. The difference between these is Gwen 3 is almost as thinking of like that foundation. model
that we're going to be able to use. It's also got a mixed experts, which do us really good output because it's a different way of being able to produce them. We've got Gwen 3 Coda,
which has been fine tunes to be able to be really good at coding a specific tasks and then we've got Gwen 3VL, which is the most powerful version of vision language, ie this mult
modal and we come here, what will be able to see? is able to use text as well as visual context to be able to get the up. So, how do we install these onto, I actual incident lure?
Well, if I just come back to 3, we can see up the top here. We've got Oama, run, Gwen 3. Now, this is going to install this latest version here, but as you can see, we've got
different versions to choose one. Remember that billionram modeling will be more intellig on behind you, as you can see here, to be able to use that largest model of the best
version possible, that scores incredibly highly, as we can see up here. We're given to give up 142 gide space to be able to use it. So definitely keep that. For you're out there,
that 4 billion per model is going to be great and the one to use. So we're going to click on that. It's going to be great, and want to use. So, we're going to collect on that. In
here, we're gonna have all of the reading details just for how that model performed, and we're gonna have two different ways that we can 142 of space to be able to use it. So
definitely keep that mind. For many of you out there, that 4 million per model is going to be great and a one to use. So, we're gonna click on that. In here, we're gonna have all
of the read with details just on how that model performs, and we're gonna have two different ways of we can the model locally on our computer. We can copy this command request
here, come across to our terminal instance, paste, and then we'll start downloading the model onto our instance. The other way that we can do it, which is much easier, is we can
come across to Oama once you've got installed, we get a search for Gwen at 3 and then 14 bill model, and we can just download it straight. Beat on our computer. We can copy this
command request here. Come across to our terminal instance, paste, and then it will start. instance. The other way that we can do, which is much easier is we can come across to
Oama once you put it installed with a search for Gwen 3 and enc bill model. And we' literally his way. In here, we need to do high and there. He's gonna start down leading water
for us, and then we'll able to go you and chat back and forth as we would for a normal model. So I just let this down and then show you how we can get the up. So he's just
finishing up now. We're 97%. Any second now we should get it confir back then what the model was going to do is he's realize he's be already one request saying hi there, he's use a
mixture of experts to be able to provide our response back and he's going to be using chain reasoning to make sure we're going to get that best output as easy as possible. So let's
see what he's going to come back with any second now. We'll see it might be due with Chat or Gro or Jemite these different ones. The reasoning the strength. So let's come back with
a response incredibly quick. Now we can send it off saying,Okay, please write the ass short word story Shakespeare about being able to use and how great it is. So he's now going
through thinking about the actress situation. We've got Ginnet, and now we're starting to give us a response back. So Ind where O did stand, so tall, Lfted as a AI named a local
mind, to aid the photo. distant how cool, but in the, where grew, it stood, no delay from to the light, as we can see there, we canally on here and we've got installed, if we
wanted to use this version, we just need to actually enter our command in there within the terminal, and we can say, whathat can you do?" And now this is gonna give us a really
fast report back exactly the same rate as we had to move Oama, but it's going to be running all our actual desktop here, the same Obama is just in a different interface that isn't
going to show it like we have. As we can see here, it looks like it's gonna have a response back. We can say, great, but I need in English, so now he's gonna get off and make sure
that it gives us a respse back in English, this is fine J. many other things coming to play just to make sure that you include that for. Of course, he's difficult that come from
all the world. So as we can see that, we can now that response back incredibly quickly. In this, we're gonna be talking about. What How does it work And why is it really important
and useful to use in? We're also going to set up a quick demo how you within a Q&A In this video, we're going to be covering up mistrial AI, the leading AI would that been built
and developed tos. We're gonna have up what is Mrial, how to develop it with bon totally for free on our computer, how to use the ABI In this beer, we're gonna be covering a
misrial AI, the leading a world that has been built and developed in France. We're going to cover up what is mistrial, how to re develop withot free on our computer, how to use the
ABI, and how to use it within an AT. So let's jump straight it. Sora, it is a frontier AI model isative France, as you can see here, used by lots and lots of companies, they are
first single privacy first, what always means is completely free to use. We've got access to the backing code, we can connecting tool models, and because it's of course, that
source, we can host it, we't anyT and docket instances and be able to run it code to be for free and not show anybody to outside of it as well. As you can see here, it's got lots
and lots of details and if we come across to the pulls, we can see is we've got the studio front with infrastructure, if we come across to the pricing, we see that they've got the
ones that you can use directly with them, but we can use it free, as you can see here, they've got some other AVIs access for thest of using AIC, which is the best one at
Understanding document. We've got speech and audio as well can use lots and lots of different fine models that can want and version, specifically it for businesses as well. So come
across and check all of this out. So now, how do we write locally, our computer? Well, we're going to need to come across to a platform, called. You're gonna need to make sure you
downloaded and install it locally on your machine to be able to run it on a really nice interface. We're they' gonna come across to models. And as we can see, here we have hundreds
and hundreds of different models to choose from them. We're going to come up to the top, though, and do miss drill and as we can see here, we've now got Al that we can use and it's
been pulled or used to 21.8 million times. As we can see here, it's going to be 7 million pounds, and it's going to be around four gawayses to use, and the model is about four
months old. As you can see, it's going to give you lots of details instructions to be able to use it. Now, there's two different ways to being able to install it. We can copy this
come here, come across to our teral instance, press, run and another, and then we will go through it and install it for us. The other way that we can do is if we can to longer
directly, and we just type mistra in here, we can press download and install it for us. Nice and easily this way. The I'm not going to be using this is if we come across artificial
analysis AI, a totally independent third party analysis tool, as we can see here, Mr. isn't performing that well compared to light to chat team or Gwen, and even to thinking to be
the others, be. So this is why it is really good for specific tasks, like, as we mentionedual, that document aon and OC. So how do we use this within any time? Well, we all going
come back across to Tahoe page. We're going to make sure that we log in to try AI studio. We're going to set up an accounting streway and we're gonna come down to AIEs. We're gonna
createique AI, and then. Igative, I'm not gonna set expiration, but you can do that's well. We're gonna do create any key, and as we can see here, we can now got any ready to go.
So we're going to come back to the cost to any. We're going to do the possible over here and do a form to actually be able to capture new information. We're gonna say, Mr. El and
D. We're gonna come down here and say.. an o ot. So how do we use this within any? Well, refers, we're gonna come back at across to home. We're gonna make sure that we log in to
try AI studio. We're going to set up an account of Bibbleton Streetway, and we we're going to come down to aies. We're gonna do create a bit, AI, bitch, and. I'll give it, I'm not
going to an expiration, but you can. Candy. We're gonna do clean. Can you keep? And as we can see here, we've got an A dr keep ready to go. So we're gonna come back across to
any10, We're gonna do the over here and do a phone, sorry to actually be able to capture a new information. We're going to say Mr. El andemming. We're gonna come down here and say
data for the foil that we want to collect. We're going to come out of here and do safe and just pull this up to the top. Now, if we do plus and the M, we'll be able to see that
we've got the chat model, or we've got M. AI as a note. If we do the in here, we can do extract text, and this is incredibly if you're looking to do maybe some invoice autations
because it's incredibly to run if we come back to pricing and if you pricing, you're looking at $1. per,000 pages, which is incredibly value.'re going to come back to you, we're
going to do literally. We're going to come back to our studio copy Eg generated, and paste into the top. We' just rename his demo and account, so we can use it in the future. What
do say? And then it's going to go green for us. Now what you't seen, we've got the document,, extract text, we can do OCR latest, whether it's going to be an image for a document,
I'm gonna do any interest to show you, and then you can do a Uureal or passing, a binary data file. We've also got the options down bottom here for batch processing. If we've got
multiple documents coming through, is able to have documents up to 1,000 pages long, as long as they're not able to file size of 50 megons. We'll be able to do safe and execute
this. Now, I' up for example, invoice for us to be able to analyze, to show you how we can extract that data. We're going to do submit and now it's going to start going through our
work and you like that to extract all of the data. And now as you can see, on the right hand side here, we've got all of the extracted texterues. So we've got all the information
that we then maybe updated into an XL file used with it and. But this is just a start. We're going to come back across to Dread and we're going to do. Now, I've got this 25 page
report here from BCD that goes right in there about how AI is being used within the AI industry. So I don't have time to read all of this. So if we come back across, how we do
execute Wiame, we're now going to upload that long report here, which is still under the 50 meg requirements. We're going to do submit, and know exactly the same as before is now
going to go through and analyz form with that data and put it out page by page. So as we can see here, we've got page zero, or page one in this instance, because any will always
start counting from zero. We've got page one, and as we can see here, we've got all. So double check, we've got introduction that we COs to discuss it. So now if I come back
across,oom into here, we can seeroduction, we need we CEOs to discuss AI. So as you can see that is correctly extract that information straight away for us to use. And as we can
see it is now go through all of the pages and get all of that information for us. If you want to have audio in one go, we can see the extracted data here, and if we come all the
way back down the bottom with our curs, as you can see here, this is all of that information in one large text, if we want to use that instant. So now, for example, in here, I
wanted to do AI and an agent, which is to be defined alone, and we just collapse down the pages and put across the extracted text. I'll give it a quick message that says, you're a
help assistant, please summarize that key insights from this report into a 100 word, we' be able to come out to do say, we can then add in our chat model as we have him, and we can
see that we've still got our connections, ready to go. We can now choose between all the division models that they've got. So if we come back to that analysis, we want Mery smaller
3.2 for the best performing one that they've got. So we'll do ML, and Mr. small, and then we're looking for the latest one here. We don't want to add any options now, but if we
come out and do safe, now we've got the ability to use M. So both extracts order the text. In this video, I'm going to show you how to get started with Deep Siig, which is the
leading platform at the moment from China being able to use their AI models, as well as alibob, another one that he's popular from China as well. So DC came out early in the market
early this year in 2025, as well as 2024, because the intelligence that they had for how cheap and easy it was to run. However, there's been quite an advancement in the AI space,
what we can see, it now is a chart from artificial analysis for AA and actually Deepse is not performing as well as it did earlier in this year. So as you can see, here if I show
you the two different ones, they're performing quite well, DeepCR1 is better in the market versus DeepC B3. I think it needs to go through and make some of those updates just so
it's got that better performance. If we come across, or would also see that cost per token to the pricing, as you can see here, we've got deep, which is around $3 for that input
andput cost, perian toens, whereas something like chap GBT 03 is living about $10 per million in to that go through. And if you come all the way up to OCO so Cla status one, you're
looking at around $100 to be able to get the alper per million in tokens. Now, what we can see though, is from because they made a very good choice to be able to B some of their
bottle. So as you can see here, we've got the ability to actually download, host Deepseek through the like Gitub, to morely, we'd be able to do as well and I'll include the
linking, so you can find these if you want to use them. Let's come back across a DT poo. We're going to do start now, because this is going to open the chat's interface. As we can
see here, we've got the chats history on the left hand side. We've got the ability to download the app as well, and then we've got the settings, and everything else in the bottom
left. If we come into the middle here, we've got that deep thinking, all one capabilities that we can use as well, as well as the ability to search the internet where we need to.
We can also update identify that we're using, so that makes it nice and easy to get to read out. So we can pier up, we can say, please drop me an email to a customer about that
shit being delayed. What we'll see here is the det is gonna go off and that response back to us. This is using their V3 model. As you can see here, we're getting that response
back. What we're gonna see is the tonality is really good. It's to give some concise points back, and we'll be able to go to make any changes that we want at the end, but we don't
have as much customizability, you need to be like we did with Google Gini, like I show you and one of the other. For example, you can't change the outfits at the bottom and it's
not integration, but it's very good. Let's through and up so we can say, please summarize this report into five bullet points. On this is updated, we'll be able to send it off.
We're using a Goes, just to go through and show on with lots of information on AI. It's also in our resourage to get access to produces we need, and as you can see here is now off
and starting to provide that responses back to us. It's going to come back with the key points that we need. This is like we have with open eyes ChPT, to give these responses back
in the structured format that we need, but not doing as much in the future image generation, video generation, or at least not now, natively in the app as well. would also be able
to do is come across the scene they've got their AIWs, so it's come back to him, you want to come to API plat, I'd include to access to this, you'll be able to add all your costing
in here, so you need to give me some of billing information so you can go through and it and the key things to know as well, you're gonna have the deep AI AI log, so you can see if
there's been any incidents that upt, the downtime, if there's any issues, you can make sure that you're not having any problems when you're wearing this on AI incident or your r
instance, where you're trying to use AIA. If you want to be able to integrate it, you just come to integrations on the left You've got a list ofations of how they're able to do it
and they've got the documentation around the API requests, they were to send off as well. Now, if you want to use Deep Seek through an API, make sure to come across to where you
got the API platform, we're gonna need to come down to where we've got API keys. We're gonna create a new key. We'll do school and then demo. What you create? We're going to wait
here. In our any environ, make sure we've got a HTTQ. In this, we're going to walk through, walk open is why it is a really graceful alternative to directly using platformms, like
open rounds or claw to have access to multiple different LLMs and even be able to run some of them for free as well. We're going to touch on what it is, how it works, how to set up
Big Rita and set up a simple workflow with Enton and Ita working together. So before we jump across, how does O work? Well, what he's doing is this acting is almost like a
middleman between our platforms like N and all of the different NMs out there. So, example, if we have a request that we're starting an NA10, we're going to be able to use our
basic N&M modules and send it to our open reader account. This R account is then going to go off and use the NM available to extract our complete the request and send it back to us
all the. you can end up BM's entire workpl within a matter of seconds and have access all of these different LLA without having, you need a one. depend on the work move, of course,
ifre using re and recommends to A, thement, the B, theground. You've got a small ingest, how much, much more. But let's jump into exactly how open it works. So as mentioned, opener
is the front end, that has connections lots of different. It's all 4. meaning they were we've got over 60 activeers, 500 models, and 12 monthly tokens, which is probably around
that 9 to 10 million words going through. As you can see, here, it's a nice three step process, signing up, adding some critics, and guessing what keeps. We've got one for all the
models, you can check the price and performance, it's all of the det policies there so you can do you can check. Now, I mention a different models and there's two different ways.
For example, at the top here, you can search a model and we've got a few here. For example, if you want to light in this, we'd be able to keep them there and you can see this
straight away. It've also got the ability to run somebody's models for free. So for example, if I didn't free, you can see we got some deep in there, got some AI, Gwen, we've got
Google, a few others as well, you can actually run some of the models for free. If you want to see some of the models, you can click on this and you'll be able to see what the most
common models are ever character. So, for example, here, you can see that for this month, what we've got is is time being the most common one with around 309 billion toens going
through. And he's roughly the same last month as well, having around Brock AI. We' 1.1 trillion tokens. So you can see how this trill is over time for fair battleform and much,
much more. If you want to come through, you can see all the's in more detail, click on models and you can go through here, and down on what you. As you can, you've got, we've got,.
On the left side, as well, so you can say the text or input identity to text, image, file, and audio. Inity is the data type that you're putting in, and alphaal is the alput you're
going to get back. They're doing a lot in the text space, and now they've started to do a little bit in the generation space as well, with a brand new pen, but not all being
available in here too. get rid of that then? You can choose the context lth and this is really key. If you've got lots and lots of words that you want to put through, you're going
to need a large context window, ie the number of words you can put through in one game. You've got the pricing that goes with it as well, the different LLMs as well. We can do some
categories, supportive parameters, we can doers and much, much more. Now, before you go through and show you how to do it with any 10, you can come through and actually use the low
code interface in and what this will enable you to do, by, for example, kicking flagship models, is putting the latest flagship models to test. So now I can come to it and say hi
there, and we'll get four distinct outpets back from each of those models. So this is very pretty good to go through and test and find the output we' best for you. So you can say,P
tell me a story in two lines about F1. All the to send it off, and then we can really easily see what that is from each of the models. So for example, here, we've all that's back
about five seconds, we've got Gemini that took 12 seconds to go through, we've got Gr land eight seconds and in eight seconds as well. And it can read the different versions and
find we've got to you. If you're not sure which one to use, come up to artificial analis. on the cl the below, you can find and easy, and this is an excellent platform for
understanding all the best model is for what problem and overall as well. So as you can see here, CT and grow are both comparable for the up, they're left. What's also key is
further down here? You'll see that they've also got the price as well for those. Re that we charged through points where a lot of use cases we're, so that's an in cost and you
cost. You've got 1 million input tokens is 4.1, which is going to be around $2. So think of it is $750,000 words in costs $2. for the analysis and the output, you're going to get
back. is going to cost you $8 dollars for that $750,000 words to be returned. So that's where we can put it all together. We've got around 1.4 million words going through, which is
going to cost you around $10 in total. If we come back to costs, we can go through and start to set it up. So we're going to come through and create an account and sign it. Then
you need to go through credits. And as you can see here, you're able to go through and just add the credits nice and easily, by bank transfers or car, as well as crypto as well.
You can also turn it in the top up on so when you get to a certain threshold, you'll be able to go back to say $5, $10 so you always be available. What we' also be able to do is
when you collect to your all accounts here or on the left. You'll be able to come down to where you've got AIs. And this is how we're going to set it up to be able to use it with
any. So, first thing first, I'm gonna come across to. We're going to do a manual trigger for now, and we're just going to put in here, a set a note. We're going to see that our
