scoring is all about being able to use multiple aons and how amazing are at specific tasks tasks. So there we go. Now we're going to come through and do is just add in a multiple
gear, which is a basicum check. What now going to be able to do is access all liber different models available. So as you can see here, there's lots and lots of different ones, but
if you don't want to have to create an account for each one, you can come down to where you've got open, click on that, come through to create a credential, and create inc
credential. Now they're bring this screen here, come back to your account, click, create a key. We'll do demo of Rer that and we'll do. You can also go through and project
createratic limit, you can use settings as well. We're going to copy this, combat across, and past in here. It now go green, more to being, so well do it. demo click save and now,
we're all successfully connecting. So now, what you'll be able to see is on the model. You've got all of these different outfits that you'll be able to use. So there's hundreds of
models like you around 500 different models, you now access to it. You don't want to scroll through, you can just do Google, and it'll bring it up all claw, and it'll bring it up
and so forth. What can do in this skate scing is just do Define. We're going to trigger it from the form, I'm just going to do a whole in there, and we're gonna give it a system
hold. Now, the difference between these two is this is almost an instruction, you're giving for that specific task, whereas the system message is telling the AI how to complete
that task. So here, we can say please write a short story that is in the tone, that is in the tone of the matrix Megan? Megan? Anne? Making housey video Make it. Serbant. Did this
been, we're going to be talking about? Gohere. What is it? How does it work, and why is it really important and useful to use in edit? We're also going to set up a quick demo on
how you can use code. within a Q&A agent in NA10. So, first and first, who and what make co here? Well, they're an AA p solution that's gonna help us, able to get better outfits
with our rag retrieval augmented generation agents within NA. As you can see here, they've got lots of different platforms and tools that they can use, they've got different
models, they've got model. They're the one that we are interested in is more the embedding, but especially the reranking elements. Because I explaining, a second why isn't so
important to help us get? What we're going to do is come back to across to products and rerank. And this is the one that we' really interested in, because it's going to help us
improve the out, that we're getting without AI agents for that right response back across multiple of different documents, as you can see here. No matter if you're using a PDF for
bl sheets or XL, anything like that, we're going to find the best response possible. So what is reranking and rack? Well, retrieve willmented generation is Mike and AI searching.
My for information to answer or specific question better. Ranking takes that a step further, because because it's going to sort the information that it finds into relevance, so you
we can then identify the best and most acturate respon to send back to aisa. To bring that to life, with the example of using a lung, Rag is going to basically go off and find all
of the possible useful results for the question that we. And as you can see here, it will then make the top four actual books in the case for us to use. What we're gonna do is be
ranking inZ is take this a step further. We're going to reanze the top six books for this war from the library and actually say, okay, this issue's case, book number one book
number four and book number five, actually have all information that user once for this specific question. So then it's gonna rerank them and bring them to the top so that the user
gets this information, provided back to them, as that initial response versus having, like we have the stars, all of these books being returned and may not be applicable to the
question, that user really ask for. So rerank massively improves the quality of the outputs that we're going to be getting back. We're going to be analyzing across the mult
different document within our knowledge of dabase or vector database, you may have had called. And the reason we're not using it as a pure life CGPT is because it's actually pretty
dumb.red Again, what we're looking to do is is really fun for those specific use cases, like reranking and others, so that he's got and that specific task. you can see all of the
pick ones down the bottom here, are specifically for here. So they may not be broadly intelligent, they are intelligent at the specific tasks, we need them to. So we're going to
have across and sign into an account or log in if you. Once you in, you should see a d, that look like this. Don't worry about this in different information. All we need to do is
cost to AA keys. We're going to create a new production key, and we're gonna call it Test and key. We're gonna need to make sure that these are all connected up and do production
key. We're gonna copy this AVI key and we're gonna come across. Now, in here, I've already gone through and stored's longer a 32 page documents from Mackenzie all around to the
currency to AA, how's performing in businesses and much, much more. We want to be able to put out insights as we need. In this case, I go through and use Pine, which is a facestic
stall got platform for being able to do all veive databases, I store information, and then it's going to group it into a rid of a p so that it makes it easier to pull back the
information as. Don't worry about that today's too complex, that much more in the masterclass. It's living in the masterpr. If we know, come back across any, we've already that
ready to go. So what we're gonna do is a, and then they chap the trigger. We're gonna pull it down to him, and then add an AI agent. Three are ch input already connected, so that's
why it's going to stay great. So that we can use the infant that we ask to get through the information provided. We're gonna come down and use AI for this chapter response, and
just make sure we've got our credentials ready to go. We don't need to worry about memory for this demo, because we're just going to be going through and using a vector database
Mive search instead. So we're going to do fine cone, as we can see. We've already got the credential and in from earlier on, we're going to make sure that we' retrieving documents
as a tool for an AI agent, because we are connected to an AI agent here. We're gonna do a description, so we're just gonna say this is lots of market research. Analysis paperapers,
please use them to answer the user's questions. Just face that out. Now we're going to choose that dataatase that we set up a little bit how you're wrong, which is just going to be
called the AI Edge. We are going to come down here, though and do rere results. If you hover over this, as you can see, it's gonna ask us whether or not you want to do it. But the
key part is, yes, we do because it's going to massively improve the outfits, like we saw here for any of the agents that we're developing, all of it knowledge of restoring
separately. We're gonna do an embedding of both AI because that's the one that I used for our collectedatabase early on, so we need to make sure it all matches up. We're just going
to change the AAT so it's using the correct one. We're going to come down to rerank it and it reank. Now we're gonna be able to come down and do create a new conceptual. We'll come
back across to where we generate is that AIT on and copy. We'll come back across to N10 and in here. So now we can do safe and it will green at meaning we're all ready to go. We're
gonna keep it on rerank 3.5 or whatever perversion is re as the latest and best one. In this case we're going to use the top, which is, as we saw here, the top three responses that
he think is best useful for that specific customer. So we're gonna come out of here and do so. And that's how quick and easy it is to get it all set up using, code here and
reranking. So now before I come here, I say, please tell me the top insides for our report, I can send this off, and now he's going to be able to go, query the datab, find the most
suitable information and then provide it back, as we can see here on the left hand side. And this is a much better response than if we were to come into here, turn all free rank
results, and then just go through and give it a test again. We'll find it is not as actually personal information in the same way, we also in a really specific question with the
code reranking. So we'll just wait for this to come back any second. No, as we can see here, this one is much organised, much better for us to want to use lots and lots of
information here, which may not be as pickable for what we. This is just a quick example, because we said summarize the insights, it's not the best case I' using rerecking, because
we want to ask a really targetative question to be able to get the best outputs. So that's how we can critically go through, set up co, and reranking to get the best outfits for
our bases. In this BO W, I out what our vo AO agents? What is wrappy? What features? Does it have, and how to commit a voice agent? So, first first, what are voice agents? Well,
first, is AI software, this to handle phone calls. What we're able to do is set up AI systems that are able to talk to individuals over the phone, see confusing, seeking assistance
with a specific. They can be also answering questions or trying to appointments for the great thing about this is 24, never take holidays and they can be incibly cheap run. lots of
great benefits for visitors. Now, for businesses out there, when a customer fms, we' going to have a response to that person straight away. voice agents in is shifted from a human
responding to customer, even 2009 to now having an AI system that respond to customer 24 and the incredibly efficient and the same time. The system works. Well, when the cost about
fr in, we need to convert our speech into text. And we're able to do this through pels like 11 labs, to be able to have the best transcriptions possible. Next, we're going through
analyze what this individual has said with an A model, so that could be, for example, CPT or any of these ones, identify what to the customers ask, but also, do you need to take
any actions based on what they? This could be within any, your high level, Google sheets, within of yourself and their workplace function, and much, much more. And then once you
completed any actions, or we just go on a customer and then generate it into speech we platforms like at 11 in world to be able to wide their response back to the customer and what
does is basically put this wrap it together, including all of these different faults for us to be able to do it, nice and easily within oneace. But that is just one of the
different players out there in the market. We can generate them 11 hours to retail AI systems, and bland, and we're gonna cover Vi specifically today, but we also agree to depth
around 11s and retail AI within the community. A golden rule, you always want to keep in mind is that we're aiming for that response time back to customer to be as close to one
second or,000 as possible. And that's because the normal reaction time for a human is around that one second to have me say something, you understand it, and then provide response
about. So the closer we answer to that, the more realistic, that interaction is going. So this const across and to check it out. This is gonna be more of a development, and that's
why it's quite in that dark thing, but I think it is absolutely fantastic, and it's still got some really useful interfaces. The veto AI is definitely easy to use for more of a low
type to do. As you can see here, I'mrolling through, you can see how to install it with T or co requests, all the information we need. It's got some of theboundal, which is where
the customer can us and will respond to, etcet, for example, or you can do outbound phone calls and this is be good for qualifying potential customers, or following up the needs,
if you want to do it, that'll be as well. They've got over 40 native integrations within, perfect themselves, or you canermine charge it with connecting platform like any t to be
able to do much, much more. As we can see here, lots and lots of information, all the combined aspects, and that latency, which is the key part. They've got lots of different
documentation and resources in here, include them, linked down right. Let the computer press sign up. The Option and and then we'll In your wig. How about what are we AI agents?
What is vi? What features does it have, and how to create a voiceist agent? So, first thing first, what are voice agents? Well, personally, is AI software as able to handle phone
calls. What we're able to do is set up AI systems that are able to talk to individuals and no seeking in, seeking system specific, they can be ans answering questions or trying to
appointments for the great thing about this is never take and there be cheap to run. So very benefit businesses. Not for many businesses, when a customer phones, we're going to
have a human respon to that person, straight away. The voice human responding to a customer an AI system that can respond to our customer and the incredibly efficient at the same
time. So how does the system works? Well, when a customer frame in, we need to convert our speech into text. And we're able to do this through pathles like 11 labs, to be able to
have the best transcriptions possible. Next, we're going to analyze what this individual has said with an AI model, so that could be, for example, Cigee or any of ones, identify
walk to the customers ask, but also, do we need to take any actions based on what? This could be within any high level blue sheets, within your cellare function and much more. And
then completed any actions, or we just go a resp back to the customer and then generate into speech, with platforms again, like 11 in world to be able to buy their respon back to
the customer and what that does is basically put this wrap it together, including whe it for us to be able to do it nice and easily within one inface. But that is just one of the
different players out there in the market. We can generate them with 11 labs, retail, AIits, and land, and we're going to comei specific today, but we also agree to depth around
11s and retail AI within the community. A golden rule always want to keep in mind is that we're aiming for that response ti back to the customer to be as close to one second or a
hard or 1,000 as possible. and that's because the normal reactual time for human is around that one second to have me say something, you understand it, and then respond back. So
the closer we are to that, the more realistic, that interaction is going sol. So this comes straight cross and to check it out. This is going to be more of a developed
shuffleuffle, and that's why it's quite that dark thing, but think is absolutely fantastic and they still got some really useful interfaces. The Rita AI is definitely easy to use
for more than low to view. As you can see, he has the crew, you can see how to the a requests, all the information need. It's also some of the inbound fr proportion, which is where
the customer can phone us andforms like re example, all you can be outbound phone calls and it is good for qualifying potential customers, or following up the leads, if you want to
do it, that'll be as well. They've got over 40, they can illations within, backing themselves, or you can and charge it with connecting like any, to be able to do much, much more.
As we can see here, lots and lots of different information, all of the combined aspects and latency, which is the keyboard. They've got lots of different documentation, and
resources,., we have, sign up. to through, and sign up for accounts or gets to our organization. As we can see here, this is going to be our overview. Now, as this is a demo
account, we've not got data in here, but as you start to make calls, we'll be able to see them here. the average duration of each wrinkle, the total cost, the central, and the
average cost. And as we can see here, we can do for all of the assistants, all the pred down to specific ones, and these are as a service, you can then say, maybe screenshots back
to these customers to show how much agents are up to that specific, week month, whatever you may. On the left, we've got all the different are going to need to navigate our way.
First up, we've got our systems. This is where we're going to be able to build and create our own assistance. come to this in a second so that we can cover it in much more detail.
Next, we're going to have tools. this is the ability for AI able to take specific actions, the tools. So if not, we can connect, we can do it we' go high level to the agency that,
creat an event ability, create contact. We' able to go through, send text messages, hand it off to a human, the cult human or different agents as well, and the call we conclases,
we can tools and. And this is how we're connect in a t later in an all pad, as well as if you've seen any of the workplace, not in the YouTube se as well. The next part is the
ability to actually make and receive phone calls through nothing, so we can come down here and create a phone number. We create phone number that is in the US. That would be one
account. They're be able to have three, we can import from third finger away. teleex and BO as well. So if you want to do for example, we can through and create. We can also do
theio, if we come back into here. This is the best platform for being able to buy phone numbers, you can use them in the service. On you go through it, you buy a phone number, you
want. So the copy your account SSID here, the and the number in here, you can use it. The account SID and your aut will be on the screen on your account. Once you, let' come back
to. Next, you' got the voice. Now within, that you' ready. We've the ability to use's voices, Cia, HT and LMAT. We can then come down and actually try out on the voices. So
example, in pain, Dream and L stars that light up the night, we can come down and do picks. He was welcome as a rule, but not. yesterday's home runs don't win today's. As you can
see that, you can you know, may, you, you can go and choose and easily. We can also come down to AI, generate our very, which we use in the across some build sections and we'll
need two resources so that you can actually go through and connecting to the N10 and much more to trigger, specific actions. Squads, this is where we're able to go through and
create, basically a team of AI agents that are able to go through and respond back. So, for example, if we ought to call it squads of, AI, we can then connect to multiple different
assist, all with their own specific task to conflict. So for example, you can have one that'sedicated to booking appointments, you can have one that's dicated to customer queries,
you could have another one that's dealing with maybe issues with property management, tenants, all these different parts. What it means is because we've got a team and agent
responding, they're all going to give their best responses back, depending on these going to that customer or that person not with. So it's definitely to be able to use. So if I
just come through and show, we'll do writing and creating for. So now he's going to go through and as we can see here, we can then start to connect up all our different agents,
what they're able to do, when they're going to respond back, when they're going to hand it between another agent, we can do overrides, custom variables, creating assistance, and
much. So this is how you can tell it from one assistant responding back to a customer, into an entire AI engine workforce behind machines, is able to deal with any of the queries,
the coming by,. Next we're gonna come down more. We're gonna do work. Now, within workflow, this is where we're going to be able to define conversation routes. So as the customer
come through, we'll be able to choose the root of this best for them, so they could be qualify to eat, as we can see here, we're going to start the conversation, if we're looking
for Discovery Call or rescheduling a call and then we can go through, maybe hand it off to a human, that lead or close it off if they're not suitable. We can do the same for a
point inuling as well, again coming through what customer are they, what type of appointment do they need? Is it urgent, collect information on that individual and We can also come
down to customer satisfaction survey or even do they own plank version we can create. to explains more detail great well to go through and set up to be able to respond back to
customers. Next, we're gonna come out, and we're gonna come down to our. Now, this is where we can create a campaign, byloading the CSV and selecting a phone number, they'll be
wanting to come from, immedi this is where you're gonna go through, follow up, maybe for some donations for the end of the year, or you're following up to confirming all of the
attendees with the event that' able to do that? One very important thing to know that is C calling is an in a multo country, So you need to make sure that they've opted in for you
to be able to then frame that person with an AI agent. In a mult of cases, regardless, it's best practice to say, "Hi, I'm Sophie, a voice AI agent working on behalf of your
company. And that way it is very, very clear to the person on the other side if it's an AI agent. regulations, of courseing around this to different out quickly Google search and
find out the latest. We can then go through and say schedule that to be sent now, or you later, again that one specific note. We can then come to find and this is where we're going
to be able to store all of the different knowledge for our agent. This is where you've got information, maybe business, you've got an e here or frequently ask questions, you can
add it in here so he knows how to respond back to the customer with some approved responses. This is going to be pulled into our AI agents' conversations as when it to the
information on top quality product. Next, we're gonna come down to inspirations, and this is great, because now we can connect it up to loads and those different tools for us to be
able to take action within certain, for example, the current text speech and Sp Model is in in world. So if you want to use that, we can use it here, which is significantly
cheaper, then never that local. So there's lots of different customization so we can do here to bring in the latest greatest tool. We can also change the model provided them here
byI keys, so we can bring the one we used and makeles, I can. We can also do the same for trans and what this is where we're going to be able with you turned our speech into text
for the an andonse back. We can then also inency here,.com, go high level snack, calendar, go high level and Google. So. So the triggering this actually is easy. We can then be the
same in vector store, use as well. Si trunking and items. Sit Trunking is the older way being able to do the importing of the phone number, now they've made it much easier with the
IDs. I can show you a bit over. So that's everything can hit. So all we can now do is come down to the left side, we've everything here, but we're able to go to more of the
observe, and next. So this event can be our dashboard if you want to see what's going on within an organization, we can structure specific outputs, but we want the agent to
provide. So for example, call summary, we can successful failed for that specific scenario. So maybe you said is going to pass if the customer goes to cool, Otherwise it's going to
fail, if the customer don't. Or is it if the customer says they're interested and fail, if that customer doesn't. A string is going to be a long piece of text that gets remind back
to you. Byan is going to be true or fal0, so it's on off. number itselfatory, and that's all we live one. We can also do object which is more of a item that's being used, but you
don't need to worry about that. A r is, we're going to have anonym list for that comes back, so that could be item one, item two, item three, and you'll be able to start all the
information. Again is that number, cangn That's when it is an integer or a float may havemit versus a number would be one or two, or three, without a decimal. Next, we can come
across to E. Now, this is a veto feature at the moment, but enables us to do is evaluate how well un models are performing, almost like testing, as we can see here. There's going
to see if it's performing, as expected, or actually if it's not quite meeting that requirements and we need to make some more improvements to our agent before releasing it. We can
come down and have specific so we can do a test so we can say to make for company, give it description, the different model volume is going to assess how well it's performed. We
can do a conversation, so we can a writing this case, we can add in conversation terms, and it through basicency, we can different variables here. John and Jane, anything like
this, how often does it meet a really good conversation require level? Th is actually not being that. And that's where we can close this down. We can come down to boards quickly.
This is we can use some visualizations, creating the insight, we can regroup again, for doing the social service, or you can do a test suite to re go through an assess how well our
agents have performing in the voice setting, example, you can say it's an enanced setting, we can do our target phone numbers and we all go through and see how well that agent's
performing, over multiple. And this is really good if we going to deploy this agent to be. We can also see the call on how many calls have occurred, or they called state, for
example, if there's a specific p assistant, if there was a specific reason, the call as a user versus the AI and the as an AI, the evuation of different parts. Next is Clock. So
this is is another way being able to test the AI, as well as it's embedd onto the websites, able to have conversations back forth, nice and easily. Let's be honest is well known
for having even phone agents for voice agents, more than the chap. If we're gonna do that, I'd probably more of the endW can. We can also conion mods and out as well. We can
customize the if we don't want everything to be shown, so then we can make it easy to read,. Next, we're going to come up to assistance. So this is how we can go through and create
our very own assistance, that we can then use within our business. We could do customer support template, you need qualification, a form. info collector, care coordinator, or
feedback gatherer. You can also go through it and do it for a template if you want. We're going to come down to a qualification specialist and just do create a system. This is
going to go through and we can for us, we can do through and make some changes. So this for us, here is reallyinforce. We're going to have the agent ID up the top here, which we
can copy and we can do the link as well. So if we want to do a demo, for example, we can share it that with someone and they can test it help, mice and. If we come back across,
we've got the tab all of the different seconds that we're going to change. You've got the AI model, the voice we're going to use, how we convert our speech into text, any tools or
actions we want the agent to do, the analysis that we wanted to do, any advanced setting to turn on the compliance, which we have as an enterprise speech, or we compared within the
model conversation as well. how we do it as a widget, so this can then be ready on the website, and we can do structured outbits as well, for that information have. If we can come
back to model, this dashboard here is what's going to be the cost and the latency for that conversation. So quickly as a log, we're gonna have a fixed five cost, per phone call
from Vi. We've then got on transcriber, which is going to be de ground, which is going to cost us one cent per minute We then got our model, which is CT for issues, please, which
is going to be around seven cents per minute and we've got as a voice, which is going to cost around two cents per second at the moment. And that's where I took a cost cur around
15 cents per second. If it come across theency, all we can see is both web version and for that telephony interaction. So over the phone, obviously, here's that latency It's be
around 100 millisecond for that speech to text transcription. We're going to be around 600 millisecs for that model to analyze and a suitable response. The voice actually turning
that text into the speech is going to cost around 250 and then we've got the transportation, i.e actually triring that respse customer over the phone waves to, it's going to cost
around 600 milliseconds. That's why I said, to make sure that is close to one second or 1,000 mill seconds as possible to make it sound as natural. Now, that's the only of the cost
of how it's up. Now we can go through theation. So from the model point of view, we's just gonna drive the agent's behavior, we can choose between AI, our own versions on AI, and a
customer LM you've got, deep X. We've got Al T together. All of these ones for us to be able to. The other thing to know this because they all going to have different costs., will
open up and as you can see here, the latest version from Chat is gonna have a latency of around,500 milliseconds or 1.5 seconds, and it's cost us around eight cents per. Again,
it's a quick reminder. Our current cost iss per CT and agency is around 600 millisecond with 40. So come up and change to CT be able to see if I just publish it LCency has
significantly increased almost double for up to 2,500 or 2.5 seconds to be able to find out. If we were to come down to Google and then down to example, the Gemini flashs, you a
really good intention models, you can then skip through this and just publish it, and now we should see our costs our 80 comes down to around 1,00 millisecond. So this is where you
got to define all you're looking for more of a higher quality help, or you're looking at that speedse. To be honest, many of the many or the flash modles are incredibly good for
the cost and. I would say definitely look to provide by for a customer.st. We could then do the first message as well, so this is going to be who speaks first. Is it the assistant,
are you AI? I can with a model generator. So as we can see here we can choose between different ones. If we say the, that's the way down here we can specify the message, that
agent's going first. So, Hello, this is Morgan for great partners, and that's what the customer were here when the phone call gets connected. Next, we've the says you're going to
first thing because we've m forming. is how we'ructuring that for the AI agent and cannot do. So it's in a nesting format, so one means it's top of the tree, the top of the high
rocky, you got two between physics within the qualification agent. We've got three, saying that this personality information sits within the voice and persona section, which sits
within our lead qualification agent. So that's why the more hasht see, the more that's tied into a action. So as we can see here, it's incredibly detailed. What do you recommend
doing with this is you can go to, you can then explain your specific business or scario sit situation, and get its updated in here. So for example, you say, I only want UK spelling
to get used customer. We can then send us off, and now what it's improving update to the instruction we've got in. So imagine when you can give lots of information about a
business, it'll be able to go through and do that. As you can see here, it's suggesting that we are out, which we don't want to do. So I'm just going to discard these strangers. If
you never generate to, what I recommend just copy everything in here, come across to Chat, pace, give it some information about your business, and then it update everything for
you. Next, we can update some of the fils. So this is gonna be that knowledge based that we' spoke on on. So if you've got an FAQ document or best practices or anything like that,
we can then get it to use this in the conversation. The math tokens, so this is going to be the maximum amount of words, because it's danger is able to produce in that result to.
Remember, tokens arely different words, or 100 tokens about 75 words. So remember that ratio when you're looking at the number of tokens and agent can turn back. The temperature is
held closely is going to follow the and the instruction that you give it. So sometimes you want to be incredibly consistent, so you want to bring it down as far as possible. You'll
for you, depending on the you. In this video, we're going to cover all things retail AI. We're gonna cover W voice AI agents on. What retail AI is? What features it has, and how we
actually create a voice AI agent within his platform? Sorry, what are voice AI agents? Well, essentially, they're just AI software, they can handle phone calls. They're not
physical rents for. They are agent to talk for a person on the phone, like a human wouldwering questions or queries and being able to book appointments 24 and that areas efficient
businesses to be 24 it's also the cost as well. It can be significantly cheaper, with the human resource instead. But why your business is adopted? Well, the way the most
businesses were today is a customer will phone them and they make missed a phone call or a human is going to answer that phone call the. has been five to back. But what we're
saying is that we can now use AI to respond to customers. Instead, 365 days a year and 247, increasing the convenience for a lot of customers, but also to that best service
possible, straight away. Now, how does this tech really work? Well, after that customer fades in, you' be able to convert that speech into text. We're able to do this with
platforms like 11 abss or in world or all in ones out there, and then we need to go through and analyze it with AI to really identify A, what they were saying, but also, do we need
to take any action based on what they use to set? And this could be anything from automating a process in any process all the way through to just providing response back based on
the knowledge based that the ag has got access to. Now, if this agent to then provide that response back, we're going to need to take the AI generated text and turn it into speech.
Then we can do this again with. Okay, we provide you Ali as telephone. But ones in the market and we do other than 11 well. But as mentioned, we're all focusing on, tell anyone.
So's on the street to the website and see what you. As you can see it's our super. And I have to say, is definitely, and I' load of indating, which we're gonna jump into, we've got
facing. We can do a trans feature, we can the cooking, and eating not on one question for sale. All these features of exclive toL AI, we can definitely get form. wine of the bad
for me. We've got toure, platform to scale. here we've got cup.. This is going to be, we' just beginning is much easier to use, then. We're also going to be able to adjust the
costs. So we're running into that in second. So to sign up, we want to come through toing or join, then need to sign up with your account and's going to take you straight through,
to this dash. Now on the side, we have all of the different areas. We're going to be able to access. through different workspaces. So this be one here and then we can do another
one, so we have a client in AI.. You know, really enjoyed your company. So you right in. We're gonna have a agents, we're build agents in., we can. and then you just simply added
aRL so you just add it in there. We just there. Google and then explain the latest. We also as well and add some text. This is great, for example, standby' responsing to to go back
to customers, specific questions. If you've got a knowledge, you have maybe say technies, we can add that there so it's for that specific. That's to conversation as the ag needs to
which we mind that response to the customer. We'reality we're not going to be able to trace. Next, we've got phone numbers. Now to do this, we can either connect our numbers from.
This is where we're going to need, using. I'. It's definitely easier to the you simply just add your account and your account, passcode, and then you'll be instead of having to set
up the set trunk. All people also do as well is buy a number, what you to do is create an agent, I'll show you that. Next up, we got this and this is where we're able to create a
batch, which is where we have a list of lots of phone numbers, then we want to call. Now remember for this call calling is in many, many countries. need to make sure that
individuals have opted to have a call. So for example, it could be a reminder that event occurring in a couple days. It could be that they' opted to maybe make a donation once a
year and you're just going to follow up with them and see if they're interested. So that's a key thing to keep mind if you're going to go through and use the feature. You can also
introduce in different numbers that it will phone from so that you can have a recognized number instead. We can either get it toel or you can send it as a scheduled phone call for
nature on. We're able to view concurrent calls, which is basically where we'll have five phone calls occurring at the same time. We're able to have 15 minutements, we'll be hanging
through and purchase more a additional costs if we want to do it this way. E call cost is also going to cost us at least 0.5 to be able to do that dial regardless if that person
picks up or doesn't. So, let's come back with him. We got our dashboard and analytics, where we've got the cool history, so any of the calls that have occurred, we can do different
date ranges, we can do any filters for specific agents, especially if you're running this as a service, makes it nice and easy to see water phone calls from that customer, have
aurred in what point of time, if you're doing in water. And we got all of the different filter that would be able to use and see as they come to. We can also be chat conversations
as well with our AR agents, but to be honest, a lot of these cases are more around to train numbers. If you're looking to more of the text based chatting, that's where you can use,
for example, any directly on our side. Next I'll' got analytics. And this is gonna be on main dash we can see everything occurring across all the agents, nice and easily, with
these key performance indicators for. For example, we can see the number of calls that occur, the duration of those calls, the lat ie. How long an average takes for the agent to
respond the number of calls in the chart if they were successful or unsuccessful, if they were outbound, the between the two is aceptionist,bound where you into a person who's
maybe opted in sales qualified call. User sentim is how well the conversation is gone. Good, bad, angry, happy, sad all thesenovations. We want to see in here. Next is going to be
our disconnectction. And this is going be for a couple of different things, everything from voicail to user hanging up to us hanging up as well, as the AI Angels. We can see the
pickup rate success rates, how we need get transferred on average, the average latency, call duration, voicemail rate, cool success rate, discontin, so much. They were able to use
