already, then great. If not, this should look empty for you. We just need to make sure this is running in the background as we go through, you can do the next couple of steps. So
as mentioned, the next part is all around, including this AI starter kit for NA10 So what you need to do is come across the link below. This is for Kit Hub, cell phone pository
around Just need to make sure this is running unload the docket. desktop is complete through. Make sure to do the one that's right for you. Now, once you've got it downloaded, it
should look something like this when you're containers. Again, you don't need to pay for any of this completely free to use. If you've got one container here already, even great.
If not, this should look empty for you. We just need to make sure this is running in the background as we go through and do the next couple of steps. So as mentioned, the next part
is all around, including this AI starter kit. at 8 So what you need to do is come across the link below. This is for Github self or posit treatment around AI self posted, NA 10
environment. As you can see here, it's got lots of details in the background, just on how it works. M Hey Siri, just check some of the documentation around including this AI
starter kit for LA 10. So what you need to do is come across the link below. This is for Git Hub cellository around AI itself hosted NAT environment. As you can see here has got
lots of details in the background, just on how it works, make sure to go through, just check some of the documentation, check yourre happy with it, and as we can see, here, we're
can be downloading any, which is gonna be our automation Apple. We're gonna be using a for the NI brains, cauldron, for some of that more vectorat based storage.m understanding
that, I'm gonna have a post wrest SQO. She's just gonna end around handling all the data nice and easy. We're gonna come down, you're gonna have a few different installation
opportunities. If you come a bit further down, you see if you've got sp the repository, you've running with any, not comp the NVPU users, you've got ADG users, but I'm using a Mac
and synon, so we're going to come here. Or if you've got ready to go, you're able to come down here and copy that as well. We're going to copy this one here, which is just a Mac
and users. What are they're gonna do you just open up where we've got turbin, and that's going to open up our tunnel here. This is the only complex part. We're gonna piece that
copies part in here and Christmas's not going through you, downloading application adments that we need. Whoever I just come back across to here, what will be able to show is the
steps that happened? So we run on a terminal command, it's now cling all the different elements that we need from our hubbol. That's ourips. It's now building a container for us
with a der and if we come across, what it's doing, is it putting in all of the different elements for us? Nice and easy with the cl. So if you mention, we've got any tender for our
automation side, we've quant for keeping track of some of memory and the storage and searching and any document we need to do We're going to have a lava, which is going to be their
brains while operations. So this is where we can choose between our different AI models, check out the video, which is around how to set up top so you can we're gonna have
postressed so we can store any of the work credentials and it's gonna act like a local runs nice. And once this is install, it's gonna look like this with the interactions, we're
gonna have our lava on the post and then quadrant able to do this at all. They're be feeding for NA 10 environment until we got Book, and then the bottom there, we just got our
volume storage, which is just go through and make sure we all the relevant information,ing as well. So if we come back across it, as you can see, it's gone through it now all of
the different elements that be needed, gone through and added all the different parts that we needed. Don't worry about what if they stockation it's behind it, all these's done is
basically install quadrant, any turn post SU, as well as O. So now we see here, we' be able to do V., don't worry about what it. Doing a Macnt until, so I'm gonna come down here,
or if you've got a ready to go, you're, I copy that's well. We're gonna copy this one here, we should just have macellicutants. All they're gonna do is just open up where we've got
tin, and that's going to our tal. This is the only complex mark. We're gonna piece that copies parts in here and now it's gonna start going through and downloading the application
elements, what we need. So if I just come back across the here, what will be able to show is the steps that happening? So we rather turnminal command. It's now closing all the
different elements that we need from ouritory. That's. It's now building a container for us with a hooker, and if we come across what is doing is it's putting in all of the
different elements for us, and easy with the clock. So as we mention we've got any for our automation side. We've got order for keeping track of the memory the stories searching
and any document we need to do. We're gonna have a lava, which is going to be their brains our operations, So this is where we can choose between our different AI models. Check out
the other.go channel, which is all around how to set up A on the top now so you can. I'm gonna have a push escrial so we can throw any of the workfor potentials into the apps like
a date wasaste, so everyone's nice and easy. And then once this is installed, it's gonna look like this with the interactions. We're gonna have our brain on the left of the, a
cadrant able to dorinents at all. They're going to be feeding into LA10 environment until we've got, and then the bottom there, we just got a torage, which is just go through and
we all the relevant information locally as well. So if we come back across it, as you can see, it' gone through it now imported all of the different elements that we needed, gone
through and added all the different parts that we need. Don't worry about what theyation that is behind it, all it's done is basically install quadrant, any term, postp SUL as well
as O. So now if we see here, we'll able to do, and this is open it up into our docket desk and we'll be able to see there. So come and take a step back, we' now come into our
containers doo, which is where it's. Hey, Mom. Hey, can I call you and you call me. You call me? Oh, sorry, I mistake. All right. Bye. here we numberble this cell hosted AI started
kit. And if we open this up, we'll be obviously all of the different elements in here. So we've got postgress Quadrant.. Docket desktop, and we'll be obviously everything. So if
actually come and take a step back. We've coming into our containers with a do, which is where'oring everything. As we can see here, we've now bought this self posting AI start to
kicks and we open this up, we'll be to see all different elements here. So we've got postrest cadant any t, and then NA is in here as well. I've got a lama running here all we can
see here we've got any latest. So this is just making sure that we've got the latest version of any available and if we come back out of here, if you need to change that, we' is
the talk. We can do, we can see here that we've got the latest version or down the bottom. We've got the latest table. I'll also including shows you on any website, what the latest
version is, so you know you're running the one. So if we can now come here, we can see that we've got everything we need to go. All we need to do is click on this and it's going to
open it up and we just need to sell the account. So I'll go and do that quickly now. We can do next. This is going to set up for us, and as we can see here's got that demo workload
us ready to go. If I open this up, it's gonna show that they can't see anything in the movement and that's because I' locally. If you've done before and didn't have an alarm set
up, you're not gonna have this issue. If you want to resolve what need to do is come here. We're back across to. We're gonna click on here, where we've got our composition snack.
We're gonna come to where we've got a view configations. You're gonna look here for this N10 and service any10, and then when we've got this Oama host all we're gonna do is this we
can't do it directly in here. All we need to do is come out and surgery focus. So you can see here, I've to our searchers for hosting we've got this here. Now we've got the
composed. We're gonna need to open this up and then as we can see here, it's got lots of details. We've got the same part here we're gonna do if we have to. What we're gonna use if
we come back across to our repository, we'll see here, we've got.. Internal. We'll be able to copy this? We're gonna come back across. But wait. Butama set up big, you're not gonna
have this issue. If you want to resolve this though, we're gonna need to do is come up here. We're gonna come back to Art. We're gonna click on here. where we've got our
competition, step. We're gonna come up to where we've got a view of operations. You're gonna look. If this X dash any t I'm service anyton, and then when we've got this alarm that
host, all we're gonna do is change this. We can't do it directly in here. All we need to do is come out and surgery on our focus. So as you can see here, I' come through our
searches for cell hosting here. We've got this fed here. Now we've got the do composed or ML. We're gonna need to open this up and then as we can see here it's lots of details.
We've got the same part here we what we're gonna need to go through an update. What're gonna use, if we come back across to our repository, we'll see here, we've got host..
Internal. We'll be able to copy this? We're gonna come back across and then what we're gonna do is just replace it in there and then we're going to do safe. Now we come across,
what we see here is it's all a dated version. So now we come across to our environment. What we should be able to see is if you this up. We're open up, we'll see it's not quite
working in the moment. We're just going to need to change theRL to this as well here, Deep Gwen Lama, Gemma, S many different ones, if you see the repulitory we have lots are free
to use NM I brain to speaks, which can see here. Deep Gwen, L, Gemma, so many different ones. If you want to order of them, come across the models, you can see here'sing out all
the different ones, even number four, number three, you' so many different ones, and so many more that you can go through and choose. This is all three to use once you've download
on your computer. We cover it in more dep than the other than you, but for example, for deep, all you need to do is run this command here so we can in the terminal, you just need
to run, DC and it's going to be locally, as we show a second, there's different storage amounts requirements, depending on the models that you used, just keep it like that. If you
want to you, make sure you want to come across to where you've got the terminal, we're gonna really terminal, we'll be and this is gonna list out all of the different LMs. You've
running available. So you come out here NC this back up and you can see the two different models that where you've got installed this is going to do previously access to as well as
DT fit and we do walking now' go through and we always give us a response back straightway. We can also do our AI agent so you get AI agent, all of them be able to do is come out
of here, come up to the top, we get rid of this model here, we're just gonna collect in our AI brain form O, and then we' be able to see is we've all the different tools available
that we can use, as well as much, much more. We've got postgress and ready to go already we all them and all these different tools. So if you just did hello, just to show you that
it works as you can see that, we can get the back. Now we covered a couple of the other days pretty quickly, but just so you know what's going in the background as well, what we're
looking at here is something the documentation. So if just kind of that recipe for a service like any, the container, again, in is running a version of those images bondled
together so we get that big picture and the volume is where you say the workflows, data and sensric. But what some of the appro, the pros areing free run, we've full control data
we don't need to be connected the internet and we can customize everything in the tubes. The limitations are, we're going to have to manage it based on our own hardware, so it's
only going to be as good as the computer you're running on. We're going to do some set up level we just mentioned, so it's a little bit more complex than the plug in play for
clouds, but you've got a lot more autonomy and what you can do. The other key is you're in charge of security and, so just making sure you as as possible and you're running it
locally, so that's going to give access If you want to learn how to get the most ofendo, some of the work flows as well as much more, fl across the community, you can access
everything for free as part of day free trial. You've got classrooms, you got lots and lots an AI agent temp able to literally plug and play straight away. We've got lots of other
resources in here as well. image generation, video generation, we've master classes on how to get everything set up around how to get the besters and image generation fromering,
and much as well.Iation, have a great day. What's. Hmm. this video, I'm going to walk you through exactly how to use catch EPT, how to do some pont engineering around it, and get
the most out of it, incredibly quickly at the start. We're going to walk through all the chat interface. Looks like the different ways of accessing it and much more. If you have to
get access to Chat GPT, click in below, you're taking through to ChatGP.com, which is where we're be accessing the platformform today. As you can see here, we need either got a
login, sign up for free, or you can try it first. We're going to sign in in a moment, but this means us nicely just to this first part here of what is Chat tea and how do we use
it. So CPT, the GPT starts for generative prerained transformer, and this enables us to basic gifts, the most output, so that's where the generative of Gene comes from, we' able to
take an input and generate an input. So for example, here, brainstorming tasks are ideas, summariing meeting notes, we're able to do some coding, debugging, trying to do some AVIs,
perhaps, We can learn something new. We're able to use the two different models, one which is the normal models, so that'sing4.1. Or you've got the deep reasoning, like 034, which
is a bit more complex and the go off, really analyzed that request. much more intell insight before it gives you that response back. We've also got the voice, which we will show a
little bit nature one as well. We can search the internet, collaborate on tools, analyze data and create charts based on what we upload. We can talk about images, uploading and
also some information, tackle then we go the hard reasoning around O1 there models with a deep analysis to generate images with their brand newachT image generation, which can also
do saw as well. So this is across many countries, not more of them have access. The most do. and this enables us to do a text to video generation, is included in some of the
different pricing fans. You've just got to which one you're on is not as of the moment. So as you can see here, you give it a prompt, for example, open large into library and
disable to it for you, straightway to go through, make some changes, you can come and generate ideas and bring them to life incredibly quickly. If you come a bit further down,
we're going to come down to pricing, as you can see here for SOR, we need to be using that GBT+, or the CT, depending on the subscription that you've got. If we come back across to
our CPT specifically, we can come down to pricing. As you can see here, they've all got different elements, 3+, and pro, starting from free all the way up to 200 of a month, and
we've got the ability to have team, and this is slightly different because it's got more compliance around TVPR, CPA, but also, we're going to get a higher rate of it to be able to
use of the information. And if you're really big organization, that's why you can use the Enterprise. We've also got the ability to download at UPT, so whether you're using it on
your desktop or on your mobile, you want to have it nice and easy, all you need to do is come down here, download your map, download over Windows, and it and install it locally, on
your computer. That's all for summaryVT, some of differentments for it. Let's come back across and we're going to sign it. So we're going to do here is log into our account that
we've already set up. There we go. So now we're in, what we can see is the main interface that we're gonna be working with. If we start at the top and then work our way down, we
can see that we've got chaps GPT at the top here. This is a dropped down option, I's gonna show you the different models that are currently available. as we can see you here,
default you've got that 4.1, which is their latest normal reasoning model, which is great for those everyday tasks. We've also got the ability to use 03, which is that deep
reasoning model is really good for a little more complex comp solving or then trying to analyze a market ones going to, this will often do lots of the research for you to validate
that idea. The mini version of 04, this is where we're using a slightly smaller version of that deep reasoning model so that we can get some of the deep reasoning without having to
have that full cost of going off and trying to generate the output, generating the insights, so it's quite good for some of the responses you need, with a n bit more intelligence
than the normal models. We've also got high versions, and if you kick in more models, you'll here, you've got the different options about to go to CPT 4.5. So that's where that
will become the new model in the future. If we come out with him, on the left hand side, we've got the new chat. So this is going to open up your new chat interface in the middle
g. We've got the ability to search some of the chats. So we're trying to find something you referen in the pse to follow up on that thread, you'll be able to find it here. We can
come down to library, this is where you're going to be able to see all of the different images and videos that you generated in the. We've now got the ability to use codeod, so
this is where we're going to be able to use some of the more cloud based software engineering you can see here, really good that they're building specific tools then you get access
to. And these were solve specific products. If we come back across, we've also got access to SR as well, so if we open this up, that'll take you through to that text to video
generation. You need to make sure that you sign up for accounts. If you're wondering where the image generation comes in, you need to come into here, come across the tools,
creative image, and then what you'll be able to do is have some of the premont at the bottom, or you can just say you're there, it will go and do it for you straight away. Just
make sure you've got this turned on, you explicitly say, create an image and it will know more specificity to go off and do that for you. Let's get rid of that all. We'll come back
across. So what is it tool? This is to give more abilities to the AI that we' worth made. So searching the internet, writing, and codes, or running that deep research, it gives it
more power to get the looking for. If we come back to the left hand, we'll see GPT. So this is a storehouse of refined versions of GPT, the rari use. So for example, here, we've
got some integrations into different platforms like Canva, but if we come a bit further down, we can see some popular ones that have generated. So for example, here, want this
astrology birth child. So it's been fine tuned on the astrology lens, and it's called that P and we're going to that a bit later till we prompt in caring. We see it further down
here they' by C GPT as well. is the legacy generation model. You don't need to use that specific anymore, just generating an image at the start and it can do you as well. we've got
writing,ivity, if we come back to the top, we can also search for a different one as well. So for example, prompt engineer, we'll see one that I like to use myself, which is one
here that can help get some better problems out of the back. If we come out of here, on the left hand side, we'll see the project. So this is we able to keep more files, we can
give a specific instructions. So perhaps you lots around blog writing or Linked in or generating ideas, you can create a project, save some instructions and get more out of it. For
example, here, if I do a demo, we can create a new product, it will load it up for us, we can add some files, or we can add some instructions. The really guide how the error is get
used for this specific version. Let's amount of h and let's go back to the start with our new chat so that we can write a prompt there. So for example, hip, we're gonna start the
principle around prompt engineering. Now I've got another video in the community and on YouTube thatcomvers this a bit more depth. But what we're trying to do is give it a really
clear goal instruction. We want to give it a really hip persona, and then we want to tell the tonal formatting that we're looking to get out the back of it. So for example, here,
we're saying it's clear launching your face and you've got point at the bottom, which is the instructions of how to give that alput in the best way. We'll be to go and get a good
response that comes back and you can go through a chap follow up to, change the tone and you can get what you want. For example, we can say my target is the UK, so we need to make
sure them. high end is what we're going after, and now it's going go through it to start to improve that alput that we're looking for. Now, that's the text based version. So you
want to take your use of Chi to the next level. That's where I've opening my playground. So you want to take your use of chi eat to the next level. That's where I'm opening our own
playground is gonna come into play. All this enables us to do is get more behind the scenes with Chi Kiti and start to get the most out of it as well as we' custom solutions with
it. especially as you can see here, we're going to get answers to our ChatT 4.1 normal models. We're also gonna get access to the de reasoning models that they have, as well, and
as you can see here, we're now changing the pricing to be on a token basis. Now, what is a token? Well, 100 tokens is about 75 worked. So what it's doing is it's going to be
billigue for the number of tokens, that go into a prop and the out that you're going to be receiving as well. So that's it's going join together for the up that you need. So, for
example, here, what we can see is permian tokens. You're going to have $10 for that input and you're going to have $4.40,4 the alput.. So you want to take your use of tiititi to
the next level. That's where I've been my playground is gonna come into play. All this enables us to leave to get more behind the scenes with Chiiti and start to get the most out
of it as well as custom solution to it. So as you can see here, we're gonna get access to our ChiT 4.1 normal models. We're also going to get access to the deep reasoning models
that they have as well. And as you can see here, we're now changing the pricing to be on a token basis. Now, what is a token? Well, 100 tokens is about 75 works. So what it's doing
is it's going to be billigue for the number of tokens that go into a problem and the health you're going to be received as well. So that's where it's going to join together, for
the output you need. So, for example, here, what we can see is permium tokens. You're gonna have $1.10 for that input, and you're gonna have $4.40 for the helper with CBT,4 If we
come a bit further down, as you can see here, we've got some different EPIs in the room to use. We've got sponsored API, we've got C completions API, we've got a real time AI so
that's where you' loadency wasn't is really key. We've got some assistance, and this is where more have you framework A coming into place and we're going to be on do the batch API
as well. So maybe them workloads don't worrychron can work over to. We're also going to be able to use some of tools that we mentioned in our video. We got the web search
capability. We've got the ability to search files, we're going to beloading files into ourground. We can give it access to the computer if we need to as well so we can go through
it completections. We're able to interpret code as well, so maybe we's some really complex pond.'re able to complete that as well. We can find Tune to exactly what we need.
Remember the T trained a doctor and lawyer a dentist, is able to do more than skills, but sometimes we only need it to specific for our industry, our company, our specific use
case, that's where you through. As you can see here, we can go through, build up lots of, get lots of insight, the news to find lots of different companies, and we're going to get
some enterprise grade features for operating safety. Keep here. There's been lots of training on your data. So that's open AI is not training your data. So nothing that you upload
is going to be added into their big model. get access to this, what we want to do is come across to start building and it's going to open up this platform here, which is our open
AI playground. What's different companies, I' we going to get some Enterprise grade features for operating safety that's go. Key part here. There's been not in on your data. So
that's open AI is not clear on your data. So nothing that you upload is going to be added into that. So you want to take your use of CCPT to the next level. That's what as we can
see here, it differs between the different ones. So, for example, your Chat GPT 4.1 So you want to take your use of ChiPT to the next level. That's where our openingI playground is
going to come into play. What this enables us to do is get more behind the scenes with C CPT and start to get the most out of it, get now changing 100 assistant, so this is way
more of eetic framework is able to come into place, and we're going to be able to do to batch APR. So maybe they' workh don't worry.ynchronous can work over into work. We're also
going to be able to use some of the tools to be mentioned in our video. We've got the search keepability. We've got the ability to search files, we're gonna beloading files into
our payground. We can give it access to the computer if we need to as well, so we can then go through a complete some actions.'re able to interp code as well, so maybe we've got
some really complex problems,'re able to include that as well. We can find TI to exactly what we need. Remember the CBT has been trained a doctor and lawyer a dentist is able to do
more skills, but sometimes we only need it to be green specific for our industry, our company, our specific case, and that's your file training through. As you can see here, we can
go through, build of agents, get lots of insights, used by lots of different companies, and we're gonna get some enterprise grade features for operating safely that scale. Key part
here has been lots of training on your data. So that's open AI is not training on your data, so nothing that you upload is going to be added into the model. I include the link load
to get access to this, what we want to do is come across to start building and it's going to open up this platform here, which is our AI playback. As we can see here, we've got
access to all of the models straightway. We've got some starter prompt here for maybe what we want that result to be, and we've got some more details of developed before we've got
some cookbook, we've got other key elements that we're going to run through as well. On the left hand side, we'll see if we've got some value to result with a quick start, so if I
put that up here. As we can see, this is more of that complex elements where we're gonna be using some car requests, we're going to using pon coding to generate some of the upets
we're looking for, So just play around there and see exactly what' want. We're going to come down to models. This is what we mentioned before. We've also got the pricing, so where
we're gonna go through and have input and output cost, as we can see here, it differs between the different ones. So for example, you GBT 4.190, which is that Noah intelligence is
still very good model for the 4.1 This is going to be, as you can see, there, 10 cent of the input, 40 cent of the output. But if you want the full power of a 4.1 model, that's
where we're gonna need that $2 input, and $8 output for that meaning of total. So around the 750,000 words. As you can see here, lots of different ways that they use it. We've got
the image tokens as well, for their brand new C GPT image model. We've got the fine tune in, we've got some built in tools, web search, and much, much more. They're able to use
natively within its capabilities. On the left hand side here, I'll just open them up in the background, we can see some of the key concepts or abilities of the agents, so ask where
your image, or vision, your generation, or analysis of videos. We've got the audio and whether it's analyzing speech or it's actually producing that outputit in a speech format,
you've got that. We've got structured output. So this is where we're going to get a output, like adj format to go through and use that. We've got the function, so this is more of
the tall lens if you want to give it that way. It's abilities that we're gonna give the AI to go through and do. So, for example, here, if you give it the function of get weather,
it's going to be able to actually complete the action or guessing the weather for that specific location as we can say here, this is double detail over action. So we've defined the
AR, you call ID, the name and the, and the arguments to go through and do more conversation stats, we've got reasoning. Again, there's so much detail to say here, I'm not going to
go through the now because there's so many different ones that we can use. If we scroll down and we see there's lots of we can use. But I want to show you quickly is if we're going
across to playground, we're going to come across to where we've got in here. We've also got the assistance in here. So this is where you build your own very high level AI agent is
able to go through actions in the specific way that you need it. So we can to do school demo. We can give you some instructions and that's where our engineering is going to come in
key. We want it to be specific to organization. We can choose the different models it's got access to, and we can do that dynamically. We can give it file searchge, the ability to
go and any files weloaded. C interpreter, well, and this is one of our tools lens. So again, if we the ability to check the weather, like you mentioned earlier, is able to do that.
We've got the configuration of that outcome as well, so we can say it's going to beed Jason or Jason, and that's going to just change how we get the output from the AI Temperature.
What is the hell close? It's going fall? That's gonna be the instructions will be given it a bit earlier. The closer we are to zero if I pull this down, this is gonna fall in the
incredibly closely and it's reduce the amount of variations in the upput. If we come up to two, this is gonna give it freed and it will give lots of variations in the output. The
top, as you can see here, is just the weight and the likelihood of the different variants're gonna be using lots of information here, we can do from agents, and then we're able to
chat with them here, or able to deploy them as well, so we can use them in different conversations, in different use cases to get outpoint. We've also got the images as we can sit
here, we've got the text of speech, lots of different ways you can use it, for that system. In this video, I'm going to walking through how gets up with Claude, antic, and be able
to use it day to day. Perhaps it's an alternative or a parallel to use a p, like open eyes, CPT. First off, there's a couple different So you want to take your use of cord to the
next level, and that's what we're going to be running through today is how to use cord through an AI within their development environment. So this is the starting screen here. It's
going to walk you through some of the different parts. There's lots and lots you can do with anthropid. We're just gonna be rain through at a high level, how to use the API. So you
want to take your use of chiT. All close, it's kind of fun. That problem is we give it all the instruction will be given it a bit. The closer be to zero, if I call this down, this
is gonna follow in the prom. disappear. It's just waiting and the likelihood of the different variants they're gonna be using. Lots of information here want to deploy them as well,
so we can use it in different conversations, in different use cases to get outed. We've also got the images we can sit here, we've got the text of speech, lots of different ways
you can use it, for that is going to be the one that many of you interested in. That's also now, let's cover more about the playground in another video. So you want to take your
use of crawl to the next level, and that's what we're gonna be running through is. So this is the starting screen. here. It's going to walk you through some of the different parts.
There's lots and lots that you can do with thatanthropy. We're just gonna be running through. That's a high level how you use the egg guy, but there's lots of different ways that
you can leverage your into of your applications, your workflows, so make sure I check that out and let you know if you want any extra videos. We've got the cell service.. We're
paying for what we use, we're gonna go through the placing in a second. We're gonna get access to all of the latest and greatest models from applaw to matter if it's that hau for
lower complexity tasks, the for something that is really good for everyday, all that for that really, really in depth, complex you need to do. We mentioned it in the last video as
well, where Claude is really good as specific tasks, especially around coding, documents and anis, so that's really great news cases for Claude. They're also really needing in this
space around agents, agent, we're seeing the MCP servers, and they've got lots of integrations, nice and easy, such a Google drive, your account, to use that. And then as we come
down here, they've lots and lots of different companies, and interestingly, we're seeing more enterprises, moved towards using Claudes a back end, first open A, or AI still have a
huge market share. As we see here, lots of different ways you can do. We're not gonna be running through Claude in bed or Claude in AA. Let me know if you want to see that, we can
do in the future. In the priceing side, as we can see here, I'll put some points at the top in a second, but with the latest one 4, Cla 3.5, we're going to have for government with
Opos a $15 per Tokyo to the input and we're gonna have a $ cost perium token output I'll put something over the top now. It just shows the price of Opus versus 04 so you can see
how that compares. For the something we're looking at that $3 per million in token for the input and $15 for that output, and then we're looking at $ more8 for that input on hau
and $4 for the output. That includes some over the top of how compare to AI and the models we've using there. If you want to use this, we can see here is all different tools as
well. searching code executions, legacy models, to use it. Let's come across. We're going to come through it and you start building to get access to it as well as the developer
resources, which we're going to talk to a bit later, just around how set of your A. So when you start building is going to bring us across to consoleanthropic.com and this is going
to be the home screen. You're gonna do everything. So we're gonna be able to create a prompt ourselves. We're gonna get Claw's help to be able to generate a port, and we'll be able
to get our AI. Now, remember, whenever we're generating API keys, make sure to delete them hide them because they'd like your password so you don't want them to be accessful.
prompt, as we can see here, we're able to go through and describe our tasks, because we're gonna put there, summarize it document. We can also add that it will be used with
thinking and it will to that extra ability to really challenge as it to the tasks, as it can be the opera and much more. If we to the actual prompt, we can turn this off. And now
what he's going to do is it's going go off and improve that prompt that we got him. So again, remembering we want to really clear role. Po and T, formatting as well as that outfit
we're looking for, as you can see there, is gone through and giving it to us. If he has come up to the top, we can also see the document that be able to pass through, or using more
of that APR request. We could also have the content there. If we do continue, what this will do it up for us in a screen so we can go through and make a bit more changes, and this
is called the work. So this is where we really, it was go through, define how we want that prompt to being as a user. We can also do the system problem, so that's more of that
climing pond, you know, make a specific to your company, your industry, your nic, your nic case, whatever it is, because then what will is that will stay consistent over all the
different messages you're gonna be sending off to this specific agent. What would also see here is we can come up to the top, we can change the model overre going to be using, so
over here, we've Son, altit use, Opus, sonnet, or haiku, we can change that, all go to some of the previous models that they have as well. And that's where it's just going to type
your pricing for what you want to use and if you feel like you're getting al. So the closer you are to zero, the more deterministic, are either closer to the prop will follow, so
it will be very consistent in the out. The higherly are one in this predictability is going to become more incre so it's gonna vary in the you're going to get a much r map tokens.
So this is the number of words, basically that are going to be p through to court. So remember around 100 tokens, it's around 75 words, so make sure to keep that in mind when
you're going through these. is why it's really nicely development lens, we can increase that decrease that as we need, or maybe if you. Did you start in the market, only this year.
25 one is 2024, because.. Te's already had, but for how cheap and easy it was to run. However, there's been quite an involvement in the AL space. And what we can see, it now is a
chart from artificial analysis, but AI, and actually deep seed is not performing as well as it did earlier in this year. as you can see, if I show you the two different ones,
they're performing quite well well Deep R1 is better in the market versus DC3. I think it needs to go through and make some of those updates just so it's got that better
performance. If we come across, we'd also see that comedian token to the pricing, if you can see here, we've got DeepR, which is around $3 for that in and out, per in tokens,
whereas something like chap GT is looking at that $10 per in tokens that go through, and if you come on the way up topP, so Cla's latest one, we're looking at around $100 to be
