and we can even go through and more and the structure as well, if we're not happy with them. Again, we can filter down further as well. M a specific agents, we can do that too.
Then we've got billings and this is just going to be making sure you've got a billing accounts connected, and you've got some extra settings in here. You've got the ability to up
to 20 running at the same time, or you can come through and add an extra $8, have extra phone number and. So keep an on that if you really need it. We think about, and workspace.
Now we're gonna go through how to set up theels. You can also import your own agents, if you previously build them, to be able to use them straightway, just say you wanted to build
something for fines, you able to ignore incents, export it, send it across them, and then if you import it with their phone number, where we click, create an engine, we can do a
voice agent or a chess agent. We're gonna go through the voice agent that's how many of you are going to want to use. AO. Now we've got a couple different options for days. We can
start from blank for each of these, you. We've got conversation flow agent, and this is gonna be for highly formated conversations, this be patient breathing, readist and
qualifications, medical centre reception,idance center, and much more. For example, if we come to the League qualifier and do, we're going to see what looks like a long work that,
where it's going to have the different steps in the first. So first, we have this fixing that's going to go to the customer, then we're going to come through and ask the specific
question and ask them if they want to actually explore the they investment. If they do, we're going to continue into collecting what information about them and start to have the
conversation, if they have no interest, then we'll just sort of hang out the call and leave it as is market information. Same here we can do through it as and ask lots of different
questions, key going through, and it's basically saying that each customer that comes through following this process, we're gonna use some of the tool tools, like booking meetings
to then make sure that we've got all of the information through. So this is how we can then go through and have quite a structured process conversation every single time. If you're
not happy, then you' the point, you can just drag and drop across a different point here, and then you'll be able to update and include new points to be using in that conversation.
So if you want an extra, you can just connect it up like they've done here. get rid of this, is connected from there, for example, now we'll be able to change the flow of that
conversation between the different points so that it'll work this way. So it gives you lots of different customization on how you want it to do. We can also see here that we can
how it's proms a dynamic and back, the static fix sentence response it will give back every time. We can also seem that we've got some extra steps on the right hand side here. So
we've got, for example, humility to skip without having a response, we can access lots of other notes. this, so there could be one master response to direct to different
conversations, we can block any interruptions and the AI' gonna continue to be, regardless, and saving a bit more power for the response, you can also change the model for this
specific step to make it a better eput for that user. We've also added another face and any fine change examples in there as well. On the right hand side, you've got global
settings. So this will affect the overall work, we're able to change the language that involves English and else. We can choose the different agents that we want to use. We've got
11 ad cartinsia and a n. We can also an ad, which show you a list with each one on how we can do that. For how you sound, I'm just gonna do a female and a British