to track lots and lots of different stuff in the AI space, as you can see here. But for automation, the blue line here is the adoption of NA in the market. So as you can see, it's
quickly rising to become a very popular pollot that people want to use. And I absolutely love it. I think it's by far one of the easiest ones to use and the AI agent nodes or their
basic nodes because it's use to get the output that you want. Every we come further down here, we can see it's quickly becoming again that world's most popular automation platform,
and one of the great things is a matter of you using this for your own business, or you're looking to build and sell this to clients, is there's over 500 different integrations
into many of the market lookinging platforms, and this makes it really easy to be able to go through and complete actions. It's also got the ability to do APIs, which, if that
sounds complicated, we've got more compents in the Master. Master classes around setting up N10 down here. There we go. They will cover that in more detail. But what it means we
can speed to lots of different applications, nice and easy, to build lots of costing tools, exactly the way we want it, but there's a new with that, which will touch on the pric.
If become a bit further down, we can also see that we can self all of the models, and we can use this both loading on our computer, or in a virtual cl as well, which we'll touch on
in a sc. We've got a really great use interface to be able to work with, they've got some case studies on here and much, much more. A key thing for whether you're using it yourself
for speakinglines is going to be security and reliability. Now, if you use the LA10 clouds, it's really good, because we've got G clients, soccer, and much, much more, already
embedded in Apple. If we come further down here, there's a big more inflation. Then we'll across the much overview, and this is going to show you the visual editor you're working
with. We're gonna be able to chalk and change all of the different notes, which are the different parts that we're working with, for example, if I here, the telegram notes, it's
all inions to do a telegram. The slap is all the to do a slap and so on and so forth. We' also be iterations as well. We can do pinning and the, which is rather than re executing
the process of multiple times, we can fix and harsh some data there to go through and test it. So it's really good. We've also got the ability to run a cur modouring there, Luke
and film the data. Again, we're gonna accomp this in a lot more detail over in the master classass. We've got lots of different triggers as well, and what this means is the way of
starting the process, so you can check it manly, you can sense it around at o'clock in the morning, every day, you can cirulate to run every time on trigger is action and much,
much more. And there's loads of different templates. We've got lots in the community, you can also come through here and they've got some templates that you can as well. There's
some of them are a bit of, the quality that you're going to find. Some of them you also have to pay for. You can also deploy South. So again, we're gonna cut that in a second when
it comes to pricing. If we come down to here, what'll see is the inspirations and this is where you'll find all of the different platforms of theegrate. So example, if you wanted
to use Gemini, you'd be able to put that there, if you wanted to use Microsoft, there we go. You can see us all coming up and on there. So it's a nice easy, everything you want to
work with. In the Google sheets, for example, what you also to do is then come down to a bit further below. all of the different integration options, we can see some popular ways
of using it, and these are the different actions that you can take? And it makes it really easy to see, if you're doing some research, what may be able to do with that specific
tool? There's lots of different cases in here and not touch on that now. We've got the documentation, which isn't as important for most of the only key one is the re notes. And
this is where you be able, the latest versions, has what date and int 10, which is automatically done on their clouds, but not if you want on your clouds or clue. We can come back
across. We've got the community as well, which we're actually in and supporting people and there's lots of different ways using a sport. Another big one. Let's come across toson.
There's two different ways they're going to be with you. We've got clouds and self fed. Both of them are going to have monthly and annual subscriptions. Now, this looks slightly
different when you see we' update to do you quickly, but at the mance? You're looking between 20 and $25 pounds per month when you get built handling. This is gonna give you $2,500
workload executions per month. So what this means is every time that process is completed and end, that's going to count as an execution. It won't count the number of the steps
you've got in the process. So, for example, if you have one process that had five steps or you had another process with 50 steps, there, you would both be counted as one wordflow
execution when it goes through and completes the entire process. You'll be able to add lots of different users and be able to have five concurrent executions going through. If you
come up to the pro, this is going to be 50 to $60 per month, you're going to be able to have 20 different workfl running at the same time. You've got seven days of insights of the
dashboard is previously adminuals, global buuals and work. And then you're starting at 10k for those non executions, or number of processes completed each month. And as you can see
here, it will go up and cost you more rem more, we use it. There's lots of different questions and they put down here, but we're not going to cover that for hour. The other one is
selfested with, and this is very expensive. So, as you can see here, unless you're working in the model organization that can afford this, a lot to smaller businesses may not be
able to do this start. You' be 2,000 different executions every month, you're gonna have lots of different projects, sign off,mission, so it is more secure, and much, much more
detail there. And that's why, if we come across to our work here, we'll able to discuss the different pressing. So the way that any tech works is what we just covered, and it's
basically just looking straight into N, which we show in a minute and using it straight away. Now, if you want to run it locally, we've got the ability to run it directly on our
computer, which will show you in another video, which is called NA10 L. The other option, still using a cloud, is using platforms di render, digital o, or. And what these platforms
do runse and private cloud. and what is means is they' basically going to install a docket instance on those different paths, which is almost like a big rapper, so that we can run
all of the different parts, including, a local storage, a memory, and as well. If we come through, this is what it looks like, when you turn it on. So, for example, we would have
the dock incents, which can be hosted on itself or your other platforms,ation and more. But what it's going to do is we connect school cadrant as more of a long termase. We've post
press, that sort side and then we've got Oana for some of the local chat models and NA10 running as well. So there's a couple of different ways that it works. Now, if you want to
run, self, it means you're going to deal living to executions, as long as you have the CPU power, or not cloud you' using, you're gonna have full control over your data, customize
everything, and it gives you a bit more. But you are going to be responsible for managing that cloud environment, updating any, putting the security privacy in place, and much,
much more. So just around and see. For many of you starting off, I recommend coming across cloudly turning for the around you like, don't like what you use, don't use, and then go
down, running it in a house to clone, after cloud, all those computer. Don't complicated, straightway. Once you go through and you even start a free trial or you can actually do
through your paper straightway, you go through and you all of your hit. You then your account name, which is just going to what do you want to call. So you can call it the AI, you
can call itation.com whatever you want is, you can put that. When you click Starf, it will then sign you in and log up your account. So you should have a screen limits like this.
You see that it's got the overview at the top because we're using a cell to do environment., you should be turned on.. If you're using anything and fons as well, you'll be able to
see the number of the around it and see what's best. For many of you start off, I'd recommend simly coming across the cloud, putting it onto monthly, turning it on for one month
for the 24th follow, play around with this, see what you like, don't like what you use, don't use, and then look to go down, running it in a self house to cl, self house to cloud,
all over your computer. Don't complicated straightway. Once you go through and you can start a free trial or you can actually do your paper goes away, you go through it and you get
all of your details on here. You've been seen your account name, which is just going to be what you want to call. So you can call it the AI, you can call it to autation.com
whatever you want to, you can put that in. When you click start, it within sign you in and log up to your account. So when you, you should have a screen that looks like this. You
see it's got the overview the top because we're using a cell environment in this case, but you should be if you're using an top 12. You'll be able to see the number of executions
in the last seven days, the number of failures, the failure of time, and much. We'll also be able to see all of the different work you set up, and if you want to see folders, come
down to personal and you'll be able to find every time. Now, this is going to be all of your different workplace, restored feed to use, so you can go through and create folders and
subfolders to easily find, all the different workflace you set up. We can also add credentials in here. So this is going to be any of the credentials used for any of the different
platforms, so you can find them license. The next one is executions. And this is just going to tell you where it's worked, not to work, if there's an error, safe and going through,
and problem solved as well. Let's come back to workload. So now we're going to go through. Gil based.. When you start 3ron, it within sign you in and log up to your account. So
when you, you should have a screen that looks like this. You see that it's got the overview of the top, because you're using a self environment in this case, you should be turned
on, if you're using at any as well. You'll be obviously to see the number of executions in the last seven days, the number of failures, the failure of time and much more. We also
be over under the different work you set up. And if you want to see fold, come down to personal and you'll be able to find. Now this going to be all of your different workplace
store. So you can go through and create folders and folders to easily find all the different workplace you sets up. We can also add credentials in him, so this is going to be any
of the credentials used for any of the different platforms, so you can find them, licensing. The next one is executions. And this is just going to tell you where it works, not
work, if there's an error, can go through, and as well. Let's come back to workplace. So now we're going to go through some of the other times. We've got the template tabs here to
fighting Templace and easily, variables. This is more for the enterp band. You don't even worry about that. It's for the global variables. Insights, again, this is where you going
to obviously all of the different executions that you've done on the platform. You've got the healthcare as well, sove got the Quicksstar, we got a book liation and got much more.
They've also have the Wat. It' worked, not work, if there's an error, so you can go through, and put yourself as well. Let's come back to workload. So now we're gonna go through
some of the other times. We've got the template tatt here to find some templace and easily. Very well. This is more for the enterprise plans, you don't need to worry about that.
It's for the global variables. Insights, again, this is where you're going to obviously all of the different executions that you've done on the platform. You've got some of the
healthcare as well, so we've got the quickstar guides, we've gotter Bug documentation and much, much more as well. They also have to what's new, so you can go through and update it
as you need. The other part is going to be settings. Now, this is where one tab in particular is gonna be really interesting to you. We' going through, we've got use in Japan,
we've got some personal information, we've got the users that have been added to the account. We've got the ABI, we've got some Stan secrets, we can set up environment if we want
to, we've got single Cylon as well, we've got LDAP, which is centraliz an account for different directories. It's not important, but the key one here is community loads. And this
is where you're going to be autic install, third party or different load to the OG. So you can see you've got a few examples in the background there, so you've got 11 labs, bright
data, app, we've got lots of different ones, we be able to use. to use the lamb sp I' never. So there's really good for testing. If I'm done I'm wing, you can see me all of these
different options. We can through and execute a step, which will just trigger that step in the process. We can rename them so we can say hello there. And this is really good. We've
got lots of steps in the process to see exactly what's happening in the boat. We can deactivate the n so if you wanted to skip that step in the process, it can do that as well. We
can copy and piece the nodes, youuplicate it, we can ti up the workload, which is literally just a formating point and it's also the same as the button down here. We can convert
node into some workflow, somediately, if you've got multiple different elements and you't have all of them in one work to have like this, you can come through and trigger it to
basically create another workr that's associated with it. So there, a couple of the developions, which is we execute the process, so you've got that alput ready to go. Now if you
want to go through and start taking actions, all you need to do is click on the bus. You can also come up to the top or I click and press and I don't the tab. Now, I'm go through
and just do an inst quickly to show you how you can connect it up. So now we can connect, we can put across the field from the left and side, so you testing, we can say more the
different variables relate to. We're going to up with much more in the MOS. we say string is equal to, is going to check the value that we've got. So if I then put hello and
executer set, what is it goes through the true branching because it matches out a coin. If we come down and do it to fine, and we execute a step, it now goes through that fal
branch. So we're going to be able to miniically and adapt the white flow that it going through. The other pole before we flames is just around how to ext customer. So for example,
here, I'll open the, we can open action in, we' got all of the different that we can work. Now, there are so many different ones you can work with, is mentioned only 50050
different ones. If you see this authorized to take expellit, that basically means it's an official community mode, which maintained by the provider. So, for example, if I come up
to Beyond prisons, which is all around AI agents avatars, all I need to do is all load, and that will go through, I need on my environment to be able to use it. Once this comes
back, see. And if I come back to my list, I'll just say this quickly, back down to community loads, we'll see that we've now got in here, any notes, pres. So we know you can use
it. And that's how you can quickly get set up in any t Defin check out the Master Fast, which creat more details around how to use any and get the most out of it. was previously
adminarials, good glen burials and. And then you're start. This is complete or more, are we not gonna organization, at the start. You 2,000, different executions every month.
You're gonna have lots of different projects, single sign on commissions, I don't know. When you pick Star Tre Trump, it willign you in and log up to your account. So when you, you
should have a screen that looks like this. You see that it's got the overview of the top because we're using a cell environment this these days, but you should be turned on if
you're using an NA2. You'll be obviously the number of executions in the last seven days, the number of failures, the failure of time, and much more. We'll also be able to see all
of the different work you set up and if want to folders, come down personal, and you'll be able to find everything that. Now, this is going to be all of your different workplace
are stored for you to eats. So you can go through and create folders and soft folders to easy v order the different workplace, you set up. We can also add credentials in here, so
this is going to be any of the credentials use for any of the different platforms, so you can find them nice and same. The next one is executions, and this is just going to tell
you where his works and not to work, if there is an error, so you can go through, and problem sol as well. Let's come back to work phones. So now we're gonna go through some of the
other times. We've got the template taps here to find some templ easily. variables, this is more for the enterprise plans, you don't need to worry about that. It's for the global
variables. Insights, again, this is where you're going to be all of the different executions that you've done on the platform. You've got some of the help here as well, you've got
the Quickstar guide, we've got aorter bug book in and much more. They've also helped watch the new so you can go through and update as you. The other part is going to be setting.
Now, this is where one time in particular is gonna be really interesting to you. We're going through, we've got use in Japan, we've got some personal information, we've got the
users that have been added to the account. We've got the API, we've got some of secrets, we can set up environment if we want to, we've got single signing as well, we've got LDAP,
which centizing accounts for different directories. It's not important but the key one here is community loads. And this is where you're going to be able to install third party or
different to the objects. So you can see we've a few examples in the background there, so you've got 11 labs bright data, amplify, we've got lots of different ones. We'd be able to
use, and critically, you're going to to come through and update the results, like we're doing here to have the latest abilities. So this is very shift when you have the
responsibility to make sure some of these are updated depending on the version of that you on. But let's go through and three and create. So what you need to do is come out to the
talk and do create work. It will open up this pagecheck and we're gonna cover this much more details in the masterclass around how to set up and use any. But for them, let's come
back across and find them and just do a simple one. So we're going to have the trigger2. I'm just going to say trig. We can then come through and use a second n, which is where we
can hardcode some, or we can put out some key points, from an existing. So example we' here, we could say testing and we could say the value is. We can then come out of here, and
you'll see that it automatically joins it out together. So that value do if you won't float it's going to execute the entire process end and we can see the output. We've got three
different options. We've got schema, table, and Jason. A lot of the time, schema is the easiest way to see all of the data. Table caning good as well, but it will have multiple
rows depending on the ways we're working with it and Jason is literally Jason alpha, the U would see. So if many I recommend, start the schema In the in this video, we're gonna
walk through, help to set up, make look. Look on what it is, how it works, how it difference from NA10, Zappia, and the other platforms out there. We're also gonna go through and
be able a quick, simple workflow just to show you some of the capabilities. But if you want to learn more about major.com specifically, make sure want to go through and check the
Masters that we got in the community, which you can find at the bottom here, which is.com. And is exactly what made.com is and how it works. So what is m.com? What is the
automation of platform is one of the market album? And it's used by many of the small amium sized businesses to autom make some of their repetitive processes and to give time back
to their team members. It's a really nice, easy visual way of seeing how to automate a process, and it's got lots and lots of differentations, as we can see here, it's got some of
the different companies that they work with, and it's going to walk you through some of the examples and these guys have a lot more prebble connectors then platform like N10 at the
moment. So example, here, you can see that it's got over 2,000 to 50000.bu app connectors, whereas platforms like N10 only have around 500 at the moment. So if you need more, you
can't quite find what you're looking for, make.com is the place versus. The key part as well is for got the security to make sure that it's really. Because when you use it result,
all we finds as well. If we come back up to the top, it'll be obviously, what is make and the product over you. Now they're constantly going through and making changes. So this may
look slightly different when you go through. What you can see in the background here, is some of the dashboards that you're going to be working with? You've got the main platform,
so you come down here, can see that we can do the automation of the process and to end very visually and you can choose all of the different nodes or activities that you want to go
through at each stage. As you see here, they've got a you can walk through and just understand health sc., we're going to cover down more inmate intercom a second. They've also
just released, they're great and this is important because we can automatically show you what the different processes are that are connecting together so you can see how it affects
on the business. And this is really good of the parent company that owns.com is called and they got some really processing task mining activities. I' ke to see some of that coming
across here to analyze performance time. They also point around what you can expect, and lots of details Again, we're just going through what like. If you're looking for the
different, come through to apps and show everything in here, you can see again they've got 2,500 plus different connectors and there's loads and loads of different ways. So
example, if you want to do Pandadox, this is saying you could do automated contract., I like to get the up theformed. They've also activated their own version of agents, which are
used on more of a global level, so you define it once, and then you can do through it and make a few weeks to a specific scenario, versus a unique one for each andividual ones. You
can identify patterns, I can sum all of usual stuff we use and there's lots of different ones as you can see there, you can integrate straight away for AR tools. We're going to
come up the top, we can see that we've got the automation, which is exactly like we just mentioned. The AI agents, I really recommend taking some time just to read through this,
how it works, what it is, and to get them set up in your agent, because it' slightly different to N and I find it literally more complex and. So it shows they got some creder that
you through to understand, they've got some news cases, loads of those different ones, for the templates, you need to import. So we can also see resources. lots and lots of
different point here. They got template library that you can get started and other ones as well. Pricing. So as you can see, this is going to be slightly different, it's going to
be updated as in the 27th of August to use credits as the. All we can see here is that it's going to start off at around $1 a month, around89 British TV, and we can see here it
goes up as. The weight that the credit system is working is each set in the process is going to have different credits for serious units with it. So it's a little bit of a more
complex picing platform, but just enter 12 processes, all the different steps as well. If we come up to him, so what are credits? E action of your scenario performs, consumes a
number of credits. Most actions consume one credit or some in one's features andaging A. Basically, are going to cost more. And what this means is say that you've got five steps in
a process, you're going to use up. In this video, we're going to walk through what does that is, how the price works, because it can get very expensive and very quickly, how to Zap
in more detail, and they're going through and doing some zaps with it, which is what they call the entertaining workflow. So let's jump into exactly how it works. So Zap is one of
the top three automation powerforms at the moment, for loc integration and for many small income size businesses. But as you can see here, there mark share, as well as m.com, is
being heavily challeng by NA of the. If we come back across, it's still important to Zapio, because some of the smaller businesses may already have this, so if you're familiar with
how it works, you can take the workflows, understand them, and maybe convert them acrossath on playing N10.com or you know how to fix it with exactly yourself. This is the most
coolling platform at theance with over 7,000 different apps that were able to collect to. White person, any tenants, about five met collected or more. We've got about 2,000
connectors with.com or 7,000 connectors, is that. issues by lots and also companies, as you can see there, fortune 50000 companies and many more, really want to use LI through
Zapio. If you come down here, as you can see, they got some stats, on how it works, and use cases around customer services and. This is an example of how we translating a business
requirement into a zap that's going to go through and actually complete the process. So as you can see there and walking through a demo, exactly how it sets up. There's more
examples down here. It's also got these securities as well, so the compliance and everything else you want to see, you blinds for KU and more as well. If we come up to the top, we
can look at the products. You can see here that we've got the z, ie the workloadace that you going to move. We've databases and interfaces that we can use as well. We've got
security, AI, automation, and app integrations. So, for example, here, you can see all of the different apps and you're able to integrate with over 7,000 of them, in fact, might be
mentioned. They've also got this AI dotted around. It's just like in so you can ask questions and it' will make some suggestions. If we come up, we're also going to be able to see
you Ze, and this is just going to explain to you at our high level, how they work, how you can design phase, and more. It's definitely more rigid than using a platform like Ellen
ormail.com because it's designed for real step by step work, you can see here. It's not easy to move around and design exactly the way you want. So as you can see here, a different
examples and more. If we come to the top, we've got solutions. These are some built out useases that they' already done. So example, here, if we're looking maybe sales, which is a
pre use of an AItration, you can see exactly what it ties into, some of the different opportunities to use it with, what some of the teams are saving it and much, much more. Well,
let's go through to the next couple of days. We've also. In this video, we're going to walk through you and set up Aplify, which is one of the leading scing platforms out there.
It's going to be really useful for lots of the different applications you want to run. And if you grab the tracker for some of the creators, that's in the small community starting
section, in the quick wind is in here quick winds, or you'll be able to do is add all of the different people into this creator database, and we could go through and scrape some of
the data to do with them. But in this video, we're going to be clevering what is appify, how it works, what the pricing is, how to set it up under quick simple workflow, then we're
gonna use N8N4 to get it upright. So what is AI? What AI, as you can see there, it's a full stack platform for webscreen thing. It's basically a repository of a lot of pre built
scrapers that can go off and extract data from lots of different areas. So, for example, like you can see them, if you want to extract lots of data to do with Google Maps, we've
got that ready to go. The same as for Instagram, TikTok and many others. So if you want to get an, moving into a market, attract some competitors, you can do that as well.s used by
lots and lots of global tech leaders. It's not just webing. There's lots and lots of different parts here you can go through news, where 6,000 actors. the key thing you need to
focus on is quality global quantity, something those really don't, and I think they should be taken down. Easy to intrate with lots of ones, as you can see here, you can connect it
lots and lots of different ways to be able to use it. It's got lots of security as well. So GTR So compl and that's key for when you're building applications, for yourself or
clients. Bef before you go through, and browsing actors, if we come up to the top end, you'll see if you've got a couple of different ways of navigating around. You've got the
amplified store with all the different actors and much more. We've got some pre actors and servers here. We can see all of the different interactions. So, for example, here, nice
and easy interactions up here..com, Asana, Drive,table, any, and lots of I want in here. If we come back to the top, we'll come to they got the AI agents, which is something new
from any, they've got their own AI agents, the rain would go through, connect into an MCP server, which is model context called developed by calls, but in ag a super agent for
connecting it multip ones, but make sure that it's secure for the clouds version you're using, you can publish a monetize your agents and much, much more as well. If we come back
up to the top, we'll come to where you've got the actives. We'll see you that we can do actors. It's got some of the data here, for the best way to find what you're looking for is
the Upl storm. You'll see here we've got lots of different ways to find what we're looking for. So we're looking for these generation, it come through and show us different ones.
I'll include the link in below, around the Apaper, which we lots of videos on show you get some set. Your go as well. art toers, you to use as much as you want. We're going to
touch on it in a minute, around setting it up a little bit later, touching you exacting how it works. We've got solutions in here as well, so you can go through analy this as you
want, market research and much, much more. The developers, the key part here, they're looking at the documentation. We've got lots of different parts here, but the one you're going
to use the most is the Aon and then come down to reference. this will have all in the different commands that you're going to be able to use with appplify. So for example, here to
where we've got to run and act to syncrly and get the data items. That's the old way of doing it when we use to able to trigger a request and get the advert. But it's not to your
stuff like having a direct connector. They've also got some resources here that you'll be able to go through the. The next is people get confused by this I just wanted to break it
down easily. For many of using that free version for a little minute at trial, he's going to be nice and easy. When you start using a bit more frequently, you' going to to come up
to start What happens is you're going to be a budget effectively at $39. So earlier, you mention around using the Apollo data scraping, which is $1.20 per thousand leagues. So what
will happen is each time you run the actor to get 1,000 leads, at1.20, it will then minus that from the 39. So you will start to a $39, then say it down to 38, 37, 36, and so on
and so forth, until you use up all of your allowance. It's key to note that some of the actors are going to be more expensive than others. And if you know you're going to using
this a lot, it might be worth upgrades annually, and you' single have your finger links as well, to go through and get some discounts on that. As you can see here, you go, you're
go to Lin explains it in. We've also got some different actors which you're have some different costs, but it's not important as white mentioned. Now, if you want to go, all you
need to do is go to console and loggin. It me to set up an account and I'm just going to go through and sign in with Google. And this will take us straight away. Now, what you be
able to see if it can close down the bottom left, you'll have usage. So for example here, you can see I used around one bottle of 40 or already out by $69.mit that I've got. You
can see some of the different actors that I've used recently here, and we can go through and find the different ones. At the top, we can do to amplify store, and this is exactly
the same as the one that we just found through. We're finding all of the different agents that we may want to go through and use. So, example, again, coming back into the Apollo
Ra, we will be able to see here is the fundamental key points to be able to run the actor, you here, as well as with the plforms like N0. If you through and use this and more of
the low interface, all we be able to see, is that we've got the URL'scription here, the pathway, we can see the cost to run the service, which is going to be different inactor. We
can see the review in styles and the number of reviews provided, and basically how many times it's been bookmarked to use the future. We can also see the total number of users and
the monthly active users that arere using a specific scaper. So this means that only 16,000 people are using this scraper to get insights. What you can also see here as well is
there will be a difference between the tool that maintained by Alefine, and a tool that has been maintained by the community. So, for example, this one here, is maintained by the
community, as you can see here, this one is going to be used and maintained by A. You're also going to do page per usage on this one, and it's going to change slightly just because
of the way it'sing. If we come back across into him, we'll be able to see the different inputs that we canmit. We've got the manual almost like an e form in this space. We can see
the searchRL records, f name, clean outb, and some of the wrong actions. You't worry about these as much, for the key p always check the results, it will default to whatever that
maximum is per execution. If we come to the top, you can also do Jason and then get exactly the same body to use inner request. I recommend setting it up in the logo interface
first, because then as you come through into him, it's going to automatically update. This would also change, depending on the different tool you use. So, for example, here, for
the TikTok paper, we can see that this again, is pay per event. So we've got all of the data in here and you can see that it's going to be a couple of dollars per. We've got the
runs that can do in the background, all of the different data profiles, we can specify the maximum cost as well, and what we' made with changes, we've got the Js and body to use as
well. So it gives us lots and lots of different options. We're going to come back to the amplifier storm and then back to the cross to your screen. And we're going to leave that in
there now. So now we've this, we're gonna come across and at In this case, I'm going to use a man trigger just to start the process. We' they' gonna come through and do amplify.
And as you can see here, we've got the authorized nude. There's maintained by amplify. You need to go through and install this node locally so that you can then actually use it
within any, but it's totally use. We can then see that we've got the different actions that we want to be able to do. If you want to run and the data back, that's where you want to
use this request here. We can also go through and get data run tasks and much more for a lot of use cases, you just need to run and actor and get data set. You need to connect
account, which we can do, and then create inc credential, come back to account, down to settings, across to ABI integrations, create an AR token back into any and bas it. You can
also go through and use an O authorization as well by just logging aifying, and this one is going to be more secure an AI. We can this down we've already got our, set up. So we're
gonna use an actor, run it and get a beta, and we can see all of the recently used actors. So, for example, here, I've got the Apollaper all ready to go. We need to make sure that
you' done back in Apollo is that you've come down and save it. So it's associated with your account to be able to this process. You can also do it by the. If you've ever wanted to
run your very own A agents on your computer completely free, this video is for you. Though I know local AI can sign a little bit intimidating, but we're going to be running through
a simple two step process today. It's gonna get you all set up with NA10 and the different AI models to all run locally on your computer. By the end of this, you're gonna have your
very own AI agent up and running and you're not even going to have to enter an API team. Well, first of all, we're going to come through and download Docker, this is going to be
where we can contain all of the different elements that we want, and then we're going to go through and clone an AI star kit that's ready to go for NA10 from Git Hub itself. So
first things first, you want to make sure you've come across to DOCA, I'll include a link below, so you get access to it. The reason that we're using this is because of a
container's features, which is where we're going to I'm across to Ducker, I'll include a link below. So you get access to it. The reason that we're using this is because of the
container's features, which is where we're going to be able to have all of the different elements we need from their knowledge, the LLM models, as well as NA10 to all be run
locally. There's lots of documentation here. It's nice and easy to get a set up run with is very trusted in the community, so make sure to go through and check in the details you
want, but to get it installed or you need to do is come down and download the docket desktop is completely free. May you want to do the one that's right for you? Now, once you've
got to downloaded, it should look something like this with your containers. Again, you don't need to pay for any of this completely free to use. If you've got one containering here
