PRAISE FOR THE SIXTH EDITION OF SECURITY ANALYSIS

“The sixth edition of the iconic Security Analysis disproves the adage ‘’tis
best to leave well enough alone.’ An extraordinary team of commentators,
led by Seth Klarman and James Grant, bridge the gap between the simpler financial world of the 1930s and the more complex investment arena
of the new millennium. Readers benefit from the experience and wisdom
of some of the financial world’s finest practitioners and best informed
market observers. The new edition of Security Analysis belongs in the
library of every serious student of finance.”
David F. Swensen
Chief Investment Officer
Yale University
author of Pioneering Portfolio Management
and Unconventional Success

“The best of the past made current by the best of the present. Tiger Woods
updates Ben Hogan. It has to be good for your game.”
Jack Meyer
Managing Partner and CEO
Convexity Capital

“Security Analysis, a 1940 classic updated by some of the greatest financial
minds of our generation, is more essential than ever as a learning tool
and reference book for disciplined investors today.”
Jamie Dimon
Chairman and CEO
JPMorgan Chase

“While Coca-Cola found it couldn’t improve on a time-tested classic, Seth
Klarman, Jim Grant, Bruce Greenwald, et al., prove that a great book can
be made even better. Seth Klarman’s preface should be required reading
for all investors, and collectively, the contributing editors’ updates make
for a classic in their own right. The enduring lesson is that an understanding of human behavior is a critical part of the process of security analysis.”
Brian C. Rogers
Chairman
T. Rowe Price Group

“A classic has now been updated by some of the greatest and most
thoughtful investors of our time. The book was a must read and has now
been elevated to a new level.”
Daniel S. Och
Senior Managing Member
Och-Ziff Capital Management Group

“Readers will find the updated version of Graham and Dodd’s Security
Analysis to be much improved from earlier editions. While the timeless
advice from two of the greatest value investors continues to resonate, the
essays that are contributed by some of the world’s top value investors add
immeasurably to the read. These investors practice what they preach in
their essays and combine to make this edition the best ever! I highly recommend this volume to all investors—old and young—who will benefit
from the tried and true principles of the past and the updated applications to today’s turbulent markets!”
Morris Smith
Private Investor
Former Manager
Fidelity Magellan Fund

“No book empowers you with better tools for intelligent investing than
Security Analysis. Seth Klarman and his fabulous team have produced a
nonpareil edition of Ben Graham’s classic for the new millennium.”
Mason Hawkins
Chairman, Longleaf Partners
Southeastern Asset Management

“The ideas of Graham and Dodd have withstood all kinds of market conditions and 75 years of scrutiny—making them ever more relevant for
modern-day investing. The essays by Klarman and other storied value
investors lucidly illustrate that while the capital markets landscape may
be vastly changed from years past, basic investor traits are not, and disciplined application of the principles of Security Analysis continues to provide an important edge in investing.”
André F. Perold
George Gund Professor of Finance and Banking
Harvard Business School

This page intentionally left blank

SECURITY ANALYSIS

SECURITY ANALYSIS PRIOR EDITIONS
Graham and Dodd: Security Analysis, First Edition (1934)
Graham and Dodd: Security Analysis, Second Edition (1940)
Graham and Dodd: Security Analysis, Third Edition (1951)
Graham, Dodd, Cottle, and Tatham: Security Analysis, Fourth
Edition (1962)
Graham, Dodd, Cottle, Murray, Block, & Leibowitz: Security
Analysis, Fifth Edition (1988)

SECURITY ANALYSIS
Principles and Technique
BENJAMIN GRAHAM
Investment Fund Manager;
Lecturer in Finance
Columbia University
AND
DAVID L. DODD
Associate Professor of Finance
Columbia University
Sixth Edition

New York Chicago San Francisco Lisbon London Madrid
Mexico City Milan New Delhi San Juan Seoul
Singapore Sydney Toronto

Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. All rights
reserved. Manufactured in the United States of America. Except as permitted under the United
States Copyright Act of 1976, no part of this publication may be reproduced or distributed in any
form or by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written
permission of the publisher.
0-07-164293-5
The material in this eBook also appears in the print version of this title: 0-07-159253-9.
All trademarks are trademarks of their respective owners. Rather than put a trademark symbol after
every occurrence of a trademarked name, we use names in an editorial fashion only, and to the
benefit of the trademark owner, with no intention of infringement of the trademark. Where such
designations appear in this book, they have been printed with initial caps.
McGraw-Hill eBooks are available at special quantity discounts to use as premiums and sales
promotions, or for use in corporate training programs. For more information, please contact George
Hoare, Special Sales, at george_hoare@mcgraw-hill.com or (212) 904-4069.
TERMS OF USE
This is a copyrighted work and The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (“McGraw-Hill”) and its licensors reserve all rights in and to the work. Use of this work is subject to these terms. Except as permitted under the Copyright Act of 1976 and the right to store and retrieve one copy of the work,
you may not decompile, disassemble, reverse engineer, reproduce, modify, create derivative works
based upon, transmit, distribute, disseminate, sell, publish or sublicense the work or any part of it
without McGraw-Hill’s prior consent. You may use the work for your own noncommercial and personal use; any other use of the work is strictly prohibited. Your right to use the work may be terminated if you fail to comply with these terms.
THE WORK IS PROVIDED “AS IS.” McGRAW-HILL AND ITS LICENSORS MAKE NO
GUARANTEES OR WARRANTIES AS TO THE ACCURACY, ADEQUACY OR COMPLETENESS OF OR RESULTS TO BE OBTAINED FROM USING THE WORK, INCLUDING ANY
INFORMATION THAT CAN BE ACCESSED THROUGH THE WORK VIA HYPERLINK OR
OTHERWISE, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. McGraw-Hill and its licensors do not warrant or
guarantee that the functions contained in the work will meet your requirements or that its operation
will be uninterrupted or error free. Neither McGraw-Hill nor its licensors shall be liable to you or
anyone else for any inaccuracy, error or omission, regardless of cause, in the work or for any damages resulting therefrom. McGraw-Hill has no responsibility for the content of any information
accessed through the work. Under no circumstances shall McGraw-Hill and/or its licensors be liable
for any indirect, incidental, special, punitive, consequential or similar damages that result from the
use of or inability to use the work, even if any of them has been advised of the possibility of such
damages. This limitation of liability shall apply to any claim or cause whatsoever whether such
claim or cause arises in contract, tort or otherwise.
DOI: 10.1036/0071592539

Professional

Want to learn more?
We hope you enjoy this
McGraw-Hill eBook! If
you’d like more information about this book,
its author, or related books and websites,
please click here.

BENJAMIN GRAHAM AND DAVID DODD forever changed the
theory and practice of investing with the 1934 publication of Security Analysis. The nation, and indeed the rest
of the world, was in the grips of the Great Depression, a
period that brought unprecedented upheaval to the
financial world. In 1940, the authors responded with a
comprehensive revision. The second edition of Security
Analysis is considered by many investors to be the definitive word from the most influential investment philosophers of our time.
Around the world, Security Analysis is still regarded as
the fundamental text for the analysis of stocks and bonds.
It is also considered to be the bible of value investing. To
commemorate the 75th Anniversary of Security Analysis,
McGraw-Hill is proud to publish this sixth edition.
Using the text of the 1940 edition, this new edition
features lively and practical essays written by a stellar
team that includes today’s leading value investors, a
prominent academic, and leading financial writers. The
result is a contemporary bible of value investing.
The sixth edition, with a new design that pays
homage to the original 1940 design, includes a CD of
the entire original 1940 second edition. This book was
printed and bound by R.R. Donnelley in Crawfordsville,
Indiana.

“Many shall be restored that now are fallen,
and many shall fall that now are in honor.”
HORACE—ARS POETICA.

For more information about this title, click here

CONTENTS

Foreword • by Warren E. Buffett xi
Preface to the Sixth Edition | The Timeless Wisdom of Graham and

Dodd • by Seth A. Klarman xiii
PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION xli
PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION xliii

Introduction to the Sixth Edition | Benjamin Graham and Security

Analysis: The Historical Backdrop • by James Grant 1
INTRODUCTION TO THE SECOND EDITION 21

PART I

SURVEY AND APPROACH
Introduction to Part I | The Essential Lessons

by Roger Lowenstein

39

Graham and Dodd chapters:
1. THE SCOPE AND LIMITS OF SECURITY ANALYSIS. THE CONCEPT OF INTRINSIC
VALUE 61
2. FUNDAMENTAL ELEMENTS IN THE PROBLEM OF ANALYSIS. QUANTITATIVE AND
QUALITATIVE FACTORS 75
3. SOURCES OF INFORMATION 89
4. DISTINCTIONS BETWEEN INVESTMENT AND SPECULATION 100
5. CLASSIFICATION OF SECURITIES 112

[vii]

[viii]

Contents

PART II

FIXED-VALUE INVESTMENTS
Introduction to Part II | Unshackling Bonds • by Howard S. Marks

123

Graham and Dodd chapters:
6. THE SELECTION OF FIXED-VALUE INVESTMENTS 141
7. THE SELECTION OF FIXED-VALUE INVESTMENTS: SECOND AND THIRD PRINCIPLES 151
8. SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR BOND INVESTMENT 169
9. SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR BOND INVESTMENT (CONTINUED) see accompanying CD
10. SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR BOND INVESTMENT (CONTINUED) 180
11. SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR BOND INVESTMENT (CONTINUED) see accompanying CD
12. SPECIAL FACTORS IN THE ANALYSIS OF RAILROAD AND PUBLIC-UTILITY BONDS see
accompanying CD

13. OTHER SPECIAL FACTORS IN BOND ANALYSIS see accompanying CD
14. THE THEORY OF PREFERRED STOCKS see accompanying CD
15. TECHNIQUE OF SELECTING PREFERRED STOCKS FOR INVESTMENT 190
16. INCOME BONDS AND GUARANTEED SECURITIES 202
17. GUARANTEED SECURITIES (CONTINUED) 215
18. PROTECTIVE COVENANTS AND REMEDIES OF SENIOR SECURITY HOLDERS 229
19. PROTECTIVE COVENANTS (CONTINUED) 242
20. PREFERRED-STOCK PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS. MAINTENANCE OF JUNIOR CAPITAL
see accompanying CD

21. SUPERVISION OF INVESTMENT HOLDINGS 252

PART III

SENIOR SECURITIES WITH SPECULATIVE FEATURES
Introduction to Part III | “Blood and Judgement” • by J. Ezra Merkin
Graham and Dodd chapters:
22. PRIVILEGED ISSUES 289
23. TECHNICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF PRIVILEGED SENIOR SECURITIES 299
24. TECHNICAL ASPECTS OF CONVERTIBLE ISSUES 313
25. SENIOR SECURITIES WITH WARRANTS. PARTICIPATING ISSUES. SWITCHING AND
HEDGING see accompanying CD
26. SENIOR SECURITIES OF QUESTIONABLE SAFETY 323

265

Contents

[ix]

PART IV

THEORY OF COMMON-STOCK INVESTMENT.
THE DIVIDEND FACTOR
Introduction to Part IV | Go with the Flow • by Bruce Berkowitz

339

Graham and Dodd chapters:
27. THE THEORY OF COMMON-STOCK INVESTMENT 348
28. NEWER CANONS OF COMMON-STOCK INVESTMENT 366
29. THE DIVIDEND FACTOR IN COMMON-STOCK ANALYSIS 376
30. STOCK DIVIDENDS see accompanying CD

PART V

ANALYSIS OF THE INCOME ACCOUNT. THE EARNINGS
FACTOR IN COMMON-STOCK VALUATION
Introduction to Part V | The Quest for Rational Investing

by Glenn H. Greenberg

395

Graham and Dodd chapters:
31. ANALYSIS OF THE INCOME ACCOUNT 409
32. EXTRAORDINARY LOSSES AND OTHER SPECIAL ITEMS IN THE INCOME ACCOUNT 424
33. MISLEADING ARTIFICES IN THE INCOME ACCOUNT. EARNINGS OF SUBSIDIARIES 435
34. THE RELATION OF DEPRECIATION AND SIMILAR CHARGES TO EARNING POWER 453
35. PUBLIC-UTILITY DEPRECIATION POLICIES see accompanying CD
36. AMORTIZATION CHARGES FROM THE INVESTOR’S STANDPOINT see accompanying CD
37. SIGNIFICANCE OF THE EARNINGS RECORD 472
38. SPECIFIC REASONS FOR QUESTIONING OR REJECTING THE PAST RECORD 487
39. PRICE-EARNINGS RATIOS FOR COMMON STOCKS. ADJUSTMENTS FOR CHANGES IN
CAPITALIZATION 496
40. CAPITALIZATION STRUCTURE 507
41. LOW-PRICED COMMON STOCKS. ANALYSIS OF THE SOURCE OF INCOME 520

PART VI

BALANCE-SHEET ANALYSIS. IMPLICATIONS OF ASSET VALUES
Introduction to Part VI | Deconstructing the Balance Sheet

by Bruce Greenwald

535

[x]

Contents

Graham and Dodd chapters:
42. BALANCE-SHEET ANALYSIS. SIGNIFICANCE OF BOOK VALUE 548
43. SIGNIFICANCE OF THE CURRENT-ASSET VALUE 559
44. IMPLICATIONS OF LIQUIDATING VALUE. STOCKHOLDER-MANAGEMENT
RELATIONSHIPS 575
45. BALANCE-SHEET ANALYSIS (CONCLUDED) 591

PART VII

ADDITIONAL ASPECTS OF SECURITY ANALYSIS.
DISCREPANCIES BETWEEN PRICE AND VALUE
Introduction to Part VII | The Great Illusion of the Stock Market and

the Future of Value Investing • by David Abrams 617
Graham and Dodd chapters:
46. STOCK-OPTION WARRANTS see accompanying CD
47. COST OF FINANCING AND MANAGEMENT 633
48. SOME ASPECTS OF CORPORATE PYRAMIDING 644
49. COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF COMPANIES IN THE SAME FIELD 654
50. DISCREPANCIES BETWEEN PRICE AND VALUE 669
51. DISCREPANCIES BETWEEN PRICE AND VALUE (CONTINUED) 688
52. MARKET ANALYSIS AND SECURITY ANALYSIS 697

PART VIII

GLOBAL VALUE INVESTING
Globetrotting with Graham and Dodd • by Thomas A. Russo 711
APPENDIX see accompanying CD

About This Edition 725
Acknowledgments 727
About the Contributors 729
About the Authors 733
Index 735

FOREWORD
B Y WA R R E N E . B U F F E T T

T

here are four books in my overflowing library that I particularly
treasure, each of them written more than 50 years ago. All,
though, would still be of enormous value to me if I were to read

them today for the first time; their wisdom endures though their
pages fade.
Two of those books are first editions of The Wealth of Nations (1776),
by Adam Smith, and The Intelligent Investor (1949), by Benjamin Graham.
A third is an original copy of the book you hold in your hands, Graham
and Dodd’s Security Analysis. I studied from Security Analysis while I was at
Columbia University in 1950 and 1951, when I had the extraordinary
good luck to have Ben Graham and Dave Dodd as teachers. Together, the
book and the men changed my life.
On the utilitarian side, what I learned then became the bedrock upon
which all of my investment and business decisions have been built. Prior
to meeting Ben and Dave, I had long been fascinated by the stock market.
Before I bought my first stock at age 11—it took me until then to accumulate the $115 required for the purchase—I had read every book in the
Omaha Public Library having to do with the stock market. I found many of
them fascinating and all interesting. But none were really useful.
My intellectual odyssey ended, however, when I met Ben and Dave,
first through their writings and then in person. They laid out a roadmap
for investing that I have now been following for 57 years. There’s been no
reason to look for another.

[xi]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[xii]

Foreword

Beyond the ideas Ben and Dave gave me, they showered me with
friendship, encouragement, and trust. They cared not a whit for reciprocation—toward a young student, they simply wanted to extend a one-way
street of helpfulness. In the end, that’s probably what I admire most
about the two men. It was ordained at birth that they would be brilliant;
they elected to be generous and kind.
Misanthropes would have been puzzled by their behavior. Ben and
Dave instructed literally thousands of potential competitors, young fellows like me who would buy bargain stocks or engage in arbitrage transactions, directly competing with the Graham-Newman Corporation,
which was Ben’s investment company. Moreover, Ben and Dave would
use current investing examples in the classroom and in their writings, in
effect doing our work for us. The way they behaved made as deep an
impression on me—and many of my classmates—as did their ideas. We
were being taught not only how to invest wisely; we were also being
taught how to live wisely.
The copy of Security Analysis that I keep in my library and that I used at
Columbia is the 1940 edition. I’ve read it, I’m sure, at least four times, and
obviously it is special.
But let’s get to the fourth book I mentioned, which is even more precious. In 2000, Barbara Dodd Anderson, Dave’s only child, gave me her
father’s copy of the 1934 edition of Security Analysis, inscribed with hundreds of marginal notes. These were inked in by Dave as he prepared for
publication of the 1940 revised edition. No gift has meant more to me.

Preface to the Sixth Edition

THE TIMELESS WISDOM OF
GRAHAM AND DODD
BY SETH A. KLARMAN

S

eventy-five years after Benjamin Graham and David Dodd wrote
Security Analysis, a growing coterie of modern-day value investors
remain deeply indebted to them. Graham and David were two

assiduous and unusually insightful thinkers seeking to give order to the
mostly uncharted financial wilderness of their era. They kindled a flame
that has illuminated the way for value investors ever since. Today, Security

Analysis remains an invaluable roadmap for investors as they navigate
through unpredictable, often volatile, and sometimes treacherous financial markets. Frequently referred to as the “bible of value investing,” Security Analysis is extremely thorough and detailed, teeming with wisdom for
the ages. Although many of the examples are obviously dated, their lessons are timeless. And while the prose may sometimes seem dry, readers
can yet discover valuable ideas on nearly every page. The financial markets have morphed since 1934 in almost unimaginable ways, but Graham
and Dodd’s approach to investing remains remarkably applicable today.
Value investing, today as in the era of Graham and Dodd, is the practice of purchasing securities or assets for less than they are worth—the
proverbial dollar for 50 cents. Investing in bargain-priced securities provides a “margin of safety”—room for error, imprecision, bad luck, or the
vicissitudes of the economy and stock market. While some might mistakenly consider value investing a mechanical tool for identifying bargains,

[xiii]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[xiv]

Preface to the Sixth Edition

it is actually a comprehensive investment philosophy that emphasizes
the need to perform in-depth fundamental analysis, pursue long-term
investment results, limit risk, and resist crowd psychology.
Far too many people approach the stock market with a focus on making money quickly. Such an orientation involves speculation rather than
investment and is based on the hope that share prices will rise irrespective of valuation. Speculators generally regard stocks as pieces of paper
to be quickly traded back and forth, foolishly decoupling them from
business reality and valuation criteria. Speculative approaches—which
pay little or no attention to downside risk—are especially popular in rising markets. In heady times, few are sufficiently disciplined to maintain
strict standards of valuation and risk aversion, especially when most of
those abandoning such standards are quickly getting rich. After all, it is
easy to confuse genius with a bull market.
In recent years, some people have attempted to expand the definition of an investment to include any asset that has recently—or might
soon—appreciate in price: art, rare stamps, or a wine collection. Because
these items have no ascertainable fundamental value, generate no present or future cash flow, and depend for their value entirely on buyer
whim, they clearly constitute speculations rather than investments.
In contrast to the speculator’s preoccupation with rapid gain, value
investors demonstrate their risk aversion by striving to avoid loss. A riskaverse investor is one for whom the perceived benefit of any gain is outweighed by the perceived cost of an equivalent loss. Once any of us has
accumulated a modicum of capital, the incremental benefit of gaining
more is typically eclipsed by the pain of having less.1 Imagine how you
1 Losing money, as Graham noted, can also be psychologically unsettling. Anxiety from the financial

damage caused by recently experienced loss or the fear of further loss can significantly impede our
ability to take advantage of the next opportunity that comes along. If an undervalued stock falls by
half while the fundamentals—after checking and rechecking—are confirmed to be unchanged, we
should relish the opportunity to buy significantly more “on sale.” But if our net worth has tumbled
along with the share price, it may be psychologically difficult to add to the position.

Seth A. Klarman

[xv]

would respond to the proposition of a coin flip that would either double
your net worth or extinguish it. Being risk averse, nearly all people would
respectfully decline such a gamble. Such risk aversion is deeply ingrained
in human nature. Yet many unwittingly set aside their risk aversion when
the sirens of market speculation call.
Value investors regard securities not as speculative instruments but
as fractional ownership in, or debt claims on, the underlying businesses.
This orientation is key to value investing. When a small slice of a business
is offered at a bargain price, it is helpful to evaluate it as if the whole
business were offered for sale there. This analytical anchor helps value
investors remain focused on the pursuit of long-term results rather than
the profitability of their daily trading ledger.
At the root of Graham and Dodd’s philosophy is the principle that the
financial markets are the ultimate creators of opportunity. Sometimes the
markets price securities correctly, other times not. Indeed, in the short
run, the market can be quite inefficient, with great deviations between
price and underlying value. Unexpected developments, increased uncertainty, and capital flows can boost short-term market volatility, with prices
overshooting in either direction.2 In the words of Graham and Dodd, “The
price [of a security] is frequently an essential element, so that a stock . . .
may have investment merit at one price level but not at another.” (p. 106)
As Graham has instructed, those who view the market as a weighing
machine—a precise and efficient assessor of value—are part of the emotionally driven herd. Those who regard the market as a voting machine—

2 Over the long run, however, as investors perform fundamental analysis, and corporate manage-

ments explain their strategies and manage their capital structures, share prices often migrate toward
underlying business value. In particular, shares priced significantly below underlying value will
attract bargain hunters and, ultimately, corporate acquirers, reinforcing the tendency toward longerterm share price efficiency. This tendency, however, is always subject to interruption by the shortterm forces of greed and fear.

[xvi]

Preface to the Sixth Edition

a sentiment-driven popularity contest—will be well positioned to take
proper advantage of the extremes of market sentiment.
While it might seem that anyone can be a value investor, the essential
characteristics of this type of investor—patience, discipline, and risk aversion—may well be genetically determined. When you first learn of the
value approach, it either resonates with you or it doesn’t. Either you are
able to remain disciplined and patient, or you aren’t. As Warren Buffett
said in his famous article, “The Superinvestors of Graham-and-Doddsville,”
“It is extraordinary to me that the idea of buying dollar bills for 40 cents
takes immediately with people or it doesn’t take at all. It’s like an inoculation. If it doesn’t grab a person right away, I find you can talk to him for
years and show him records, and it doesn’t make any difference.” 3,4 If
Security Analysis resonates with you—if you can resist speculating and
sometimes sit on your hands—perhaps you have a predisposition toward
value investing. If not, at least the book will help you understand where
you fit into the investing landscape and give you an appreciation for
what the value-investing community may be thinking.

Just as Relevant Now
Perhaps the most exceptional achievement of Security Analysis, first published in 1934 and revised in the acclaimed 1940 edition, is that its lessons are timeless. Generations of value investors have adopted the
teachings of Graham and Dodd and successfully implemented them
across highly varied market environments, countries, and asset classes.
3 “The Superinvestors of Graham-and-Doddsville,” Hermes, the Columbia Business School magazine,

1984.
4 My own experience has been exactly the one that Buffett describes. My 1978 summer job at Mutual

Shares, a no-load value-based mutual fund, set the course for my professional career. The planned
liquidation of Telecor and spin-off of its Electro Rent subsidiary in 1980 forever imprinted in my mind
the merit of fundamental investment analysis. A buyer of Telecor stock was effectively creating an
investment in the shares of Electro Rent, a fast-growing equipment rental company, at the giveaway
valuation of approximately 1 times the cash flow. You always remember your first value investment.

Seth A. Klarman

[xvii]

This would delight the authors, who hoped to set forth principles that
would “stand the test of the ever enigmatic future.” (p. xliv)
In 1992, Tweedy, Browne Company LLC, a well-known value investment firm, published a compilation of 44 research studies entitled,
“What Has Worked in Investing.” The study found that what has worked
is fairly simple: cheap stocks (measured by price-to-book values, priceto-earnings ratios, or dividend yields) reliably outperform expensive
ones, and stocks that have underperformed (over three- and five-year
periods) subsequently beat those that have lately performed well. In
other words, value investing works! I know of no long-time practitioner
who regrets adhering to a value philosophy; few investors who
embrace the fundamental principles ever abandon this investment
approach for another.
Today, when you read Graham and Dodd’s description of how they
navigated through the financial markets of the 1930s, it seems as if they
were detailing a strange, foreign, and antiquated era of economic
depression, extreme risk aversion, and obscure and obsolete businesses.
But such an exploration is considerably more valuable than it superficially appears. After all, each new day has the potential to bring with it a
strange and foreign environment. Investors tend to assume that tomorrow’s markets will look very much like today’s, and, most of the time,
they will. But every once in a while,5 conventional wisdom is turned on
its head, circular reasoning is unraveled, prices revert to the mean, and
speculative behavior is exposed as such. At those times, when today fails
to resemble yesterday, most investors will be paralyzed. In the words of
Graham and Dodd, “We have striven throughout to guard the student
against overemphasis upon the superficial and the temporary,” which is
“at once the delusion and the nemesis of the world of finance.” (p. xliv) It

5 The credit crunch triggered by subprime mortgage losses that began in July 2007 is a recent and
dramatic example.

[xviii]

Preface to the Sixth Edition

is during periods of tumult that a value-investing philosophy is particularly beneficial.
In 1934, Graham and Dodd had witnessed over a five-year span the
best and the worst of times in the markets—the run-up to the 1929
peak, the October 1929 crash, and the relentless grind of the Great
Depression. They laid out a plan for how investors in any environment
might sort through hundreds or even thousands of common stocks, preferred shares, and bonds to identify those worthy of investment. Remarkably, their approach is essentially the same one that value investors
employ today. The same principles they applied to the U.S. stock and
bond markets of the 1920s and 1930s apply to the global capital markets
of the early twenty-first century, to less liquid asset classes like real estate
and private equity, and even to derivative instruments that hardly
existed when Security Analysis was written.
While formulas such as the classic “net working capital” test are necessary to support an investment analysis, value investing is not a paintby-numbers exercise.6 Skepticism and judgment are always required. For
one thing, not all elements affecting value are captured in a company’s
financial statements—inventories can grow obsolete and receivables
uncollectible; liabilities are sometimes unrecorded and property values
over- or understated. Second, valuation is an art, not a science. Because
the value of a business depends on numerous variables, it can typically
be assessed only within a range. Third, the outcomes of all investments
depend to some extent on the future, which cannot be predicted with
certainty; for this reason, even some carefully analyzed investments fail
to achieve profitable outcomes. Sometimes a stock becomes cheap for
good reason: a broken business model, hidden liabilities, protracted liti6 Graham and Dodd recommended that investors purchase stocks trading for less than two-thirds of

“net working capital,” defined as working capital less all other liabilities. Many stocks fit this criterion
during the Depression years, far fewer today.

Seth A. Klarman

[xix]

gation, or incompetent or corrupt management. Investors must always
act with caution and humility, relentlessly searching for additional information while realizing that they will never know everything about a
company. In the end, the most successful value investors combine
detailed business research and valuation work with endless discipline
and patience, a well-considered sensitivity analysis, intellectual honesty,
and years of analytical and investment experience.
Interestingly, Graham and Dodd’s value-investing principles apply
beyond the financial markets—including, for example, to the market for
baseball talent, as eloquently captured in Moneyball, Michael Lewis’s 2003
bestseller. The market for baseball players, like the market for stocks and
bonds, is inefficient—and for many of the same reasons. In both investing
and baseball, there is no single way to ascertain value, no one metric that
tells the whole story. In both, there are mountains of information and no
broad consensus on how to assess it. Decision makers in both arenas misinterpret available data, misdirect their analyses, and reach inaccurate
conclusions. In baseball, as in securities, many overpay because they fear
standing apart from the crowd and being criticized. They often make
decisions for emotional, not rational, reasons. They become exuberant;
they panic. Their orientation sometimes becomes overly short term. They
fail to understand what is mean reverting and what isn’t. Baseball’s value
investors, like financial market value investors, have achieved significant
outperformance over time. While Graham and Dodd didn’t apply value
principles to baseball, the applicability of their insights to the market for
athletic talent attests to the universality and timelessness of this
approach.

Value Investing Today
Amidst the Great Depression, the stock market and the national economy were exceedingly risky. Downward movements in share prices and

[xx]

Preface to the Sixth Edition

business activity came suddenly and could be severe and protracted.
Optimists were regularly rebuffed by circumstances. Winning, in a sense,
was accomplished by not losing. Investors could achieve a margin of
safety by buying shares in businesses at a large discount to their underlying value, and they needed a margin of safety because of all the things
that could—and often did—go wrong.
Even in the worst of markets, Graham and Dodd remained faithful to
their principles, including their view that the economy and markets
sometimes go through painful cycles, which must simply be endured.
They expressed confidence, in those dark days, that the economy and
stock market would eventually rebound: “While we were writing, we had
to combat a widespread conviction that financial debacle was to be the
permanent order.” (p. xliv)
Of course, just as investors must deal with down cycles when business results deteriorate and cheap stocks become cheaper, they must
also endure up cycles when bargains are scarce and investment capital is
plentiful. In recent years, the financial markets have performed exceedingly well by historic standards, attracting substantial fresh capital in
need of managers. Today, a meaningful portion of that capital—likely
totaling in the trillions of dollars globally—invests with a value approach.
This includes numerous value-based asset management firms and
mutual funds, a number of today’s roughly 9,000 hedge funds, and some
of the largest and most successful university endowments and family
investment offices.
It is important to note that not all value investors are alike. In the
aforementioned “Superinvestors of Graham-and-Doddsville,” Buffett
describes numerous successful value investors who have little portfolio
overlap. Some value investors hold obscure, “pink-sheet shares” while
others focus on the large-cap universe. Some have gone global, while
others focus on a single market sector such as real estate or energy.

Seth A. Klarman

[xxi]

Some run computer screens to identify statistically inexpensive companies, while others assess “private market value”—the value an industry
buyer would pay for the entire company. Some are activists who aggressively fight for corporate change, while others seek out undervalued
securities with a catalyst already in place—such as a spin-off, asset sale,
major share repurchase plan, or new management team—for the partial
or full realization of the underlying value. And, of course, as in any profession, some value investors are simply more talented than others.
In the aggregate, the value-investing community is no longer the very
small group of adherents that it was several decades ago. Competition
can have a powerful corrective effect on market inefficiencies and mispricings. With today’s many amply capitalized and skilled investors, what
are the prospects for a value practitioner? Better than you might expect,
for several reasons. First, even with a growing value community, there are
far more market participants with little or no value orientation. Most managers, including growth and momentum investors and market indexers,
pay little or no attention to value criteria. Instead, they concentrate
almost single-mindedly on the growth rate of a company’s earnings, the
momentum of its share price, or simply its inclusion in a market index.
Second, nearly all money managers today, including some hapless
value managers, are forced by the (real or imagined) performance pressures of the investment business to have an absurdly short investment
horizon, sometimes as brief as a calendar quarter, month, or less. A value
strategy is of little use to the impatient investor since it usually takes
time to pay off.
Finally, human nature never changes. Capital market manias regularly
occur on a grand scale: Japanese stocks in the late 1980s, Internet and
technology stocks in 1999 and 2000, subprime mortgage lending in
2006 and 2007, and alternative investments currently. It is always difficult
to take a contrarian approach. Even highly capable investors can wither

[xxii]

Preface to the Sixth Edition

under the relentless message from the market that they are wrong. The
pressures to succumb are enormous; many investment managers fear
they’ll lose business if they stand too far apart from the crowd. Some
also fail to pursue value because they’ve handcuffed themselves (or
been saddled by clients) with constraints preventing them from buying
stocks selling at low dollar prices, small-cap stocks, stocks of companies
that don’t pay dividends or are losing money, or debt instruments with
below investment-grade ratings.7 Many also engage in career management techniques like “window dressing” their portfolios at the end of calendar quarters or selling off losers (even if they are undervalued) while
buying more of the winners (even if overvalued). Of course, for those
value investors who are truly long term oriented, it is a wonderful thing
that many potential competitors are thrown off course by constraints
that render them unable or unwilling to effectively compete.
Another reason that greater competition may not hinder today’s
value investors is the broader and more diverse investment landscape in
which they operate. Graham faced a limited lineup of publicly traded U.S.
equity and debt securities. Today, there are many thousands of publicly
traded stocks in the United States alone, and many tens of thousands
worldwide, plus thousands of corporate bonds and asset-backed debt
securities. Previously illiquid assets, such as bank loans, now trade regularly. Investors may also choose from an almost limitless number of
derivative instruments, including customized contracts designed to meet
any need or hunch.
Nevertheless, 25 years of historically strong stock market performance have left the market far from bargain-priced. High valuations and

7 Another sort of constraint involves the “prudent man rule,” which is a legal concept that divides permissible from impermissible investments. In the mid- to late 1970s, many interpreted this rule to preclude meaningful exposure to equities. Since then, prudence has become a moving target as
investors, gaining comfort over time from the actions of their peers, have come to invest in more
exotic and increasingly illiquid asset classes.

Seth A. Klarman

[xxiii]

intensified competition raise the specter of lower returns for value
investors generally. Also, some value investment firms have become
extremely large, and size can be the enemy of investment performance
because decision making is slowed by bureaucracy and smaller opportunities cease to move the needle.
In addition, because growing numbers of competent buy-side and
sell-side analysts are plying their trade with the assistance of sophisticated information technology, far fewer securities seem likely to fall
through the cracks to become extremely undervalued.8 Today’s value
investors are unlikely to find opportunity armed only with a Value Line
guide or by thumbing through stock tables. While bargains still occasionally hide in plain sight, securities today are most likely to become mispriced when they are either accidentally overlooked or deliberately
avoided. Consequently, value investors have had to become thoughtful
about where to focus their analysis. In the early 2000s, for example,
investors became so disillusioned with the capital allocation procedures
of many South Korean companies that few considered them candidates
for worthwhile investment. As a result, the shares of numerous South
Korean companies traded at great discounts from prevailing international
valuations: at two or three times the cash flow, less than half the underlying business value, and, in several cases, less than the cash (net of debt)
held on their balance sheets. Bargain issues, such as Posco and SK Telecom, ultimately attracted many value seekers; Warren Buffett reportedly
profited handsomely from a number of South Korean holdings.
Today’s value investors also find opportunity in the stocks and bonds
of companies stigmatized on Wall Street because of involvement in pro-

8 Great innovations in technology have made vastly more information and analytical capability avail-

able to all investors. This democratization has not, however, made value investors any better off. With
information more widely and inexpensively available, some of the greatest market inefficiencies have
been corrected. Developing innovative sources of ideas and information, such as those available
from business consultants and industry experts, has become increasingly important.

[xxiv]

Preface to the Sixth Edition

tracted litigation, scandal, accounting fraud, or financial distress. The
securities of such companies sometimes trade down to bargain levels,
where they become good investments for those who are able to remain
stalwart in the face of bad news. For example, the debt of Enron, perhaps the world’s most stigmatized company after an accounting scandal
forced it into bankruptcy in 2001, traded as low as 10 cents on the dollar
of claim; ultimate recoveries are expected to be six times that amount.
Similarly, companies with tobacco or asbestos exposure have in recent
years periodically come under severe selling pressure due to the uncertainties surrounding litigation and the resultant risk of corporate financial distress. More generally, companies that disappoint or surprise
investors with lower-than-expected results, sudden management
changes, accounting problems, or ratings downgrades are more likely
than consistently strong performers to be sources of opportunity.
When bargains are scarce, value investors must be patient; compromising standards is a slippery slope to disaster. New opportunities will
emerge, even if we don’t know when or where. In the absence of compelling opportunity, holding at least a portion of one’s portfolio in cash
equivalents (for example, U.S. Treasury bills) awaiting future deployment
will sometimes be the most sensible option. Recently, Warren Buffett
stated that he has more cash to invest than he has good investments. As
all value investors must do from time to time, Buffett is waiting patiently.
Still, value investors are bottom-up analysts, good at assessing securities one at a time based on the fundamentals. They don’t need the entire
market to be bargain priced, just 20 or 25 unrelated securities—a number sufficient for diversification of risk. Even in an expensive market,
value investors must keep analyzing securities and assessing businesses,
gaining knowledge and experience that will be useful in the future.
Value investors, therefore, should not try to time the market or guess
whether it will rise or fall in the near term. Rather, they should rely on a

Seth A. Klarman

[xxv]

bottom-up approach, sifting the financial markets for bargains and then
buying them, regardless of the level or recent direction of the market or
economy. Only when they cannot find bargains should they default to
holding cash.

A Flexible Approach
Because our nation’s founders could not foresee—and knew they could
not foresee—technological, social, cultural, and economic changes that
the future would bring, they wrote a flexible constitution that still guides
us over two centuries later. Similarly, Benjamin Graham and David Dodd
acknowledged that they could not anticipate the business, economic,
technological, and competitive changes that would sweep through the
investment world over the ensuing years. But they, too, wrote a flexible
treatise that provides us with the tools to function in an investment
landscape that was destined—and remains destined—to undergo profound and unpredictable change.
For example, companies today sell products that Graham and Dodd
could not have imagined. Indeed, there are companies and entire industries that they could not have envisioned. Security Analysis offers no
examples of how to value cellular phone carriers, software companies,
satellite television providers, or Internet search engines. But the book
provides the analytical tools to evaluate almost any company, to assess
the value of its marketable securities, and to determine the existence of
a margin of safety. Questions of solvency, liquidity, predictability, business strategy, and risk cut across businesses, nations, and time.
Graham and Dodd did not specifically address how to value private
businesses or how to determine the value of an entire company rather
than the value of a fractional interest through ownership of its shares.9
9 They did consider the relative merits of corporate control enjoyed by a private business owner ver-

sus the value of marketability for a listed stock (p. 372).

[xxvi]

Preface to the Sixth Edition

But their analytical principles apply equally well to these different issues.
Investors still need to ask, how stable is the enterprise, and what are its
future prospects? What are its earnings and cash flow? What is the
downside risk of owning it? What is its liquidation value? How capable
and honest is its management? What would you pay for the stock of this
company if it were public? What factors might cause the owner of this
business to sell control at a bargain price?
Similarly, the pair never addressed how to analyze the purchase of an
office building or apartment complex. Real estate bargains come about
for the same reasons as securities bargains—an urgent need for cash,
inability to perform proper analysis, a bearish macro view, or investor
disfavor or neglect. In a bad real estate climate, tighter lending standards
can cause even healthy properties to sell at distressed prices. Graham
and Dodd’s principles—such as the stability of cash flow, sufficiency of
return, and analysis of downside risk—allow us to identify real estate
investments with a margin of safety in any market environment.
Even complex derivatives not imagined in an earlier era can be scrutinized with the value investor’s eye. While traders today typically price
put and call options via the Black-Scholes model, one can instead use
value-investing precepts—upside potential, downside risk, and the likelihood that each of various possible scenarios will occur—to analyze these
instruments. An inexpensive option may, in effect, have the favorable
risk-return characteristics of a value investment—regardless of what the
Black-Scholes model dictates.

Institutional Investing
Perhaps the most important change in the investment landscape over
the past 75 years is the ascendancy of institutional investing. In the
1930s, individual investors dominated the stock market. Today, by con-

Seth A. Klarman

[xxvii]

trast, most market activity is driven by institutional investors—large
pools of pension, endowment, and aggregated individual capital. While
the advent of these large, quasi-permanent capital pools might have
resulted in the wide-scale adoption of a long-term value-oriented
approach, in fact this has not occurred. Instead, institutional investing
has evolved into a short-term performance derby, which makes it difficult for institutional managers to take contrarian or long-term positions.
Indeed, rather than standing apart from the crowd and possibly suffering
disappointing short-term results that could cause clients to withdraw
capital, institutional investors often prefer the safe haven of assured
mediocre performance that can be achieved only by closely following
the herd.
Alternative investments—a catch-all category that includes venture
capital, leveraged buyouts, private equity, and hedge funds—are the current institutional rage. No investment treatise written today could fail to
comment on this development.
Fueled by performance pressures and a growing expectation of low
(and inadequate) returns from traditional equity and debt investments,
institutional investors have sought high returns and diversification by
allocating a growing portion of their endowments and pension funds to
alternatives. Pioneering Portfolio Management, written in 2000 by David
Swensen, the groundbreaking head of Yale’s Investment Office, makes a
strong case for alternative investments. In it, Swensen points to the
historically inefficient pricing of many asset classes,10 the historically high
risk-adjusted returns of many alternative managers, and the limited
10 Many investors make the mistake of thinking about returns to asset classes as if they were permanent. Returns are not inherent to an asset class; they result from the fundamentals of the underlying
businesses and the price paid by investors for the related securities. Capital flowing into an asset
class can, reflexively, impair the ability of those investing in that asset class to continue to generate
the anticipated, historically attractive returns.

[xxviii]

Preface to the Sixth Edition

performance correlation between alternatives and other asset classes. He
highlights the importance of alternative manager selection by noting the
large dispersion of returns achieved between top-quartile and thirdquartile performers. A great many endowment managers have emulated
Swensen, following him into a large commitment to alternative
investments, almost certainly on worse terms and amidst a more
competitive environment than when he entered the area.
Graham and Dodd would be greatly concerned by the commitment
of virtually all major university endowments to one type of alternative
investment: venture capital. The authors of the margin-of-safety
approach to investing would not find one in the entire venture capital
universe.11 While there is often the prospect of substantial upside in venture capital, there is also very high risk of failure. Even with the diversification provided by a venture fund, it is not clear how to analyze the
underlying investments to determine whether the potential return justifies the risk. Venture capital investment would, therefore, have to be
characterized as pure speculation, with no margin of safety whatsoever.
Hedge funds—a burgeoning area of institutional interest with nearly
$2 trillion of assets under management—are pools of capital that vary
widely in their tactics but have a common fee structure that typically
pays the manager 1% to 2% annually of assets under management and
20% (and sometimes more) of any profits generated. They had their start
in the 1920s, when Ben Graham himself ran one of the first hedge funds.
What would Graham and Dodd say about the hedge funds operating
in today’s markets? They would likely disapprove of hedge funds that
make investments based on macroeconomic assessments or that pursue

11 Nor would they find one in leveraged buyouts, through which businesses are purchased at lofty
prices using mostly debt financing and a thin layer of equity capital. The only value-investing rationale for venture capital or leveraged buyouts might be if they were regarded as mispriced call options.
Even so, it is not clear that these areas constitute good value.

Seth A. Klarman

[xxix]

speculative, short-term strategies. Such funds, by avoiding or even selling undervalued securities to participate in one or another folly, inadvertently create opportunities for value investors. The illiquidity, lack of
transparency, gargantuan size, embedded leverage, and hefty fees of
some hedge funds would no doubt raise red flags. But Graham and
Dodd would probably approve of hedge funds that practice value-oriented investment selection.
Importantly, while Graham and Dodd emphasized limiting risk on an
investment-by-investment basis, they also believed that diversification
and hedging could protect the downside for an entire portfolio. (p. 106)
This is what most hedge funds attempt to do. While they hold individual
securities that, considered alone, may involve an uncomfortable degree
of risk, they attempt to offset the risks for the entire portfolio through
the short sale of similar but more highly valued securities, through the
purchase of put options on individual securities or market indexes, and
through adequate diversification (although many are guilty of overdiversification, holding too little of their truly good ideas and too much of
their mediocre ones). In this way, a hedge fund portfolio could (in theory,
anyway) have characteristics of good potential return with limited risk
that its individual components may not have.

Modern-day Developments
As mentioned, the analysis of businesses and securities has become
increasingly sophisticated over the years. Spreadsheet technology, for
example, allows for vastly more sophisticated modeling than was possible
even one generation ago. Benjamin Graham’s pencil, clearly one of the
sharpest of his era, might not be sharp enough today. On the other hand,
technology can easily be misused; computer modeling requires making a
series of assumptions about the future that can lead to a spurious precision of which Graham would have been quite dubious. While Graham was

[xxx]

Preface to the Sixth Edition

interested in companies that produced consistent earnings, analysis in his
day was less sophisticated regarding why some company’s earnings might
be more consistent than others. Analysts today examine businesses but
also business models; the bottom-line impact of changes in revenues,
profit margins, product mix, and other variables is carefully studied by
managements and financial analysts alike. Investors know that businesses
do not exist in a vacuum; the actions of competitors, suppliers, and customers can greatly impact corporate profitability and must be
considered.12
Another important change in focus over time is that while Graham
looked at corporate earnings and dividend payments as barometers of a
company’s health, most value investors today analyze free cash flow. This
is the cash generated annually from the operations of a business after all
capital expenditures are made and changes in working capital are considered. Investors have increasingly turned to this metric because
reported earnings can be an accounting fiction, masking the cash generated by a business or implying positive cash generation when there is
none. Today’s investors have rightly concluded that following the cash—
as the manager of a business must do—is the most reliable and revealing means of assessing a company.
In addition, many value investors today consider balance sheet analysis less important than was generally thought a few generations ago.
With returns on capital much higher at present than in the past, most
stocks trade far above book value; balance sheet analysis is less helpful
in understanding upside potential or downside risk of stocks priced at

12 Professor Michael Porter of Harvard Business School, in his seminal book Competitive Strategy (Free
Press, 1980), lays out the groundwork for a more intensive, thorough, and dynamic analysis of businesses and industries in the modern economy. A broad industry analysis has become particularly
necessary as a result of the passage in 2000 of Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure), which regulates and
restricts the communications between a company and its actual or potential shareholders. Wall
Street analysts, facing a dearth of information from the companies they cover, have been forced to
expand their areas of inquiry.

Seth A. Klarman

[xxxi]

such levels. The effects of sustained inflation over time have also
wreaked havoc with the accuracy of assets accounted for using historic
cost; this means that two companies owning identical assets could
report very different book values. Of course, balance sheets must still be
carefully scrutinized. Astute observers of corporate balance sheets are
often the first to see business deterioration or vulnerability as inventories
and receivables build, debt grows, and cash evaporates. And for
investors in the equity and debt of underperforming companies, balance
sheet analysis remains one generally reliable way of assessing downside
protection.
Globalization has increasingly affected the investment landscape,
with most investors looking beyond their home countries for
opportunity and diversification. Graham and Dodd’s principles fully
apply to international markets, which are, if anything, even more subject
to the vicissitudes of investor sentiment—and thus more inefficiently
priced—than the U.S. market is today. Investors must be cognizant of the
risks of international investing, including exposure to foreign currencies
and the need to consider hedging them. Among the other risks are
political instability, different (or absent) securities laws and investor
protections, varying accounting standards, and limited availability of
information.
Oddly enough, despite 75 years of success achieved by value
investors, one group of observers largely ignores or dismisses this discipline: academics. Academics tend to create elegant theories that purport
to explain the real world but in fact oversimplify it. One such theory, the
Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH), holds that security prices always and
immediately reflect all available information, an idea deeply at odds with
Graham and Dodd’s notion that there is great value to fundamental
security analysis. The Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) relates risk to
return but always mistakes volatility, or beta, for risk. Modern Portfolio
Theory (MPT) applauds the benefits of diversification in constructing an

[xxxii]

Preface to the Sixth Edition

optimal portfolio. But by insisting that higher expected return comes
only with greater risk, MPT effectively repudiates the entire value-investing philosophy and its long-term record of risk-adjusted investment outperformance. Value investors have no time for these theories and
generally ignore them.
The assumptions made by these theories—including continuous
markets, perfect information, and low or no transaction costs—are unrealistic. Academics, broadly speaking, are so entrenched in their theories
that they cannot accept that value investing works. Instead of launching
a series of studies to understand the remarkable 50-year investment
record of Warren Buffett, academics instead explain him away as an aberration. Greater attention has been paid recently to behavioral economics,
a field recognizing that individuals do not always act rationally and have
systematic cognitive biases that contribute to market inefficiencies and
security mispricings. These teachings—which would not seem alien to
Graham—have not yet entered the academic mainstream, but they are
building some momentum.
Academics have espoused nuanced permutations of their flawed theories for several decades. Countless thousands of their students have
been taught that security analysis is worthless, that risk is the same as
volatility, and that investors must avoid overconcentration in good ideas
(because in efficient markets there can be no good ideas) and thus diversify into mediocre or bad ones. Of course, for value investors, the propagation of these academic theories has been deeply gratifying: the
brainwashing of generations of young investors produces the very inefficiencies that savvy stock pickers can exploit.
Another important factor for value investors to take into account is
the growing propensity of the Federal Reserve to intervene in financial
markets at the first sign of trouble. Amidst severe turbulence, the Fed
frequently lowers interest rates to prop up securities prices and restore

Seth A. Klarman

[xxxiii]

investor confidence. While the intention of Fed officials is to maintain
orderly capital markets, some money managers view Fed intervention as
a virtual license to speculate. Aggressive Fed tactics, sometimes referred
to as the “Greenspan put” (now the “Bernanke put”), create a moral hazard that encourages speculation while prolonging overvaluation. So long
as value investors aren’t lured into a false sense of security, so long as
they can maintain a long-term horizon and ensure their staying power,
market dislocations caused by Fed action (or investor anticipation of it)
may ultimately be a source of opportunity.
Another modern development of relevance is the ubiquitous cable
television coverage of the stock market. This frenetic lunacy exacerbates
the already short-term orientation of most investors. It foments the view
that it is possible—or even necessary—to have an opinion on everything
pertinent to the financial markets, as opposed to the patient and highly
selective approach endorsed by Graham and Dodd. This sound-bite culture reinforces the popular impression that investing is easy, not rigorous
and painstaking. The daily cheerleading pundits exult at rallies and
record highs and commiserate over market reversals; viewers get the
impression that up is the only rational market direction and that selling
or sitting on the sidelines is almost unpatriotic. The hysterical tenor is
exacerbated at every turn. For example, CNBC frequently uses a formatted screen that constantly updates the level of the major market indexes
against a digital clock. Not only is the time displayed in hours, minutes,
and seconds but in completely useless hundredths of seconds, the numbers flashing by so rapidly (like tenths of a cent on the gas pump) as to
be completely unreadable. The only conceivable purpose is to grab the
viewers’ attention and ratchet their adrenaline to full throttle.
Cable business channels bring the herdlike mentality of the crowd
into everyone’s living room, thus making it much harder for viewers
to stand apart from the masses. Only on financial cable TV would a

[xxxiv]

Preface to the Sixth Edition

commentator with a crazed persona become a celebrity whose
pronouncements regularly move markets. In a world in which the
differences between investing and speculating are frequently blurred, the
nonsense on financial cable channels only compounds the problem.
Graham would have been appalled. The only saving grace is that value
investors prosper at the expense of those who fall under the spell of the
cable pundits. Meanwhile, human nature virtually ensures that there will
never be a Graham and Dodd channel.

Unanswered Questions
Today’s investors still wrestle, as Graham and Dodd did in their day, with
a number of important investment questions. One is whether to focus on
relative or absolute value. Relative value involves the assessment that
one security is cheaper than another, that Microsoft is a better bargain
than IBM. Relative value is easier to determine than absolute value, the
two-dimensional assessment of whether a security is cheaper than other
securities and cheap enough to be worth purchasing. The most intrepid
investors in relative value manage hedge funds where they purchase the
relatively less expensive securities and sell short the relatively more
expensive ones. This enables them potentially to profit on both sides of
the ledger, long and short. Of course, it also exposes them to doublebarreled losses if they are wrong.13
It is harder to think about absolute value than relative value. When is a
stock cheap enough to buy and hold without a short sale as a hedge?
One standard is to buy when a security trades at an appreciable—say,
30%, 40%, or greater—discount from its underlying value, calculated
either as its liquidation value, going-concern value, or private-market

13 Many hedge funds also use significant leverage to goose their returns further, which backfires

when analysis is faulty or judgment is flawed.

Seth A. Klarman

[xxxv]

value (the value a knowledgeable third party would reasonably pay for
the business). Another standard is to invest when a security offers an
acceptably attractive return to a long-term holder, such as a low-risk bond
priced to yield 10% or more, or a stock with an 8% to 10% or higher free
cash flow yield at a time when “risk-free” U.S. government bonds deliver
4% to 5% nominal and 2% to 3% real returns. Such demanding standards
virtually ensure that absolute value will be quite scarce.
Another area where investors struggle is trying to define what constitutes a good business. Someone once defined the best possible business
as a post office box to which people send money. That idea has certainly
been eclipsed by the creation of subscription Web sites that accept
credit cards. Today’s most profitable businesses are those in which you
sell a fixed amount of work product—say, a piece of software or a hit
recording—millions and millions of times at very low marginal cost.
Good businesses are generally considered those with strong barriers to
entry, limited capital requirements, reliable customers, low risk of technological obsolescence, abundant growth possibilities, and thus significant and growing free cash flow.
Businesses are also subject to changes in the technological and competitive landscape. Because of the Internet, the competitive moat surrounding the newspaper business—which was considered a very good
business only a decade ago—has eroded faster than almost anyone
anticipated. In an era of rapid technological change, investors must be
ever vigilant, even with regard to companies that are not involved in
technology but are simply affected by it. In short, today’s good businesses may not be tomorrow’s.
Investors also expend considerable effort attempting to assess the
quality of a company’s management. Some managers are more capable
or scrupulous than others, and some may be able to manage certain
businesses and environments better than others. Yet, as Graham and

[xxxvi]

Preface to the Sixth Edition

Dodd noted, “Objective tests of managerial ability are few and far from
scientific.” (p. 84) Make no mistake about it: a management’s acumen,
foresight, integrity, and motivation all make a huge difference in shareholder returns. In the present era of aggressive corporate financial engineering, managers have many levers at their disposal to positively
impact returns, including share repurchases, prudent use of leverage,
and a valuation-based approach to acquisitions. Managers who are
unwilling to make shareholder-friendly decisions risk their companies
becoming perceived as “value traps”: inexpensively valued, but ultimately poor investments, because the assets are underutilized. Such
companies often attract activist investors seeking to unlock this trapped
value. Even more difficult, investors must decide whether to take the
risk of investing—at any price—with management teams that have not
always done right by shareholders. Shares of such companies may sell at
steeply discounted levels, but perhaps the discount is warranted; value
that today belongs to the equity holders may tomorrow have been spirited away or squandered.
An age-old difficulty for investors is ascertaining the value of future
growth. In the preface to the first edition of Security Analysis, the authors
said as much: “Some matters of vital significance, e.g., the determination
of the future prospects of an enterprise, have received little space,
because little of definite value can be said on the subject.” (p. xliii)
Clearly, a company that will earn (or have free cash flow of ) $1 per
share today and $2 per share in five years is worth considerably more
than a company with identical current per share earnings and no
growth. This is especially true if the growth of the first company is likely
to continue and is not subject to great variability. Another complication
is that companies can grow in many different ways—for example, selling
the same number of units at higher prices; selling more units at the
same (or even lower) prices; changing the product mix (selling propor-

Seth A. Klarman

[xxxvii]

tionately more of the higher-profit-margin products); or developing an
entirely new product line. Obviously, some forms of growth are worth
more than others.
There is a significant downside to paying up for growth or, worse, to
obsessing over it. Graham and Dodd astutely observed that “analysis is
concerned primarily with values which are supported by the facts and
not with those which depend largely upon expectations.” (p. 86) Strongly
preferring the actual to the possible, they regarded the “future as a hazard which his [the analyst’s] conclusions must encounter rather than as
the source of his vindication.” (p. 86) Investors should be especially vigilant against focusing on growth to the exclusion of all else, including the
risk of overpaying. Again, Graham and Dodd were spot on, warning that
“carried to its logical extreme, . . . [there is no price] too high for a good
stock, and that such an issue was equally ‘safe’ after it had advanced to
200 as it had been at 25.” (p. 105) Precisely this mistake was made when
stock prices surged skyward during the Nifty Fifty era of the early 1970s
and the dot-com bubble of 1999 to 2000.
The flaw in such a growth-at-any-price approach becomes obvious
when the anticipated growth fails to materialize. When the future disappoints, what should investors do? Hope growth resumes? Or give up and
sell? Indeed, failed growth stocks are often so aggressively dumped by
disappointed holders that their price falls to levels at which value
investors, who stubbornly pay little or nothing for growth characteristics,
become major holders. This was the case with many technology stocks
that suffered huge declines after the dot-com bubble burst in the spring
of 2000. By 2002, hundreds of fallen tech stocks traded for less than the
cash on their balance sheets, a value investor’s dream. One such company was Radvision, an Israeli provider of voice, video, and data products
whose stock subsequently rose from under $5 to the mid-$20s after the
urgent selling abated and investors refocused on fundamentals.

[xxxviii]

Preface to the Sixth Edition

Another conundrum for value investors is knowing when to sell. Buying bargains is the sweet spot of value investors, although how small a
discount one might accept can be subject to debate. Selling is more difficult because it involves securities that are closer to fully priced. As with
buying, investors need a discipline for selling. First, sell targets, once set,
should be regularly adjusted to reflect all currently available information.
Second, individual investors must consider tax consequences. Third,
whether or not an investor is fully invested may influence the urgency of
raising cash from a stockholding as it approaches full valuation. The
availability of better bargains might also make one a more eager seller.
Finally, value investors should completely exit a security by the time it
reaches full value; owning overvalued securities is the realm of speculators. Value investors typically begin selling at a 10% to 20% discount to
their assessment of underlying value—based on the liquidity of the
security, the possible presence of a catalyst for value realization, the
quality of management, the riskiness and leverage of the underlying
business, and the investors’ confidence level regarding the assumptions
underlying the investment.
Finally, investors need to deal with the complex subject of risk. As
mentioned earlier, academics and many professional investors have
come to define risk in terms of the Greek letter beta, which they use as a
measure of past share price volatility: a historically more volatile stock is
seen as riskier. But value investors, who are inclined to think about risk as
the probability and amount of potential loss, find such reasoning absurd.
In fact, a volatile stock may become deeply undervalued, rendering it a
very low risk investment.
One of the most difficult questions for value investors is how much risk
to incur. One facet of this question involves position size and its impact on
portfolio diversification. How much can you comfortably own of even the
most attractive opportunities? Naturally, investors desire to profit fully

Seth A. Klarman

[xxxix]

from their good ideas. Yet this tendency is tempered by the fear of being
unlucky or wrong. Nonetheless, value investors should concentrate their
holdings in their best ideas; if you can tell a good investment from a bad
one, you can also distinguish a great one from a good one.
Investors must also ponder the risks of investing in politically unstable countries, as well as the uncertainties involving currency, interest
rate, and economic fluctuations. How much of your capital do you want
tied up in Argentina or Thailand, or even France or Australia, no matter
how undervalued the stocks may be in those markets?
Another risk consideration for value investors, as with all investors, is
whether or not to use leverage. While some value-oriented hedge funds
and even endowments use leverage to enhance their returns, I side with
those who are unwilling to incur the added risks that come with margin
debt. Just as leverage enhances the return of successful investments, it
magnifies the losses from unsuccessful ones. More importantly, nonrecourse (margin) debt raises risk to unacceptable levels because it places
one’s staying power in jeopardy. One risk-related consideration should
be paramount above all others: the ability to sleep well at night, confident that your financial position is secure whatever the future may bring.

Final Thoughts
In a rising market, everyone makes money and a value philosophy is
unnecessary. But because there is no certain way to predict what the
market will do, one must follow a value philosophy at all times. By controlling risk and limiting loss through extensive fundamental analysis,
strict discipline, and endless patience, value investors can expect good
results with limited downside. You may not get rich quick, but you will
keep what you have, and if the future of value investing resembles its
past, you are likely to get rich slowly. As investment strategies go, this is
the most that any reasonable investor can hope for.

[xl]

Preface to the Sixth Edition

The real secret to investing is that there is no secret to investing.
Every important aspect of value investing has been made available to
the public many times over, beginning in 1934 with the first edition of
Security Analysis. That so many people fail to follow this timeless and
almost foolproof approach enables those who adopt it to remain successful. The foibles of human nature that result in the mass pursuit of
instant wealth and effortless gain seem certain to be with us forever. So
long as people succumb to this aspect of their natures, value investing
will remain, as it has been for 75 years, a sound and low-risk approach to
successful long-term investing.
SETH A. KLARMAN
Boston, Massachusetts, May, 2008

PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION

THE LAPSE OF six years since first publication of this work supplies the
excuse, if not the necessity, for the present comprehensive revision.
Things happen too fast in the economic world to permit authors to rest
comfortably for long. The impact of a major war adds special point to our
problem. To the extent that we deal with investment policy we can at best
merely hint at the war’s significance for the future. As for security analysis proper, the new uncertainties may complicate its subject matter, but
they should not alter its foundations or its methods.
We have revised our text with a number of objectives in view. There
are weaknesses to be corrected and some new judgments to be substituted. Recent developments in the financial sphere are to be taken into
account, particularly the effects of regulation by the Securities and
Exchange Commission. The persistence of low interest rates justifies a
fresh approach to that subject; on the other hand the reaffirmance of Wall
Street’s primary reliance on trend impels us to a wider, though not essentially different, critique of this modern philosophy of investment.
Although too great insistence on up-to-date examples may prove
something of a boomerang, as the years pass swiftly, we have used such
new illustrations as would occur to authors writing in 1939–1940. But we
have felt also that many of the old examples, which challenged the future
when first suggested, may now possess some utility as verifiers of the
proposed techniques. Thus we have borrowed one of our own ideas and
have ventured to view the sequel to all our germane 1934 examples as a
“laboratory test” of practical security analysis. Reference to each such
case, in the text or in notes, may enable the reader to apply certain tests
of his own to the pretensions of the securities analyst.
The increased size of the book results partly from a larger number of
examples, partly from the addition of clarifying material at many points,
and perhaps mainly from an expanded treatment of railroad analysis and
[xli]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[xlii]

Preface to the Second Edition

the addition of much new statistical material bearing on the exhibits of
all the industrial companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The
general arrangement of the work has been retained, although a few who
use it as a text have suggested otherwise. We trust, however, that the order
of the chapters can be revised in the reading, without too much difficulty,
to convenience those who prefer to start, say, with the theory and practice of common-stock analysis.
BENJAMIN GRAHAM AND DAVID L. DODD
New York, New York, May, 1940

PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION

THIS BOOK IS intended for all those who have a serious interest in security values. It is not addressed to the complete novice, however, for it presupposes some acquaintance with the terminology and the simpler
concepts of finance. The scope of the work is wider than its title may suggest. It deals not only with methods of analyzing individual issues, but
also with the establishment of general principles of selection and protection of security holdings. Hence much emphasis has been laid upon distinguishing the investment from the speculative approach, upon setting
up sound and workable tests of safety, and upon an understanding of the
rights and true interests of investors in senior securities and owners of
common stocks.
In dividing our space between various topics the primary but not the
exclusive criterion has been that of relative importance. Some matters of
vital significance, e.g., the determination of the future prospects of an
enterprise, have received little space, because little of definite value can
be said on the subject. Others are glossed over because they are so well
understood. Conversely we have stressed the technique of discovering
bargain issues beyond its relative importance in the entire field of investment, because in this activity the talents peculiar to the securities analyst
find perhaps their most fruitful expression. In similar fashion we have
accorded quite detailed treatment to the characteristics of privileged
senior issues (convertibles, etc.), because the attention given to these
instruments in standard textbooks is now quite inadequate in view of
their extensive development in recent years.
Our governing aim, however, has been to make this a critical rather
than a descriptive work. We are concerned chiefly with concepts, methods, standards, principles, and, above all, with logical reasoning. We have
stressed theory not for itself alone but for its value in practice. We have
tried to avoid prescribing standards which are too stringent to follow, or
technical methods which are more trouble than they are worth.
[xliii]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[xliv]

Preface to the First Edition

The chief problem of this work has been one of perspective—to blend
the divergent experiences of the recent and the remoter past into a synthesis which will stand the test of the ever enigmatic future. While we
were writing, we had to combat a widespread conviction that financial
debacle was to be the permanent order; as we publish, we already see
resurgent the age-old frailty of the investor—that his money burns a hole
in his pocket. But it is the conservative investor who will need most of all
to be reminded constantly of the lessons of 1931–1933 and of previous
collapses. For what we shall call fixed-value investments can be soundly
chosen only if they are approached—in the Spinozan phrase—“from the
viewpoint of calamity.” In dealing with other types of security commitments, we have striven throughout to guard the student against overemphasis upon the superficial and the temporary. Twenty years of varied
experience in Wall Street have taught the senior author that this overemphasis is at once the delusion and the nemesis of the world of finance.
Our sincere thanks are due to the many friends who have encouraged
and aided us in the preparation of this work.
BENJAMIN GRAHAM AND DAVID L. DODD
New York, New York, May, 1934

SECURITY ANALYSIS

This page intentionally left blank

Introduction to the Sixth Edition

BENJAMIN GRAHAM AND SECURITY
A N A LY S I S : T H E H I S T O R I C A L B A C K D R O P
BY JAMES GRANT

I

t was a distracted world before which McGraw-Hill set, with a thud,
the ﬁrst edition of Security Analysis in July 1934. From Berlin dribbled
reports of a shake-up at the top of the German government. “It will

simplify the Führer’s whole work immensely if he need not ﬁrst ask somebody if he may do this or that,” the Associated Press quoted an informant
on August 1 as saying of Hitler’s ascension from chancellor to dictator. Set
against such epochal proceedings, a 727-page textbook on the ﬁne
points of value investing must have seemed an unlikely candidate for
bestsellerdom, then or later.
In his posthumously published autobiography, The Memoirs of the
Dean of Wall Street, Graham (1894–1976) thanked his lucky stars that he
had entered the investment business when he did. The timing seemed
not so propitious in the year of the ﬁrst edition of Security Analysis, or,
indeed, that of the second edition—expanded and revised—six years
later. From its 1929 peak to its 1932 trough, the Dow Jones Industrial
Average had lost 87% of its value. At cyclical low ebb, in 1933, the
national unemployment rate topped 25%. That the Great Depression
ended in 1933 was the considered judgment of the timekeepers of the
National Bureau of Economic Research. Millions of Americans, however—
not least, the relatively few who tried to squeeze a living out of a proﬁtless Wall Street—had reason to doubt it.

[1]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[2]

Introduction to the Sixth Edition

The bear market and credit liquidation of the early 1930s gave the
institutions of American ﬁnance a top-to-bottom scouring. What was left
of them presently came in for a rough handling by the ﬁrst Roosevelt
administration. Graham had learned his trade in the Wall Street of the
mid–nineteen teens, an era of lightly regulated markets. He began work
on Security Analysis as the administration of Herbert Hoover was giving
the country its ﬁrst taste of thoroughgoing federal intervention in a
peacetime economy. He was correcting page proofs as the Roosevelt
administration was implementing its ﬁrst radical forays into macroeconomic management. By 1934, there were laws to institute federal regulation of the securities markets, federal insurance of bank deposits, and
federal price controls (not to put a cap on prices, as in later, inﬂationary
times, but rather to put a ﬂoor under them). To try to prop up prices, the
administration devalued the dollar. It is a testament to the enduring
quality of Graham’s thought, not to mention the resiliency of America’s
ﬁnancial markets, that Security Analysis lost none of its relevance even as
the economy was being turned upside down and inside out.
Five full months elapsed following publication of the ﬁrst edition
before Louis Rich got around to reviewing it in the New York Times. Who
knows? Maybe the conscientious critic read every page. In any case, Rich
gave the book a rave, albeit a slightly rueful one. “On the assumption,” he
wrote, on December 2, 1934, “that despite the debacle of recent history
there are still people left whose money burns a hole in their pockets, it is
hoped that they will read this book. It is a full-bodied, mature, meticulous and wholly meritorious outgrowth of scholarly probing and practical sagacity. Although cast in the form and spirit of a textbook, the
presentation is endowed with all the qualities likely to engage the liveliest interest of the layman.”1
How few laymen seemed to care about investing was brought home
to Wall Street more forcefully with every passing year of the unprosper1 Louis Rich, “Sagacity and Securities,” New York Times, December 2, 1934, p. BR13.

James Grant

[3]

ous postcrash era. Just when it seemed that trading volume could get no
smaller, or New York Stock Exchange seat prices no lower, or equity valuations more absurdly cheap, a new, dispiriting record was set. It required
every effort of the editors of the Big Board’s house organ, the Exchange
magazine, to keep up a brave face. “Must There Be an End to Progress?”
was the inquiring headline over an essay by the Swedish economist Gustav Cassel published around the time of the release of Graham and
Dodd’s second edition (the professor thought not).2 “Why Do Securities
Brokers Stay in Business?” the editors posed and helpfully answered,
“Despite wearying lethargy over long periods, conﬁdence abounds that
when the public recognizes fully the value of protective measures which
lately have been ranged about market procedure, investment interest in
securities will increase.” It did not amuse the Exchange that a New York
City magistrate, sarcastically addressing in his court a collection of defendants hauled in by the police for shooting craps on the sidewalk, had
derided the ﬁnancial profession. “The ﬁrst thing you know,” the judge
had upbraided the suspects, “you’ll wind up as stock brokers in Wall
Street with yachts and country homes on Long Island.”3
In ways now difﬁcult to imagine, Murphy’s Law was the order of the
day; what could go wrong, did. “Depression” was more than a long-lingering state of economic affairs. It had become a worldview. The academic exponents of “secular stagnation,” notably Alvin Hansen and
Joseph Schumpeter, each a Harvard economics professor, predicted a
long decline in American population growth. This deceleration, Hansen
contended in his 1939 essay, “together with the failure of any really
important innovations of a magnitude to absorb large capital outlays,
weighs very heavily as an explanation for the failure of the recent recovery to reach full employment.”4
2 Gustav Cassel, “Must There Be an End to Progress?” Exchange, January 1940.
3 Exchange, “Why Do Securities Brokers Stay in Business?” September 1940.
4 James Grant, The Trouble with Prosperity (New York: Random House, 1996), p. 84.

[4]

Introduction to the Sixth Edition

Neither Hansen nor his readers had any way of knowing that a baby
boom was around the corner. Nothing could have seemed more unlikely
to a world preoccupied with a new war in Europe and the evident decline
and fall of capitalism. Certainly, Hansen’s ideas must have struck a chord
with the chronically underemployed brokers and traders in lower Manhattan. As a business, the New York Stock Exchange was running at a steady
loss. From 1933, the year in which it began to report its ﬁnancial results,
through 1940, the Big Board recorded a proﬁt in only one year, 1935 (and
a nominal one, at that). And when, in 1937, Chelcie C. Bosland, an assistant professor of economics at Brown University, brought forth a book
entitled The Common Stock Theory of Investment, he remarked as if he
were repeating a commonplace that the American economy had peaked
two decades earlier at about the time of what was not yet called World
War I. The professor added, quoting unnamed authorities, that American
population growth could be expected to stop in its tracks by 1975.5 Small
wonder that Graham was to write that the acid test of a bond issuer was
its capacity to meet its obligations not in a time of middling prosperity
(which modest test today’s residential mortgage–backed securities struggle to meet) but in a depression. Altogether, an investor in those days
was well advised to keep up his guard. “The combination of a record high
level for bonds,” writes Graham in the 1940 edition, “with a history of two
catastrophic price collapses in the preceding 20 years and a major war in
progress is not one to justify airy conﬁdence in the future.” (p. 142)
Wall Street, not such a big place even during the 1920s’ boom, got
considerably smaller in the subsequent bust. Ben Graham, in conjunction
with his partner Jerry Newman, made a very small cog of this low-horsepower machine. The two of them conducted a specialty investment business at 52 Wall Street. Their strong suits were arbitrage, reorganizations,

5 Chelcie C. Bosland, The Common Stock Theory of Investment (New York: Ronald Press, 1937), p. 74.

James Grant

[5]

bankruptcies, and other complex matters. A schematic drawing of the
ﬁnancial district published by Fortune in 1937 made no reference to the
Graham-Newman ofﬁces. Then again, the partnerships and corporate
headquarters that did rate a spot on the Wall Street map were themselves—by the standards of twenty-ﬁrst-century ﬁnance—remarkably
compact. One ﬂoor at 40 Wall Street was enough to contain the entire
ofﬁce of Merrill Lynch & Co. And a single ﬂoor at 2 Wall Street was all the
space required to house Morgan Stanley, the hands-down leader in 1936
corporate securities underwriting, with originations of all of $195 million.
Compensation was in keeping with the slow pace of business, especially
at the bottom of the corporate ladder.6 After a 20% rise in the new federal minimum wage, effective October 1939, brokerage employees could
earn no less than 30 cents an hour.7
In March 1940, the Exchange documented in all the detail its readers
could want (and possibly then some) the collapse of public participation
in the stock market. In the ﬁrst three decades of the twentieth century, the
annual volume of trading had almost invariably exceeded the quantity of
listed shares outstanding, sometimes by a wide margin. And in only one
year between 1900 and 1930 had annual volume amounted to less than
50% of listed shares—the exception being 1914, the year in which the
exchange was closed for 41/2 months to allow for the shock of the outbreak of World War I to sink in. Then came the 1930s, and the annual
turnover as a percentage of listed shares struggled to reach as high as
50%. In 1939, despite a short-lived surge of trading on the outbreak of
World War II in Europe, the turnover ratio had fallen to a shockingly low
18.4%. (For comparison, in 2007, the ratio of trading volume to listed
shares amounted to 123%.) “Perhaps,” sighed the author of the study, “it is
a fair statement that if the farming industry showed a similar record, gov6 Fortune, “Wall Street, Itself,” June 1937.
7 New York Times, October 3, 1939, p. 38.

[6]

Introduction to the Sixth Edition

ernment subsidies would have been voted long ago. Unfortunately for
Wall Street, it seems to have too little sponsorship in ofﬁcialdom.”8
If a reader took hope from the idea that things were so bad that they
could hardly get worse, he or she was in for yet another disappointment.
The second edition of Security Analysis had been published only months
earlier when, on August 19, 1940, the stock exchange volume totaled
just 129,650 shares. It was one of the sleepiest sessions since the 49,000share mark set on August 5, 1916. For the entire 1940 calendar year, volume totaled 207,599,749 shares—a not very busy two hours’ turnover at
this writing and 18.5% of the turnover of 1929, that year of seemingly
irrecoverable prosperity. The cost of a membership, or seat, on the stock
exchange sank along with turnover and with the major price indexes. At
the nadir in 1942, a seat fetched just $17,000. It was the lowest price
since 1897 and 97% below the record high price of $625,000, set—naturally—in 1929.
“‘The Cleaners,’” quipped Fred Schwed, Jr., in his funny and wise book
Where Are the Customers’ Yachts? (which, like Graham’s second edition,
appeared in 1940), “was not one of those exclusive clubs; by 1932, everybody who had ever tried speculation had been admitted to membership.”9
And if an investor did, somehow, manage to avoid the cleaner’s during the
formally designated Great Depression, he or she was by no means home
free. In August 1937, the market began a violent sell-off that would carry
the averages down by 50% by March 1938. The nonﬁnancial portion of
the economy fared little better than the ﬁnancial side. In just nine months,
industrial production fell by 34.5%, a sharper contraction even than that in
the depression of 1920 to 1921, a slump that, for Graham’s generation,
had seemed to set the standard for the most economic damage in the
shortest elapsed time.10 The Roosevelt administration insisted that the
8 Exchange, March 1940.
9 Fred Schwed, Jr., Where Are the Customers’ Yachts? (New York: Simon and Schuster, 1940), p. 28.
10 Benjamin M. Anderson, Economics and the Public Welfare (New York: Van Nostrand, 1949), p. 431.

James Grant

[7]

slump of 1937 to 1938 was no depression but rather a “recession.” The
national unemployment rate in 1938 was, on average, 18.8%.
In April 1937, four months before the bottom fell out of the stock market for the second time in 10 years, Robert Lovett, a partner at the investment ﬁrm of Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., served warning to the
American public in the pages of the weekly Saturday Evening Post. Lovett,
a member of the innermost circle of the Wall Street establishment, set out
to demonstrate that there is no such thing as ﬁnancial security—none, at
least, to be had in stocks and bonds. The gist of Lovett’s argument was
that, in capitalism, capital is consumed and that businesses are just as
fragile, and mortal, as the people who own them. He invited his millions
of readers to examine the record, as he had done: “If an investor had purchased 100 shares of the 20 most popular dividend-paying stocks on
December 31, 1901, and held them through 1936, adding, in the meantime, all the melons in the form of stock dividends, and all the plums in
the form of stock split-ups, and had exercised all the valuable rights to
subscribe to additional stock, the aggregate market value of his total
holdings on December 31, 1936, would have shown a shrinkage of 39%
as compared with the cost of his original investment. In plain English, the
average investor paid $294,911.90 for things worth $180,072.06 on
December 31, 1936. That’s a big disappearance of dollar value in any language.” In the innocent days before the crash, people had blithely spoken
of “permanent investments.” “For our part,” wrote this partner of an eminent Wall Street private bank, “we are convinced that the only permanent
investment is one which has become a total and irretrievable loss.”11
Lovett turned out to be a prophet. At the nadir of the 1937 to 1938
bear market, one in ﬁve NYSE-listed industrial companies was valued in
the market for less than its net current assets. Subtract from cash and
quick assets all liabilities and the remainder was greater than the com-

11 Robert A. Lovett, “Gilt-Edged Insecurity,” Saturday Evening Post, April 3, 1937.

[8]

Introduction to the Sixth Edition

pany’s market value. That is, business value was negative. The Great
Atlantic & Paciﬁc Tea Company (A&P), the Wal-Mart of its day, was one of
these corporate castoffs. At the 1938 lows, the market value of the common and preferred shares of A&P at $126 million was less than the value
of its cash, inventories, and receivables, conservatively valued at $134
million. In the words of Graham and Dodd, the still-proﬁtable company
was selling for “scrap.” (p. 673)

A Different Wall Street
Few institutional traces of that Wall Street remain. Nowadays, the big
broker-dealers keep as much as $1 trillion in securities in inventory; in
Graham’s day, they customarily held none. Nowadays, the big brokerdealers are in a perpetual competitive lather to see which can bring the
greatest number of initial public offerings (IPOs) to the public market. In
Graham’s day, no frontline member ﬁrm would stoop to placing an IPO in
public hands, the risks and rewards for this kind of offering being
reserved for professionals. Federal securities regulation was a new thing
in the 1930s. What had preceded the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) was a regime of tribal sanction. Some things were simply
beyond the pale. Both during and immediately after World War I, no selfrespecting NYSE member ﬁrm facilitated a client’s switch from Liberty
bonds into potentially more lucrative, if less patriotic, alternatives. There
was no law against such a business development overture. Rather,
according to Graham, it just wasn’t done.
A great many things weren’t done in the Wall Street of the 1930s.
Newly empowered regulators were resistant to ﬁnancial innovation, transaction costs were high, technology was (at least by today’s digital standards) primitive, and investors were demoralized. After the vicious bear
market of 1937 to 1938, not a few decided they’d had enough. What was

James Grant

[9]

the point of it all? “In June 1939,” writes Graham in a note to a discussion
about corporate ﬁnance in the second edition, “the S.E.C. set a salutary
precedent by refusing to authorize the issuance of ‘Capital Income
Debentures’ in the reorganization of the Griess-Pﬂeger Tanning Company,
on the ground that the devising of new types of hybrid issues had gone
far enough.” (p. 115, fn. 4) In the same conservative vein, he expresses his
approval of the institution of the “legal list,” a document compiled by
state banking departments to stipulate which bonds the regulated savings banks could safely own. The very idea of such a list ﬂies in the face of
nearly every millennial notion about good regulatory practice. But Graham defends it thus: “Since the selection of high-grade bonds has been
shown to be in good part a process of exclusion, it lends itself reasonably
well to the application of deﬁnite rules and standards designed to disqualify unsuitable issues.” (p. 169) No collateralized debt obligations
stocked with subprime mortgages for the father of value investing!
The 1930s ushered in a revolution in ﬁnancial disclosure. The new
federal securities acts directed investor-owned companies to brief their
stockholders once a quarter as well as at year-end. But the new standards were not immediately applicable to all public companies, and
more than a few continued doing business the old-fashioned way, with
their cards to their chests. One of these informational holdouts was none
other than Dun & Bradstreet (D&B), the ﬁnancial information company.
Graham seemed to relish the irony of D&B not revealing “its own earnings to its own stockholders.” (p. 92, fn. 4) On the whole, by twenty-ﬁrstcentury standards, information in Graham’s time was as slow moving as
it was sparse. There were no conference calls, no automated spreadsheets, and no nonstop news from distant markets—indeed, not much
truck with the world outside the 48 states. Security Analysis barely
acknowledges the existence of foreign markets.

[10]

Introduction to the Sixth Edition

Such an institutional setting was hardly conducive to the development of “efﬁcient markets,” as the economists today call them—markets
in which information is disseminated rapidly, human beings process it
ﬂawlessly, and prices incorporate it instantaneously. Graham would have
scoffed at such an idea. Equally, he would have smiled at the discovery—
so late in the evolution of the human species—that there was a place in
economics for a subdiscipline called “behavioral ﬁnance.” Reading Security
Analysis, one is led to wonder what facet of investing is not behavioral.
The stock market, Graham saw, is a source of entertainment value as well
as investment value: “Even when the underlying motive of purchase is
mere speculative greed, human nature desires to conceal this unlovely
impulse behind a screen of apparent logic and good sense. To adapt the
aphorism of Voltaire, it may be said that if there were no such thing as
common-stock analysis, it would be necessary to counterfeit it.” (p. 348)
Anomalies of undervaluation and overvaluation—of underdoing it
and overdoing it—ﬁll these pages. It bemused Graham, but did not
shock him, that so many businesses could be valued in the stock market
for less than their net current assets, even during the late 1920s’ boom, or
that, in the dislocations to the bond market immediately following World
War I, investors became disoriented enough to assign a higher price and
a lower yield to the Union Paciﬁc First Mortgage 4s than they did to the
U.S. Treasury’s own Fourth Liberty 41⁄4s. Graham writes of the “inveterate
tendency of the stock market to exaggerate.” (p. 679) He would not have
exaggerated much if he had written, instead, “all markets.”
Though he did not dwell long on the cycles in ﬁnance, Graham was
certainly aware of them. He could see that ideas, no less than prices and
categories of investment assets, had their seasons. The discussion in
Security Analysis of the ﬂame-out of the mortgage guarantee business in
the early 1930s is a perfect miniature of the often-ruinous competition in
which ﬁnancial institutions periodically engage. “The rise of the newer

James Grant

[11]

and more aggressive real estate bond organizations had a most unfortunate effect upon the policies of the older concerns,” Graham writes of his
time and also of ours. “By force of competition they were led to relax
their standards of making loans. New mortgages were granted on an
increasingly liberal basis, and when old mortgages matured, they were
frequently renewed in a larger sum. Furthermore, the face amount of the
mortgages guaranteed rose to so high a multiple of the capital of the
guarantor companies that it should have been obvious that the guaranty
would afford only the ﬂimsiest of protection in the event of a general
decline in values.” (p. 217)
Security analysis itself is a cyclical phenomenon; it, too, goes in and
out of fashion, Graham observed. It holds a strong, intuitive appeal for the
kind of businessperson who thinks about stocks the way he or she thinks
about his or her own family business. What would such a fount of common sense care about earnings momentum or Wall Street’s pseudo-scientiﬁc guesses about the economic future? Such an investor, appraising a
common stock, would much rather know what the company behind it is
worth. That is, he or she would want to study its balance sheet. Well, Graham relates here, that kind of analysis went out of style when stocks
started levitating without reference to anything except hope and
prophecy. So, by about 1927, fortune-telling and chart-reading had displaced the value discipline by which he and his partner were earning a
very good living. It is characteristic of Graham that his critique of the “new
era” method of investing is measured and not derisory. The old, conservative approach—his own—had been rather backward looking, Graham
admits. It had laid more emphasis on the past than on the future, on stable earning power rather than tomorrow’s earnings prospects. But new
technologies, new methods, and new forms of corporate organization
had introduced new risks into the post–World War I economy. This fact—
“the increasing instability of the typical business”—had blown a small

[12]

Introduction to the Sixth Edition

hole in the older analytical approach that emphasized stable earnings
power over forecast earnings growth. Beyond that mitigating consideration, however, Graham does not go. The new era approach, “which turned
upon the earnings trend as the sole criterion of value, . . . was certain to
end in an appalling debacle.” (p. 366) Which, of course, it did, and—in the
CNBC-driven markets of the twenty-ﬁrst century—continues to do at
intervals today.

A Man of Many Talents
Benjamin Graham was born Benjamin Grossbaum on May 9, 1894, in
London, and sailed to New York with his family before he was two. Young
Benjamin was a prodigy in mathematics, classical languages, modern
languages, expository writing (as readers of this volume will see for
themselves), and anything else that the public schools had to offer. He
had a tenacious memory and a love of reading—a certain ticket to academic success, then or later. His father’s death at the age of 35 left him,
his two brothers, and their mother in the social and ﬁnancial lurch. Benjamin early learned to work and to do without.
No need here for a biographical proﬁle of the principal author of
Security Analysis: Graham’s own memoir delightfully covers that ground.
Sufﬁce it to say that the high school brainiac entered Columbia College
as an Alumni Scholar in September 1911 at the age of 17. So much
material had he already absorbed that he began with a semester’s head
start, “the highest possible advanced standing.”12 He mixed his academic
studies with a grab bag of jobs, part-time and full-time alike. Upon his
graduation in 1914, he started work as a runner and board-boy at the
New York Stock Exchange member ﬁrm of Newberger, Henderson &
Loeb. Within a year, the board-boy was playing the liquidation of the
12 Benjamin Graham, The Memoirs of the Dean of Wall Street, edited by Seymour Chatman (New York:

McGraw-Hill, 1996), p. 106.

James Grant

[13]

Guggenheim Exploration Company by astutely going long the shares of
Guggenheim and short the stocks of the companies in which Guggenheim had made a minority investment, as his no-doubt bemused elders
looked on: “The proﬁt was realized exactly as calculated; and everyone
was happy, not least myself.”13
Security Analysis did not come out of the blue. Graham had supplemented his modest salary by contributing articles to the Magazine of
Wall Street. His productions are unmistakably those of a self-assured and
superbly educated Wall Street moneymaker. There was no need to quote
expert opinion. He and the documents he interpreted were all the
authority he needed. His favorite topics were the ones that he subsequently developed in the book you hold in your hands. He was partial to
the special situations in which Graham-Newman was to become so successful. Thus, when a high-ﬂying, and highly complex, American International Corp. fell from the sky in 1920, Graham was able to show that the
stock was cheap in relation to the evident value of its portfolio of miscellaneous (and not especially well disclosed) investment assets.14 The
shocking insolvency of Goodyear Tire and Rubber attracted his attention
in 1921. “The downfall of Goodyear is a remarkable incident even in the
present plenitude of business disasters,” he wrote, in a characteristic Graham sentence (how many ﬁnancial journalists, then or later, had “plenitude” on the tips of their tongues?). He shrewdly judged that Goodyear
would be a survivor.15 In the summer of 1924, he hit on a theme that
would echo through Security Analysis: it was the evident non sequitor of
stocks valued in the market at less than the liquidating value of the companies that issued them. “Eight Stock Bargains Off the Beaten Track,” said
13 Ibid., p. 145.
14 Benjamin Graham, “The ‘Collapse’ of American International,” Magazine of Wall Street, December,

11, 1920, pp. 175–176, 217.
15 Benjamin Graham, “The Goodyear Reorganization,” Magazine of Wall Street, March 19, 1921, pp.

683–685.

[14]

Introduction to the Sixth Edition

the headline over the Benjamin Graham byline: “Stocks that Are Covered
Chieﬂy by Cash or the Equivalent—No Bonds or Preferred Stock Ahead
of These Issues—An Unusually Interesting Group of Securities.” In one
case, that of Tonopah Mining, liquid assets of $4.31 per share towered
over a market price of just $1.38 a share.16
For Graham, an era of sweet reasonableness in investment thinking
seemed to end around 1914. Before that time, the typical investor was a
businessman who analyzed a stock or a bond much as he might a claim
on a private business. He—it was usually a he—would naturally try to
determine what the security-issuing company owned, free and clear of
any encumbrances. If the prospective investment was a bond—and it
usually was—the businessman-investor would seek assurances that the
borrowing company had the ﬁnancial strength to weather a depression.
“It’s not undue modesty,” Graham wrote in his memoir, “to say that I
had become something of a smart cookie in my particular ﬁeld.” His specialty was the carefully analyzed out-of-the-way investment: castaway
stocks or bonds, liquidations, bankruptcies, arbitrage. Since at least the
early 1920s, Graham had preached the sermon of the “margin of safety.”
As the future is a closed book, he urged in his writings, an investor, as a
matter of self-defense against the unknown, should contrive to pay less
than “intrinsic” value. Intrinsic value, as deﬁned in Security Analysis, is
“that value which is justiﬁed by the facts, e.g., the assets, earnings, dividends, deﬁnite prospects, as distinct, let us say, from market quotations
established by artiﬁcial manipulation or distorted by psychological
excesses.” (p. 64)
He himself had gone from the ridiculous to the sublime (and sometimes back again) in the conduct of his own investment career. His quick
and easy grasp of mathematics made him a natural arbitrageur. He
would sell one stock and simultaneously buy another. Or he would buy
16 Benjamin Graham, “Eight Stock Bargains Off the Beaten Track,” Magazine of Wall Street, July
19,1924, pp. 450–453.

James Grant

[15]

or sell shares of stock against the convertible bonds of the identical issuing company. So doing, he would lock in a proﬁt that, if not certain, was
as close to guaranteed as the vicissitudes of ﬁnance allowed. In one
instance, in the early 1920s, he exploited an inefﬁciency in the relationship between DuPont and the then red-hot General Motors (GM).
DuPont held a sizable stake in GM. And it was for that interest alone
which the market valued the big chemical company. By implication, the
rest of the business was worth nothing. To exploit this anomaly, Graham
bought shares in DuPont and sold short the hedge-appropriate number
of shares in GM. And when the market came to its senses, and the price
gap between DuPont and GM widened in the expected direction, Graham took his proﬁt.17
However, Graham, like many another value investors after him, sometimes veered from the austere precepts of safe-and-cheap investing. A
Graham only slightly younger than the master who sold GM and bought
DuPont allowed himself to be hoodwinked by a crooked promoter of a
company that seems not actually to have existed—at least, in anything
like the state of glowing prosperity described by the manager of the
pool to which Graham entrusted his money. An electric sign in Columbus Circle, on the upper West Side of Manhattan, did bear the name of
the object of Graham’s misplaced conﬁdence, Savold Tire. But, as the
author of Security Analysis confessed in his memoir, that could have been
the only tangible marker of the company’s existence. “Also, as far as I
knew,” Graham added, “nobody complained to the district attorney’s
ofﬁce about the promoter’s bare-faced theft of the public’s money.” Certainly, by his own telling, Graham didn’t.18
By 1929, when he was 35, Graham was well on his way to fame and
fortune. His wife and he kept a squadron of servants, including—for the
ﬁrst and only time in his life—a manservant for himself. With Jerry
17 Graham, Memoirs, p. 188.
18 Ibid., pp. 181–184.

[16]

Introduction to the Sixth Edition

Newman, Graham had compiled an investment record so enviable that the
great Bernard M. Baruch sought him out. Would Graham wind up his business to manage Baruch’s money? “I replied,” Graham writes, “that I was
highly ﬂattered—ﬂabbergasted, in fact—by his proposal, but I could not
end so abruptly the close and highly satisfactory relations I had with my
friends and clients.”19 Those relations soon became much less satisfactory.
Graham relates that, though he was worried at the top of the market,
he failed to act on his bearish hunch. The Graham-Newman partnership
went into the 1929 break with $2.5 million of capital. And they controlled about $2.5 million in hedged positions—stocks owned long offset
by stocks sold short. They had, besides, about $4.5 million in outright
long positions. It was bad enough that they were leveraged, as Graham
later came to realize. Compounding that tactical error was a deeply
rooted conviction that the stocks they owned were cheap enough to
withstand any imaginable blow.
They came through the crash creditably: down by only 20% was, for
the ﬁnal quarter of 1929, almost heroic. But they gave up 50% in 1930,
16% in 1931, and 3% in 1932 (another relatively excellent showing), for a
cumulative loss of 70%.20 “I blamed myself not so much for my failure to
protect myself against the disaster I had been predicting,” Graham writes,
“as for having slipped into an extravagant way of life which I hadn’t the
temperament or capacity to enjoy. I quickly convinced myself that the
true key to material happiness lay in a modest standard of living which
could be achieved with little difﬁculty under almost all economic conditions”—the margin-of-safety idea applied to personal ﬁnance.21
It can’t be said that the academic world immediately clasped Security
Analysis to its breast as the deﬁnitive elucidation of value investing, or of
anything else. The aforementioned survey of the ﬁeld in which Graham
19 Ibid., p. 253.
20 Ibid., p. 259.
21 Ibid., p. 263.

James Grant

[17]

and Dodd made their signal contribution, The Common Stock Theory of
Investment, by Chelcie C. Bosland, published three years after the appearance of the ﬁrst edition of Security Analysis, cited 53 different sources and
43 different authors. Not one of them was named Graham or Dodd.
Edgar Lawrence Smith, however, did receive Bosland’s full and
respectful attention. Smith’s Common Stocks as Long Term Investments,
published in 1924, had challenged the long-held view that bonds were
innately superior to equities. For one thing, Smith argued, the dollar
(even the gold-backed 1924 edition) was inﬂation-prone, which meant
that creditors were inherently disadvantaged. Not so the owners of common stock. If the companies in which they invested earned a proﬁt, and
if the managements of those companies retained a portion of that proﬁt
in the business, and if those retained earnings, in turn, produced future
earnings, the principal value of an investor’s portfolio would tend “to
increase in accordance with the operation of compound interest.”22
Smith’s timing was impeccable. Not a year after he published, the great
Coolidge bull market erupted. Common Stocks as Long Term Investments,
only 129 pages long, provided a handy rationale for chasing the market
higher. That stocks do, in fact, tend to excel in the long run has entered the
canon of American investment thought as a revealed truth (it looked anything but obvious in the 1930s). For his part, Graham entered a strong dissent to Smith’s thesis, or, more exactly, its uncritical bullish application. It
was one thing to pay 10 times earnings for an equity investment, he notes,
quite another to pay 20 to 40 times earnings. Besides, the Smith analysis
skirted the important question of what asset values lay behind the stock
certiﬁcates that people so feverishly and uncritically traded back and forth.
Finally, embedded in Smith’s argument was the assumption that common
stocks could be counted on to deliver in the future what they had done in
the past. Graham was not a believer. (pp. 362–363)

22 Grant, The Trouble with Prosperity, p. 43.

[18]

Introduction to the Sixth Edition

If Graham was a hard critic, however, he was also a generous one. In
1939 he was given John Burr Williams’s The Theory of Investment Value to
review for the Journal of Political Economy (no small honor for a Wall
Street author-practitioner). Williams’s thesis was as important as it was
concise. The investment value of a common stock is the present value of
all future dividends, he proposed. Williams did not underestimate the
signiﬁcance of these loaded words. Armed with that critical knowledge,
the author ventured to hope, investors might restrain themselves from
bidding stocks back up to the moon again. Graham, in whose capacious
brain dwelled the talents both of the quant and behavioral ﬁnancier,
voiced his doubts about that forecast. The rub, as he pointed out, was
that, in order to apply Williams’s method, one needed to make some
very large assumptions about the future course of interest rates, the
growth of proﬁt, and the terminal value of the shares when growth
stops. “One wonders,” Graham mused, “whether there may not be too
great a discrepancy between the necessarily hit-or-miss character of
these assumptions and the highly reﬁned mathematical treatment to
which they are subjected.” Graham closed his essay on a characteristically generous and witty note, commending Williams for the refreshing
level-headedness of his approach and adding: “This conservatism is not
really implicit in the author’s formulas; but if the investor can be persuaded by higher algebra to take a sane attitude toward common-stock
prices, the reviewer will cast a loud vote for higher algebra.”23
Graham’s technical accomplishments in securities analysis, by themselves, could hardly have carried Security Analysis through its ﬁve editions. It’s the book’s humanity and good humor that, to me, explain its
long life and the adoring loyalty of a certain remnant of Graham readers,
myself included. Was there ever a Wall Street moneymaker better
23 Benjamin Graham, “Review of John Burr Williams’s The Theory of Investment Value [Cambridge, Mass.:

Harvard University Press, 1938],” Journal of Political Economy, vol. 47, no. 2 (April 1939), pp. 276–278.

James Grant

[19]

steeped than Graham in classical languages and literature and in the
ﬁnancial history of his own time? I would bet “no” with all the conﬁdence
of a value investor laying down money to buy an especially cheap stock.
Yet this great investment philosopher was, to a degree, a prisoner of
his own times. He could see that the experiences through which he lived
were unique, that the Great Depression was, in fact, a great anomaly. If
anyone understood the folly of projecting current experience into the
unpredictable future, it was Graham. Yet this investment-philosopher king,
having spent 727 pages (not including the gold mine of an appendix)
describing how a careful and risk-averse investor could prosper in every
kind of macroeconomic conditions, arrives at a remarkable conclusion.
What of the institutional investor, he asks. How should he invest? At
ﬁrst, Graham difﬁdently ducks the question—who is he to prescribe for
the experienced ﬁnanciers at the head of America’s philanthropic and
educational institutions? But then he takes the astonishing plunge. “An
institution,” he writes, “that can manage to get along on the low income
provided by high-grade ﬁxed-value issues should, in our opinion, conﬁne
its holdings to this ﬁeld. We doubt if the better performance of commonstock indexes over past periods will, in itself, warrant the heavy responsibilities and the recurring uncertainties that are inseparable from a
common-stock investment program.” (pp. 709–710)
Could the greatest value investor have meant that? Did the man who
stuck it out through ruinous losses in the Depression years and went on
to compile a remarkable long-term investment record really mean that
common stocks were not worth the bother? In 1940, with a new world
war fanning the Roosevelt administration’s ﬁscal and monetary policies,
high-grade corporate bonds yielded just 2.75%, while blue-chip equities
yielded 5.1%. Did Graham mean to say that bonds were a safer proposition than stocks? Well, he did say it. If Homer could nod, so could Graham—and so can the rest of us, whoever we are. Let it be a lesson.

This page intentionally left blank

Introduction to the Second Edition

PROBLEMS OF
INVESTMENT POLICY

ALTHOUGH, STRICTLY speaking, security analysis may be carried on without reference to any definite program or standards of investment, such a
specialization of functions would be quite unrealistic. Critical examination of balance sheets and income accounts, comparisons of related or
similar issues, studies of the terms and protective covenants behind bonds
and preferred stocks—these typical activities of the securities analyst are
invariably carried on with some practical idea of purchase or sale in mind,
and they must be viewed against a broader background of investment
principles, or perhaps of speculative precepts. In this work we shall not
strive for a precise demarcation between investment theory and analytical technique but at times shall combine the two elements in the close
relationship that they possess in the world of finance.
It seems best, therefore, to preface our exposition with a concise
review of the problems of policy that confront the security buyer. Such a
discussion must be colored, in part at least, by the conditions prevailing
when this chapter was written. But it is hoped that enough allowance will
be made for the possibility of change to give our conclusions more than
passing interest and value. Indeed, we consider this element of change as
a central fact in the financial universe. For a better understanding of this
point we are presenting some data, in conspectus form, designed to illustrate the reversals and upheavals in values and standards that have developed in the past quarter century.
The three reference periods 1911–1913, 1923–1925, and 1936–1938
were selected to represent the nearest approximations to “normal,” or relative stability, that could be found at intervals during the past quarter century. Between the first and second triennium we had the war collapse and
hectic prosperity, followed by the postwar hesitation, inflation, and deep
depression. Between 1925 and 1936 we had the “new-era boom,” the great
[21]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC DATA FOR THREE REFERENCE PERIODS

1911–1913

1923–1925

1936–1938

[22]

Period

High

Low

Average

High

Low

Average

High

Low

Average

Business index*
Bond yields*
Index of industrial stock prices*
Dow-Jones Industrial Average (per unit):
Price range
Earnings
Dividends
Price-earnings ratio†
Dividend yield†
U. S. Steel:‡
Price range
Earnings per share
Dividends per share
Price-earnings ratio†
Dividend yield†
General Electric:§
Price range
Earnings per share
Dividends per share||
Price-earnings ratio†
Dividend yield†

118.8
4.22%
121.6

94.6
4.02%
92.2

107.9
4.09%
107.6

174.9
4.82%
198.6

136.0
4.55%
128.6

157.9
4.68%
153.4

164.9
3.99%
293.4

106.0
3.36%
124.8

137.0
3.65%
211.1

94
$8.69
5.69
11.6x
5.5%

72
$7.81
4.50
8.9x
7.1%

82
$8.12
5.13
10.1x
6.3%

159
$13.54
7.09
13.5x
3.9%

86
$10.52
5.51
7.3x
7.1%

112
$11.81
6.13
9.5x
5.5%

194
$11.41
8.15
21.2x
3.4%

97
$6.02
4.84
10.6x
6.9%

149
$9.14
6.66
16.3x
4.5%

82
$11.00
5.00
10.9x
6.1%

50
$5.70
5.00
6.6x
10.0%

65
$7.53
5.00
8.6x
7.7%

139
$16.40
7.00
10.1x
4.6%

86
$11.80
5.25
6.3x
7.5%

111
$13.70
6.42
8.1x
5.8%

178
$11.22
1.40
53.4x
0.2%

53
(d)$5.30
Nil
15.9x
0.8%

96
$3.33
0.42
28.8x
0.4%

196
$16.72
10.40
13.7x
4.5%

142
$12.43
8.00
10.0x
6.2%

172
$14.27
8.80
12.1x
5.1%

524
$32.10
19.80
17.2x
3.8%

262
$27.75
19.80
8.6x
7.6%

368
$30.35
19.80
13.8x
5.4%

1,580
$53.50
53.50
41.5x
2.5%

664
$23.40
21.85
17.5x
5.9%

1,070
$38.00
38.90
28.2x
3.6%

[23]

American Can:¶
Price range
Earnings per share
Dividends per share
Price-earnings ratio†
Dividend yield†
Pennsylvania R.R.:
Price range
Earnings per share
Dividends per share
Price-earnings ratio†
Dividend yield†
American Tel. & Tel.:
Price range
Earnings per share
Dividends per share
Price-earnings ratio†
Dividend yield†

47
$8.86
Nil
10.0x
Nil

9
$0.07
Nil
1.9x
Nil

25
$4.71
Nil
5.3x
Nil

297
$32.75
7.00
12.2x
2.0%

74
$19.64
5.00
3.0x
8.1%

150
$24.30
6.00
6.2x
4.0%

828
$36.48
30.00
25.5x
3.1%

414
$26.10
24.00
12.7
6.3%

612
$32.46
26.00
18.8x
4.2%

65
$4.64
3.00
15.0x
4.6%

53
$4.14
3.00
12.2x
5.7%

60
$4.33
3.00
13.8x
5.0%

55
$6.23
3.00
10.9x
5.5%

41
$3.82
3.00
8.1x
7.3%

46
$5.07
3.00
9.2x
6.5%

50
$2.94
2.00
25.6x
2.5%

14
$0.84
0.50
7.2x
8.9%

30
$1.95
1.25
15.5x
4.1%

153
$9.58
8.00
16.5x
5.2%

110
$8.64
8.00
11.9x
7.3%

137
$9.26
8.00
14.8x
5.8%

145
$11.79
9.00
12.6x
6.2%

119
$11.31
9.00
10.4x
7.6%

130
$11.48
9.00
11.3x
6.9%

190
$9.62
9.00
21.0x
4.7%

111
$8.16
9.00
12.3x
8.1%

155
$9.05
9.00
17.1x
5.8%

* Axe-Houghton indexes of business activity and of industrial stock prices, both unadjusted for trend; yields on 10 high-grade railroad bonds—all by courtesy of E. W. Axe & Co., Inc.
† High, low, and average prices are compared with average earnings and dividends in each period.
‡ 1936–1938 figures adjusted to reflect 40% stock dividend.
§ Figures adjusted to reflect various stock dividends and split-ups between 1913 and 1930, equivalent ultimately to about 25 shares in 1936 for 1 share in 1912.
|| Exclusive of one share of Electric Bond and Share Securities Corporation distributed as a dividend in 1925.
¶ 1936–1938 figures adjusted to reflect six-for-one exchange of shares in 1926.

[24]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

collapse and depression, and a somewhat irregular recovery towards normal. But if we examine the three-year periods themselves, we cannot fail
to be struck by the increasing tendency toward instability even in relatively normal times. This is shown vividly in the progressive widening of
the graphs in Chart A, page 6, which trace the fluctuations in general
business and industrial stock prices during the years in question.
It would be foolhardy to deduce from these developments that we
must expect still greater instability in the future. But it would be equally
imprudent to minimize the significance of what has happened and to
return overreadily to the comfortable conviction of 1925 that we were
moving steadily towards both greater stability and greater prosperity. The
times would seem to call for caution in embracing any theory as to the
future and for flexible and open-minded investment policies. With these
caveats to guide us, let us proceed to consider briefly certain types of
investment problems.

A. INVESTMENT IN HIGH-GRADE BONDS AND
PREFERRED STOCKS
Bond investment presents many more perplexing problems today than
seemed to be true in 1913. The chief question then was how to get the
highest yield commensurate with safety; and if the investor was satisfied
with the lower yielding standard issues (nearly all consisting of railroad
mortgage bonds), he could supposedly “buy them with his eyes shut and
put them away and forget them.” Now the investor must wrestle with a
threefold problem: safety of interest and principal, the future of bond
yields and prices, and the future value of the dollar. To describe the
dilemma is easy; to resolve it satisfactorily seems next to impossible.

1. Safety of Interest and Principal. Two serious depressions in the
past twenty years, and the collapse of an enormous volume of railroad
issues once thought safe beyond question, suggest that the future may have
further rude shocks for the complacent bond investor. The old idea of
“permanent investments,” exempt from change and free from care, is no
doubt permanently gone. Our studies lead us to conclude, however, that
by sufficiently stringent standards of selection and reasonably frequent
scrutiny thereafter the investor should be able to escape most of the serious losses that have distracted him in the past, so that his collection of

Introduction to the Second Edition

[25]

interest and principal should work out at a satisfactory percentage even
in times of depression. Careful selection must include a due regard to
future prospects, but we do not consider that the investor need be clairvoyant or that he must confine himself to companies that hold forth
exceptional promise of expanding profits. These remarks relate to (really)
high-grade preferred stocks as well as to bonds.

2. Future of Interest Rates and Bond Prices. The unprecedentedly
low yields offered by both short- and long-term bond issues may well
cause concern to the investor for other reasons than a natural dissatisfaction with the small return that his money brings him. If these low rates
should prove temporary and are followed by a rise to previous levels,
long-term bond prices could lose some 25%, or more, of their market
value. Such a price decline would be equivalent to the loss of perhaps ten
years’ interest. In 1934 we felt that this possibility must be taken seriously
into account, because the low interest rates then current might well have
been a phenomenon of subnormal business, subject to a radical advance
with returning trade activity. But the persistence of these low rates for
many years, and in the face of the considerable business expansion of
1936–1937, would argue strongly for the acceptance of this condition as
a well-established result of a plethora of capital or of governmental fiscal
policy or of both.
A new uncertainty has been injected into this question by the outbreak
of a European war in 1939. The first World War brought about a sharp
increase in interest rates and a corresponding severe fall in high-grade
bond prices. There are sufficient similarities and differences, both,
between the 1914 and the 1939 situations to make prediction too risky for
comfort. Obviously the danger of a substantial fall in bond prices (from
the level of early 1940) is still a real one; yet a policy of noninvestment
awaiting such a contingency is open to many practical objections. Perhaps
a partiality to maturities no longer than, say, fifteen years from purchase
date may be the most logical reaction to this uncertain situation.
For the small investor, United States Savings Bonds present a perfect
solution of this problem (as well as the one preceding), since the right of
redemption at the option of the holder guarantees them against a lower price.
As we shall point out in a more detailed discussion, the advent of these baby
bonds has truly revolutionized the position of most security buyers.

Chart A.
450

450

400

400
350
300

COURSE OF AMERICAN BUSINESS
AND INDUSTRIAL STOCK PRICES
1900 -1939

AXE-HOUGHTON INDEX OF
INDUSTRIAL STOCK PRICES

350
1936 -1938

300
250

250

200

180

180

160

160
140

140
1911-1913
120

120

100

100

90

90

80
70

AXE-HOUGHTON INDEX OF
TRADE AND INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY

80
70

60

60

50

50
COPYRIGHT
E.W.AXE & CO.
NEW YORK
40
1914 1916 1918 1920 1922 1924 1926 1928 1930 1932 1934 1936 1938 1940

40
1900 1902 1904 1906 1908 1910 1912

INDEX NUMBERS

[26]

INDEX NUMBERS

1923-1925
200

Chart B.
2.6

2.8
3.0

[27]

PER CENT

3.2

COURSE OF
AMERICAN BOND MARKET
1900 -1939

2.8
3.0
3.2

3.4

3.4

3.6

3.6

3.8

3.8

4.0

4.0

4.2

4.2

4.4

4.4

4.6

4.6

4.8
5.0
5.2

YIELD ON 10 HIGH-GRADE
RAILROAD BONDS CORRECTED FOR
SEASONAL VARIATION (INVERTED SCALE)

4.8
5.0
5.2

5.4

5.4

5.6

5.6

5.8

5.8

6.0
COPYRIGHT
6.2
E.W.AXE & CO. 6.2
NEW YORK
6.4
6.4
1900 1902 1904 1906 1908 1910 1912 1914 1916 1918 1920 1922 1924 1926 1928 1930 1932 1934 1936 1938 1940
6.0

PER CENT

2.6

[28]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

3. The Value of the Dollar. If the investor were certain that the purchasing power of the dollar is going to decline substantially, he undoubtedly should prefer common stocks or commodities to bonds. To the extent
that inflation, in the sense commonly employed, remains a possibility, the
investment policy of the typical bond buyer is made more perplexing. The
arguments for and against ultimate inflation are both unusually weighty,
and we must decline to choose between them. The course of the price level
since 1933 would seem to belie inflation fears, but the past is not necessarily conclusive as to the future. Prudence may suggest some compromise in investment policy, to include a component of common stocks
or tangible assets, designed to afford some protection against a serious fall
in the dollar’s value. Such a hybrid policy would involve difficult problems of its own; and in the last analysis each investor must decide for
himself which of the alternative risks he would prefer to run.

B. SPECULATIVE BONDS AND PREFERRED STOCKS
The problems related to this large class of securities are not inherent in
the class itself, but are rather derived from those of investment bonds and
of common stocks, between which they lie. The broad principles underlying the purchase of speculative senior issues remain, in our opinion, the
same as they always were: (1) A risk of principal loss may not be offset
by a higher yield alone but must be accompanied by a commensurate
chance of principal profit; (2) it is generally sounder to approach these
issues as if they were common stocks, but recognizing their limited
claims, than it is to consider them as an inferior type of senior security.

C. THE PROBLEM OF COMMON-STOCK
INVESTMENT
Common-stock speculation, as the term has always been generally understood, is not so difficult to understand as it is to practice successfully. The
speculator admittedly risks his money upon his guess or judgment as to
the general market or the action of a particular stock or possibly on some
future development in the company’s affairs. No doubt the speculator’s
problems have changed somewhat with the years, but we incline to the
view that the qualities and training necessary for success, as well as the
mathematical odds against him, are not vitally different now from what

Introduction to the Second Edition

[29]

they were before. But stock speculation, as such, does not come within
the scope of this volume.

Current Practice. We are concerned, however, with common-stock
investment, which we shall define provisionally as purchases based upon
analysis of value and controlled by definite standards of safety of principal.
If we look to current practice to discern what these standards are, we find
little beyond the rather indefinite concept that “a good stock is a good
investment.” “Good” stocks are those of either (1) leading companies with
satisfactory records, a combination relied on to produce favorable results
in the future; or (2) any well-financed enterprise believed to have especially
attractive prospects of increased future earnings. (As of early 1940, we may
cite Coca-Cola as an example of (1), Abbott Laboratories as an example of
(2), and General Electric as an example of both.)
But although the stock market has very definite and apparently logical ideas as to the quality of the common stocks that it buys for investment, its quantitative standards—governing the relation of price to
determinable value—are so indefinite as to be almost nonexistent.
Balance-sheet values are considered to be entirely out of the picture. Average earnings have little significance when there is a marked trend. The
so-called “price-earnings ratio” is applied variously, sometimes to the
past, sometimes to the present, and sometimes to the near future. But the
ratio itself can scarcely be called a standard, since it is controlled by
investment practice instead of controlling it. In other words the “right”
price-earnings ratio for any stock is what the market says it is. We can
find no evidence that at any time from 1926 to date common-stock
investors as a class have sold their holdings because the price-earnings
ratios were too high.
How the present practice of common-stock investors, including the
investment trusts almost without exception, can properly be termed
investment, in view of this virtual absence of controlling standards, is
more than we can fathom. It would be far more logical and helpful to call
it “speculation in stocks of strong companies.” Certainly the results in the
stock market of such “investment” have been indistinguishable from
those of old-time speculation, except perhaps for the margin element. A
striking confirmation of this statement, as applied to the years after the
1929 crash, is found by comparing the price range of General Electric

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[30]

since 1930 with that of common stocks generally. The following figures
show that General Electric common, which is perhaps the premier and
undoubtedly the longest entrenched investment issue in the industrial
field today, has fluctuated more widely in market price than have the rank
and file of common stocks.
PRICE RANGES OF GENERAL ELECTRIC COMMON, DOW-JONES INDUSTRIALS, AND STANDARD
STATISTICS’ INDUSTRIAL STOCK INDEX, 1930–1939

General Electric
Year
1930
1931
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939

High
95 3/8
54 3/4
26 1/8
30 1/4
25 1/4
40 7/8
55
64 7/8
48
44 5/8

Low
411/2
22 7/8
8 1/2
10 1/2
16 7/8
20 1/2
34 1/2
34
27 1/4
31

Dow-Jones
Industrials
High
294.1
194.4
88.8
108.7
110.7
148.4
184.9
194.4
158.4
155.9

Low
157.5
73.8
41.2
50.2
85.5
96.7
143.1
113.6
99.0
121.4

Standard Statistics
Industrials1
High
174.1
119.1
63.5
92.2
93.3
113.2
148.5
158.7
119.3
118.3

Low
98.2
48.5
30.7
36.5
69.3
72.8
109.1
84.2
73.5
86.7

1 Weekly indexes of prices (1926  100) of 350 industrial issues in 1939 and 347 issues in earlier years.

It was little short of nonsense for the stock market to say in 1937 that
General Electric Company was worth $1,870,000,000 and almost precisely a year later that it was worth only $784,000,000. Certainly nothing
had happened within twelve months’ time to destroy more than half the
value of this powerful enterprise, nor did investors even pretend to claim
that the falling off in earnings from 1937 to 1938 had any permanent significance for the future of the company. General Electric sold at 64 7/8
because the public was in an optimistic frame of mind and at 27 1/4
because the same people were pessimistic. To speak of these prices as representing “investment values” or the “appraisal of investors” is to do violence either to the English language or to common sense, or both.

Four Problems. Assuming that a common-stock buyer were to seek
definite investment standards by which to guide his operations, he might

Introduction to the Second Edition

[31]

well direct his attention to four questions: (1) the general future of corporation profits, (2) the differential in quality between one type of company
and another, (3) the influence of interest rates on the dividends or earnings return that he should demand, and finally (4) the extent to which his
purchases and sales should be governed by the factor of timing as distinct
from price.
The General Future of Corporate Profits. If we study these questions in
the light of past experience, our most pronounced reaction is likely to be a
wholesome scepticism as to the soundness of the stock market’s judgment
on all broad matters relating to the future. The data in our first table show
quite clearly that the market underestimated the attractiveness of industrial
common stocks as a whole in the years prior to 1926. Their prices generally represented a rather cautious appraisal of past and current earnings,
with no signs of any premium being paid for the possibilities of growth
inherent in the leading enterprises of a rapidly expanding commonwealth.
In 1913 railroad and traction issues made up the bulk of investment bonds
and stocks. By 1925 a large part of the investment in street railways had
been endangered by the development of the automobile, but even then there
was no disposition to apprehend a similar threat to the steam railroads.
The widespread recognition of the factor of future growth in common stocks first asserted itself as a stock-market influence at a time when
in fact the most dynamic factors in our national expansion (territorial
development and rapid accretions of population) were no longer operative, and our economy was about to face grave problems of instability
arising from these very checks to the factor of growth. The overvaluations of the new-era years extended to nearly every issue that had even
a short period of increasing earnings to recommend it, but especial favor
was accorded the public-utility and chain-store groups. Even as late as
1931 the high prices paid for these issues showed no realization of their
inherent limitations, just as five years later the market still failed to
appreciate the critical changes taking place in the position of railroad
bonds as well as stocks.
Quality Differentials. The stock market of 1940 has its well-defined
characteristics, founded chiefly on the experience of the recent past and
on the rather obvious prospects of the future. The tendency to favor the
larger and stronger companies is perhaps more pronounced than ever.
This is supported by the record since 1929, which indicates, we believe,
both better resistance to depression and a more complete recovery of

[32]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

earning power in the case of the leading than of the secondary companies. There is also the usual predilection for certain industrial groups,
including companies of smaller size therein. Most prominent are the
chemical and aviation shares—the former because of their really remarkable record of growth through research, the latter because of the great
influx of armament orders.
But these preferences of the current stock market, although easily
understood, may raise some questions in the minds of the sceptical. First
to be considered is the extraordinary disparity between the prices of
prominent and less popular issues. If average earnings of 1934–1939 are
taken as a criterion, the “good stocks” would appear to be selling about
two to three times as high as other issues. In terms of asset values the
divergence is far greater, since obviously the popular issues have earned
a much larger return on their invested capital. The ignoring of asset values has reached a stage where even current assets receive very little attention, so that even a moderately successful enterprise is likely to be selling
at considerably less than its liquidating value if it happens to be rich in
working capital.
The relationship between “good stocks” and other stocks must be considered in the light of what is to be expected of American business generally. Any prediction on the latter point would be highly imprudent; but it
is in order to point out that the record of the last fifteen years does not in
itself supply the basis for an expectation of a long-term upward movement
in volume and profits. In so far as we judge the future by the past we must
recognize a rather complete transformation in the apparent outlook of
1940 against that in 1924. In the earlier year a secular rise in production
and a steady advance in the figure taken as “normal” were accepted as a
matter of course. But so far as we can see now, the 1923–1925 average of
industrial production, formerly taken as 100 on the Federal Reserve
Board’s index,1 must still be considered as high a normal as we have any
right to prognosticate. Needless to say, the investor will not deny the possibility of a renewed secular rise, but the important point for him is that
he cannot count upon it.
1 In 1940 the Board revised this index. New components were added, and the average of
1935–1939 was adopted as the base.

Introduction to the Second Edition

[33]

If this is the working hypothesis of the present stock market, it follows
that stock buyers are expecting in general a further growth in the earnings of large companies at the expense of smaller ones and of favorably
situated industries at the expense of all others. Such an expectation
appears to be the theoretical basis for the high price of the one group and
the low prices found elsewhere. That stocks with good past trends and
favorable prospects are worth more than others goes without saying. But
is it not possible that Wall Street has carried its partiality too far—in this
as in so many other cases? May not the typical large and prosperous company be subject to a twofold limitation: first, that its very size precludes
spectacular further growth; second, that its high rate of earnings on
invested capital makes it vulnerable to attack if not by competition then
perhaps by regulation?
Perhaps, also, the smaller companies and the less popular industries
as a class may be definitely undervalued, both absolutely and in relation
to the favored issues. Surely this can be true in theory, since at some price
level the good stocks must turn out to have been selling too high and the
others too low. There are strong, if not conclusive, reasons for arguing
that this point may have already been reached in 1940. The two possible
points of weakness in the “good stocks” are paralleled by corresponding
favorable possibilities in the others. The numerous issues selling below
net current asset value, even in normal markets, are a powerful indication that Wall Street’s favoritism has been overdone. Finally, if we carry
the analysis further, we must realize that the smaller listed companies are
representative of the hundreds of thousands of private enterprises, of all
sizes, throughout the country. Wall Street is apparently predicting the
continued decline of all business except the very largest, which is to flourish mightily. In our own opinion such a development appears neither economically probable nor politically possible.
Similar doubts may be voiced as to the stock market’s emphasis on
certain favored industries. This is something that, by the nature of the
case, must always be overdone—since there are no quantitative checks on
the public’s enthusiasm for what it likes. Not only has the market invariably carried its optimism too far, but it has shown a surprising aptitude
for favoring industries that soon turned out to be facing adverse developments. (Witness the baking stocks in 1925, the radio and refrigeration

[34]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

issues in 1927, the public utility and chain stores in 1928–1929, the liquor
issues in 1933.) It is interesting to compare the “investor’s” eagerness to
buy Abbott Laboratories in 1939 and his comparative indifference to
American Home Products—the one kind of pharmaceutical company
being thought to have brilliant, and the other to have only mediocre,
prospects in store. This distinction may prove to have been soundly and
shrewdly drawn; but the student who remembers the market’s not so
remote enthusiasm for American Home Products itself and its companions (particularly Lambert) in 1927 can hardly be too confident of the
outcome.2
Interest Rates. Coming now to the third point of importance, viz.,
the relation between interest rates and common-stock prices, it is clear
that if current low bond yields are permanent, they must produce a corresponding decline in average stock yields and an advance in the value
of a dollar of expected earning power, as compared with the situation,
say, in 1923–1925. The more liberal valuation of earnings in 1936–1938,
as shown by the data relating to the Dow-Jones Industrial Average on
page 22, would thus appear to have been justified by the change in the
long-term interest rate. The disconcerting question presents itself, however, whether or not the fall in interest rates is not closely bound up with
the cessation of the secular expansion of business and with a decline in
the average profitability of invested capital. If this is so, the debit factors
in stock values generally may outweigh the credit influence of low interest rates, and a typical dollar of earning power in 1936–1938 may not
really have been worth more than it should have been worth a decade
and a half previously.
The Factor of Timing. Increasing importance has been ascribed in
recent years to the desirability of buying and selling at the right time, as
distinguished from the right price. In earlier periods, when the prices of
investment issues did not usually fluctuate over a wide range, the time of
purchase was not considered of particular importance. Between 1924 and
1929, a comfortable but quite misleading confidence developed in the
unlimited future growth of sound stocks, so that any mistake in timing
was sure to be rectified by the market’s recovery to ever higher levels. The
past decade has witnessed very wide fluctuations without a long-term
upward trend, except in a relatively small number of issues. Under these
2 Data relating to these three companies are given in Appendix Note 1, p. 733 on accompanying CD.

Introduction to the Second Edition

[35]

conditions it is not surprising that successful investment seems, like successful speculation, to be bound up inescapably with the choice of the
right moment to buy and to sell. We thus find that forecasting of the
major market swings appears now to be an integral part of the art of
investment in common stocks.
The validity of stock-market forecasting methods is a subject for
extensive inquiry and perhaps vigorous controversy. At this point we must
content ourselves with a summary judgment, which may reflect our own
prejudices along with our investigations. It is our view that stock-market
timing cannot be done, with general success, unless the time to buy is
related to an attractive price level, as measured by analytical standards.
Similarly, the investor must take his cue to sell primarily not from socalled technical market signals but from an advance in the price level
beyond a point justified by objective standards of value. It may be that
within these paramount limits there are refinements of stock-market
technique that can make for better timing and more satisfactory over-all
results. Yet we cannot avoid the conclusion that the most generally
accepted principle of timing—viz., that purchases should be made only
after an upswing has definitely announced itself—is basically opposed to
the essential nature of investment. Traditionally the investor has been the
man with patience and the courage of his convictions who would buy
when the harried or disheartened speculator was selling. If the investor
is now to hold back until the market itself encourages him, how will he
distinguish himself from the speculator, and wherein will he deserve any
better than the ordinary speculator’s fate?

Conclusion. Our search for definite investment standards for the common-stock buyer has been more productive of warnings than of concrete
suggestions. We have been led to the old principle that the investor should
wait for periods of depressed business and market levels to buy representative common stocks, since he is unlikely to be able to acquire them at
other times except at prices that the future may cause him to regret. On the
other hand, the thousands of so-called “secondary companies” should offer
at least a moderate number of true investment opportunities under all conditions, except perhaps in the heydey of a bull market. This wide but quite
unpopular field may present the more logical challenge to the interest of
the bona fide investor and to the talents of the securities analyst.

This page intentionally left blank

PART I

SURVEY AND
APPROACH

Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

This page intentionally left blank

Introduc tion to Par t I

THE ESSENTIAL LESSONS
BY R O G E R LO W E N S T E I N

I

f the modern reader were asked, what did the junk bonds of the 1980s,
the dot-com stocks of the late 1990s, and, more recently, the various
subprime mortgage portfolios of the 2000s all have in common, the

first correct answer is that each of them took a nosedive from a highly
inflated price to one rather closer to zero. You can throw in, for good
measure, the net asset value and reputation of the world’s most intelligent
hedge fund, Long-Term Capital Management (LTCM). The second right
answer is that each was an investment disaster whose perils could have
been avoided by a patient reading of Security Analysis. Graham and Dodd
wrote the first edition in 1934 and first revised it in 1940—some four
decades before Michael Milken became a household name and three
score years in advance of the frenzy for no-documentation, adjustablerate mortgages. The authors advocated more than a merely generalized
skepticism. They prescribed (as we will see) a series of specific injunctions,
each of which would have served as a prophylactic against one or more of
the above-named fiascos and their associated investment fads.
While the book was received by serious investors as an instant classic,
I cannot say it elevated Wall Street or the public above their tendency to
speculate. If I can venture a guess as to why, it is that even the experienced investor is too often like the teenage driver first taking over the
wheel. He hears the advice about being careful, avoiding icy patches and
so forth, and consigns it to the remote part of his brain reserved for

[39]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[40]

Introduction to Part I

archived parental instructions. He surely does not want to wreck the
family car, but avoiding an accident is a low priority because he does not
think it will happen to him. Thus with our investor: he is focused on making money, not with averting the myriad potential wrecks in the investment landscape. And I suspect that Graham and Dodd have been
ignored by those who suffer from the misconception that trying to make
serious money requires that one take serious risks. In fact, the converse is
true. Avoiding serious loss is a precondition for sustaining a high compound rate of growth.
In 25 years as a financial journalist, virtually all of the investors of this
writer’s acquaintance who have consistently earned superior profits have
been Graham-and-Dodders. The most famous, of course, is Warren Buffett, and he is also the most illustrative. Buffett became Graham’s pupil
and disciple in 1950, when as a scrawny 20-year-old, he confided to a
friend that he would be studying under a pair of “hotshots” (meaning
Benjamin Graham and his assistant David Dodd) at the Columbia Business School.1 And he was also, years later, the first to admit that he had
moved beyond the stocks that lay within his master’s ken. Buffett was an
adapter; he did not imitate his mentor stroke for stroke. He began with
Ben Graham types of stocks such as Berkshire Hathaway, which was then
a struggling textile maker, and he moved on to Walt Disney and American Express, which possessed less in the way of tangible assets but more
in economic value. Yet his approach remained consistent (even if the
choice of securities it yielded did not).
It is this approach, successfully applied by a devoted minority of
other professional and individual investors, that makes Security Analysis
an enduring roadmap. It is still the bible for avoiding those icy patches—
perhaps that much seems obvious—but it is also an instruction manual
for identifying investments that are superior as well as safe.
1 Roger Lowenstein, Buffett: The Making of an American Capitalist (New York: Random House, 1995), p. 35.

Roger Lowenstein

[41]

This was known without a doubt to the working investors who
enrolled in Graham’s classes, some of whom would bolt from the lecture
hall to call their brokers with the names of the stocks that Professor Graham had used as examples. One later successful broker maintained that
Graham’s tips had been so valuable that the class actually paid for his
degree. Whatever the literal truth, Graham was the rare academic who
was both theoretician and working practitioner. Some brief knowledge
of the man will elucidate his approach.2 At a personal level, Graham was
a caricature of the absent-minded professor, a devotee of the classics, a
student of Latin and Greek, and a translator of Spanish poetry who could
dress for work in mismatched shoes and who evidenced little interest in
money. But intellectually, his curiosity was unrivaled. When he graduated
from Columbia in 1914, he was offered positions in English, mathematics,
and philosophy. Taking the advice of a college dean, he went to Wall
Street, which he treated rather like another branch of academia—that is,
as a discipline that was subject to logical and testable principles (albeit
ones that had yet to be discovered). He gravitated to money management, in which he excelled, eventually combining it with writing and
teaching. It took Graham 20 years—which is to say, a complete cycle
from the bull market of the Roaring Twenties through the dark, nearly
ruinous days of the early 1930s—to refine his investment philosophy
into a discipline that was as rigorous as the Euclidean theorems he had
studied in college.

An Analytical Discipline
This analytical approach is evident from the first chapter; indeed, it is the
cornerstone of Part I, in which Graham and Dodd set forth the fundamentals. They promise to use “established principles and sound logic,” or
what the authors term “the scientific method,” and yet they recognize
2 Lowenstein, Buffett, p. 37.

[42]

Introduction to Part I

that, as with law or medicine, investing is not hard science but a discipline in which both skill and chance play a role. Security Analysis is their
prescription for maximizing the influence of the former and minimizing
that of the latter. If you want to trust your portfolio to luck, this is not the
book for you. It is addressed primarily to the investor, as opposed to the
speculator, and the distinction that Graham and Dodd drew between
them remains the heart of the work.
The investors in Graham’s day, of course, operated in a vastly different
landscape than today’s. They suffered periodic and often severe economic depressions, as distinct from the occasional and generally mild
recessions that have been the rule of late. They had less faith that the
future would deliver prosperity, and they had less reliable information
about specific securities. For such reasons, they were more inclined to
invest in bonds than in stocks, most often in the bonds of well-known
industrial companies. And the names of the leading companies didn’t
change much from year to year or even from decade to decade. American industry was increasingly regulated, and it was not as dynamic as it
has been in recent times. Wall Street was an exclusive club, and investing
was a rich person’s game, not the popular sport it has become. The
range of investment possibilities was also narrower. As for “alternative
investments”—suffice to say that investing in a start-up that had yet to
earn any profits would have been considered positively daft.
The changes in the marketplace have been so profound that it
might seem astonishing that an investment manual written in the 1930s
would have any relevance today. But human nature doesn’t change.
People still oscillate between manic highs and depressive lows, and in
their hunger for instant profits, their distaste for the hard labor of serious study and for independent thought, modern investors look very
much like their grandfathers and even their great-grandfathers. Then as
now, it takes discipline to overcome the demons (largely emotional)

Roger Lowenstein

[43]

that impede most investors. And the essentials of security analysis have
not much changed.
In the 1930s, there was a common notion that bonds were safe—
suitable for “investment”—while stocks were unsafe. Graham and Dodd
rejected this mechanical rule, as they did, more generally, the notion of
relying on the form of any security. They recognized that the various
issues in the corporate food chain (senior bonds, junior debt, preferred
stock, and common) were not so much dissimilar but rather part of a
continuum. And though a bondholder, it is true, has an economic, and
also a legal, priority over a stockholder, it is not the contractual obligation that provides safety to the bondholder, the authors pointed out,
but “the ability of the debtor corporation to meet its obligations.” And
it follows that (leaving aside the tax shield provided from interest
expense) the bondholder’s claim cannot be worth more than the
company’s net worth would be to an owner who held it free and clear
of debt.
This might seem obvious, but it was in no way apparent to the creditors of Federated Department Stores (which operated Bloomingdale’s
and other high-end retailers) during the junk bond mania of the late
1980s. Investment banks had discovered, without any sense of shame,
that they could sell junk bonds to a credulous public irrespective of the
issuers’ ability to repay them. In 1988, Federated agreed to a leveraged
acquisition by the Canadian developer and corporate raider Robert Campeau, which committed the company to annual interest charges thereafter of $600 million. This was rather an interesting figure because
Federated was earning only $400 million.3 The Federated bonds thus violated the rule that creditors can never extract more from a company
than it actually has. (They also violated common sense.) Not two years

3 Louis Lowenstein, University Lecture, Columbia University, Spring 1989.

[44]

Introduction to Part I

later, Federated filed for bankruptcy and its bonds crashed. Needless to
say, the investors hadn’t read Graham and Dodd.
In accordance with the customs of its era, Security Analysis spends
more time on bonds than it would were it written today (another sign of
its Great Depression vintage is that there is scant mention of the risk that
inflation poses to bondholders). But the general argument against evaluating securities on the basis of their type or formal classification is as trenchant as ever. Investors may have overcome (to a fault) their fear of stocks,
but they fall into equally simplistic traps, such as supposing that investing
in a stock market index is always and ever prudent—or even, until
recently, that real estate “never goes down.” Graham and Dodd’s rejoinder
was timeless: at a price, any security can be a suitable investment, but, to
repeat, none is safe merely by virtue of its form. Nor does the fact that a
stock is “blue chip” (that is, generally respected and widely owned) protect
investors from loss. Graham and Dodd cited AT&T, which tumbled from a
price of $494 a share in 1929 to a Depression low of $36. Modern readers
will think of Ma Bell’s notorious offspring, Lucent Technologies, which in
the late 1990s was the bluest of blue chips—the darling of institutional
investors—until it tumbled from $80 to less than a dollar.
Graham and Dodd went from AT&T and from the general madness of
the late 1920s to argue that the standard for an investment could not be
based on “psychological” factors such as popularity or renown—for it
would allow the market to invent new standards as it went along. The
parallel to the Internet bubble of the late 1990s is eerie, for making up
standards is exactly what so-called investors did. Promoters claimed that
stocks no longer needed earnings, and the cream of Wall Street—firms
such as Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, and Merrill Lynch—thought
nothing of touting issues of companies that did not have a prayer of
realizing profits.

Roger Lowenstein

[45]

Beware of Capitalizing Hope
When Graham and Dodd warned against “the capitalization of entirely
conjectural future prospects,” they could have been referring to the finde-siècle saga of Internet Capital Group (ICG), which provided seed
money to Web-based start-ups, most of which were trying to start online
businesses. It put money in some 47 of these prospects, and its total
investment was about $350 million. Then, in August 1999, ICG itself went
public at a price of $6 a share. By year-end, amidst the frenzy for Internet
stocks, it was trading at $170. At that price, it was valued at precisely $46
billion. Since the company had little of value besides its investments in
the start-ups, the market was assuming that, on average, its 47 seedlings
would provide an average return of better than 100 to 1. Talk about capitalizing hope! Most investors do not realize a 100-for-1 return even once
in their lifetimes. Alas, within a couple of years ICG’s shares had been
reappraised by the market at 25 cents.
Such vignettes, though useful as well as entertaining, are merely proscriptive; they tell us what not to do. It is only when, after considerable
discussion, Graham and Dodd delineate the boundary line between
investment and speculation that we get our first insight of what to do.
“An investment,” we are told in a carefully chosen phrase, is an operation
“that promises safety of principal and a satisfactory return.”
The operative word here is “promises.” It does not assume an ironclad
guarantee (some promises after all are broken, and some investments do
lose money). But it assumes a high degree of certainty. No one would
have said of an Internet Capital Group that it “promised” safety. But that
is perhaps too easy a case. Let us look at a more established and, indeed,
a more reasonably priced stock, that of Washington Mutual. Most of its
shareholders at the end of 2006 presumably would have classified

[46]

Introduction to Part I

themselves as “investors.” The bank was large and geographically diverse;
it had increased earnings nine straight years before falling off, only
slightly, in 2006. Its stock over those 10 years had well more than
doubled.
True, “WaMu,” as it is known, had a large portfolio of mortgages,
including subprime mortgages. Across the United States, such mortgages
had been extended on an increasingly flimsy basis (that is, to borrowers
of dubious credit), and defaults had started to tick up. But WaMu was
held in high regard. It was said to have the most sophisticated tools for
risk assessment, and its public statements were reassuring. The chairman’s year-end letter applauded his company for being “positioned . . . to
deliver stronger operating performance in 2007.” The casual stock picker,
even the professional, would have had no trouble describing WaMu as an
“investment.”
Graham and Dodd, however, insisted that “safety must be based on
study and on standards,” in particular, study of the published financials.
For 2006, WaMu’s annual report indicated a balance of $20 billion of subprime loans, which (though WaMu didn’t make the connection) was
equal to 80% of its total stockholder equity. What’s more, the subprime
portfolio had doubled in four years. WaMu had made it a practice of getting such loans off its balance sheet by securitizing them and selling
them to investors, but, as it noted, if delinquency rates were to rise,
investors might have less appetite for subprime loans and WaMu could
wind up stuck with them. And delinquency rates were rising. Subprime
loans classified as “nonperforming” had jumped by 50% in the past year
and had tripled in four years. The risk of nonpayment was especially
acute because WaMu had issued many loans above the traditional limit
of 80% of home value—meaning that if the real estate market were to
weaken, some customers would owe more than their homes were worth.
WaMu had a much larger portfolio, about $100 billion, of traditional
mortgages (those rated higher than subprime). But even many of these

Roger Lowenstein

[47]

loans were not truly “traditional.” On 60% of the mortgages in its total
portfolio, the interest rate was due to adjust within one year, meaning
that its customers could face sharply higher—and potentially unaffordable—rates. WaMu disclosed that such folks had been spared the possibility of foreclosure by the steady rise in home prices. This was a rather
powerful admission, especially as, the bank observed, “appreciation levels experienced during the past five years may not continue.” In fact, the
real estate slump was becoming national news. WaMu had bet the ranch
on a rising market and now the market was tanking.
Parsing such disclosures may seem like a lot of effort (WaMu’s report
is 194 pages), and indeed it does entail work. But no one who took the
trouble to read WaMu’s annual report would have concluded that WaMu
promised safety. The Graham and Dodd investor therefore would have
been spared the pain when home prices fell and subprime losses sharply
escalated. Such losses would soon prove catastrophic. Late in 2007
WaMu abandoned the subprime business and laid off thousands of
employees. For the fourth quarter, it reported a loss of nearly $2 billion,
and over the full year its shares suffered a 70% decline.
Since (as WaMu discovered) market trends can quickly reverse, Graham
and Dodd counseled readers to invest on a sounder foundation, that is, on
the basis of a security’s intrinsic value. They never—surprise to say—
define the term, but we readily grasp its meaning. “Intrinsic value” is the
worth of an enterprise to one who owns it “for keeps.” Logically, it must be
based on the cash flow that would go to a continuing owner over the
long run, as distinct from a speculative assessment of its resale value.
The underlying premise requires a tiny leap of faith. Occasionally,
stocks and bonds trade for less than intrinsic value, thus the opportunity.
But sooner or later—here is where faith comes into the picture—such
securities should revert to intrinsic value (else why invest in them?). To
summarize the core of Part I in plain English, Graham and Dodd told
investors to look for securities at a hefty discount to what they are worth.

[48]

Introduction to Part I

A Range of Values
The rub, then and now, is how to calculate that worth. I suspect the
authors deliberately refrained from defining intrinsic value, lest they convey the misleading impression that the value of a security can be precisely determined. Given the practical limits of people’s ability to forecast
(an earnings report, a romance, the weather, or anything), the authors
urge that investors think in terms of a range of values. Happily, this is
quite satisfactory for the purposes of investors. To quote Graham and
Dodd: “It is quite possible to decide by inspection that a woman is old
enough to vote without knowing her age or that a man is heavier than
he should be without knowing his weight.” (p. 66)
Precision is in any case unnecessary because the aim is to pay a good
deal less than intrinsic value, so as to provide a margin of safety. Just as it
would be tempting fate to cross a bridge while carrying the maximum
allowable tonnage, buying a stock at full value would involve “a speculative component” (since one’s calculation of value could be off ).
A somewhat similar cautionary note is that favorable odds will not
endow the gambler with the element of safety required for investing.
Graham and Dodd used the example of a mythical roulette wheel in
which the odds had been reversed to 19 to 18 in favor of the customer.
“If the player wagers all his money on a single number, the small odds in
his favor are of slight importance,” the authors note. In fact, the investor
would be ill advised to risk his all on a single spin even if the odds were
strongly in his favor.
The Long-Term Capital Management hedge fund made just such a
bet, or a series of bets, in 1998. Each of its trades had been mathematically calculated (the fund had a pair of Nobel Prize winners in residence),
and its previous experience suggested that on each of its trades the
odds were in its favor. However, LTCM, which was highly leveraged,

Roger Lowenstein

[49]

risked far more than it could afford to lose. And its various bets, though
superficially unrelated, were linked thematically (each was a bet that the
risk premiums on bonds would narrow). When one trade fell, they all did,
and the legendary fund was wiped out.
So we are back to the question of what will qualify as an investment.
There is a well-traveled myth that Graham and Dodd exclusively relied
on a company’s book value to determine a safe threshold. While intrinsic
value measures the economic potential—what an owner might hope to
get out of an asset—book value is an arithmetic computation of what
has been invested into it.4 But book value alone cannot be determinative. If you invested an equal sum in, say, two auto companies, one run
by Toyota and the other by General Motors, the book values would be
equal, but their intrinsic or economic values would be very different. Graham and Dodd did not fall into this error; they stated plainly that, in
terms of forecasting the course of stock prices, book value was “almost
worthless as a practical matter.”
But Graham frequently found securities that, solely on the basis of
their assets and after putting them to hard study, met the safety-ofprincipal test. In the 1930s, markets were so depressed that it was not
uncommon for stocks to sell at less than the value of their cash on hand,
even after subtracting their debt. (This was akin to buying a home for
less than the amount of money in the bedroom safe and getting to keep
the safe as well!) Such hypercheap investments are scarcer today due to
the broader-based interest in the stock market and to the armies of
investors, often armed with computer screens, perpetually looking for
bargains.

4 Technically, book value equals the sum of what has been invested in a company, plus accumulated

profits less the dividends it has paid. An alternate but mathematically equivalent definition is that
book value is equal to the total assets minus the total liabilities.

[50]

Introduction to Part I

Bargain Hunting
Nonetheless, they do exist. Individual stocks are often cheap when a whole
industry or group of securities has been sold down indiscriminately. In the
early 1980s, for instance, the savings and loan industry was depressed, and
for good reason. Following the elimination of regulatory ceilings on interest
rates, thrifts had been forced to pay higher rates for short-term deposits
than they were receiving on long-term loans. Mutual savings banks (owned
by their depositors) began to go public to attract more capital, and as they
did so, their stocks fetched very low values. United Savings Bank of Tacoma,
for one, traded at only 35% of book value. Though many thrifts of the day
were weak, Tacoma was profitable and well capitalized. “People didn’t
understand them,” says one investor who did. “They had just converted
[from mutual ownership], they were small, they were off people’s radar.”
Within a year, the investor had quintupled his money.
Another opportunity beckoned in 1997, after the contagious meltdown of Asian stock and currency markets. Once again, the selling was
indiscriminate—it tarred good companies and bad alike. Graham and
Dodd investors responded opportunistically, booking flights to Hong
Kong, Singapore, and Kuala Lumpur. Greg Alexander, who manages
money for Ruane Cunniff & Goldfarb, read the annual report of every
Asian company he had heard of and determined that South Korea, which
previously had discouraged foreign investment and was thus especially
short on capital, offered the best bargains. He flew to Seoul and, though
still in a jet-lagged stupor, realized he was in a Graham-and-Dodders’
heaven. Cheap stocks were hanging on the market like overripe fruit.
Shinyoung Securities, a local brokerage firm that had stocked up on
high-yielding South Korean government bonds when interest rates were
at a peak, was trading at less than half of book value. Surprisingly, even
as late as 2004, Daekyo Corp., an after-school tutoring company, was
trading at only $20 a share, even though each share represented $22.66

Roger Lowenstein

[51]

in cash in addition to a slice of the ongoing business. In Graham and
Dodd terms, such stocks promised safety because they were selling for
less than their tangible worth. Alexander bought a dozen South Korean
stocks; each would rise manyfold within a relatively short time.
The competition for such values is fiercer in the United States, but they
can be found, especially, again, when some broader trend punishes an
entire sector of the market. In 2001, for instance, energy stocks were
cheap (as was the price of oil). Graham and Dodd would not have advised
speculating on the price of oil—which is dependent on myriad uncertain
factors from OPEC to the growth rate of China’s economy to the weather.
But because the industry was depressed, drilling companies were selling
for less than the value of their equipment. Ensco International was trading
at less than $15 per share, while the replacement value of its rigs was estimated at $35. Patterson-UTI Energy owned some 350 rigs worth about
$2.8 billion. Yet its stock was trading for only $1 billion. Investors were getting the assets at a huge discount. Though the subsequent oil price rise
made these stocks home runs, the key point is that the investments
weren’t dependent on the oil price. Graham and Dodd investors bought
into these stocks with a substantial margin of safety.
A more common sort of asset play involves peering through the corporate shell to the various subsidiaries: sometimes, the pieces add up to
more than the whole. An interesting case was Xcel Energy in 2002. Xcel
owned five subsidiaries, so analyzing the stock required some mathematical deconstruction (Graham had a natural affinity for such calculations). Four of the subsidiaries were profitable utilities; the other was an
alternative energy supplier that was overloaded with debt and apparently headed for bankruptcy. The parent was not responsible for the subsidiary’s debt. However, in the aftermath of the Enron collapse, utility
holding companies were shunned by investors. “It was a strange time,”
recalled a hedge fund manager. “People were selling first and examining
second. The market was irrational.”

[52]

Introduction to Part I

Xcel’s bonds were trading at 56 cents on the dollar (thus, you could
buy a $1,000 obligation of the parent for only $560). And the bonds paid
an attractive coupon of 7%. The question was whether Xcel could pay
the interest. The hedge fund investor discovered that Xcel had $1 billion
of these bonds outstanding and that the book value of its healthy subsidiaries was $4 billion (these are the sort of endlessly useful figures that
can be dug out of corporate disclosures). On paper, then, its assets were
enough to redeem the bonds with plenty to spare. The hedge fund
investor bought every bond he could find.
When no more of the bonds were available, the investor began to
look at Xcel’s stock, which was depressed for the same reason as its
bonds. The stock wasn’t quite as safe (in a bankruptcy, bondholders get
paid off first). Still, the investor’s calculations had convinced him that the
parent company would not file for bankruptcy. And the profitable subsidiaries were earning $500 million, more than $1 a share. The stock was
trading at $7, or less than seven times earnings. So the investor bought
the stock too.
The weak subsidiary did file for bankruptcy, but as expected this did
not detract from the value of the parent. Within a year, the panic over
such utilities subsided, and Wall Street reevaluated Xcel. The bonds went
from $56 to $105. The stock also soared. The investor doubled his money
on each of his Xcel trades. Neither had been a roll of the dice; rather, each
was quantifiably demonstrable as a Graham and Dodd investment. “It was
a safe, steady industry,” the investor agreed. “Not a lot of business-cycle
risks. I think Ben Graham would have approved.”
As intriguing as Xcel types of puzzles may be, most stocks will simply
be valued on their earnings. In reality, the process isn’t “simple.” Valuing
equities involves a calculation of what a company should be able to earn
each year, going forward, as distinct from taking a snapshot of the assets
it has at the moment. Graham and Dodd reluctantly endorsed this exercise—“reluctantly” because the future is never as certain as the present.

Roger Lowenstein

[53]

Forecasting Flows
To forecast earnings with any degree of confidence is extremely difficult.
The best guide can only be what a company has earned in the past. But
capitalism is dynamic. Graham and Dodd frowned on trying to estimate
earnings for businesses of “inherently unstable character.” Due to the
rapidity with which technology evolves, many high-tech companies are
innately unstable or at least unpredictable. In the late 1990s, Yahoo! was
vulnerable to the risk that somebody would invent a better search
engine (somebody did: Google). McDonald’s doesn’t face that risk. Its
business depends largely on its brand, whose strength is unlikely to
change much from one year to the next. And no one is going to reinvent
the hamburger. It should be noted, though, that even McDonald’s cannot stand still; it has recently introduced espresso on its menu, in part to
fend off competitors such as Starbucks.
Some present-day Graham-and-Dodders (perhaps because Buffett
has had a well-publicized aversion to high tech) have a mistaken notion
that all technology is impossible to analyze and is therefore off-limits.
Such a wooden rule violates the Graham and Dodd precept that analysts
make a fact-determinant, company-specific analysis. One example of a
high-tech company that submits to a Graham type of analysis is Amazon.com. Though it does business exclusively on the Web, Amazon is
essentially a retailer, and it may be evaluated in the same way as WalMart, Sears, and so forth. The question, as always, is, does the business
provide an adequate margin of safety at a given market price. For much
of Amazon’s short life, the stock was wildly overpriced. But when the
dot-com bubble burst, its securities collapsed. Buffett himself bought
Amazon’s deeply discounted bonds after the crash, when there was
much fearful talk that Amazon was headed for bankruptcy. The bonds
subsequently rose to par, and Buffett made a killing. Another example is
Intel, now a relatively mature manufacturer whose chip volume varies

[54]

Introduction to Part I

with the performance of the economy much as General Motors’ did in
earlier eras. Indeed, Intel has been around for far longer than GM had
been when Graham and Dodd were writing this book.
In estimating future earnings (for any sort of business), Security Analysis provides two vital rules. One, as noted, is that companies with stable
earnings are easier to forecast and hence preferable. The world having
become more changeable, this precept might be modestly updated, to
wit: the more volatile a firm’s earnings, the more cautious one should be
in estimating its future and the further back into its past one should
look. Graham and Dodd suggested 10 years.
The second point relates to the tendency of earnings to fluctuate, at
least somewhat, in a cyclical pattern. Therefore, Graham and Dodd made
a vital (and oft-overlooked) distinction. A firm’s average earnings can provide a rough guide to the future; the earnings trend is far less reliable.
Any baseball fan knows that just because a .250 hitter hits .300 for a
week, it cannot be assumed that he will necessarily hit that well for the
rest of the season. And even if he does, the odds are he will revert to
form the next year. But investors get seduced by the trend; perhaps they
want to be seduced, for as Graham and Dodd observed, “Trends carried
far enough into the future will yield any desired result.”
To understand the distinction between the average and the trend,
let’s look at the earnings per share of Microsoft over the last half of the
1990s. (Each year is for the 12-month period ended in June.)
1995

$0.16

1996

$0.23

1997

$0.36

1998

$0.46

1999

$0.77

2000

$0.91

Roger Lowenstein

[55]

Although the average for the period is 48 cents, the more recent
numbers are higher, and the upward trend is unmistakable. Projecting
the trend into the future, a casual analyst at the turn of the century
might have penciled in numbers like this:
$1.10
$1.30
$1.55
Give or take a few pennies, this is exactly what so-called analysts
were doing. Early in 2000, the stock was trading above $50, based on the
expectation that earnings would continue to soar. But 2000 was the peak
of the cycle for ordering new computers. As new orders fell, Microsoft’s
earnings plummeted. In 2001, it earned 72 cents. The next year, it earned
only 50 cents, virtually equal to its average for the mid-1990s. The stock
plunged into the low $20s.
Microsoft, however, was not some Internet fly-by-night. Over 20 years,
it has always been profitable, and aside from the 2001–2002 cyclical
slump, its earnings have steadily increased. Investors arguably overreacted
to the slump much as, in the past, they overreacted to favorable news.
They became fearful that Google might invade Microsoft’s turf, though
this concern was highly speculative. Microsoft continued to dominate
operating software (indeed, it has had a virtual monopoly in that business) and to generate a prodigious cash flow. Also, since it has little need
for reinvestment, it is free to employ its cash as it chooses. (By contrast, an
airline must continually reinvest in new planes.) In that sense, Microsoft is
an inherently good business. By fiscal 2007, it was trading at a multiple of
only 15 times earnings, well less than its intrinsic characteristics justified
given the strength of the franchise. Once Wall Street reawakened to the
fact, the stock quickly rose 50% from its low. This demonstrates the

[56]

Introduction to Part I

continuing pas de deux of price and value. At a high price, Microsoft was a
sheer speculation; at a low one, a sound investment.
The mention of cash flow points to an area in which Security Analysis
is truly dated. In the 1930s, companies did not have to publish cash flow
reports, and virtually none of them did. Today, detailed cash flow statements are required, and for serious investors they are indispensable. The
income statement gives the company’s accounting profit; the cash flow
statement reports what happened to its money.
Companies that try to cook the books such as Enron or Waste Management can always dress up the earnings statement, at least for a while.
But they can’t manufacture cash. Thus, when the income statement and
the cash flow statement start to diverge, it’s a signal that something is
amiss. At Sunbeam, the high-flying appliance company run by “Chainsaw” Al Dunlap, sales of blenders were reportedly (reported by the company, that is) going through the roof, but the cash flow wasn’t. It turned
out that Dunlap was engaged in a massive fraud. Though he sold the
company, it collapsed soon after, and “Chainsaw” was sawed off by the
SEC from ever again serving as an officer or director in a public company.
Similarly, when Lucent’s stock was sky-high, it was not actually collecting cash for many of the phone systems it was delivering, in particular to customers in developing countries. It was, in effect, loaning them
out pending payment. Though these “sales” were booked into earnings,
once again, the cash flow statement didn’t lie.
This is a mischief that Graham would have discovered because an
uncollected item goes on the balance sheet as a receivable, and Graham
was a fiend for reading balance sheets. Graham and Dodd paid more
attention to the balance sheet, which records a moment in financial time,
than to earnings and cash flow statements, which depict the change over
a previous quarter or year, because such information was either not available or not very detailed. Even the requirement for quarterly earnings was

Roger Lowenstein

[57]

new in 1940, and earnings statements did not come freighted, as they do
today, with detailed footnotes and discussions of significant risks.
Graham supplemented the published financials (though they were
his primary source) with a highly eclectic mix of trade and government
publications. When researching a coal stock, he consulted reports of the
U.S. Coal Commission; on autos, Cram’s Auto Service. For contemporary
investors, in most cases, published financials are both exhaustive and reliable. Also, today, industry data are more widely available.
An investor in U.S. securities thus faces a challenge unimaginable to
Graham and Dodd. Where the latter suffered a paucity of information,
investors today confront a surfeit. Company financials are denser, and
the information on the Internet is, of course, unlimited—a worrisome
fact given its uneven quality. The challenge is to weed out what is irrelevant, insignificant, or just plain wrong, or rather, to identify what in particular is important. This would have meant identifying cash flow issues
at Lucent or subprime exposure in the case of WaMu before the stocks
ran into trouble.
As a rule of thumb, investors should spend the bulk of their time on
the disclosures of the security under study, and they should spend significant time on the reports of competitors. The point is not just to memorize the numbers but to understand them; as we have seen, both the
balance sheet and the statement of cash flow will throw significant light
on the number that Wall Street pays the most attention to, the reported
earnings.
There cannot be an absolute recommendation regarding investors’
sources because people learn in different ways. Walter Schloss, a Graham
employee and later a famed investor in his own right, and his son and
associate Edwin shared a single telephone so that neither would spend
too much time talking on it. (The Schlosses worked in an office that has
been compared to a closet.) Like the Schlosses, many investors work

[58]

Introduction to Part I

best in teams. On the other hand, Buffett, who works in an unpretentious
office in Omaha, is famously solitary. His partner, Charlie Munger, resides
in Los Angeles, 1,500 miles west, and in a day-to-day sense, Buffett
operates largely on his own. And while some investors rely strictly on
the published financials, others do substantial legwork. Eddie Lampert,
the hedge fund manager, visited dozens of outlets of auto-parts retailer
AutoZone before he bought a controlling stake in it. This was Lampert’s
way of getting into his comfort zone.

Information at a Premium
In general, the greater dispersion of public information today puts a premium on information that is exclusive. The most likely source of exclusive information (apologies to Schloss) is the telephone. Some mutual
funds employ former journalists to ferret out investing “scoops.” They call
former employees for a candid appraisal of management; they talk to
suppliers and competitors. One mutual fund discovered that a justnamed CEO of a prominent financial company had confessed to an associate that he was nervous about taking the job because he couldn’t read
financial statements. The fund, which had been looking at the stock,
immediately lost interest. Though not everyone has the resources to hire
a private sleuth, some research is eminently affordable. An enterprising
stockbroker kept tabs on one of his stocks, Jones Soda, by chatting up
baristas at Starbucks, one of the outlets where Jones was sold. When
they told him that Starbucks was dropping the brand, he sold the stock
pronto. Also, there is a certain kind of conviction that can be gleaned
only from hearing management answer unscripted questions. Be forewarned, though; some executives will lie.
Graham was particularly mistrustful of executives (he did not like to
visit managements for this reason). He and Dodd warned that “objective

Roger Lowenstein

[59]

tests of managerial ability are few.” Just as it is difficult to apportion
proper credit to a winning coach, it is hard to say how much of a company’s success is attributable to the executives. Investors often ascribe to
managerial prowess what could be the residue of favorable conditions
(or simply of good luck). Coca-Cola’s earnings were rising sharply in the
early and mid-1990s, and the company’s aggressively promotional CEO,
Roberto Goizueta, was feted on the cover of Fortune. Goizueta was talented, but his talent was fully reflected in Coca-Cola’s earnings, and the
earnings were reflected in the price of the stock. Investors, however,
went a further step, pushing the stock to a lofty 45 times earnings due to
their faith in management to increase earnings. Graham and Dodd
referred to this as “double-counting”—that is, investors buy the stock on
the basis of their faith in management and then, seeing that the stock
has risen, take it as additional proof of management’s powers and bid
the stock up further. In 1997, an analyst at Oppenheimer was so smitten
by Goizueta, who died later that year, that he wrote that Coca-Cola had
“absolute control over near-term results.”5
Such faith was misplaced on three accounts. First, Goizueta’s talent
was already factored into the stock. Second, the notion that management had “absolute control” was a myth, as was demonstrated when
growth tapered off. Third, to the extent it did have control, it was by
“managing” Coca-Cola’s earnings, with the aid of dubious accounting
contrivances. For instance, Coca-Cola made a practice of selling stakes in
bottling plants and booking the gains into operating earnings to make
its numbers. The suggestion that Goizueta was a magically talented guru
was a warning signal. Rather than prove that Goizueta had the power to
levitate earnings in the future, it raised questions about the quality of
5 Roger Lowenstein, Origins of the Crash: The Great Bubble and Its Undoing (New York: Penguin Press,

2004), p. 70.

[60]

Introduction to Part I

the earnings he had achieved in the past. As reality caught up with
Coca-Cola, the stock went into a decadelong funk.
Such examples should demonstrate that investing is hardly less risky
today than in Graham and Dodd’s era, nor is the human spirit less vulnerable to temptation and error. The complexity of our markets has further enhanced the need for an investing guide that is straightforward,
logical, detailed, and, most especially, prudent. This and no more was
the authors’ brief. Herewith Part I—a primer on intrinsic value, an exploration of investment as distinct from speculation, and an introduction to
Graham and Dodd’s approach, their philosophy, their stratagems and
guidance, and their tools.

Chapter 1

THE SCOPE AND LIMITATIONS OF
SECURITY ANALYSIS. THE CONCEPT
OF INTRINSIC VALUE

ANALYSIS CONNOTES the careful study of available facts with the attempt
to draw conclusions therefrom based on established principles and sound
logic. It is part of the scientific method. But in applying analysis to the
field of securities we encounter the serious obstacle that investment is
by nature not an exact science. The same is true, however, of law and
medicine, for here also both individual skill (art) and chance are important factors in determining success or failure. Nevertheless, in these professions analysis is not only useful but indispensable, so that the same
should probably be true in the field of investment and possibly in that of
speculation.
In the last three decades the prestige of security analysis in Wall Street
has experienced both a brilliant rise and an ignominious fall—a history
related but by no means parallel to the course of stock prices. The advance
of security analysis proceeded uninterruptedly until about 1927, covering a long period in which increasing attention was paid on all sides to
financial reports and statistical data. But the “new era” commencing in
1927 involved at bottom the abandonment of the analytical approach; and
while emphasis was still seemingly placed on facts and figures, these were
manipulated by a sort of pseudo-analysis to support the delusions of the
period. The market collapse in October 1929 was no surprise to such analysts as had kept their heads, but the extent of the business collapse which
later developed, with its devastating effects on established earning power,
again threw their calculations out of gear. Hence the ultimate result was
that serious analysis suffered a double discrediting: the first—prior to the
crash—due to the persistence of imaginary values, and the second—after
the crash—due to the disappearance of real values.
[61]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[62]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The experiences of 1927–1933 were of so extraordinary a character
that they scarcely provide a valid criterion for judging the usefulness of
security analysis. As to the years since 1933, there is perhaps room for a
difference of opinion. In the field of bonds and preferred stocks, we
believe that sound principles of selection and rejection have justified
themselves quite well. In the common-stock arena the partialities of the
market have tended to confound the conservative viewpoint, and conversely many issues appearing cheap under analysis have given a disappointing performance. On the other hand, the analytical approach would
have given strong grounds for believing representative stock prices to be
too high in early 1937 and too low a year later.

THREE FUNCTIONS OF ANALYSIS:
1. DESCRIPTIVE FUNCTION
The functions of security analysis may be described under three headings: descriptive, selective, and critical. In its more obvious form, descriptive analysis consists of marshalling the important facts relating to an
issue and presenting them in a coherent, readily intelligible manner. This
function is adequately performed for the entire range of marketable corporate securities by the various manuals, the Standard Statistics and Fitch
services, and others. A more penetrating type of description seeks to
reveal the strong and weak points in the position of an issue, compare its
exhibit with that of others of similar character, and appraise the factors
which are likely to influence its future performance. Analysis of this kind
is applicable to almost every corporate issue, and it may be regarded as
an adjunct not only to investment but also to intelligent speculation in
that it provides an organized factual basis for the application of judgment.

2. THE SELECTIVE FUNCTION OF
SECURITY ANALYSIS
In its selective function, security analysis goes further and expresses specific judgments of its own. It seeks to determine whether a given issue
should be bought, sold, retained, or exchanged for some other. What
types of securities or situations lend themselves best to this more positive activity of the analyst, and to what handicaps or limitations is it subject? It may be well to start with a group of examples of analytical
judgments, which could later serve as a basis for a more general inquiry.

Survey and Approach

[63]

Examples of Analytical Judgments. In 1928 the public was offered
a large issue of 6% noncumulative preferred stock of St. Louis-San Francisco Railway Company priced at 100. The record showed that in no year
in the company’s history had earnings been equivalent to as much as 11/2
times the fixed charges and preferred dividends combined. The application of well-established standards of selection to the facts in this case
would have led to the rejection of the issue as insufficiently protected.
A contrasting example: In June 1932 it was possible to purchase 5%
bonds of Owens-Illinois Glass Company, due 1939, at 70, yielding 11%
to maturity. The company’s earnings were many times the interest
requirements—not only on the average but even at that time of severe
depression. The bond issue was amply covered by current assets alone,
and it was followed by common and preferred stock with a very large
aggregate market value, taking their lowest quotations. Here, analysis
would have led to the recommendation of this issue as a strongly
entrenched and attractively priced investment.
Let us take an example from the field of common stocks. In 1922,
prior to the boom in aviation securities, Wright Aeronautical Corporation stock was selling on the New York Stock Exchange at only $8,
although it was paying a $1 dividend, had for some time been earning
over $2 a share, and showed more than $8 per share in cash assets in the
treasury. In this case analysis would readily have established that the
intrinsic value of the issue was substantially above the market price.
Again, consider the same issue in 1928 when it had advanced to $280
per share. It was then earning at the rate of $8 per share, as against $3.77
in 1927. The dividend rate was $2; the net-asset value was less than $50
per share. A study of this picture must have shown conclusively that the
market price represented for the most part the capitalization of entirely
conjectural future prospects—in other words, that the intrinsic value was
far less than the market quotation.
A third kind of analytical conclusion may be illustrated by a comparison of Interborough Rapid Transit Company First and Refunding 5s
with the same company’s Collateral 7% Notes, when both issues were
selling at the same price (say 62) in 1933. The 7% notes were clearly
worth considerably more than the 5s. Each $1,000 note was secured by
deposit of $1,736 face amount of 5s; the principal of the notes had
matured; they were entitled either to be paid off in full or to a sale of the

[64]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

collateral for their benefit. The annual interest received on the collateral
was equal to about $87 on each 7% note (which amount was actually
being distributed to the note holders), so that the current income on the
7s was considerably greater than that on the 5s. Whatever technicalities
might be invoked to prevent the note holders from asserting their contractual rights promptly and completely, it was difficult to imagine
conditions under which the 7s would not be intrinsically worth considerably more than the 5s.
A more recent comparison of the same general type could have been
drawn between Paramount Pictures First Convertible Preferred selling at
113 in October 1936 and the common stock concurrently selling at 15 7/8.
The preferred stock was convertible at the holders’ option into seven
times as many shares of common, and it carried accumulated dividends
of about $11 per share. Obviously the preferred was cheaper than the
common, since it would have to receive very substantial dividends before
the common received anything, and it could also share fully in any
rise of the common by reason of the conversion privilege. If a common
stockholder had accepted this analysis and exchanged his shares for oneseventh as many preferred, he would soon have realized a large gain both
in dividends received and in principal value.1

Intrinsic Value vs. Price. From the foregoing examples it will be
seen that the work of the securities analyst is not without concrete
results of considerable practical value, and that it is applicable to a wide
variety of situations. In all of these instances he appears to be concerned
with the intrinsic value of the security and more particularly with the
discovery of discrepancies between the intrinsic value and the market
price. We must recognize, however, that intrinsic value is an elusive concept. In general terms it is understood to be that value which is justified by the facts, e.g., the assets, earnings, dividends, definite prospects,
as distinct, let us say, from market quotations established by artificial
manipulation or distorted by psychological excesses. But it is a great
mistake to imagine that intrinsic value is as definite and as determinable
as is the market price. Some time ago intrinsic value (in the case of a
common stock) was thought to be about the same thing as “book value,”
i.e., it was equal to the net assets of the business, fairly priced. This
1 For the sequels to the six examples just given, see Appendix Note 2, p. 734 on accompanying CD.

Survey and Approach

[65]

view of intrinsic value was quite definite, but it proved almost worthless as a practical matter because neither the average earnings nor
the average market price evinced any tendency to be governed by the
book value.

Intrinsic Value and “Earning Power.” Hence this idea was superseded by a newer view, viz., that the intrinsic value of a business was
determined by its earning power. But the phrase “earning power” must
imply a fairly confident expectation of certain future results. It is not sufficient to know what the past earnings have averaged, or even that they
disclose a definite line of growth or decline. There must be plausible
grounds for believing that this average or this trend is a dependable guide
to the future. Experience has shown only too forcibly that in many
instances this is far from true. This means that the concept of “earning
power,” expressed as a definite figure, and the derived concept of intrinsic value, as something equally definite and ascertainable, cannot be safely
accepted as a general premise of security analysis.
Example: To make this reasoning clearer, let us consider a concrete
and typical example. What would we mean by the intrinsic value of J. I.
Case Company common, as analyzed, say, early in 1933? The market
price was $30; the asset value per share was $176; no dividend was being
paid; the average earnings for ten years had been $9.50 per share; the
results for 1932 had shown a deficit of $17 per share. If we followed a customary method of appraisal, we might take the average earnings per share
of common for ten years, multiply this average by ten, and arrive at an
intrinsic value of $95. But let us examine the individual figures which
make up this ten-year average. They are as shown in the table on page 66.
The average of $9.50 is obviously nothing more than an arithmetical
resultant from ten unrelated figures. It can hardly be urged that this average is in any way representative of typical conditions in the past or representative of what may be expected in the future. Hence any figure of
“real” or intrinsic value derived from this average must be characterized
as equally accidental or artificial.2

2 Between 1933 and 1939 the earnings on Case common varied between a deficit of $14.66

and profits of $19.20 per share, averaging $3.18. The price ranged between 30 1/2 and 1913/4,
closing in 1939 at 73 3/4.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[66]

EARNINGS PER SHARE OF J.I. CASE COMMON

1932
1931
1930
1929
1928
1927
1926
1925
1924
1923
Average

$17.40(d)
2.90(d)
11.00
20.40
26.90
26.00
23.30
15.30
5.90(d)
2.10(d)
$9.50

(d) Deficit.

The Role of Intrinsic Value in the Work of the Analyst. Let us
try to formulate a statement of the role of intrinsic value in the work of
the analyst which will reconcile the rather conflicting implications of our
various examples. The essential point is that security analysis does not
seek to determine exactly what is the intrinsic value of a given security.
It needs only to establish either that the value is adequate—e.g., to protect a bond or to justify a stock purchase—or else that the value is considerably higher or considerably lower than the market price. For such
purposes an indefinite and approximate measure of the intrinsic value
may be sufficient. To use a homely simile, it is quite possible to decide
by inspection that a woman is old enough to vote without knowing
her age or that a man is heavier than he should be without knowing his
exact weight.
This statement of the case may be made clearer by a brief return to
our examples. The rejection of St. Louis-San Francisco Preferred did not
require an exact calculation of the intrinsic value of this railroad system.
It was enough to show, very simply from the earnings record, that the
margin of value above the bondholders’ and preferred stockholders’
claims was too small to assure safety. Exactly the opposite was true for
the Owens-Illinois Glass 5s. In this instance, also, it would undoubtedly
have been difficult to arrive at a fair valuation of the business; but it was
quite easy to decide that this value in any event was far in excess of the
company’s debt.

Survey and Approach

[67]

In the Wright Aeronautical example, the earlier situation presented a
set of facts which demonstrated that the business was worth substantially
more than $8 per share, or $1,800,000. In the later year, the facts were
equally conclusive that the business did not have a reasonable value of
$280 per share, or $70,000,000 in all. It would have been difficult for the
analyst to determine whether Wright Aeronautical was actually worth $20
or $40 a share in 1922—or actually worth $50 or $80 in 1929. But fortunately it was not necessary to decide these points in order to conclude
that the shares were attractive at $8 and unattractive, intrinsically, at $280.
The J. I. Case example illustrates the far more typical common-stock
situation, in which the analyst cannot reach a dependable conclusion as
to the relation of intrinsic value to market price. But even here, if the price
had been low or high enough, a conclusion might have been warranted.
To express the uncertainty of the picture, we might say that it was difficult to determine in early 1933 whether the intrinsic value of Case common was nearer $30 or $130. Yet if the stock had been selling at as low as
$10, the analyst would undoubtedly have been justified in declaring that
it was worth more than the market price.

Flexibility of the Concept of Intrinsic Value. This should indicate
how flexible is the concept of intrinsic value as applied to security analysis. Our notion of the intrinsic value may be more or less distinct, depending on the particular case. The degree of indistinctness may be expressed
by a very hypothetical “range of approximate value,” which would grow
wider as the uncertainty of the picture increased, e.g., $20 to $40 for
Wright Aeronautical in 1922 as against $30 to $130 for Case in 1933. It
would follow that even a very indefinite idea of the intrinsic value may
still justify a conclusion if the current price falls far outside either the
maximum or minimum appraisal.

More Definite Concept in Special Cases. The Interborough Rapid
Transit example permits a more precise line of reasoning than any of the
others. Here a given market price for the 5% bonds results in a very definite valuation for the 7% notes. If it were certain that the collateral securing the notes would be acquired for and distributed to the note holders,
then the mathematical relationship—viz., $1,736 of value for the 7s
against $1,000 of value for the 5s—would eventually be established at this
ratio in the market. But because of quasi-political complications in the

[68]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

picture, this normal procedure could not be expected with certainty. As
a practical matter, therefore, it is not possible to say that the 7s are actually worth 74% more than the 5s, but it may be said with assurance that
the 7s are worth substantially more—which is a very useful conclusion to
arrive at when both issues are selling at the same price.
The Interborough issues are an example of a rather special group of
situations in which analysis may reach more definite conclusions respecting intrinsic value than in the ordinary case. These situations may involve
a liquidation or give rise to technical operations known as “arbitrage” or
“hedging.” While, viewed in the abstract, they are probably the most satisfactory field for the analyst’s work, the fact that they are specialized in
character and of infrequent occurrence makes them relatively unimportant from the broader standpoint of investment theory and practice.

Principal Obstacles to Success of the Analyst. a. Inadequate or
Incorrect Data. Needless to say, the analyst cannot be right all the time.
Furthermore, a conclusion may be logically right but work out badly in
practice. The main obstacles to the success of the analyst’s work are threefold, viz., (1) the inadequacy or incorrectness of the data, (2) the uncertainties of the future, and (3) the irrational behavior of the market. The
first of these drawbacks, although serious, is the least important of the
three. Deliberate falsification of the data is rare; most of the misrepresentation flows from the use of accounting artifices which it is the function
of the capable analyst to detect. Concealment is more common than misstatement. But the extent of such concealment has been greatly reduced
as the result of regulations, first of the New York Stock Exchange and later
of the S.E.C., requiring more complete disclosure and fuller explanation
of accounting practices. Where information on an important point is still
withheld, the analyst’s experience and skill should lead him to note this
defect and make allowance therefor—if, indeed, he may not elicit the facts
by proper inquiry and pressure. In some cases, no doubt, the concealment will elude detection and give rise to an incorrect conclusion.
b. Uncertainties of the Future. Of much greater moment is the element
of future change. A conclusion warranted by the facts and by the apparent prospects may be vitiated by new developments. This raises the question of how far it is the function of security analysis to anticipate changed
conditions. We shall defer consideration of this point until our discussion
of various factors entering into the processes of analysis. It is manifest,

Survey and Approach

[69]

however, that future changes are largely unpredictable, and that security
analysis must ordinarily proceed on the assumption that the past record
affords at least a rough guide to the future. The more questionable this
assumption, the less valuable is the analysis. Hence this technique is more
useful when applied to senior securities (which are protected against
change) than to common stocks; more useful when applied to a business
of inherently stable character than to one subject to wide variations; and,
finally, more useful when carried on under fairly normal general conditions than in times of great uncertainty and radical change.
c. The Irrational Behavior of the Market. The third handicap to security analysis is found in the market itself. In a sense the market and the
future present the same kind of difficulties. Neither can be predicted or
controlled by the analyst, yet his success is largely dependent upon them
both. The major activities of the investment analyst may be thought to
have little or no concern with market prices. His typical function is the
selection of high-grade, fixed-income-bearing bonds, which upon investigation he judges to be secure as to interest and principal. The purchaser
is supposed to pay no attention to their subsequent market fluctuations,
but to be interested solely in the question whether the bonds will continue to be sound investments. In our opinion this traditional view of the
investor’s attitude is inaccurate and somewhat hypocritical. Owners of
securities, whatever their character, are interested in their market quotations. This fact is recognized by the emphasis always laid in investment
practice upon marketability. If it is important that an issue be readily salable, it is still more important that it command a satisfactory price. While
for obvious reasons the investor in high-grade bonds has a lesser concern
with market fluctuations than has the speculator, they still have a strong
psychological, if not financial, effect upon him. Even in this field, therefore, the analyst must take into account whatever influences may
adversely govern the market price, as well as those which bear upon the
basic safety of the issue.
In that portion of the analyst’s activities which relates to the discovery of undervalued, and possibly of overvalued securities, he is more
directly concerned with market prices. For here the vindication of
his judgment must be found largely in the ultimate market action of the
issue. This field of analytical work may be said to rest upon a twofold
assumption: first, that the market price is frequently out of line with the
true value; and, second, that there is an inherent tendency for these

[70]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

disparities to correct themselves. As to the truth of the former statement,
there can be very little doubt—even though Wall Street often speaks glibly
of the “infallible judgment of the market” and asserts that “a stock is
worth what you can sell it for—neither more nor less.”

The Hazard of Tardy Adjustment of Price Value. The second
assumption is equally true in theory, but its working out in practice is often
most unsatisfactory. Undervaluations caused by neglect or prejudice may
persist for an inconveniently long time, and the same applies to inflated
prices caused by overenthusiasm or artificial stimulants. The particular
danger to the analyst is that, because of such delay, new determining factors may supervene before the market price adjusts itself to the value as
he found it. In other words, by the time the price finally does reflect the
value, this value may have changed considerably and the facts and reasoning on which his decision was based may no longer be applicable.
The analyst must seek to guard himself against this danger as best he
can: in part, by dealing with those situations preferably which are not subject to sudden change; in part, by favoring securities in which the popular interest is keen enough to promise a fairly swift response to value
elements which he is the first to recognize; in part, by tempering his activities to the general financial situation—laying more emphasis on the discovery of undervalued securities when business and market conditions
are on a fairly even keel, and proceeding with greater caution in times of
abnormal stress and uncertainty.

The Relationship of Intrinsic Value to Market Price. The general question of the relation of intrinsic value to the market quotation
may be made clearer by the following chart, which traces the various steps
culminating in the market price. It will be evident from the chart that the
influence of what we call analytical factors over the market price is both
partial and indirect—partial, because it frequently competes with purely
speculative factors which influence the price in the opposite direction;
and indirect, because it acts through the intermediary of people’s sentiments and decisions. In other words, the market is not a weighing
machine, on which the value of each issue is recorded by an exact and
impersonal mechanism, in accordance with its specific qualities. Rather
should we say that the market is a voting machine, whereon countless
individuals register choices which are the product partly of reason and
partly of emotion.

[71]

Survey and Approach

RELATIONSHIP OF INTRINSIC VALUE FACTORS TO MARKET PRICE

I. General market factors.
II. Individual factors.
a. Technical.
b. Manipulative.
c. Psychological.

2. Future value
factors

a. Management
and reputation.
b. Competitive
conditions and
prospects.
c. Possible and
probable
changes in
volume, price,
and costs.

A. Speculative

B. Investment

Attitude
of public
toward
the issue.

{ {

1. Market
factors

Bids and
offers.

Market
price.

a. Earnings.
b. Dividends.
3. Intrinsic
c. Assets.
value factors d. Capital structure.
e. Terms of the issue.
f. Others.

ANALYSIS AND SPECULATION
It may be thought that sound analysis should produce successful results
in any type of situation, including the confessedly speculative, i.e., those
subject to substantial uncertainty and risk. If the selection of speculative
issues is based on expert study of the companies’ position, should not
this approach give the purchaser a considerable advantage? Admitting
future events to be uncertain, could not the favorable and unfavorable
developments be counted on to cancel out against each other, more or
less, so that the initial advantage afforded by sound analysis will carry
through into an eventual average profit? This is a plausible argument but
a deceptive one; and its over-ready acceptance has done much to
lead analysts astray. It is worth while, therefore, to detail several valid
arguments against placing chief reliance upon analysis in speculative
situations.

[72]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

In the first place, what may be called the mechanics of speculation
involves serious handicaps to the speculator, which may outweigh the
benefits conferred by analytical study. These disadvantages include
the payment of commissions and interest charges, the so-called “turn of
the market” (meaning the spread between the bid and asked price), and,
most important of all, an inherent tendency for the average loss to exceed
the average profit, unless a certain technique of trading is followed, which
is opposed to the analytical approach.
The second objection is that the underlying analytical factors in speculative situations are subject to swift and sudden revision. The danger,
already referred to, that the intrinsic value may change before the market
price reflects that value, is therefore much more serious in speculative
than in investment situations. A third difficulty arises from circumstances
surrounding the unknown factors, which are necessarily left out of security analysis. Theoretically these unknown factors should have an equal
chance of being favorable or unfavorable, and thus they should neutralize each other in the long run. For example, it is often easy to determine
by comparative analysis that one company is selling much lower than
another in the same field, in relation to earnings, although both apparently have similar prospects. But it may well be that the low price for the
apparently attractive issue is due to certain important unfavorable factors
which, though not disclosed, are known to those identified with the company—and vice versa for the issue seemingly selling above its relative
value. In speculative situations, those “on the inside” often have an advantage of this kind which nullifies the premise that good and bad changes
in the picture should offset each other, and which loads the dice against
the analyst working with some of the facts concealed from him.3

The Value of Analysis Diminishes as the Element of Chance
Increases. The final objection is based on more abstract grounds, but,
nevertheless, its practical importance is very great. Even if we grant that
analysis can give the speculator a mathematical advantage, it does not
assure him a profit. His ventures remain hazardous; in any individual case
a loss may be taken; and after the operation is concluded, it is difficult
to determine whether the analyst’s contribution has been a benefit or a
3 See Appendix Note 3, p. 735 on accompanying CD, for the result of a study of the market behavior of “high price-earnings ratio stocks” as compared with “low price-earnings ratio stocks.”

Survey and Approach

[73]

detriment. Hence the latter’s position in the speculative field is at best
uncertain and somewhat lacking in professional dignity. It is as though
the analyst and Dame Fortune were playing a duet on the speculative
piano, with the fickle goddess calling all the tunes.
By another and less imaginative simile, we might more convincingly
show why analysis is inherently better suited to investment than to speculative situation. (In anticipation of a more detailed inquiry in a later chapter, we have assumed throughout this chapter that investment implies
expected safety and speculation connotes acknowledged risk.) In Monte
Carlo the odds are weighted 19 to 18 in favor of the proprietor of the roulette
wheel, so that on the average he wins one dollar out of each 37 wagered by
the public. This may suggest the odds against the untrained investor or speculator. Let us assume that, through some equivalent of analysis, a roulette
player is able to reverse the odds for a limited number of wagers, so that they
are now 18 to 19 in his favor. If he distributes his wagers evenly over all the
numbers, then whichever one turns up he is certain to win a moderate
amount. This operation may be likened to an investment program based
upon sound analysis and carried on under propitious general conditions.
But if the player wagers all his money on a single number, the small
odds in his favor are of slight importance compared with the crucial question whether chance will elect the number he has chosen. His “analysis”
will enable him to win a little more if he is lucky; it will be of no value
when luck is against him. This, in slightly exaggerated form perhaps,
describes the position of the analyst dealing with essentially speculative
operations. Exactly the same mathematical advantage which practically
assures good results in the investment field may prove entirely ineffective
where luck is the overshadowing influence.
It would seem prudent, therefore, to consider analysis as an adjunct
or auxiliary rather than as a guide in speculation. It is only where chance
plays a subordinate role that the analyst can properly speak in an authoritative voice and accept responsibility for the results of his judgments.

3. THE CRITICAL FUNCTION OF
SECURITY ANALYSIS
The principles of investment finance and the methods of corporation
finance fall necessarily within the province of security analysis. Analytical judgments are reached by applying standards to facts. The analyst is

[74]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

concerned, therefore, with the soundness and practicability of the standards of selection. He is also interested to see that securities, especially
bonds and preferred stocks, be issued with adequate protective provisions,
and—more important still—that proper methods of enforcement of these
covenants be part of accepted financial practice.
It is a matter of great moment to the analyst that the facts be fairly presented, and this means that he must be highly critical of accounting methods. Finally, he must concern himself with all corporate policies affecting
the security owner, for the value of the issue which he analyzes may be
largely dependent upon the acts of the management. In this category are
included questions of capitalization set-up, of dividend and expansion
policies, of managerial compensation, and even of continuing or liquidating an unprofitable business.
On these matters of varied import, security analysis may be competent to express critical judgments, looking to the avoidance of mistakes,
to the correction of abuses, and to the better protection of those owning
bonds or stocks.

Chapter 2

FUNDAMENTAL ELEMENTS IN THE
PROBLEM OF ANALYSIS. QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE FACTORS

IN THE PREVIOUS chapter we referred to some of the concepts and materials
of analysis from the standpoint of their bearing on what the analyst may
hope to accomplish. Let us now imagine the analyst at work and ask what
are the broad considerations which govern his approach to a particular
problem, and also what should be his general attitude toward the various
kinds of information with which he has to deal.

FOUR FUNDAMENTAL ELEMENTS
The object of security analysis is to answer, or assist in answering, certain
questions of a very practical nature. Of these, perhaps the most customary are the following: What securities should be bought for a given purpose? Should issue S be bought, or sold, or retained?
In all such questions, four major factors may be said to enter, either
expressly or by implication. These are:
1. The security.
2. The price.
3. The time.
4. The person.

More completely stated, the second typical question would run,
Should security S be bought (or sold, or retained) at price P, at this time
T, by individual I? Some discussion of the relative significance of these
four factors is therefore pertinent, and we shall find it convenient to
consider them in inverse order.

[75]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[76]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The Personal Element. The personal element enters to a greater or
lesser extent into every security purchase. The aspect of chief importance
is usually the financial position of the intending buyer. What might be an
attractive speculation for a business man should under no circumstances
be attempted by a trustee or a widow with limited income. Again, United
States Liberty 31/2s should not have been purchased by those to whom their
complete tax-exemption feature was of no benefit, when a considerably
higher yield could be obtained from partially taxable governmental issues.1
Other personal characteristics that on occasion might properly influence the individual’s choice of securities are his financial training and
competence, his temperament, and his preferences. But however vital
these considerations may prove at times, they are not ordinarily determining factors in analysis. Most of the conclusions derived from analysis can be stated in impersonal terms, as applicable to investors or
speculators as a class.

The Time. The time at which an issue is analyzed may affect the conclusion in various ways. The company’s showing may be better, or its outlook may seem better, at one time than another, and these changing
circumstances are bound to exert a varying influence on the analyst’s viewpoint toward the issue. Furthermore, securities are selected by the application of standards of quality and yield, and both of these—particularly
the latter—will vary with financial conditions in general. A railroad bond
of highest grade yielding 5% seemed attractive in June 1931 because the
average return on this type of bond was 4.32%. But the same offering made
six months later would have been quite unattractive, for in the meantime
bond prices had fallen severely and the yield on this group had increased
to 5.86%. Finally, nearly all security commitments are influenced to some
extent by the current view of the financial and business outlook. In speculative operations these considerations are of controlling importance; and
while conservative investment is ordinarily supposed to disregard these
elements, in times of stress and uncertainty they may not be ignored.
Security analysis, as a study, must necessarily concern itself as much
as possible with principles and methods which are valid at all times—or,
at least, under all ordinary conditions. It should be kept in mind,
1 In 1927 the yield on these 31/2 s was 3.39%, while U. S. Liberty 41/4 s, due about the same

time, were yielding 4.08%.

[77]

Survey and Approach

however, that the practical applications of analysis are made against a
background largely colored by the changing times.

The Price. The price is an integral part of every complete judgment
relating to securities. In the selection of prime investment bonds, the price
is usually a subordinate factor, not because it is a matter of indifference
but because in actual practice the price is rarely unreasonably high. Hence
almost entire emphasis is placed on the question whether the issue is adequately secured. But in a special case, such as the purchase of high-grade
convertible bonds, the price may be a factor fully as important as the
degree of security. This point is illustrated by the American Telephone
and Telegraph Company Convertible 41/2 s, due 1939, which sold above
200 in 1929. The fact that principal (at par) and interest were safe beyond
question did not prevent the issue from being an extremely risky purchase at that price—one which in fact was followed by the loss of over
half its market value.2
In the field of common stocks, the necessity of taking price into
account is more compelling, because the danger of paying the wrong price
is almost as great as that of buying the wrong issue. We shall point out later
that the new-era theory of investment left price out of the reckoning, and
that this omission was productive of most disastrous consequences.

The Security: Character of the Enterprise and the Terms of the
Commitment. The roles played by the security and its price in an
investment decision may be set forth more clearly if we restate the problem in somewhat different form. Instead of asking, (1) In what security?
and (2) At what price? let us ask, (1) In what enterprise? and (2) On what
terms is the commitment proposed? This gives us a more comprehensive
and evenly balanced contrast between two basic elements in analysis. By
the terms of the investment or speculation, we mean not only the price
but also the provisions of the issue and its status or showing at the time.
2 Annual price ranges for American Telephone and Telegraph Company Convertible 41/2 s,

due in 1939, were as follows:
Year

High

Low

1929

227

118

1930

193 3/8

116

1931

135

95

[78]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Example of Commitment on Unattractive Terms. An investment
in the soundest type of enterprise may be made on unsound and unfavorable terms. Prior to 1929 the value of urban real estate had tended to
grow steadily over a long period of years; hence it came to be regarded by
many as the “safest” medium of investment. But the purchase of a preferred stock in a New York City real estate development in 1929 might
have involved terms of investment so thoroughly disadvantageous as to
banish all elements of soundness from the proposition. One such stock
offering could be summarized as follows3:
1. Provisions of the Issue. A preferred stock, ranking junior to a large first
mortgage and without unqualified rights to dividend or principal payments. It
ranked ahead of a common stock which represented no cash investment so that
the common stockholders had nothing to lose and a great deal to gain, while the
preferred stockholders had everything to lose and only a small share in the possible gain.
2. Status of the Issue. A commitment in a new building, constructed at an
exceedingly high level of costs, with no reserves or junior capital to fall back upon
in case of trouble.
3. Price of the Issue. At par the dividend return was 6%, which was much less
than the yield obtainable on real-estate second mortgages having many other
advantages over this preferred stock.4

Example of a Commitment on Attractive Terms. We have only
to examine electric power and light financing in recent years to find
countless examples of unsound securities in a fundamentally attractive
industry. By way of contrast let us cite the case of Brooklyn Union
3 The financing method described is that used by the separate owning corporations organized and sponsored by the Fred F. French Company and affiliated enterprises, with the
exception of some of the later Tudor City units in the financing of which interest-bearing
notes, convertible par for par into preferred stock at the option of the company, were substituted for the preferred stock in the financial plan. See The French Plan (10th ed., December
1928) published and distributed by the Fred F. French Investing Company, Inc. See also
Moody’s Manual; “Banks and Finance,” 1933, pp. 1703–1707.
4 The real-estate enterprise from which this example is taken gave a bonus of common stock

with the preferred shares. The common stock had no immediate value, but it did have a
potential value which, under favorable conditions, might have made the purchase profitable.
From the investment standpoint, however, the preferred stock of this enterprise was subject
to all of the objections which we have detailed. Needless to say, purchasers of these issues
fared very badly in nearly every case.

Survey and Approach

[79]

Elevated Railroad First 5s, due 1950, which sold in 1932 at 60 to yield
9.85% to maturity. They are an obligation of the Brooklyn-Manhattan
Transit System. The traction, or electric railway, industry has long been
unfavorably regarded, chiefly because of automobile competition but also
on account of regulation and fare-contract difficulties. Hence this security represents a comparatively unattractive type of enterprise. Yet the
terms of the investment here might well make it a satisfactory commitment, as shown by the following:
1. Provisions of the Issue. By contract between the operating company and
the City of New York, this was a first charge on the earnings of the combined
subway and elevated lines of the system, both company and city owned, representing an investment enormously greater than the size of this issue.
2. Status of the Issue. Apart from the very exceptional specific protection just
described, the bonds were obligations of a company with stable and apparently
fully adequate earning power.
3. Price of Issue. It could be purchased to yield somewhat more than the
Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit Corporation 6s, due 1968, which occupied a subordinate position. (At the low price of 68 for the latter issue in 1932, its yield was
9% against 9.85% for the Brooklyn Union Elevated 5s.5)

Relative Importance of the Terms of the Commitment and the
Character of the Enterprise. Our distinction between the character
of the enterprise and the terms of the commitment suggests a question as
to which element is the more important. Is it better to invest in an attractive enterprise on unattractive terms or in an unattractive enterprise on
attractive terms? The popular view unhesitatingly prefers the former
alternative, and in so doing it is instinctively, rather than logically, right.
Over a long period, experience will undoubtedly show that less money
has been lost by the great body of investors through paying too high a
price for securities of the best regarded enterprises than by trying to
secure a larger income or profit from commitments in enterprises of
lower grade.

5 By 1936 the price of the Brooklyn Union Elevated 5s had advanced to 115 1/2. After 1937

the earnings of the B.M.T. declined, and the price of this issue fell to 59. In the purchase of
the system by New York City in 1940, however, the strong position of this issue was recognized, and its price recovered again to 92.

[80]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

From the standpoint of analysis, however, this empirical result does
not dispose of the matter. It merely exemplifies a rule that is applicable to
all kinds of merchandise, viz., that the untrained buyer fares best by purchasing goods of the highest reputation, even though he may pay a
comparatively high price. But, needless to say, this is not a rule to guide
the expert merchandise buyer, for he is expected to judge quality by
examination and not solely by reputation, and at times he may even
sacrifice certain definite degrees of quality if that which he obtains is adequate for his purpose and attractive in price. This distinction applies as
well to the purchase of securities as to buying paints or watches. It results
in two principles of quite opposite character, the one suitable for the
untrained investor, the other useful only to the analyst.
1. Principle for the untrained security buyer: Do not put money in a low-grade
enterprise on any terms.
2. Principle for the securities analyst: Nearly every issue might conceivably be
cheap in one price range and dear in another.

We have criticized the placing of exclusive emphasis on the choice of
the enterprise on the ground that it often leads to paying too high a price
for a good security. A second objection is that the enterprise itself may
prove to be unwisely chosen. It is natural and proper to prefer a business
which is large and well managed, has a good record, and is expected to
show increasing earnings in the future. But these expectations, though
seemingly well-founded, often fail to be realized. Many of the leading
enterprises of yesterday are today far back in the ranks. Tomorrow is likely
to tell a similar story. The most impressive illustration is afforded by the
persistent decline in the relative investment position of the railroads as a
class during the past two decades. The standing of an enterprise is in part
a matter of fact and in part a matter of opinion. During recent years investment opinion has proved extraordinarily volatile and undependable. In
1929 Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company was quite universally considered as enjoying an unusually favorable industrial position.
Two years later the stock sold for much less than the net current assets
alone, presumably indicating widespread doubt as to its ability to earn any
profit in the future. Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company, viewed as little short of a miraculous enterprise in 1929, declined from 494 in that year
to 36 in 1938. At the latter date the common sold for less than its cash
assets, the preferred being amply covered by other current assets.

Survey and Approach

[81]

These considerations do not gainsay the principle that untrained
investors should confine themselves to the best regarded enterprises. It
should be realized, however, that this preference is enjoined upon them
because of the greater risk for them in other directions, and not because
the most popular issues are necessarily the safest. The analyst must pay
respectful attention to the judgment of the market place and to the enterprises which it strongly favors, but he must retain an independent and
critical viewpoint. Nor should he hesitate to condemn the popular and
espouse the unpopular when reasons sufficiently weighty and convincing are at hand.

QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE
FACTORS IN ANALYSIS
Analyzing a security involves an analysis of the business. Such a study
could be carried to an unlimited degree of detail; hence practical judgment must be exercised to determine how far the process should go. The
circumstances will naturally have a bearing on this point. A buyer of a
$1,000 bond would not deem it worth his while to make as thorough an
analysis of an issue as would a large insurance company considering the
purchase of a $500,000 block. The latter’s study would still be less detailed
than that made by the originating bankers. Or, from another angle, a less
intensive analysis should be needed in selecting a high-grade bond yielding 3% than in trying to find a well-secured issue yielding 6% or an
unquestioned bargain in the field of common stocks.

Technique and Extent of Analysis Should Be Limited by
Character and Purposes of the Commitment. The equipment of
the analyst must include a sense of proportion in the use of his technique.
In choosing and dealing with the materials of analysis he must consider
not only inherent importance and dependability but also the question of
accessibility and convenience. He must not be misled by the availability
of a mass of data—e.g., in the reports of the railroads to the Interstate
Commerce Commission—into making elaborate studies of nonessentials.
On the other hand, he must frequently resign himself to the lack of significant information because it can be secured only by expenditure of
more effort than he can spare or the problem will justify. This would be
true frequently of some of the elements involved in a complete “business
analysis”—as, for example, the extent to which an enterprise is depend-

[82]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

ent upon patent protection or geographical advantages or favorable labor
conditions which may not endure.

Value of Data Varies with Type of Enterprise. Most important of
all, the analyst must recognize that the value of a particular kind of data
varies greatly with the type of enterprise which is being studied. The fiveyear record of gross or net earnings of a railroad or a large chain-store
enterprise may afford, if not a conclusive, at least a reasonably sound basis
for measuring the safety of the senior issues and the attractiveness of the
common shares. But the same statistics supplied by one of the smaller oilproducing companies may well prove more deceptive than useful, since
they are chiefly the resultant of two factors, viz., price received and production, both of which are likely to be radically different in the future
than in the past.

Quantitative vs. Qualitative Elements in Analysis. It is convenient at times to classify the elements entering into an analysis under two
headings: the quantitative and the qualitative. The former might be called
the company’s statistical exhibit. Included in it would be all the useful
items in the income account and balance sheet, together with such additional specific data as may be provided with respect to production and
unit prices, costs, capacity, unfilled orders, etc. These various items may
be subclassified under the headings: (1) capitalization, (2) earnings and
dividends, (3) assets and liabilities, and (4) operating statistics.
The qualitative factors, on the other hand, deal with such matters as
the nature of the business; the relative position of the individual company
in the industry; its physical, geographical, and operating characteristics;
the character of the management; and, finally, the outlook for the unit,
for the industry, and for business in general. Questions of this sort are not
dealt with ordinarily in the company’s reports. The analyst must look for
their answers to miscellaneous sources of information of greatly varying
dependability—including a large admixture of mere opinion.
Broadly speaking, the quantitative factors lend themselves far better
to thoroughgoing analysis than do the qualitative factors. The former are
fewer in number, more easily obtainable, and much better suited to the
forming of definite and dependable conclusions. Furthermore the financial results will themselves epitomize many of the qualitative elements, so
that a detailed study of the latter may not add much of importance to the

Survey and Approach

[83]

picture. The typical analysis of a security—as made, say, in a brokeragehouse circular or in a report issued by a statistical service—will treat the
qualitative factors in a superficial or summary fashion and devote most
of its space to the figures.

Qualitative Factors: Nature of the Business and Its Future
Prospects. The qualitative factors upon which most stress is laid are the
nature of the business and the character of the management. These elements are exceedingly important, but they are also exceedingly difficult
to deal with intelligently. Let us consider, first, the nature of the business,
in which concept is included the general idea of its future prospects. Most
people have fairly definite notions as to what is “a good business” and
what is not. These views are based partly on the financial results, partly
on knowledge of specific conditions in the industry, and partly also on
surmise or bias.
During most of the period of general prosperity between 1923 and
1929, quite a number of major industries were backward. These included
cigars, coal, cotton goods, fertilizers, leather, lumber, meat packing, paper,
shipping, street railways, sugar, woolen goods. The underlying cause was
usually either the development of competitive products or services (e.g.,
coal, cotton goods, tractions) or excessive production and demoralizing
trade practices (e.g., paper, lumber, sugar). During the same period other
industries were far more prosperous than the average. Among these were
can manufacturers, chain stores, cigarette producers, motion pictures,
public utilities. The chief cause of these superior showings might be found
in unusual growth of demand (cigarettes, motion pictures) or in absence
or control of competition (public utilities, can makers) or in the ability to
win business from other agencies (chain stores).
It is natural to assume that industries which have fared worse than the
average are “unfavorably situated” and therefore to be avoided. The converse would be assumed, of course, for those with superior records. But
this conclusion may often prove quite erroneous. Abnormally good or
abnormally bad conditions do not last forever. This is true not only of
general business but of particular industries as well. Corrective forces are
often set in motion which tend to restore profits where they have disappeared, or to reduce them where they are excessive in relation to capital.
Industries especially favored by a developing demand may become
demoralized through a still more rapid growth of supply. This has been

[84]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

true of radio, aviation, electric refrigeration, bus transportation, and silk
hosiery. In 1922 department stores were very favorably regarded because
of their excellent showing in the 1920–1921 depression; but they did not
maintain this advantage in subsequent years. The public utilities were
unpopular in the 1919 boom, because of high costs; they became speculative and investment favorites in 1927–1929; in 1933–1938 fear of inflation,
rate regulation, and direct governmental competition again undermined
the public’s confidence in them. In 1933, on the other hand, the cottongoods industry—long depressed—forged ahead faster than most others.

The Factor of Management. Our appreciation of the importance of
selecting a “good industry” must be tempered by a realization that this is
by no means so easy as it sounds. Somewhat the same difficulty is met
with in endeavoring to select an unusually capable management. Objective tests of managerial ability are few and far from scientific. In most
cases the investor must rely upon a reputation which may or may not be
deserved. The most convincing proof of capable management lies in a
superior comparative record over a period of time. But this brings us back
to the quantitative data.
There is a strong tendency in the stock market to value the management factor twice in its calculations. Stock prices reflect the large earnings which the good management has produced, plus a substantial
increment for “good management” considered separately. This amounts
to “counting the same trick twice,” and it proves a frequent cause of overvaluation.

The Trend of Future Earnings. In recent years increasing importance has been laid upon the trend of earnings. Needless to say, a record
of increasing profits is a favorable sign. Financial theory has gone further,
however, and has sought to estimate future earnings by projecting the past
trend into the future and then used this projection as a basis for valuing
the business. Because figures are used in this process, people mistakenly
believe that it is “mathematically sound.” But while a trend shown in the
past is a fact, a “future trend” is only an assumption. The factors that we
mentioned previously as militating against the maintenance of abnormal
prosperity or depression are equally opposed to the indefinite continuance of an upward or downward trend. By the time the trend has become
clearly noticeable, conditions may well be ripe for a change.

Survey and Approach

[85]

It may be objected that as far as the future is concerned it is just as
logical to expect a past trend to be maintained as to expect a past average to be repeated. This is probably true, but it does not follow that the
trend is more useful to analysis than the individual or average figures of
the past. For security analysis does not assume that a past average will be
repeated, but only that it supplies a rough index to what may be expected
of the future. A trend, however, cannot be used as a rough index; it represents a definite prediction of either better or poorer results, and it must
be either right or wrong.
This distinction, important in its bearing on the attitude of the analyst, may be made clearer by the use of examples. Let us assume that in
1929 a railroad showed its interest charges earned three times on the average during the preceding seven years. The analyst would have ascribed
great weight to this point as an indication that its bonds were sound. This
is a judgment based on quantitative data and standards. But it does not
imply a prediction that the earnings in the next seven years will average
three times interest charges; it suggests only that earnings are not likely
to fall so much under three times interest charges as to endanger the
bonds. In nearly every actual case such a conclusion would have proved
correct, despite the economic collapse that ensued.
Now let us consider a similar judgment based primarily upon the
trend. In 1929 nearly all public-utility systems showed a continued
growth of earnings, but the fixed charges of many were so heavy—by
reason of pyramidal capital structures—that they consumed nearly all the
net income. Investors bought bonds of these systems freely on the theory
that the small margin of safety was no drawback, since earnings were
certain to continue to increase. They were thus making a clear-cut prediction as to the future, upon the correctness of which depended the justification of their investment. If their prediction were wrong—as proved
to be the case—they were bound to suffer serious loss.

Trend Essentially a Qualitative Factor. In our discussion of the valuation of common stocks, later in this book, we shall point out that the
placing of preponderant emphasis on the trend is likely to result in errors
of overvaluation or undervaluation. This is true because no limit may be
fixed on how far ahead the trend should be projected; and therefore
the process of valuation, while seemingly mathematical, is in reality

[86]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

psychological and quite arbitrary. For this reason we consider the trend
as a qualitative factor in its practical implications, even though it may be
stated in quantitative terms.

Qualitative Factors Resist Even Reasonably Accurate Appraisal.
The trend is, in fact, a statement of future prospects in the form of an
exact prediction. In similar fashion, conclusions as to the nature of the
business and the abilities of the management have their chief significance
in their bearing on the outlook. These qualitative factors are therefore all
of the same general character. They all involve the same basic difficulty
for the analyst, viz., that it is impossible to judge how far they may properly reflect themselves in the price of a given security. In most cases, if
they are recognized at all, they tend to be overemphasized. We see the
same influence constantly at work in the general market. The recurrent
excesses of its advances and declines are due at bottom to the fact that,
when values are determined chiefly by the outlook, the resultant judgments are not subject to any mathematical controls and are almost
inevitably carried to extremes.
Analysis is concerned primarily with values which are supported by
the facts and not with those which depend largely upon expectations. In
this respect the analyst’s approach is diametrically opposed to that of the
speculator, meaning thereby one whose success turns upon his ability to
forecast or to guess future developments. Needless to say, the analyst must
take possible future changes into account, but his primary aim is not so
much to profit from them as to guard against them. Broadly speaking, he
views the business future as a hazard which his conclusions must
encounter rather than as the source of his vindication.

Inherent Stability a Major Qualitative Factor. It follows that the
qualitative factor in which the analyst should properly be most interested
is that of inherent stability. For stability means resistance to change and
hence greater dependability for the results shown in the past. Stability,
like the trend, may be expressed in quantitative terms—as, for example,
by stating that the earnings of General Baking Company during
1923–1932 were never less than ten times 1932 interest charges or that
the operating profits of Woolworth between 1924 and 1933 varied only
between $2.12 and $3.66 per share of common. But in our opinion stability is really a qualitative trait, because it derives in the first instance

[87]

Survey and Approach

from the character of the business and not from its statistical record.
A stable record suggests that the business is inherently stable, but this suggestion may be rebutted by other considerations.
Examples: This point may be brought out by a comparison of two preferred-stock issues as of early 1932, viz., those of Studebaker (motors) and
of First National (grocery) Stores, both of which were selling above par.
The two exhibits were similar, in that both disclosed a continuously satisfactory margin above preferred-dividend requirements. The Studebaker
figures were more impressive, however, as the following table will indicate:
NUMBER OF TIMES PREFERRED DIVIDEND WAS COVERED

First National Stores

Studebaker

Period

Times
covered

Calendar
year

Times
covered

Calendar year, 1922
Calendar year, 1923
Calendar year, 1924
Calendar year, 1925
15 mos. ended Mar. 31, 1927
Year ended Mar. 31, 1928
Year ended Mar. 31, 1929
Year ended Mar. 31, 1930
Annual average

4.0
5.1
4.9
5.7
4.6
4.4
8.4
13.4
6.3

1922
1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929

27.3
30.5
23.4
29.7
24.8
23.0
27.3
23.3
26.2

But the analyst must penetrate beyond the mere figures and consider
the inherent character of the two businesses. The chain-store grocery
trade contained within itself many elements of relative stability, such as
stable demand, diversified locations, and rapid inventory turnover. A typical large unit in this field, provided only it abstained from reckless expansion policies, was not likely to suffer tremendous fluctuations in its
earnings. But the situation of the typical automobile manufacturer was
quite different. Despite fair stability in the industry as a whole, the individual units were subject to extraordinary variations, due chiefly to the
vagaries of popular preference. The stability of Studebaker’s earnings
could not be held by any convincing logic to demonstrate that this company enjoyed a special and permanent immunity from the vicissitudes to

[88]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

which most of its competitors had shown themselves subject. The soundness of Studebaker Preferred rested, therefore, largely upon a stable statistical showing which was at variance with the general character of the
industry, so far as its individual units were concerned. On the other hand,
the satisfactory exhibit of First National Stores Preferred was in thorough
accord with what was generally thought to be the inherent character of
the business. The later consideration should have carried great weight
with the analyst and should have made First National Stores Preferred
appear intrinsically sounder as a fixed-value investment than Studebaker
Preferred, despite the more impressive statistical showing of the automobile company.6

Summary. To sum up this discussion of qualitative and quantitative
factors, we may express the dictum that the analyst’s conclusions must
always rest upon the figures and upon established tests and standards.
These figures alone are not sufficient; they may be completely vitiated by
qualitative considerations of an opposite import. A security may make a
satisfactory statistical showing, but doubt as to the future or distrust of
the management may properly impel its rejection. Again, the analyst is
likely to attach prime importance to the qualitative element of stability,
because its presence means that conclusions based on past results are not
so likely to be upset by unexpected developments. It is also true that he
will be far more confident in his selection of an issue if he can buttress an
adequate quantitative exhibit with unusually favorable qualitative factors.
But whenever the commitment depends to a substantial degree upon
these qualitative factors—whenever, that is, the price is considerably
higher than the figures alone would justify—then the analytical basis of
approval is lacking. In the mathematical phrase, a satisfactory statistical
exhibit is a necessary though by no means a sufficient condition for a favorable decision by the analyst.

6 First National Stores has since maintained its earning power with little change; the pre-

ferred stock was redeemed in 1934 and subsequently. Studebaker’s earnings fell off sharply
after 1930; a receiver was appointed in 1933; and the preferred stock lost nearly all its value.

Chapter 3

SOURCES OF INFORMATION

IT IS IMPOSSIBLE to discuss or even to list all the sources of information
which the analyst may find it profitable to consult at one time or
another in his work. In this chapter we shall present a concise outline
of the more important sources, together with some critical observations
thereon; and we shall also endeavor to convey, by means of examples,
an idea of the character and utility of the large variety of special avenues
of information.

DATA ON THE TERMS OF THE ISSUE
Let us assume that in the typical case the analyst seeks data regarding: (1)
the terms of the specific issue, (2) the company, and (3) the industry. The
provisions of the issue itself are summarized in the security manuals or
statistical services. For more detailed information regarding a bond
contract the analyst should consult the indenture (or deed of trust), a copy
of which may be obtained or inspected at the office of the trustee. The
terms of the respective stock issues of a company are set forth fully in
the charter (or articles of incorporation), together with the by-laws. If the
stock is listed, these documents are on file with the S.E.C. and also with
the proper stock exchange. In the case of both bonds and stocks, the listing applications—which are readily obtainable—contain nearly all
the significant provisions. Prospectuses of new issues also contain these
provisions.

DATA ON THE COMPANY
Reports to Stockholders (Including Interim News Releases).
Coming now to the company, the chief source of statistical data is, of
course, the reports issued to the stockholders. These reports vary widely
with respect to both frequency and completeness, as the following summary will show:
[89]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[90]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

All important railroads supply monthly figures down to net after
rentals (net railway operating income). Most carry the results down to
the balance for dividends (net income). Many publish carloading figures
weekly, and a few have published gross earnings weekly. The pamphlet
annual reports publish financial and operating figures in considerable
detail.1
The ruling policy of public-utility companies varies between quarterly
and monthly statements. Figures regularly include gross, net after taxes,
and balance for dividends. Some companies publish only a moving
twelve-month total—e.g., American Water Works and Electric Company
(monthly), North American Company (quarterly). Many supply weekly
or monthly figures of kilowatt-hours sold.
Industrials. The practices followed by industrial companies are usually
a matter of individual policy. In some industrial groups there is a tendency
for most of the companies therein to follow the same course.
1. Monthly Statements. Most chain stores announce their monthly
sales in dollars. Prior to 1931, copper producers regularly published their
monthly output. General Motors publishes monthly sales in units.
Between 1902 and 1933, United States Steel Corporation published its
unfilled orders each month, but in 1933 it replaced this figure by monthly
deliveries in tons. Baldwin Locomotive Works has published monthly figures of shipments, new orders, and unfilled orders in dollars. The “Standard Oil Group” of pipeline companies publish monthly statistics of
operations in barrels.
Monthly figures of net earnings are published by individual companies from time to time, but such practices have tended to be sporadic or
temporary (e.g., Otis Steel, Mullins Manufacturing, Alaska Juneau).2
There is a tendency to inaugurate monthly statements during periods of
improvement and to discontinue them with earnings decline. Sometimes
figures by months are included in the quarterly statements—e.g., United
States Steel Corporation prior to 1932.
1 Some railroads now send all stockholders a condensed annual statement but offer to send a

more comprehensive report on request.
2 The Alaska Juneau figures—somewhat abbreviated—have continued from about 1925 to
the end of 1939. In 1938 Caterpillar Tractor began to publish monthly a complete income
account and a balance sheet. This is not really so extraordinary, for most companies supply
these data to their directors.

Survey and Approach

[91]

2. Quarterly Statements. Publication of results quarterly is considered as the standard procedure in nearly all lines of industry. The New
York Stock Exchange has been urging quarterly reports with increasing
vigor and has usually been able to make its demands effective in connection with the listing of new or additional securities. Certain types of businesses are considered—or consider themselves—exempt from this
requirement, because of the seasonal nature of their results. These lines
include sugar production, fertilizers, and agricultural implements.
Seasonal fluctuations may be concealed by publishing quarterly a moving twelve-months’ figure of earnings. This is done by Continental Can
Company.3
It is not easy to understand why all the large cigarette manufacturers
and the majority of department stores should withhold their results for a
full year. It is inconsistent also for a company such as Woolworth to publish sales monthly but no interim statements of net profits. Many individual companies, belonging to practically every division of industry, still
fail to publish quarterly reports. In nearly every case such interim figures
are available to the management but are denied to the stockholders without adequate reason.
The data given in the quarterly statements vary from a single figure
of net earnings (sometimes without allowance for depreciation or federal
taxes) to a fully detailed presentation of the income account and the balance sheet, with president’s remarks appended. General Motors Corporation is an outstanding example of the latter practice.
3. Semiannual Reports. These do not appear to be standard practice for
any industrial group, except possibly the rubber companies. A number of
individual enterprises report semiannually—e.g., American Locomotive
and American Woolen.
4. Annual Reports. Every listed company publishes an annual report of
some kind. The annual statement is generally more detailed than those covering interim periods. It frequently contains remarks—not always illuminating—by the president or the chairman of the board, relating to the past year’s
results and to the future outlook. The distinguishing feature of the annual
report, however, is that it invariably presents the balance-sheet position.
3 In March 1936 the New York Stock Exchange suggested that all listed companies follow this

procedure instead of publishing the usual quarterly earnings. This suggestion aroused great
opposition and was withdrawn the next month.

[92]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The information given in the income account varies considerably in
extent. Some reports give no more than the earnings available for dividends
and the amount of dividends paid, e.g., United States Leather Company.4
The Income Account. In our opinion an annual income account is not
reasonably complete unless it contains the following items: (1) sales, (2)
net earnings (before the items following), (3) depreciation (and depletion), (4) interest charges, (5) nonoperating income (in detail), (6) income
taxes, (7) dividends paid, (8) surplus adjustments (in detail).
Prior to the passage of the Securities and Exchange Act it was unfortunately true that less than half of our industrial corporations supplied this
very moderate quota of information. (By contrast, data relative to railroads
and public utilities have long been uniformly adequate.) The S.E.C. regulations now require virtually all this information to be published in the
original registration statement (Form 10) and the succeeding annual
reports (Form 10-K). Quite a number of companies have requested the
S.E.C. to keep their sales figures confidential, on the ground that publication would be detrimental to the enterprise. Most of these requests have
been either withdrawn or denied.5
4 Pocohantas Fuel Company appears to have been the only enterprise that, although listed on
the New York Stock Exchange, published an annual balance sheet only and provided no
income statement of any kind. Its bonds were removed from listing in October 1934.
The New York Curb dealings include a number of so called “unlisted issues”—dating
from pre-S.E.C. days—which are not subject to requirements of the S.E.C. Among these are
companies like American Book, which does not publish an income account, and New Jersey
Zinc, which publishes an income account but no balance sheet.
Companies whose issues are dealt in “over-the-counter,” and are thus not subject to
S.E.C. regulation, generally publish annual reports only. They tend to be less detailed than
the statements of listed companies, being especially prone to omit sales and depreciation
figures. The great majority supply both a balance sheet and income account, but exceptions are fairly numerous. An amusing example is Dun & Bradstreet Corporation. This
purveyor of financial information does not reveal its own earnings to its stockholders.
Other companies omitting income accounts are Bemis Brothers’ Bag, Joseph Dixon
Crucible (since 1935), Glenwood Range, Goodman Manufacturing, Perfection Stove,
Regal Shoe, etc.
5 A few companies, e.g., Celanese Corporation of America, succeeded in obtaining a confidential status for their sales figures in certain years prior to 1938. In some, possibly most,
of the cases later requests were denied, and sales figures were subsequently published.
Our study of the 1938 reports of practically all the industrial companies listed on the
New York Stock Exchange (648 enterprises) disclosed that only eight had failed to reveal
their sales figures by the end of the following year. The S.E.C. advised that confidential
treatment of the sales figure had been granted to one company (United Fruit) and that no

Survey and Approach

[93]

The standard of reasonable completeness for annual reports, suggested above, by no means includes all the information which might be
vouchsafed to shareholders. The reports of United States Steel Corporation may be taken as a model of comprehensiveness. The data there
supplied embrace, in addition to our standard requirements, the following items:
1. Production and sales in units. Rate of capacity operated.
2. Division of sales as between:
Domestic and foreign.
Intercompany and outsiders.
3. Details of operating expenses:
Wages, wage rates, and number of employees.
State and local taxes paid.
Selling and general expense.
Maintenance expenditures, amount and details.
4. Details of capital expenditures during the year.
5. Details of inventories.
6. Details of properties owned.
7. Number of stockholders.

The Balance Sheet. The form of the balance sheet is better standardized than the income account, and it does not offer such frequent grounds
for criticism. Formerly a widespread defect of balance sheets was the failure to separate intangible from tangible fixed assets, but this is now quite
rare in the case of listed issues. (Among the companies that since 1935
have disclosed the amount of good-will formerly included in their property accounts are American Steel Foundries, American Can, Harbison
decision had been reached with respect to the other seven (American Sumatra Tobacco,
Bon Ami, Collins & Aikman, Mathieson Alkali, Mesta Machine, Sheaffer Pen, United
Engineering and Foundry), as late as December 1939.
Various issues, e.g., Trico Products Corporation, failed to register and were dropped from
listing, presumably because of their unwillingness to supply sales figures. The withdrawal of
Marlin Rockwell Corporation from listing in 1938 may be ascribed to the same reason. The
stock exchanges have favored an amendment to the law requiring full disclosure in the case
of over-the-counter issues, to remove what they regard as an unfair advantage.
Many companies still provide their stockholders in their annual reports with much
less information than they file with the S.E.C. The Standard Statistics Corporation Records
Service, however, regularly publishes the S.E.C. figures as supplementary data.

[94]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Walker Refractories, Loose-Wiles Biscuit, and United States Steel. In
nearly all these cases the good-will was written off against surplus.)
Criticism may properly be voiced against the practice of a great many
companies in stating only the net figure for their property account without showing the deduction for depreciation. Other shortcomings sometimes met are the failure to state the market value of securities
owned—e.g., Oppenheim Collins and Company in 1932; to identify
“investments” as marketable or nonliquid—e.g., Pittsburgh Plate Glass
Company; to value the inventory at lower of cost or market—e.g., Celanese
Corporation of America in 1931; to state the nature of miscellaneous
reserves—e.g., Hazel-Atlas Glass Company; and to state the amount of
the company’s own securities held in the treasury—e.g., American Arch
Company.6

Periodic Reports to Public Agencies. Railroads and most public utilities are required to supply information to various federal and state commissions. Since these data are generally more detailed than the statements
to shareholders, they afford a useful supplementary source of material.
A few practical illustrations of the value of these reports to commissions
may be of interest.
For many years prior to 1927 Consolidated Gas Company of New York
(now Consolidated Edison Company of New York) was a “mystery stock”
in Wall Street because it supplied very little information to its stockholders. Great emphasis was laid by speculators upon the undisclosed value of
its interest in its numerous subsidiary companies. However, complete
operating and financial data relating to both the company and its subsidiaries were at all times available in the annual reports of the Public Service Commission of New York. The same situation pertained over a long
period with respect to the Mackay Companies, controlling Postal Telegraph and Cable Corporation, which reported no details to its stockholders but considerable information to the Interstate Commerce Commission.
A similar contrast exists between the unilluminating reports of Fifth
Avenue Bus Securities Company to its shareholders and the complete
6 Several of these points were involved in a protracted dispute between the New York
Stock Exchange and Allied Chemical and Dye Corporation, which was terminated to the
satisfaction of the Stock Exchange in 1933. But the annual reports of the company to
shareholders are still inadequate in that they fail to furnish figures for sales, operating
expenses, or depreciation.

Survey and Approach

[95]

information filed by its operating subsidiary with the New York Transit
Commission.
Finally, we may mention the “Standard Oil Group” of pipeline companies, which have been extremely chary of information to their stockholders. But these companies come under the jurisdiction of the Interstate
Commerce Commission and are required to file circumstantial annual
reports at Washington. Examination of these reports several years ago
would have disclosed striking facts about these companies’ holdings of
cash and marketable securities.
The voluminous data contained in the Survey of Current Business,
published monthly by the United States Department of Commerce, have
included sales figures for individual chain-store companies which were
not given general publicity—e.g., Waldorf System, J. R. Thompson,
United Cigar Stores, Hartman Corporation, etc. Current statistical information regarding particular companies is often available in trade publications or services.
Examples: Cram’s Auto Service gives weekly figures of production for
each motor-car company. Willett and Gray publish several estimates of
sugar production by companies during the crop year. The Oil and Gas
Journal often carries data regarding the production of important fields by
companies. The Railway Age supplies detailed information regarding
equipment orders placed. Dow, Jones and Company estimate weekly the
rate of production of United States Steel.

Listing Applications. In pre-S.E.C. days these were the most important nonperiodic sources of information. The reports required by the New
York Stock Exchange, as a condition to admitting securities to its list, are
much more detailed than those usually submitted to the stockholders.
The additional data may include sales in dollars, output in units, amount
of federal taxes, details of subsidiaries’ operations, basis and amount of
depreciation and depletion charges. Valuable information may also be
supplied regarding the properties owned, the terms of contracts, and the
accounting methods followed.
The analyst will find these listing applications exceedingly helpful. It
is unfortunate that they appear at irregular intervals, and therefore cannot be counted upon as a steady source of information.
Registration Statements and Prospectuses. As a result of the S.E.C.
legislation and regulations, the information available regarding all listed

[96]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

securities and all new securities (whether listed or not) is much more comprehensive than heretofore. These data are contained in registration statements filed with the Commission in Washington and available for
inspection or obtainable in copy upon payment of a fee. The more important information in the registration statement must be included in the
prospectus supplied by the underwriters to intending purchasers of new
issues. Similar registration statements must be filed with the S.E.C. under
the terms of the Public Utility Act of 1935, which applies to holding companies, some of which might not come under the other legislation. Although
it is true that the registration statements are undoubtedly too bulky to be
read by the typical investor, and although it is doubtful if he is even careful
to digest the material in the abbreviated prospectus (which still may cover
more than 100 pages), there is no doubt that this material is proving of the
greatest value to the analyst and through him to the investing public.

Miscellaneous Official Reports. Information on individual companies may be unearthed in various kinds of official documents. A few
examples will give an idea of their miscellaneous character. The report of
the United States Coal Commission in 1923 (finally printed as a Senate
Document in 1925) gave financial and operating data on the anthracite
companies which had not previously been published. Reports of the
Federal Trade Commission have recently supplied a wealth of information heretofore not available concerning utility operating and holding
companies, and natural-gas and pipe-line companies, unearthed in an
elaborate investigation extending over a period of about nine years. In
1938 and 1939 the Commission published detailed reports on the farm
implement and automobile manufacturers. In 1933 a comprehensive
study of the pipe-line companies was published under the direction of
the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce. Voluminous
studies of the American Telephone and Telegraph System have emanated
from the investigation carried on by the Federal Communications Commission pursuant to a Congressional resolution adopted in 1935.7 Some
7 These reports have been published respectively as Sen. Doc. 92, pts. 1–84D, 70th Congress,

1st Session (1928–1937); House Doc. 702, pts. 1 and 2, 75th Congress, 3d Session (1938);
House Doc. 468, 76th Congress, 1st Session (1939); House Report No. 2192, pts. 1 and 2,
72d Congress, 2d Session (1933); House Doc. 340, 76th Congress, 1st Session (1939),
together with supplementary reports mentioned on pp. 609–611 thereof; and Proposed
Report, Telephone Investigation Pursuant to Public Resolution No. 8, 74th Congress (1938).

Survey and Approach

[97]

of the opinions of the Interstate Commerce Commission have contained
material of great value to the analyst. Trustees under mortgages may have
information required to be supplied by the terms of the indenture. These
figures may be significant. For example, unpublished reports with the
trustee of Mason City and Fort Dodge Railroad Company 4s, revealed
that the interest on the bonds was not being earned, that payment thereof
was being continued by Chicago Great Western Railroad Company as a
matter of policy only, and hence that the bonds were in a far more vulnerable position than was generally suspected.

Statistical and Financial Publications. Most of the information
required by the securities analyst in his daily work may be found conveniently and adequately presented by the various statistical services. These
include comprehensive manuals published annually with periodic supplements (Poor’s, Moody’s); descriptive stock and bond cards, and manuals
frequently revised (Standard & Poor’s, Fitch); daily digests of news relating to individual companies (Standard Corporation Records, Fitch).8
These services have made great progress during the past 20 years in the
completeness and accuracy with which they present the facts. Nevertheless they cannot be relied upon to give all the data available in the various
original sources above described. Some of these sources escape them completely, and in other cases they may neglect to reproduce items of importance. It follows therefore that in any thoroughgoing study of an individual
company, the analyst should consult the original reports and other documents wherever possible, and not rely upon summaries or transcriptions.
In the field of financial periodicals, special mention must be made of
The Commercial and Financial Chronicle, a weekly publication with
numerous statistical supplements. Its treatment of the financial and
industrial field is unusually comprehensive; and its most noteworthy
feature is perhaps its detailed reproduction of corporate reports and other
documents.

Requests for Direct Information from the Company. Published
information may often be supplemented to an important extent by private inquiry of or by interview with the management. There is no reason
why stockholders should not ask for information on specific points, and
8 During 1941 Poor’s Publishing Company and Standard Statistics Company merged into
Standard & Poor’s Corp. The separate Poor’s services have been discontinued.

[98]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

in many cases part at least of the data asked for will be furnished. It must
never be forgotten that a stockholder is an owner of the business and an
employer of its officers. He is entitled not only to ask legitimate questions
but also to have them answered, unless there is some persuasive reason
to the contrary.
Insufficient attention has been paid to this all-important point. The
courts have generally held that a bona fide stockholder has the same right
to full information as a partner in a private business. This right may not
be exercised to the detriment of the corporation, but the burden of proof
rests upon the management to show an improper motive behind the
request or that disclosure of the information would work an injury to the
business.
Compelling a company to supply information involves expensive legal
proceedings and hence few shareholders are in a position to assert their
rights to the limit. Experience shows, however, that vigorous demands for
legitimate information are frequently acceded to even by the most recalcitrant managements. This is particularly true when the information
asked for is no more than that which is regularly published by other companies in the same field.

INFORMATION REGARDING THE INDUSTRY
Statistical data respecting industries as a whole are available in abundance. The Survey of Current Business, published by the United States
Department of Commerce, gives monthly figures on output, consumption, stocks, unfilled orders, etc., for many different lines. Annual
data are contained in the Statistical Abstract, the World Almanac, and
other compendiums. More detailed figures are available in the Biennial
Census of Manufactures.
Many important summary figures are published at frequent intervals
in the various trade journals. In these publications will be found also a
continuous and detailed picture of the current and prospective state of
the industry. Thus it is usually possible for the analyst to acquire without
undue difficulty a background of fairly complete knowledge of the
history and problems of the industry with which he is dealing.

Survey and Approach

[99]

In recent years the leading statistical agencies have developed additional services containing basic surveys of the principal industrial groups,
supplemented frequently by current data designed to keep the basic
surveys up to date.9

9 For description of these services see Handbook of Commercial and Financial Services,
Special Libraries Association, New York, 1939.

Chapter 4

DISTINCTIONS BETWEEN INVESTMENT
AND SPECULATION

General Connotations of the Term “Investment.” Investment or
investing, like “value” in the famous dictum of Justice Brandeis, is “a word
of many meanings.” Of these, three will concern us here. The first meaning, or set of meanings, relates to putting or having money in a business.
A man “invests” $1,000 in opening a grocery store; the “return on investment” in the steel industry (including bonded debt and retained profits)
averaged 2.40% during 1929–1938.1 The sense here is purely descriptive;
it makes no distinctions and pronounces no judgments. Note, however,
that it accepts rather than rejects the element of risk—the ordinary business investment is said to be made “at the risk of the business.”
The second set of uses applies the term in a similar manner to the field
of finance. In this sense all securities are “investments.” We have investment dealers or brokers, investment companies2 or trusts, investment
lists. Here, again, no real distinction is made between investment and
other types of financial operations such as speculation. It is a convenient
omnibus word, with perhaps an admixture of euphemism—i.e., a
desire to lend a certain respectability to financial dealings of miscellaneous character.
Alongside of these two indiscriminate uses of the term “investment”
has always been a third and more limited connotation—that of investment as opposed to speculation. That such a distinction is a useful one
1 Dollars behind Steel, pamphlet of American Iron and Steel Institute, New York, 1939.
2 Note that in October 1939 the S.E.C. listed under the title of “Investment Company” the
offering of stock of “The Adventure Company, Ltd.,” a new enterprise promoted by “The
Discovery Company, Ltd.” The fact that 1¢ par value stock was offered at $10 per share,
although not really significant, has a certain appropriateness.

[100]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

Survey and Approach

[101]

is generally taken for granted. It is commonly thought that investment,
in this special sense, is good for everybody and at all times. Speculation,
on the other hand, may be good or bad, depending on the conditions
and the person who speculates. It should be essential, therefore, for anyone engaging in financial operations to know whether he is investing or
speculating and, if the latter, to make sure that his speculation is a justifiable one.
The difference between investment and speculation, when the two are
thus opposed, is understood in a general way by nearly everyone; but
when we try to formulate it precisely, we run into perplexing difficulties.
In fact something can be said for the cynic’s definition that an investment
is a successful speculation and a speculation is an unsuccessful investment. It might be taken for granted that United States government securities are an investment medium, while the common stock, say, of Radio
Corporation of America—which between 1931 and 1935 had neither dividends, earnings, nor tangible assets behind it—must certainly be a speculation. Yet operations of a definitely speculative nature may be carried
on in United States government bonds (e.g., by specialists who buy large
blocks in anticipation of a quick rise); and on the other hand, in 1929
Radio Corporation of America common was widely regarded as an
investment, to the extent in fact of being included in the portfolios of
leading “Investment Trusts.”
It is certainly desirable that some exact and acceptable definition of
the two terms be arrived at, if only because we ought as far as possible to
know what we are talking about. A more forceful reason, perhaps, might
be the statement that the failure properly to distinguish between investment and speculation was in large measure responsible for the market
excesses of 1928–1929 and the calamities that ensued—as well as, we
think, for much continuing confusion in the ideas and policies of wouldbe investors. On this account we shall give the question a more thoroughgoing study than it usually receives. The best procedure might be first to
examine critically the various meanings commonly intended in using the
two expressions, and then to endeavor to crystallize therefrom a single
sound and definite conception of investment.

Distinctions Commonly Drawn between the Two Terms. The
chief distinctions in common use may be listed in the following table:

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[102]

Investment

Speculation

1. In bonds.

In stocks.

2. Outright purchases.

Purchases on margin.

3. For permanent holding.

For a “quick turn.”

4. For income.

For profit.

5. In safe securities.

In risky issues.

The first four distinctions have the advantage of being entirely definite, and each of them also sets forth a characteristic which is applicable
to the general run of investment or speculation. They are all open to the
objection that in numerous individual cases the criterion suggested would
not properly apply.

1. Bonds vs. Stocks. Taking up the first distinction, we find it corresponds to a common idea of investing as opposed to speculating, and that
it also has the weight of at least one authority on investment who insists
that only bonds belong in that category.3 The latter contention, however,
runs counter to the well-nigh universal acceptance of high-grade preferred stocks as media of investment. Furthermore, it is most dangerous
to regard the bond form as possessing inherently the credentials of an
investment, for a poorly secured bond may not only be thoroughly speculative but the most unattractive form of speculation as well. It is logically
unsound, furthermore, to deny investment rating to a strongly entrenched
common stock merely because it possesses profit possibilities. Even the
popular view recognizes this fact, since at all times certain especially
sound common stocks have been rated as investment issues and their purchasers regarded as investors and not as speculators.

2 and 3. Outright vs. Marginal Purchases; Permanent vs.
Temporary Holding. The second and third distinctions relate to the
customary method and intention, rather than to the innate character of
investment and speculative operations. It should be obvious that buying
a stock outright does not ipso facto make the transaction an investment.
3 Lawrence Chamberlain at p. 8 of Investment and Speculation by Chamberlain and William

W. Hay, New York, 1931.

Survey and Approach

[103]

In truth the most speculative issues, e.g., “penny mining stocks,” must be
purchased outright, since no one will lend money against them.
Conversely, when the American public was urged during the war to buy
Liberty Bonds with borrowed money, such purchases were nonetheless
universally classed as investments. If strict logic were followed in financial operations—a very improbable hypothesis!—the common practice
would be reversed: the safer (investment) issues would be considered
more suitable for marginal purchase, and the riskier (speculative) commitments would be paid for in full.
Similarly the contrast between permanent and temporary holding is
applicable only in a broad and inexact fashion. An authority on common
stocks has defined an investment as any purchase made with the intention of holding it for a year or longer; but this definition is admittedly
suggested by its convenience rather than its penetration.4 The inexactness of this suggested rule is shown by the circumstance that short-term
investment is a well-established practice. Long-term speculation is equally
well established as a rueful fact (when the purchaser holds on hoping to
make up a loss), and it is also carried on to some extent as an intentional
undertaking.

4 and 5. Income vs. Profit; Safety vs. Risk. The fourth and fifth
distinctions also belong together, and so joined they undoubtedly come
closer than the others to both a rational and a popular understanding of
the subject. Certainly, through many years prior to 1928, the typical
investor had been interested above all in safety of principal and continuance of an adequate income. However, the doctrine that common stocks
are the best long-term investments has resulted in a transfer of emphasis
from current income to future income and hence inevitably to future
enhancement of principal value. In its complete subordination of the
income element to the desire for profit, and also in the prime reliance it
places upon favorable developments expected in the future, the new-era
style of investment—as exemplified in the general policy of the investment trusts—is practically indistinguishable from speculation. In fact this
so-called “investment” can be accurately defined as speculation in the
common stocks of strongly situated companies.
4 Sloan, Laurence H., Everyman and His Common Stocks, pp. 8–9, 279 ff., New York, 1931.

[104]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

It would undoubtedly be a wholesome step to go back to the accepted
idea of income as the central motive in investment, leaving the aim toward
profit, or capital appreciation, as the typical characteristic of speculation.
But it is doubtful whether the true inwardness of investment rests even in
this distinction. Examining standard practices of the past, we find some
instances in which current income was not the leading interest of a bona
fide investment operation. This was regularly true, for example, of bank
stocks, which until recent years were regarded as the exclusive province
of the wealthy investor. These issues returned a smaller dividend yield than
did high-grade bonds, but they were purchased on the expectation that
the steady growth in earnings and surplus would result in special distributions and increased principal value. In other words, it was the earnings
accruing to the stockholder’s credit, rather than those distributed in dividends, which motivated his purchase. Yet it would not appear to be sound
to call this attitude speculative, for we should then have to contend that
only the bank stocks which paid out most of their earnings in dividends
(and thus gave an adequate current return) could be regarded as investments, while those following the conservative policy of building up their
surplus would therefore have to be considered speculative. Such a conclusion is obviously paradoxical; and because of this fact it must be admitted
that an investment in a common stock might conceivably be founded on
its earning power, without reference to current dividend payments.
Does this bring us back to the new-era theory of investment? Must
we say that the purchase of low-yielding industrial shares in 1929 had the
same right to be called investment as the purchase of low-yielding bank
stocks in prewar days? The answer to this question should bring us to the
end of our quest, but to deal with it properly we must turn our attention
to the fifth and last distinction in our list—that between safety and risk.
This distinction expresses the broadest concept of all those underlying
the term investment, but its practical utility is handicapped by various
shortcomings. If safety is to be judged by the result, we are virtually begging the question, and come perilously close to the cynic’s definition of an
investment as a successful speculation.5 Naturally the safety must be posited
in advance, but here again there is room for much that is indefinite and
5 For a serious suggestion along these lines see Felix I. Shaffner, The Problem of Investment,
pp. 18–19, New York, 1936.

Survey and Approach

[105]

purely subjective. The race-track gambler, betting on a “sure thing,” is convinced that his commitment is safe. The 1929 “investor” in high-priced
common stocks also considered himself safe in his reliance upon future
growth to justify the figure he paid and more.

Standards of Safety. The concept of safety can be really useful only if it
is based on something more tangible than the psychology of the purchaser.
The safety must be assured, or at least strongly indicated, by the application of definite and well-established standards. It was this point which distinguished the bank-stock buyer of 1912 from the common-stock investor
of 1929. The former purchased at price levels which he considered conservative in the light of experience; he was satisfied, from his knowledge of
the institution’s resources and earning power, that he was getting his
money’s worth in full. If a strong speculative market resulted in advancing
the price to a level out of line with these standards of value, he sold his
shares and waited for a reasonable price to return before reacquiring them.
Had the same attitude been taken by the purchaser of common stocks
in 1928–1929, the term investment would not have been the tragic misnomer that it was. But in proudly applying the designation “blue chips”
to the high-priced issues chiefly favored, the public unconsciously
revealed the gambling motive at the heart of its supposed investment
selections. These differed from the old-time bank-stock purchases in the
one vital respect that the buyer did not determine that they were worth
the price paid by the application of firmly established standards of value.
The market made up new standards as it went along, by accepting the
current price—however high—as the sole measure of value. Any idea of
safety based on this uncritical approach was clearly illusory and replete
with danger. Carried to its logical extreme, it meant that no price could
possibly be too high for a good stock, and that such an issue was equally
“safe” after it had advanced to 200 as it had been at 25.

A Proposed Definition of Investment. This comparison suggests
that it is not enough to identify investment with expected safety; the
expectation must be based on study and standards. At the same time, the
investor need not necessarily be interested in current income; he may at
times legitimately base his purchase on a return which is accumulating
to his credit and realized by him after a longer or shorter wait. With these
observations in mind, we suggest the following definition of investment

[106]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

as one in harmony with both the popular understanding of the term and
the requirements of reasonable precision:
An investment operation is one which, upon thorough analysis, promises
safety of principal and a satisfactory return. Operations not meeting these
requirements are speculative.

Certain implications of this definition are worthy of further discussion. We speak of an investment operation rather than an issue or a purchase, for several reasons. It is unsound to think always of investment
character as inhering in an issue per se. The price is frequently an essential element, so that a stock (and even a bond) may have investment merit
at one price level but not at another. Furthermore, an investment might
be justified in a group of issues, which would not be sufficiently safe if
made in any one of them singly. In other words, diversification might be
necessary to reduce the risk involved in the separate issues to the minimum consonant with the requirements of investment. (This would be
true, in general, of purchases of common stocks for investment.)
In our view it is also proper to consider as investment operations certain types of arbitrage and hedging commitments which involve the sale
of one security against the purchase of another. In these operations the
element of safety is provided by the combination of purchase and sale.
This is an extension of the ordinary concept of investment, but one which
appears to the writers to be entirely logical.
The phrases thorough analysis, promises safety, and satisfactory return
are all chargeable with indefiniteness, but the important point is that their
meaning is clear enough to prevent serious misunderstanding. By thorough analysis we mean, of course, the study of the facts in the light of
established standards of safety and value. An “analysis” that recommended investment in General Electric common at a price forty times its
highest recorded earnings merely because of its excellent prospects would
be clearly ruled out, as devoid of all quality of thoroughness.
The safety sought in investment is not absolute or complete; the word
means, rather, protection against loss under all normal or reasonably
likely conditions or variations. A safe bond, for example, is one which
could suffer default only under exceptional and highly improbable circumstances. Similarly, a safe stock is one which holds every prospect of
being worth the price paid except under quite unlikely contingencies.

Survey and Approach

[107]

Where study and experience indicate that an appreciable chance of loss
must be recognized and allowed for, we have a speculative situation.
A satisfactory return is a wider expression than adequate income, since
it allows for capital appreciation or profit as well as current interest or
dividend yield. “Satisfactory” is a subjective term; it covers any rate or
amount of return, however low, which the investor is willing to accept,
provided he acts with reasonable intelligence.
It may be helpful to elaborate our definition from a somewhat different angle, which will stress the fact that investment must always consider
the price as well as the quality of the security. Strictly speaking, there can
be no such thing as an “investment issue” in the absolute sense, i.e., implying that it remains an investment regardless of price. In the case of highgrade bonds, this point may not be important, for it is rare that their
prices are so inflated as to introduce serious risk of loss of principal. But
in the common-stock field this risk may frequently be created by an
undue advance in price—so much so, indeed, that in our opinion the
great majority of common stocks of strong companies must be considered speculative during most of the time, simply because their price is too
high to warrant safety of principal in any intelligible sense of the phrase.
We must warn the reader that prevailing Wall Street opinion does not
agree with us on this point; and he must make up his own mind which
of us is wrong.
Nevertheless, we shall embody our principle in the following additional criterion of investment:
An investment operation is one that can be justified on both qualitative
and quantitative grounds.

The extent to which the distinction between investment and speculation may depend upon the underlying facts, including the element of
price, rather than on any easy generalization, may be brought home in
somewhat extreme fashion by two contrasting examples based upon General Electric Special (i.e., Preferred) stock, which occurred in successive
months.
Example 1: In December 1934 this issue sold at 123/4. It paid 6% on
$10 par and was callable on any dividend date at 11. In spite of the preeminent quality of this issue, as far as safety of dividends was concerned,
the buyer at 123/4 was speculating to the extent of more than 10% of his

[108]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

principal. He was virtually wagering that the issue would not be called
for some years to come.6 As it happened, the issue was called that very
month for redemption at $11 per share on April 15, 1935.
Example 2: After the issue was called, the price promptly declined to
11. At that time the issue offered an unusual opportunity for profitable
short-term investment on margin. Brokers buying the shares at 11 (without paying commission), say on January 15, 1935, could have borrowed
$10 per share thereon at not more than 2% per annum. This operation
would have netted a sure return at the rate of 40% per annum on the
capital invested—as shown by the following calculation:
Cost of 1,000 shares at 11 net..............................................................$11,000
Redeemed Apr. 15, 1935, at 11 plus dividend......................................11,150
Gross profit ..............................................................................................150
Less 3 months’ interest at 2% on $10,000....................................................50
Net profit..................................................................................................100

Net profit of $100 on $1,000 in 3 months is equivalent to annual
return of 40%.
Needless to say, the safety, and the resultant investment character, of
this unusual operation derived solely from the fact that the holder could
count absolutely on the redemption of the shares in April 1935.
The conception of investment advanced above is broader than most
of those in common use. Under it investment may conceivably—though
not usually—be made in stocks, carried on margin, and purchased with
the chief interest in a quick profit. In these respects it would run counter
to the first four distinctions which we listed at the outset. But to offset
this seeming laxity, we insist on a satisfactory assurance of safety based
on adequate analysis. We are thus led to the conclusion that the viewpoint of analysis and the viewpoint of investment are largely identical in
their scope.
6 In recent years many United States Government short-term securities have been purchased
at prices yielding less than nothing to maturity in the expectation that the holders would be
given valuable exchange privileges into new issues. According to our definition all such purchases must be called speculative to the extent of the premium paid above par and interest to
maturity.

Survey and Approach

[109]

OTHER ASPECTS OF INVESTMENT
AND SPECULATION
Relation of the Future to Investment and Speculation. It may
be said, with some approximation to the truth, that investment is
grounded on the past whereas speculation looks primarily to the future.
But this statement is far from complete. Both investment and speculation
must meet the test of the future; they are subject to its vicissitudes and
are judged by its verdict. But what we have said about the analyst and the
future applies equally well to the concept of investment. For investment,
the future is essentially something to be guarded against rather than to
be profited from. If the future brings improvement, so much the better;
but investment as such cannot be founded in any important degree upon
the expectation of improvement. Speculation, on the other hand, may
always properly—and often soundly—derive its basis and its justification
from prospective developments that differ from past performance.

Types of “Investment.” Assuming that the student has acquired a
fairly clear concept of investment in the distinctive sense that we have just
developed, there remains the confusing effect of the prevalent use of the
term in the broader meanings referred to at the beginning of this chapter. It might be useful if some descriptive adjective were regularly
employed, when care is needed, to designate the particular meaning
intended. Let us tentatively suggest the following:
1. Business investment
2. Financial investment or
investment generally
3. Sheltered investment

4. Analyst’s investment

Referring to money put or held in a business.
Referring to securities generally.
Referring to securities regarded as subject to small
risk by reason of their prior claim on earnings or
because they rest upon an adequate taxing power.
Referring to operations that, upon thorough study,
promise safety of principal and an adequate return.

Evidently these different types of investment are not mutually exclusive. A good bond, for example, would fall under all four headings. Unless
we specify otherwise, we shall employ the word “investment,” and its relatives, in the sense of “analyst’s investment,” as developed in this chapter.

[110]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Types of Speculation. The distinction between speculation and gambling assumes significance when the activities of Wall Street are subjected
to critical scrutiny. It is more or less the official position of the New York
Stock Exchange that “gambling” represents the creation of risks not previously existing—e.g., race-track betting—whereas “speculation” applies to
the taking of risks that are implicit in a situation and so must be taken by
someone. A formal distinction between “intelligent speculation” and “unintelligent speculation” is no doubt open to strong theoretical objections, but
we do think that it has practical utility. Thus we suggest the following:
1. Intelligent speculation
2. Unintelligent speculation

The taking of a risk that appears justified after careful
weighing of the pros and cons.
Risk taking without adequate study of the situation.

In the field of general business most well-considered enterprises
would belong in the class of intelligent speculations as well as representing “business investments” in the popular sense. If the risk of loss is very
small—an exceptional occurrence—a particular business venture may
qualify as an analyst’s investment in our special sense. On the other hand,
many ill-conceived businesses must be called unintelligent speculations.
Similarly, in the field of finance, a great deal of common-stock buying is
done with reasonable care and may be called intelligent speculation; a
great deal, also, is done upon inadequate consideration and for unsound
reasons and thus must be called unintelligent; in the exceptional case a
common stock may be bought on such attractive terms, qualitative and
quantitative, as to set the inherent risk at a minimum and justify the title
of analyst’s investment.

Investment and Speculative Components. A proposed purchase
that cannot qualify as an “analyst’s investment” automatically falls into the
speculative category. But at times it may be useful to view such a purchase
somewhat differently and to divide the price paid into an investment and
a speculative component. Thus the analyst, considering General Electric
common at its average price of $38 in 1939, might conclude that up to, say,
$25 per share is justified from the strict standpoint of investment value.
The remaining $13 per share will represent the stock market’s average
appraisal of the company’s excellent long-term prospects, including
therein, perhaps, a rather strong psychological bias in favor of this

Survey and Approach

[111]

outstanding enterprise. On the basis of such a study, the analyst would
declare that the price of $38 for General Electric includes an investment
component of some $25 per share and a speculative component of about
$13 per share. If this is sound, it would follow that at a price of 25 or less,
General Electric common would constitute an “analyst’s investment” completely; but above that price the buyer should recognize that he is paying
something for the company’s very real speculative possibilities.7

Investment Value, Speculative Value, and Intrinsic Value. The
foregoing discussion suggests an amplification of what was said in Chap. 1
on the concept of “intrinsic value,” which was there defined as “value justified by the facts.” It is important to recognize that such value is by no
means limited to “value for investment”—i.e., to the investment component
of total value—but may properly include a substantial component of speculative value, provided that such speculative value is intelligently arrived at.
Hence the market price may be said to exceed intrinsic value only when the
market price is clearly the reflection of unintelligent speculation.
Generally speaking, it is the function of the stock market, and not of
the analyst, to appraise the speculative factors in a given common-stock
picture. To this important extent the market, not the analyst, determines
intrinsic value. The range of such an appraisal may be very wide, as illustrated by our former suggestion that the intrinsic value of J. I. Case common in 1933 might conceivably have been as high as 130 or as low as 30.
At any point between these broad limits it would have been necessary to
accept the market’s verdict—changeable as it was from day to day—as
representing the best available determination of the intrinsic value of this
volatile issue.

7 We have intentionally, and at the risk of future regret, used an example here of a highly
controversial character. Nearly everyone in Wall Street would regard General Electric stock
as an “investment issue” irrespective of its market price and, more specifically, would consider the average price of $38 as amply justified from the investment standpoint. But we are
convinced that to regard investment quality as something independent of price is a fundamental and dangerous error. As to the point at which the investment value of General Electric ceases and its speculative value begins, there is naturally room for a fairly wide
difference of opinion. Our figure is only illustrative.

Chapter 5

CLASSIFICATION OF SECURITIES

SECURITIES ARE CUSTOMARILY divided into the two main groups of bonds
and stocks, with the latter subdivided into preferred stocks and common
stocks. The first and basic division recognizes and conforms to the fundamental legal distinction between the creditors’ position and the partners’
position. The bondholder has a fixed and prior claim for principal and
interest; the stockholder assumes the major risks and shares in the profits
of ownership. It follows that a higher degree of safety should inhere in
bonds as a class, while greater opportunity of speculative gain—to offset
the greater hazard—is to be found in the field of stocks. It is this contrast,
of both legal status and investment character, as between the two kinds of
issues, which provides the point of departure for the usual textbook treatment of securities.

Objections to the Conventional Grouping: 1. Preferred Stock
Grouped with Common. While this approach is hallowed by tradition, it is open to several serious objections. Of these the most obvious is
that it places preferred stocks with common stocks, whereas, so far as
investment practice is concerned, the former undoubtedly belong with
bonds. The typical or standard preferred stock is bought for fixed income
and safety of principal. Its owner considers himself not as a partner in the
business but as the holder of a claim ranking ahead of the interest of the
partners, i.e., the common stockholders. Preferred stockholders are partners or owners of the business only in a technical, legalistic sense; but
they resemble bondholders in the purpose and expected results of their
investment.

2. Bond Form Identified with Safety. A weightier though less
patent objection to the radical separation of bonds from stocks is that
it tends to identify the bond form with the idea of safety. Hence investors
are led to believe that the very name “bond” must carry some especial
[112]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

Survey and Approach

[113]

assurance against loss. This attitude is basically unsound, and on frequent occasions is responsible for serious mistakes and loss. The
investor has been spared even greater penalties for this error by the
rather accidental fact that fraudulent security promoters have rarely
taken advantage of the investment prestige attaching to the bond form.1
It is true beyond dispute that bonds as a whole enjoy a degree of safety
distinctly superior to that of the average stock. But this advantage is
not the result of any essential virtue of the bond form; it follows from
the circumstance that the typical American enterprise is financed with
some honesty and intelligence and does not assume fixed obligations
without a reasonable expectation of being able to meet them. But it is
not the obligation that creates the safety, nor is it the legal remedies
of the bondholder in the event of default. Safety depends upon and is
measured entirely by the ability of the debtor corporation to meet its
obligations.
The bond of a business without assets or earning power would be
every whit as valueless as the stock of such an enterprise. Bonds representing all the capital placed in a new venture are no safer than common
stock would be, and are considerably less attractive. For the bondholder
could not possibly get more out of the company by virtue of his fixed
claim than he could realize if he owned the business in full, free and clear.2
This simple principle seems too obvious to merit statement; yet because
of the traditional association of the bond form with superior safety, the
investor has often been persuaded that by the mere act of limiting his
return he obtained an assurance against loss.

3. Failure of Titles to Describe Issues with Accuracy. The basic
classification of securities into bonds and stocks—or even into three main
classes of bonds, preferred stocks, and common stocks—is open to the
third objection that in many cases these titles fail to supply an accurate
description of the issue. This is the consequence of the steadily mounting
1 For an example of fraudulent sales of bonds see Securities Act of 1933: Release No. 2112, dated
Dec. 4, 1939, relating to conviction of various parties in connection with the sale of American
Terminals and Transit Company bonds and Green River Valley Terminal Company notes.
2 See Appendix Note 4, p. 736 on accompanying CD, for a phase of the liquidation of the

United States Express Company illustrating this point and for the more recent example of
Court-Livingston Corporation.

[114]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

percentage of securities which do not conform to the standard patterns,
but instead modify or mingle the customary provisions.
Briefly stated, these standard patterns are as follows:
I. The bond pattern comprises:
A. The unqualified right to a fixed interest payment on fixed dates.
B. The unqualified right to repayment of a fixed principal amount on
a fixed date.
C. No further interest in assets or profits, and no voice in the
management.
II. The preferred-stock pattern comprises:
A. A stated rate of dividend in priority to any payment on the common. (Hence full preferred dividends are mandatory if the common receives any dividend; but if nothing is paid on the common,
the preferred dividend is subject to the discretion of the directors).
B. The right to a stated principal amount in the event of dissolution,
in priority to any payments to the common stock.
C. Either no voting rights, or voting power shared with the common.
III. The common-stock pattern comprises:
A. A pro rata ownership of the company’s assets in excess of its debts
and preferred stock issues.
B. A pro rata interest in all profits in excess of prior deductions.
C. A pro rata vote for the election of directors and for other purposes.

Bonds and preferred stocks conforming to the above standard
patterns will sometimes be referred to as straight bonds or straight preferred stocks.
Numerous Deviations from the Standard Patterns. However, almost
every conceivable departure from the standard pattern can be found in
greater or less profusion in the security markets of today. Of these the
most frequent and important are identified by the following designations:
income bonds; convertible bonds and preferred stocks; bonds and preferred stocks with stock-purchase warrants attached; participating preferred stocks; common stocks with preferential features; nonvoting
common stock. Of recent origin is the device of making bond interest or
preferred dividends payable either in cash or in common stock at
the holder’s option. The callable feature now found in most bonds may
also be termed a lesser departure from the standard provision of fixed
maturity of principal.

Survey and Approach

[115]

Of less frequent and perhaps unique deviations from the standard patterns, the variety is almost endless.3 We shall mention here only the glaring instance of Great Northern Railway Preferred Stock which for many
years has been in all respects a plain common issue; and also the resort
by Associated Gas and Electric Company to the insidious and highly
objectionable device of bonds convertible into preferred stock at the
option of the company which are, therefore, not true bonds at all.
More striking still is the emergence of completely distinctive types of
securities so unrelated to the standard bond or stock pattern as to require
an entirely different set of names. Of these, the most significant is the
option warrant—a device which during the years prior to 1929 developed
into a financial instrument of major importance and tremendous mischief-making powers. The option warrants issued by a single company—
American and Foreign Power Company—attained in 1929 an aggregate
market value of more than a billion dollars, a figure exceeding our
national debt in 1914. A number of other newfangled security forms,
bearing titles such as allotment certificates and dividend participations,
could be mentioned.4
The peculiarities and complexities to be found in the present day security list are added arguments against the traditional practice of pigeonholing and generalizing about securities in accordance with their titles.
While this procedure has the merit of convenience and a certain rough
validity, we think it should be replaced by a more flexible and accurate
basis of classification. In our opinion, the criterion most useful for purposes of study would be the normal behavior of the issue after purchase—
in other words its risk-and-profit characteristics as the buyer or owner
would reasonably view them.

New Classification Suggested. With this standpoint in mind, we
suggest that securities be classified under the following three headings:
3 The reader is referred to Appendix Note 3 of the first edition of this work for a comprehensive list of these deviations, with examples of each. To save space that material is omitted
from this edition.
4 In June 1939 the S.E.C. set a salutary precedent by refusing to authorize the issuance of

“Capital Income Debentures” in the reorganization of the Griess-Pfleger Tanning Company,
on the ground that the devising of new types of hybrid issues had gone far enough. See
S.E.C. Corporate Reorganization Release No. 13, dated June 16, 1939. Unfortunately, the
court failed to see the matter in the same light and approved the issuance of the new security.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[116]

Class

Representative Issue

I. Securities of the fixed-value type.
II. Senior securities of the variablevalue type.
A. Well-protected issues with profit
possibilities.
B. Inadequately protected issues.
III. Common-stock type.

A high-grade bond or preferred stock.

A high-grade convertible bond.
A lower-grade bond or preferred stock.
A common stock.

An approximation to the above grouping could be reached by the use
of more familiar terms, as follows:
I. Investment bonds and preferred stocks.
II. Speculative bonds and preferred stocks.
A. Convertibles, etc.
B. Low-grade senior issues.
III. Common stocks.

The somewhat novel designations that we employ are needed to make
our classification more comprehensive. This necessity will be clearer, perhaps, from the following description and discussion of each group.
Leading Characteristics of the Three Types. The first class includes
issues, of whatever title, in which prospective change of value may fairly
be said to hold minor importance.5 The owner’s dominant interest lies in
the safety of his principal and his sole purpose in making the commitment
is to obtain a steady income. In the second class, prospective changes in
the value of the principal assume real significance. In Type A, the investor
hopes to obtain the safety of a straight investment, with an added possibility of profit by reason of a conversion right or some similar privilege.
In Type B, a definite risk of loss is recognized, which is presumably offset

5 The actual fluctuations in the price of long-term investment bonds since 1914 have been so

wide (see chart on p. 27) as to suggest that these price changes must surely be of more than
minor importance. It is true, nonetheless, that the investor habitually acts as if they were of
minor importance to him, so that, subjectively at least, our criterion and title are justified. To
the objection that this is conniving at self-delusion by the investor, we may answer that on
the whole he is likely to fare better by overlooking the price variations of high-grade bonds
than by trying to take advantage of them and thus transforming himself into a trader.

Survey and Approach

[117]

by a corresponding chance of profit. Securities included in Group IIB will
differ from the common-stock type (Group III) in two respects: (1) They
enjoy an effective priority over some junior issue, thus giving them a certain degree of protection. (2) Their profit possibilities, however substantial, have a fairly definite limit, in contrast with the unlimited percentage
of possible gain theoretically or optimistically associated with a fortunate
common-stock commitment.
Issues of the fixed-value type include all straight bonds and preferred
stocks of high quality selling at a normal price. Besides these, there belong
in this class:
1. Sound convertible issues where the conversion level is too remote to enter
as a factor in the purchase. (Similarly for participating or warrant-bearing senior issues.)
2. Guaranteed common stocks of investment grade.
3. “Class A” or prior-common stocks occupying the status of a high-grade,
straight preferred stock.

On the other hand, a bond of investment grade which happens to sell
at any unduly low price would belong in the second group, since the purchaser might have reason to expect and be interested in an appreciation
of its market value.
Exactly at what point the question of price fluctuation becomes material rather than minor is naturally impossible to prescribe. The price level
itself is not the sole determining factor. A long-term 3% bond selling at
60 may have belonged in the fixed-value class (e.g., Northern Pacific Railway 3s, due 2047 between 1922 and 1930), whereas a one-year maturity
of any coupon rate selling at 80 would not because in a comparatively
short time it must either be paid off at a 20-point advance or else default
and probably suffer a severe decline in market value. We must be prepared, therefore, to find marginal cases where the classification (as
between Group I and Group II) will depend on the personal viewpoint
of the analyst or investor.
Any issue which displays the main characteristics of a common stock
belongs in Group III, whether it is entitled “common stock,” “preferred
stock” or even “bond.” The case, already cited, of American Telephone
and Telegraph Company Convertible 41/2 s, when selling about 200, provides an apposite example. The buyer or holder of the bond at so high a

[118]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

level was to all practical purposes making a commitment in the common
stock, for the bond and stock would not only advance together but also
decline together over an exceedingly wide price range. Still more definite
illustration of this point was supplied by the Kreuger and Toll Participating Debentures at the time of their sale to the public. The offering price
was so far above the amount of their prior claim that their title had no
significance at all, and could only have been misleading. These “bonds”
were definitely of the common-stock type.6
The opposite situation is met when issues, senior in name, sell at such
low prices that the junior securities can obviously have no real equity, i.e.,
ownership interest, in the company. In such cases, the low-priced bond
or preferred stock stands virtually in the position of a common stock and
should be regarded as such for purposes of analysis. A preferred stock
selling at 10 cents on the dollar, for example, should be viewed not as a
preferred stock at all, but as a common stock. On the one hand it lacks
the prime requisite of a senior security, viz., that it should be followed by
a junior investment of substantial value. On the other hand, it carries all
the profit features of a common stock, since the amount of possible gain
from the current level is for all practical purposes unlimited.
The dividing line between Groups II and III is as indefinite as that
between Groups I and II. Borderline cases can be handled without undue
difficulty however, by considering them from the standpoint of either category or of both. For example, should a 7% preferred stock selling at 30
be considered a low-priced senior issue or as the equivalent of a common
stock? The answer to this question will depend partly on the exhibit of
the company and partly on the attitude of the prospective buyer. If real
value may conceivably exist in excess of the par amount of the preferred
stock, the issue may be granted some of the favored status of a senior
security. On the other hand, whether or not the buyer should consider
it in the same light as a common stock may also depend on whether
he would be amply satisfied with a possible 250% appreciation, or is
looking for even greater speculative gain.7
6 See Appendix Note 5, p. 737 on accompanying CD, for the terms of this issue.
7 There were many preferred stocks of this kind in 1932—e.g., Interstate Department Stores
Preferred which sold at an average price of about 30 in 1932 and 1933 and then advanced
to 107 in 1936 and 1937. A similar remark applies to low-priced bonds, such as those
mentioned in the table on p. 330.

Survey and Approach

[119]

From the foregoing discussion the real character and purpose of our
classification should now be more evident. Its basis is not the title of the
issue, but the practical significance of its specific terms and status to the
owner. Nor is the primary emphasis placed upon what the owner is legally
entitled to demand, but upon what he is likely to get, or is justified in
expecting, under conditions which appear to be probable at the time of
purchase or analysis.

This page intentionally left blank

PART II

FIXED-VALUE
INVESTMENTS

Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

This page intentionally left blank

Introduc tion to Par t II

UNSHACKLING BONDS
B Y H O WA R D S . M A R K S

M

y first exposure to Security Analysis came in 1965. As a Wharton undergraduate, I was assigned readings from the masterwork of Benjamin Graham and David Dodd (joined by that

time by editor Sidney Cottle).
We’re talking about the early days, when a career in investment management mostly meant working for a bank, a trust company, or an insurance company. The first institutional investment boutique that I
remember—Jennison Associates—was still a few years away from its
founding. Common stock investors referenced the Dow Jones Industrial
Average, not the S&P 500, and there was no talk of quartiles or deciles. In
fact, it was just a few years earlier, at the University of Chicago’s Center for
Research in Security Prices, that daily stock prices since 1926 had been
digitized, permitting calculation of the 9.2% historic return on equities.
The term “growth stock investing” was relatively new (and in its
absence, there was no need for the contrasting term “value investing”).
The invention of the hedge fund had yet to be recognized, and I’m not
sure the description even existed. No one had ever heard of a venture
capital fund, a private equity fund, an index fund, a quant fund, or an
emerging market fund. And, interestingly, “famous investor” was largely
an oxymoron—the world hadn’t yet heard of Warren Buffett, for
example, and only a small circle recognized his teacher at Columbia, Ben
Graham.

[123]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[124]

Introduction to Part II

The world of fixed income bore little resemblance to that of today.
There was no way to avoid uncertainty regarding the rate at which interest payments could be reinvested because zero-coupon bonds had not
been invented. Bonds rated below investment grade couldn’t be issued
as such, and the fallen angels that were outstanding had yet to be
labeled “junk” or “high yield” bonds. Of course, there were no leveraged
loans, residential mortgage–backed securities (RMBSs), or collateralized
bond, debt, and loan obligations. And today’s bond professionals might
give some thought to how their predecessors arrived at yields to maturity before the existence of computers, calculators, or Bloomberg
terminals.
But I’m lucky to have begun my studies in the mid-1960s because the
finance and investment theory I would go on to learn at the University of
Chicago Graduate School of Business was new and hadn’t yet spread
broadly. Thus my college experience did not include exposure to the Efficient Market Hypothesis, which told the next few generations of students
of finance that there was no use for Security Analysis: a guidebook to the
impossible task of beating an inefficient market.
*

*

*

I learned a lot from this book, which was generally accepted in 1965 as
the bible of security analysis. And yet I came away with a negative reaction as well, feeling that it contained too much dogma and too many formulas incorporating numerical constants like “multiply by x” or “count
only y years.”
My more recent reading of the chapters on fixed income securities in
the 1940 edition of Security Analysis served to remind me of some of the
rules I had found too rigid. But it also showed me the vast wealth of less
quantitative and more flexible common sense contained in the book, as
well as some of the forward-looking insights.

Howard S. Marks

[125]

To my mind, some of the most interesting aspects of the book—and
of developments in the investment world over the last several decades—
are seen in Graham and Dodd’s perspective on the evolution of investment standards.
• At least through 1940, there were well-accepted and very specific
standards for what was proper and what was not, especially in fixed
income. Rules and attitudes governed the actions of fiduciaries and
the things they could and could not do. In this environment, a fiduciary who lost money for his beneficiaries in a nonqualifying investment
could be “surcharged”—forced to make good the losses—without reference to how well he did his job overall or whether the whole portfolio made money.
• Then, there was the concept of the “prudent man,” based on a
nineteenth-century court case. Was this something that a prudent person would do, judged in the light of the circumstances under which
the decision was made and in the context of the portfolio as a whole?
Thus individual losing investments need not give rise to penalties if
the fiduciary’s decisions and results were acceptable in toto.
• As part of the development of the finance theory that is attributed to
the “Chicago School,” in the 1950s Harry Markowitz contributed the
notion that, based on an understanding of correlation, the addition of
a “risky asset” to a portfolio could reduce the portfolio’s overall riskiness by increasing its diversification.
• Finally, the ultimate contribution of the Chicago School came through
the assertion that the “goodness” of an investment—and of a performance record—had to be evaluated based on the relationship between
its risk and its return. A safe investment is not a good investment, and
a risky investment is not a bad investment. Good-enough performance prospects can compensate for the riskiness of a risky investment,
rendering it attractive and prudent.

[126]

Introduction to Part II

Thus, today we see few absolute rules of investing. In fact, it’s hard to
think of anything that’s off-limits, and most investors will do almost anything to make a buck. The 1940 edition of Security Analysis marks an
interesting turn toward what we would consider very modern thinking—
it references some absolute standards but dismisses many others and
reflects an advanced attitude toward sensible fixed income investing.

Investment Absolutes
The 1940 edition certainly contains statements that seem definite. Here
are some examples:
Deficient safety cannot be compensated for by an abnormally high
coupon rate. The selection of all bonds for investment should be subject
to rules of exclusion and to specific quantitative tests. (p. 144)
If a company’s junior bonds are not safe, its first-mortgage bonds are not
a desirable fixed-value investment. For if the second mortgage is unsafe
the company itself is weak, and generally speaking there can be no highgrade obligations of a weak enterprise. (p. 148)
Bonds of smaller industrial companies are not well qualified for consideration as fixed-value investments. (p. 161)

When I began to manage high yield bonds in 1978, most institutional
portfolios were governed by rules that limited bond holdings to either
“investment grade” (triple B or better) or “A or better.” Rules like these
that put certain securities off-limits to most buyers had the effect of making bargains available to those of us who weren’t so restricted. At first
glance, Graham and Dodd’s proscriptions would seem to be among
those rules.

Investment versus Speculation
As I reread the chapters that are the subject of this updating, I came
across a number of statements like these, to the effect that some bond is

Howard S. Marks

[127]

or is not appropriate for investment. No mention of price or yield; just yes
or no . . . good or bad. To someone whose career in portfolio management has dealt almost exclusively with speculative-grade assets, this
would seem to rule out whole sections of the investment universe. The
ideas that potential return can compensate for risk and that the debt of a
financially troubled company can get so cheap that it’s a screaming buy
appear to fight the authors’ principles.
Then it dawned on me that Graham and Dodd were saying one thing
and I was reading another. They didn’t mean that something shouldn’t be
bought—but rather that it shouldn’t be bought, to use their phrase, “on
an investment basis.” Today people attach the word “investment” to anything purchased for the purpose of financial gain—as opposed to something bought for use or consumption. People invest today in not just
stocks and bonds but also in jewelry, vacation-home timeshares, collectibles, and art. But 75 years ago, investing meant the purchase of
financial assets that by their intrinsic nature satisfied the requirements of
conservatism, prudence, and, above all, safety.
Securities qualified for investment on the basis of quality, not
prospective return. They either were eligible for investment or they were
not. In the extreme, there were hard-and-fast rules, such as those promulgated by each of the states for its savings banks. In New York, for example, savings banks could buy railroad, gas, and electric bonds but not the
bonds of street railway or water companies. Bonds secured by first mortgages on real estate qualified as investments, but—startlingly—industrial
bonds did not.
Investments that hewed to the accepted standards were “safe” (and
probably litigation-proof for the fiduciary who bought them), while speculating was chancy. It was this rigid, exclusionary, black-and-white attitude
toward investment propriety that likely led John Maynard Keynes to his
trenchant observation that “a speculator is one who runs risks of which he
is aware and an investor is one who runs risks of which he is unaware.”

[128]

Introduction to Part II

Thus a more modern attitude—and, like Keynes’s, well ahead of its
time—would be based on the notion that virtually any asset can be a
good investment if bought knowledgeably and at a low-enough price.
The opposite is also something that I insist is true: there’s no asset so
good that it can’t be a bad investment if bought at too high a price.
Everyone now realizes that membership on a list of “acceptable investments” certainly doesn’t provide protection against loss. If you don’t
agree with that statement, try looking for the bonds that were rated AAA
a few decades ago or mortgage-backed securities that went from AAA to
junk status in 2007.
In Security Analysis, the principle is developed and reiterated that “a
high coupon rate is not adequate compensation for the assumption of
substantial risk of principal.” (p. 125 on accompanying CD) This statement
would seem to rule out investing in high yield bonds, which has been
successfully pursued over the last 30 years with absolute and riskadjusted returns well above those on investment-grade bonds. A more
thorough reading, however, shows that securities that the authors say
should not be purchased “on an investment basis” can still be considered
“for speculation.” Nevertheless, today Graham and Dodd’s blanket statement certainly seems doctrinaire—especially in that it implements a distinction that has almost entirely ceased to exist.
The statement that certain assets either are or aren’t appropriate for
purchase on an investment basis is probably one of the dicta to which I
reacted negatively 43 years ago. But now, in this rereading, I was able to
see further.

Investment Realism
Over the last four or five decades, the investment world has seen what
could be described as the development of a much more pragmatic
approach to making money: judging investment merit not on absolute

Howard S. Marks

[129]

notions of quality and safety but rather on the relationship between
expected return and expected risk. Alternatively, of course, this could be
described as a lowering of standards; what ever happened to concepts
like fiduciary duty and preservation of capital?
Graham and Dodd seem to operate in something of a middle ground.
They propound absolute requirements for purchases on an investment
basis, but they also admit that apparent quality and safety alone shouldn’t
be expected to make some things successful investments or rule out others. Here are several examples:
[Given that fixed income securities lack the upside potential of equities,]
the essence of proper bond selection consists, therefore, in obtaining
specific and convincing factors of safety in compensation for the surrender of participation in profits. (p. 143)
The conception of a mortgage lien as a guaranty of protection independent of the success of the business itself is in most cases a complete fallacy. . . . The established practice of stating the original cost or appraised
value of the pledged property as an inducement to purchase bonds is
entirely misleading. (p. 145)
The debentures of a strong enterprise are undoubtedly sounder investments than the mortgage issues of a weak company. (p. 148)
It is clear . . . that the investor who favors the Cudahy first-lien 5s [yielding 51⁄2 versus the junior 51⁄2’s yielding over 20%] is paying a premium of
about 15% per annum (the difference in yield) for only a partial insurance against loss. On this basis he is undoubtedly giving up too much for
what he gets in return. (p. 149)
[On the other hand,] where the first-mortgage bond yields only slightly
less, it is undoubtedly wise to pay the small insurance premium for protection against unexpected trouble. (p. 149)
[In reviewing bond collapses among railroads between 1931 and 1933,]
the fault appears to be that the stability of the transportation industry

[130]

Introduction to Part II

was overrated, so that investors were satisfied with a margin of protection which proved insufficient. It was not a matter of imprudently disregarding old established standards of safety . . . but of being content with old
standards when conditions called for more stringent requirements. . . . If [the
investor] had required his railroad bonds to meet the same tests that he
applied to industrial issues, he would have been compelled to confine
his selection to a relatively few of the strongly situated lines. As it turned
out, nearly all of these have been able to withstand the tremendous loss
of traffic since 1929 without danger to their fixed charges. (p. 158,
emphasis added)

It is clear in these citations and many others that Graham and Dodd
are insistent on substance over form, and on logic rather than rules. It’s
how likely a bond is to pay that matters, not what it is labeled. Credit
standards must not be fixed but instead must evolve. Mortgages are not
automatically better than unsecured debentures. Safer bonds are not
necessarily better buys than their juniors. Superior yield can render riskier
issues more attractive.
A thorough reading makes it clear that Graham and Dodd are true
investment pragmatists. More echoing Keynes than diverging from him,
they argue for thorough analysis followed by intelligent risk bearing (as
opposed to knee-jerk risk avoidance).

Our Methodology for Bond Investing
To examine the relevance of Security Analysis to fixed income investments, I reviewed Graham and Dodd’s process for bond investing, and I
compared their approach to the one applied by my firm, Oaktree Capital
Management, L.P.
The bottom line is that, while Graham and Dodd’s thoughts may be
expressed differently, most are highly applicable to today’s investment
world. In fact, they strongly parallel the approach and methodology

Howard S. Marks

[131]

developed and applied in the area of high yield bonds over the last 30
years by my partner, Sheldon Stone, and me.
1. Our entire approach is based on recognition of the asymmetry that
underlies all nondistressed bond investing. Gains are limited to the
promised yield plus perhaps a few points of appreciation, while credit
losses can cause the disappearance of most or all of one’s principal.
Thus the key to success lies in avoiding losers, not in searching for
winners. As Graham and Dodd note:
Instead of associating bonds primarily with the presumption of safety—
as has long been the practice—it would be sounder to start with what is
not presumption but fact, viz., that a (straight) bond is an investment
with limited return. . . .
Our primary conception of the bond as a commitment with limited
return leads us to another important viewpoint toward bond investment.
Since the chief emphasis must be placed on avoidance of loss, bond
selection is primarily a negative art. It is a process of exclusion and rejection, rather than of search and acceptance. (p. 143)

2. Our high yield bond portfolios are focused. We work mostly in that part
of the curve where healthy yields on B-rated bonds can be earned
and where the risk of default is limited. For us, higher-rated bonds
don’t have enough yield, and lower-rated bonds have too much
uncertainty. This B zone is where our clients expect us to operate.
It would be sounder procedure to start with minimum standards of safety,
which all bonds must be required to meet in order to be eligible for further
consideration. Issues failing to meet these minimum requirements should
be automatically disqualified as straight investments, regardless of high
yield, attractive prospects, or other grounds for partiality. . . . Essentially,
bond selection should consist of working upward from definite minimum
standards rather than working downward in haphazard fashion from some
ideal but unacceptable level of maximum security. (pp. 167–168)

[132]

Introduction to Part II

3. Credit risk stems primarily from the quantum of leverage and the firm’s
basic instability, the interaction of which in tough times can erode the
margin by which interest coverage exceeds debt service requirements. A
company with very stable cash flows can support high leverage and a
heavy debt service. By the same token, a company with limited leverage and modest debt service requirements can survive severe fluctuations in its cash flow. But the combination of high leverage and
undependable cash flow can result in a failure to service debt, as
investors are reminded painfully from time to time. Graham and
Dodd cite the very same elements.
Studying the 1931–1933 record, we note that price collapses [among
industrial bonds] were not due primarily to unsound financial structures, as
in the case of utility bonds, nor to a miscalculation by investors as to the
margin of safety needed, as in the case of railroad bonds. We are confronted in many cases by a sudden disappearance of earning power, and a
disconcerting question as to whether the business can survive. (p. 157)

4. Analysis of individual issues calls for a multifaceted approach. Since
1985, my team of analysts has applied an eight-factor credit analysis
process developed by Sheldon Stone. Most of the elements are
reflected in—perhaps ultimately were inspired by—aspects of Graham and Dodd’s thinking. Our concerns are with industry, company
standing, management, interest coverage, capital structure, alternative sources of liquidity, liquidation value, and covenants. Security
Analysis reflects many of these same concerns.
On company standing: “The experience of the past decade indicates
that dominant or at least substantial size affords an element of
protection against the hazards of instability.” (p. 178)
On interest coverage: “The present-day investor is accustomed to
regard the ratio of earnings to interest charges as the most important specific test of safety.” (p. 128 on accompanying CD)

Howard S. Marks

[133]

On capital structure: “The biggest company may be the weakest if its
bonded debt is disproportionately large.” (p. 179)
5. “Buy-and-hold” investing is inconsistent with the responsibilities of the
professional investor, and the creditworthiness of every issuer represented in the portfolio must be revisited no less than quarterly.
Even before the market collapse of 1929, the danger ensuing from neglect
of investments previously made, and the need for periodic scrutiny or
supervision of all holdings, had been recognized as a new canon in Wall
Street. This principle, directly opposed to the former practice, is frequently
summed up in the dictum, “There are no permanent investments.” (p. 253)

6. Don’t engage in market timing based on interest rate forecasts. Instead,
we confine our efforts to “knowing the knowable,” which can result
only from superior efforts to understand industries, companies, and
securities.
It is doubtful if trading in bonds, to catch the market swings, can be carried
on successfully by the investor. . . . We are sceptical of the ability of any
paid agency to provide reliable forecasts of the market action of either
bonds or stocks. Furthermore we are convinced that any combined effort
to advise upon the choice of individual high-grade investments and upon
the course of bond prices is fundamentally illogical and confusing. Much as
the investor would like to be able to buy at just the right time and to sell
out when prices are about to fall, experience shows that he is not likely to
be brilliantly successful in such efforts and that by injecting the trading
element into his investment operations he will . . . inevitably shift his interest into speculative directions. (p. 261)

7. Despite our best efforts, defaults will creep into our portfolios, whether
due to failings in credit analysis or bad luck. In order for the incremental
yield gained from taking risks to regularly exceed the losses incurred
as a result of defaults, individual holdings have to be small enough so
that a single default won’t dissipate a large amount of the portfolio’s

[134]

Introduction to Part II

capital. We have always thought of our approach to risk as being akin
to that of an insurance company. In order for the actuarial process to
work, the risk has to be spread over many small holdings and the
expected return given a chance to prove out. Thus, you should not
invest in high yield bonds unless you can be thoroughly diversified.
The investor cannot prudently turn himself into an insurance company and
incur risks of losing his principal in exchange for annual premiums in the
form of extra-large interest coupons. One objection to such a policy is that
sound insurance practice requires a very wide distribution of risk, in order
to minimize the influence of luck and to allow maximum play to the law of
probability. The investor may endeavor to attain this end by diversifying
his holdings, but as a practical matter, he cannot approach the division of
risk attained by an insurance company. (pp. 165–166)

To wrap up on the subject of investment approach, we feel the successful assumption of credit risk in the fixed income universe depends on
the successful assessment of the company’s ability to service its debts.
Extensive financial statement analysis is not nearly as important as a few
skilled judgments regarding the company’s prospects.
The selection of a fixed-value security for limited-income return should be,
relatively, at least, a simple operation. The investor must make certain by
quantitative tests that the income has been amply above the interest
charges and that the current value of the business is well in excess of its
debts. In addition, he must be satisfied in his own judgment that the character of the enterprise is such as to promise continued success in the
future, or more accurately speaking, to make failure a highly unlikely occurrence. (p. 160 on accompanying CD)

In the end, though, we diverge from Graham and Dodd in one important way. In selecting bonds for purchase, we make judgments about the
issuers’ prospects, and here’s why: When I began to analyze and manage
high yield bonds in 1978, the widely held view was that investing in
bonds and assessing the future are fundamentally incompatible, and that

Howard S. Marks

[135]

prudent bond investing must be based on solid inferences from past
data as opposed to speculation regarding future events. But credit risk is
prospective, and thus substantial credit risk can be borne intelligently
only on the basis of skilled judgments about the future.
In large part, the old position represented a prejudice: that buying
stocks—an inherently riskier proposition—can be done intelligently on
the basis of judgments regarding the future, but depending on those
same judgments in the more conservative world of bond investing just
isn’t right. Some of the greatest—and most profitable—market inefficiencies I have encountered have been the result of prejudices that walled off
certain opportunities from “proper investing” . . . and thus left them for
flexible investors to pick off far below their fair value. This seems to be
one of these prejudices.
One of the reasons I started First National City Bank’s high yield bond
portfolio in 1978 was my immediately prior experience as the bank’s
director of research for equities. All I had to do, then, was apply the
future-oriented process for analyzing common stocks to the universe of
bonds rated below triple B.
Few walls still stand in the investment world today, and it is widely
understood that forward-looking analysis can be profitably applied to
instruments of all sorts. That lesson remained to be learned in 1940.

Common Sense
Much of the value of Security Analysis lies not in its specific instructions
but in its common sense. Several of their lessons have specific relevance
to the present. More importantly, Graham and Dodd’s insight and
thought process show how investors should try to dig beneath customary, superficial answers to investment questions.
Security prices and yields are not determined by any exact mathematical
calculation of the expected risk, but they depend rather upon the popularity of the issue. (p. 164) [Markets are not clinically efficient.]

[136]

Introduction to Part II

It may be pointed out further that the supposed actuarial computation of
investment risks is out of the question theoretically as well as in practice.
There are no experience tables available by which the expected “mortality” of various types of issues can be determined. Even if such tables were
prepared, based on long and exhaustive studies of past records, it is
doubtful whether they would have any real utility for the future. In life
insurance, the relation between age and mortality rate is well defined and
changes only gradually. The same is true, to a much lesser extent, of the
relation between the various types of structures and the fire hazard
attaching to them. But the relation between different types of investments and the risk of loss is entirely too indefinite, and too variable with
changing conditions, to permit of sound mathematical formulation. This is
particularly true because investment losses are not distributed fairly
evenly in point of time, but tend to be concentrated at intervals, i.e., during periods of general depression. Hence the typical investment hazard is
roughly similar to the conflagration or epidemic hazard, which is the
exceptional and incalculable factor in fire or life insurance. (pp. 164–165,
emphasis added) [So much for reliable quantitative models.]
Among [the aspects of the earnings picture to which the investor would
do well to pay attention] are the trend, the minimum figure, and the current figure. The importance of each of these cannot be gainsaid, but they
do not lend themselves effectively to the application of hard and fast
rules. (p. 133 on accompanying CD)
The investor . . . will be attracted by: (a) a rising trend in profits; (b) an especially good current showing; and (c) a satisfactory margin over interest
charges in every year during the period studied. If a bond is deficient in
any one of these three aspects, the result should not necessarily be to condemn the issue but rather to exact an average earnings coverage well in
excess of the minimum and to require closer attention to the general or
qualitative elements in the situation. (pp. 133–134 on accompanying CD)
If [a ratio of] $1 of stock to $1 of bonds is taken as the “normal” requirement for an industrial company, would it not be sound to demand, say, a
$2-to-$1 ratio when stock prices are inflated, and conversely to be satisfied

Howard S. Marks

[137]

with a 50-cent-to-$1 ratio when quotations are far below intrinsic values?
But this suggestion is impracticable for two reasons, the first being that it
implies that the bond buyer can recognize an unduly high or low level of
stock prices, which is far too complimentary an assumption. The second is
that it would require bond investors to act with especial caution when
things are booming and with greater confidence when times are hard. This
is a counsel of perfection which it is not in human nature to follow. Bond
buyers are people, and they cannot be expected to escape entirely either
the enthusiasm of bull markets or the apprehensions of a severe depression. (pp. 157–158 on accompanying CD)

“In the purely speculative field the objection to paying for advice is
that if the adviser knew whereof he spoke he would not need to bother
with a consultant’s duties.” (p. 261) Not much different from Warren Buffett’s observation that “Wall Street is the only place that people ride to in
a Rolls-Royce to get advice from those who take the subway.”1
There are many instances in which Graham and Dodd offer commonsense advice or, even more interestingly, in which they refute existing
rules of investing, substituting common sense for “accepted wisdom,” that
great oxymoron. To me, this represents the greatest strength of the
section on fixed income securities. In the end, Graham and Dodd remind
us, “Investment theory should be chary of easy generalizations.” (p. 171)

Security Analysis through the Years
Many of Graham and Dodd’s specific ideas have withstood the test of
time and, in fact, been picked up and carried forward by others.
• Their observation that “an investor may reject any number of good
bonds with virtually no penalty at all” (p. 143) may have inspired Warren Buffett, who draws a very apt comparison to batters in baseball.
Buffett reminds us that a baseball hitter will be called out if he fails to
1 Los Angeles Times Magazine, April 7, 1991.

[138]

Introduction to Part II

swing at three pitches in the strike zone, while an investor can let any
number of investment opportunities go by without being penalized.
• Likewise, Graham and Dodd submitted that “the best criterion that we
are able to offer [for the purpose of assessing the margin of assets over
indebtedness] is the ratio of the market value of the capital stock to the
total funded debt.” (p. 150 on accompanying CD) This was paralleled
exactly by the market-adjusted debt (MAD) ratios popularized by
Michael Milken when he pioneered the issuance of high yield bonds at
Drexel Burnham Lambert in the 1970s and 1980s. Market values are far
from perfect, but accounting data are purely historical and thus are
often out-of-date at best and irrelevant at worst.
• Importantly, Graham and Dodd highlight the importance of cash flow
stability in a company’s ability to service its debts in an adverse environment. “Once it is admitted—as it always must be—that the industry can suffer some reduction in profits, then the investor is compelled
to estimate the possible extent of the shrinkage and compare it with
the surplus above the interest requirements. He thus finds himself . . .
vitally concerned with the ability of the company to meet the vicissitudes of the future.” (p. 155) This consideration contributed to the fact
that, in its infancy in the mid-1970s, the leveraged buyout industry
restricted its purchases to noncyclical companies. Of course, like all
important investment principles, this one is often ignored in bullish
periods; enthusiasm and optimism gain sway and the stable-cash-flow
rule can be easily forgotten.

A Few More Thoughts
In considering the relevance 68 years later of the 1940 edition of Security
Analysis, a number of additional observations deserve to be made.
First, most of the timing that interested Graham and Dodd concerned
“depressions” and their impact on creditworthiness. They cite three

Howard S. Marks

[139]

depressions—1920 to 1922, 1930 to 1933, and 1937 to 1938—whereas
we talk today about there having been only one in this century: the
Great Depression. Clearly, Graham and Dodd are talking about what we
call “recessions.”
Second, they were not concerned with predicting interest-rate fluctuations. The primary reason for this may be that interest rates didn’t fluctuate
much in those days. A table on page 157 shows, for example, that in the
13 years from 1926 to 1938—a period that sandwiched a famous boom
between two “depressions”—the yield on 40 utility bonds moved only
between 3.9% and 6.3%. At the time the 1940 edition was published, then,
interest rates were low and fairly steady.
Third, it is important to note that several of Graham and Dodd’s warnings against risk taking are directed not at professionals but at the individual investors who appear to have been the authors’ target audience.
As a practical matter it is not so easy to distinguish in advance between
the underlying bonds that come through reorganization unscathed and
those which suffer drastic treatment. Hence the ordinary investor may be
well advised to leave such issues out of his calculations and stick to the
rule that only strong companies have strong bonds. (p. 153)
The individual is not qualified to be an insurance underwriter. It is not his
function to be paid for incurring risks; on the contrary it is to his interest to
pay others for insurance against loss. . . . Even assuming that the high
coupon rates [on higher yielding securities] will, in the great aggregate,
more than compensate on an actuarial basis for the risks accepted, such
bonds are still undesirable investments from the personal standpoint of the
average investor. (pp. 165–166)

Thus concern for the safety of nonprofessional investors appears to
be the source of many of Security Analysis’s most rigid dicta. I would not
differ with the proposition that direct investment in distressed debt and
high yield bonds should be left to professionals.

[140]

Introduction to Part II

Into the Future
Few books can be read nearly 70 years after their publication with the
reasonable expectation that everything they say—and the way they say
it—will be thoroughly up-to-date. General wisdom and occasional
nuggets of insight are usually the most that can be hoped for. Anyone
wondering how the 1940 edition of Security Analysis comes through in
this regard needs only consider Graham and Dodd’s discussion of mortgage investing in the light of the subprime and collateralized debt obligation (CDO) experience of 2007:
During the great and disastrous development of the real estate mortgagebond business between 1923 and 1929, the only datum customarily presented to support the usual bond offering—aside from an estimate of
future earnings—was a statement of the appraised value of the property,
which almost invariably amounted to some 662⁄3% in excess of the mortgage issue. If these appraisals had corresponded to the market values
which experienced buyers of or lenders on real estate would place upon
the properties, they would have been of real utility in the selection of
sound real estate bonds. But unfortunately they were purely artificial valuations, to which the appraisers were willing to attach their names for a fee,
and whose only function was to deceive the investor as to the protection
which he was receiving. . . .
This whole scheme of real estate financing was honeycombed with
the most glaring weaknesses, and it is sad commentary on the lack of
principle, penetration, and ordinary common sense on the part of all parties concerned that it was permitted to reach such gigantic proportions
before the inevitable collapse. (p. 185)

Paid-for home appraisals (and security ratings) that led to undeserved
confidence—and thus uninformed risk bearing—on the part of unknowing investors: what could better describe recent events? And what better
evidence could there be of the relevance of the 1940 edition of Security
Analysis to the decades since its writing . . . and the decades to come?

Chapter 6

THE SELECTION OF FIXED-VALUE
INVESTMENTS

HAVING SUGGESTED a classification of securities by character rather than
by title, we now take up in order the principles and methods of selection
applicable to each group. We have already stated that the fixed-value
group includes:
1. High-grade straight bonds and preferred stocks.
2. High-grade privileged issues, where the value of the privilege is too remote
to count as a factor in selection.
3. Common stocks which through guaranty or preferred status occupy the
position of a high-grade senior issue.

Basic Attitude toward High-grade Preferred Stocks. By placing
gilt-edged preferred stocks and high-grade bonds in a single group, we
indicate that the same investment attitude and the same general method
of analysis are applicable to both types. The very definite inferiority of
the preferred stockholders’ legal claim is here left out of account, for the
logical reason that the soundness of the best investments must rest not
upon legal rights or remedies but upon ample financial capacity of the
enterprise. Confirmation of this viewpoint is found in the investor’s attitude toward such an issue as National Biscuit Company Preferred, which
for nearly 40 years has been considered as possessing the same essential
investment character as a good bond.1

Preferred Stocks Not Generally Equivalent to Bonds in Investment Merit. But it should be pointed out immediately that issues
with the history and standing of National Biscuit Preferred constitute a

1 See Appendix Note 6, p. 737 on accompanying CD, for supporting data.

[141]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[142]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

very small percentage of all preferred stocks. Hence, we are by no means
asserting the investment equivalence of bonds and preferred stocks
in general. On the contrary, we shall in a later chapter be at some pains
to show that the average preferred issue deserves a lower rank than
the average bond, and furthermore that preferred stocks have been much
too readily accepted by the investing public. The majority of these issues
have not been sufficiently well protected to assure continuance of dividends beyond any reasonable doubt. They belong properly, therefore,
in the class of variable or speculative senior issues (Group II), and in
this field the contractual differences between bonds and preferred shares
are likely to assume great importance. A sharp distinction must, therefore, be made between the typical and the exceptional preferred stock.
It is only the latter which deserves to rank as a fixed-value investment
and to be viewed in the same light as a good bond. To avoid awkwardness of expression in this discussion we shall frequently use the terms
“investment bonds” or merely “bonds” to represent all securities belonging to the fixed-value class.

Is Bond Investment Logical? In the 1934 edition of this work we
considered with some seriousness the question whether or not the
extreme financial and industrial fluctuations of the preceding years had
not impaired the fundamental logic of bond investment. Was it worth
while for the investor to limit his income return and to forego all prospect
of speculative gain, if despite these sacrifices he must still subject himself
to serious risk of loss? We suggested in reply that the phenomena of
1927–1933 were so completely abnormal as to afford no fair basis for
investment theory and practice. Subsequent experience seems to have
borne us out, but there are still enough uncertainties facing the bond
buyer to banish, perhaps for a long time, his old sense of complete
security. The combination of a record high level for bonds (in 1940)
with a history of two catastrophic price collapses in the preceding twenty
years and a major war in progress is not one to justify airy confidence in
the future.

Bond Form Inherently Unattractive: Quantitative Assurance of
Safety Essentials. This situation clearly calls for a more critical and
exacting attitude towards bond selection than was formerly considered necessary by investors, issuing houses, or authors of textbooks on investment.

Fixed-value Investments

[143]

Allusion has already been made to the dangers inherent in the acceptance
of the bond form as an assurance of safety, or even of smaller risk than is
found in stocks. Instead of associating bonds primarily with the presumption of safety as has long been the practice—it would be sounder to start
with what is not presumption but fact, viz., that a (straight) bond is an
investment with limited return. In exchange for limiting his participation
in future profits, the bondholder obtains a prior claim and a definite promise of payment, while the preferred stockholder obtains only the priority,
without the promise. But neither priority nor promise is itself an assurance
of payment. This assurance rests in the ability of the enterprise to fulfill its
promise, and must be looked for in its financial position, record, and
prospects. The essence of proper bond selection consists, therefore, in
obtaining specific and convincing factors of safety in compensation for the
surrender of participation in profits.

Major Emphasis on Avoidance of Loss. Our primary conception
of the bond as a commitment with limited return leads us to another
important viewpoint toward bond investment. Since the chief emphasis
must be placed on avoidance of loss, bond selection is primarily a negative art. It is a process of exclusion and rejection, rather than of search
and acceptance. In this respect the contrast with common-stock selection
is fundamental in character. The prospective buyer of a given common
stock is influenced more or less equally by the desire to avoid loss and the
desire to make a profit. The penalty for mistakenly rejecting the issue may
conceivably be as great as that for mistakenly accepting it. But an investor
may reject any number of good bonds with virtually no penalty at all, provided he does not eventually accept an unsound issue. Hence, broadly
speaking, there is no such thing as being unduly captious or exacting in
the purchase of fixed-value investments. The observation that Walter
Bagehot addressed to commercial bankers is equally applicable to the
selection of investment bonds. “If there is a difficulty or a doubt the security should be declined.”2

Four Principles for the Selection of Issues of the Fixed-value
Type. Having established this general approach to our problem, we may

2 Lombard Street, p. 245, New York, 1892.

[144]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

now state four additional principles of more specific character which are
applicable to the selection of individual issues:
I. Safety is measured not by specific lien or other contractual rights,
but by the ability of the issuer to meet all of its obligations.3
II. This ability should be measured under conditions of depression
rather than prosperity.
III. Deficient safety cannot be compensated for by an abnormally high
coupon rate.
IV. The selection of all bonds for investment should be subject to rules
of exclusion and to specific quantitative tests corresponding to those prescribed by statute to govern investments of savings banks.
A technique of bond selection based on the above principles will
differ in significant respects from the traditional attitude and methods.
In departing from old concepts, however, this treatment represents
not an innovation but the recognition and advocacy of viewpoints which
have been steadily gaining ground among intelligent and experienced
investors. The ensuing discussion is designed to make clear both the
nature and the justification of the newer ideas.4

I. SAFETY NOT MEASURED BY LIEN BUT BY
ABILITY TO PAY
The basic difference confronts us at the very beginning. In the past the
primary emphasis was laid upon the specific security, i.e., the character
and supposed value of the property on which the bonds hold a lien. From
our standpoint this consideration is quite secondary; the dominant element must be the strength and soundness of the obligor enterprise. There
is here a clearcut distinction between two points of view. On the one hand
the bond is regarded as a claim against property; on the other hand, as a
claim against a business.
The older view was logical enough in its origin and purpose. It desired
to make the bondholder independent of the risks of the business by

3 This is a general rule applicable to the majority of bonds of the fixed-value type, but it is
subject to a number of exceptions which are discussed later.
4 These ideas are neither so new nor so uncommon in 1940 as they were in 1934, but we
doubt whether they may be considered standard as yet.

Fixed-value Investments

[145]

giving him ample security on which to levy in the event that the enterprise proved a failure. If the business became unable to pay his claim, he
could take over the mortgaged property and pay himself out of that. This
arrangement would be excellent if it worked, but in practice it rarely
proves to be feasible. For this there are three reasons:
1. The shrinkage of property values when the business fails.
2. The difficulty of asserting the bondholders’ supposed legal rights.
3. The delays and other disadvantages incident to a receivership.

Lien Is No Guarantee against Shrinkage of Values. The conception of a mortgage lien as a guaranty of protection independent of
the success of the business itself is in most cases a complete fallacy. In the
typical situation, the value of the pledged property is vitally dependent
on the earning power of the enterprise. The bondholder usually has a lien
on a railroad line, or on factory buildings and equipment, or on power
plants and other utility properties, or perhaps on a bridge or hotel structure. These properties are rarely adaptable to uses other than those for
which they were constructed. Hence if the enterprise proves a failure its
fixed assets ordinarily suffer an appalling shrinkage in realizable value.
For this reason the established practice of stating the original cost or
appraised value of the pledged property as an inducement to purchase
bonds is entirely misleading. The value of pledged assets assumes
practical importance only in the event of default, and in any such event
the book figures are almost invariably found to be unreliable and irrelevant. This may be illustrated by Seaboard-All Florida Railway First Mortgage 6s, selling in 1931 at 1 cent on the dollar shortly after completion of
the road.5

Impracticable to Enforce Basic Legal Rights of Lien Holder. In
cases where the mortgaged property is actually worth as much as the debt,
the bondholder is rarely allowed to take possession and realize upon it.
It must be recognized that the procedure following default on a corporation bond has come to differ materially from that customary in the case
of a mortgage on privately owned property. The basic legal rights of the
lien holder are supposedly the same in both situations. But in practice
we find a very definite disinclination on the part of the courts to permit
5 See Appendix Note 7, p. 738 on accompanying CD, for supporting data.

[146]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

corporate bondholders to take over properties by foreclosing on their
liens, if there is any possibility that these assets may have a fair value in
excess of their claim.6 Apparently it is considered unfair to wipe out stockholders or junior bondholders who have a potential interest in the property but are not in a position to protect it. As a result of this practice,
bondholders rarely, if ever, come into actual possession of the pledged
property unless its value at the time is substantially less than their claim.
In most cases they are required to take new securities in a reorganized
company. Sometimes the default in interest is cured and the issue reinstated.7 On exceedingly rare occasions a defaulted issue may be paid off
in full, but only after a long and vexing delay.8

Delays Are Wearisome. This delay constitutes the third objection to
relying upon the mortgaged property as protection for a bond investment.
The more valuable the pledged assets in relation to the amount of the lien,
the more difficult it is to take them over under foreclosure, and the longer
the time required to work out an “equitable” division of interest among
the various bond and stock issues. Let us consider the most favorable kind
of situation for a bondholder in the event of receivership. He would hold
a comparatively small first mortgage followed by a substantial junior lien,
the requirements of which have made the company insolvent. It may well
be that the strength of the first-mortgage bondholder’s position is such
that at no time is there any real chance of eventual loss to him. Yet the
financial difficulties of the company usually have a depressing effect on
the market price of all its securities, even those presumably unimpaired
in real value. As the receivership drags on, the market decline becomes
accentuated, since investors are constitutionally averse to buying into a
troubled situation. Eventually the first-mortgage bonds may come through
the reorganization undisturbed, but during a wearisome and protracted
period the owners have faced a severe impairment in the quoted value of
their holdings and at least some degree of doubt and worry as to the outcome. Typical examples of such an experience can be found in the case of
Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company First 4s and Brooklyn
6 The failure to foreclose on Interborough Rapid Transit Secured 7s for seven years after

default of principal (discussed on p. 734) well illustrates this point.
7 See Appendix Note 8, p. 738 on accompanying CD, for supporting data.
8 See Appendix Note 9, p. 739 on accompanying CD, for supporting data.

Fixed-value Investments

[147]

Union Elevated Railroad First 5s.9 The subject of receivership and reorganization practice, particularly as they affect the bondholder, will receive
more detailed consideration in a later chapter.

Basic Principle Is to Avoid Trouble. The foregoing discussion
should support our emphatic stand that the primary aim of the bond
buyer must be to avoid trouble and not to protect himself in the event of
trouble. Even in the cases where the specific lien proves of real advantage,
this benefit is realized under conditions which contravene the very meaning of fixed-value investment. In view of the severe decline in market price
almost invariably associated with receivership, the mere fact that the
investor must have recourse to his indenture indicates that his investment
has been unwise or unfortunate. The protection that the mortgaged property offers him can constitute at best a mitigation of his mistake.

Corollaries from This First Principle. 1. Absence of Lien of Minor
Consequence. From Principle I there follow a number of corollaries with
important practical applications. Since specific lien is of subordinate
importance in the choice of high-grade bonds, the absence of lien is also
of minor consequence. The debenture,10 i.e., unsecured, obligations of a
9 See Appendix Note 10, p. 739 on accompanying CD, for supporting data. On the subject of
delays in enforcing bondholders’ claims, it should be pointed out that, with up to one-third
of the country’s railroad mileage in bankruptcy, not a single road emerged from trusteeship
in the six years following passage of the Sec. 77 amendment to the Bankruptcy Act in 1933—
a step designed to accelerate reorganization.
10 The term “debenture” in American financial practice has the accepted meaning of “unsecured bond or note.” For no good reason, the name is sometimes given to other kinds of
securities without apparently signifying anything in particular. There have been a number of
“secured debentures,” e.g., Chicago Herald and Examiner Secured Debenture 61/2s, due 1950,
and Lone Star Gas Debenture 31/2s, due 1953. Also, a number of preferred issues are called
debenture preferred stock or merely debenture stock, e.g., Du Pont Debenture Stock (called
in 1939); General Cigar Company Debenture Preferred (called in 1927).
Sometimes debenture issues, properly so entitled because originally unsecured, later
acquire specific security through the operation of a protective covenant, e.g., New York, New
Haven and Hartford Railroad Company Debentures, discussed in Chap. 19. Another example was the Debenture 61/2s of Fox New England Theaters, Inc., reorganized in 1933. These
debentures acquired as security a block of first-mortgage bonds of the same company, which
were surrendered by the vendor of the theaters because it failed to meet a guarantee of future
earnings.
Observe that there is no clear-cut distinction between a “bond” and a “note” other than
the fact that the latter generally means a relatively short-term obligation, i.e., one maturing
not more than, say, ten years after issuance.

[148]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

strong corporation, amply capable of meeting its interest charges, may
qualify for acceptance almost as readily as a bond secured by mortgage.
Furthermore the debentures of a strong enterprise are undoubtedly
sounder investments than the mortgage issues of a weak company. No
first-lien bond, for example, enjoys a better investment rating than Standard Oil of New Jersey Debenture 3s, due 1961. An examination of the
bond list will show that the debenture issues of companies having no
secured debt ahead of them will rank in investment character at least on
a par with the average mortgage bond, because an enterprise must enjoy
a high credit rating to obtain funds on its unsecured long-term bond.11
2. The Theory of Buying the Highest Yielding Obligation of a Sound
Company. It follows also that if any obligation of an enterprise deserves
to qualify as a fixed-value investment, then all its obligations must do
so. Stated conversely, if a company’s junior bonds are not safe, its firstmortgage bonds are not a desirable fixed-value investment. For if the
second mortgage is unsafe the company itself is weak, and generally
speaking there can be no high-grade obligations of a weak enterprise.
The theoretically correct procedure for bond investment, therefore, is
first to select a company meeting every test of strength and soundness,
and then to purchase its highest yielding obligation, which would usually mean its junior rather than its first-lien bonds. Assuming no error
were ever made in our choice of enterprises, this procedure would work
out perfectly well in practice. The greater the chance of mistake,
however, the more reason to sacrifice yield in order to reduce the potential loss in capital value. But we must recognize that in favoring the
lower yielding first-mortgage issue, the bond buyer is in fact expressing a lack of confidence in his own judgment as to the soundness of the
business—which, if carried far enough, would call into question the
advisability of his making an investment in any of the bonds of the
particular enterprise.
Example: As an example of this point, let us consider the Cudahy
Packing Company First Mortgage 5s, due 1946, and the Debenture 51/2s
of the same company, due 1937. In June 1932 the First 5s sold at 95 to
yield about 51/2%, whereas the junior 51/2s sold at 59 to yield over 20% to
11 This point is strikingly substantiated by the industrial bond financing between 1935 and

1939. During these years, when only high-grade issues could be sold, by far the greater part
of the total was represented by debentures.

Fixed-value Investments

[149]

maturity. The purchase of the 5% bonds at close to par could only be justified by a confident belief that the company would remain solvent and
reasonably prosperous, for otherwise the bonds would undoubtedly suffer a severe drop in market price. But if the investor has confidence in the
future of Cudahy, why should he not buy the debenture issue and obtain
an enormously greater return on his money? The only answer can be that
the investor wants the superior protection of the first mortgage in the
event his judgment proves incorrect and the company falls into difficulties. In that case he would probably lose less as the owner of the firstmortgage bonds than through holding the junior issue. Even on this score
it should be pointed out that if by any chance Cudahy Packing Company
were to suffer the reverses that befell Fisk Rubber Company, the loss in
market value of the first-mortgage bonds would be fully as great as those
suffered by the debentures; for in April 1932 Fisk Rubber Company First
8s were selling as low as 17 against a price of 12 for the unsecured 51/2%
Notes. It is clear, at any rate, that the investor who favors the Cudahy firstlien 5s is paying a premium of about 15% per annum (the difference in
yield) for only a partial insurance against loss. On this basis he is
undoubtedly giving up too much for what he gets in return. The conclusion appears inescapable either that he should make no investment in
Cudahy bonds or that he should buy the junior issue at its enormously
higher yield.12 This rule may be laid down as applying to the general case
where a first-mortgage bond sells at a fixed-value price (e.g., close to par)
and junior issues of the same company can be bought to yield a much
higher return.13
3. Senior Liens Are to Be Favored, Unless Junior Obligations Offer a
Substantial Advantage. Obviously a junior lien should be preferred only
if the advantage in income return is substantial. Where the first-mortgage bond yields only slightly less, it is undoubtedly wise to pay the small
insurance premium for protection against unexpected trouble.
Example: This point is illustrated by the relative market prices of
Atchison Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company General (first) 4s and
Adjustment (second mortgage) 4s, both of which mature in 1995.
12 Both of the Cudahy issues were retired at 1021/2 in 1935.
13 Exceptions to this rule may be justified in rare cases where the senior security has an

unusually preferred status—e.g., a very strongly entrenched underlying railroad bond. But
see infra pp. 152–153.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[150]

PRICE OF ATCHISON GENERAL 4S AND ADJUSTMENT 4S AT VARIOUS DATES

Date
Jan. 2, 1913
Jan. 5, 1917
May 21, 1920
Aug. 4, 1922
Dec. 4, 1925
Jan. 3, 1930
Jan. 7, 1931
June 2, 1932
June 19, 1933
Jan. 9, 1934
Mar. 6, 1936
Apr. 26, 1937
Apr. 14, 1938
Dec. 29, 1939

Price of General 4s

Price of Adjustment 4s

Spread

971/2
951/2
701/4
931/2
891/4
931/4
981/2
81
93
941/4
1145/8
1031/2
991/4
1053/4

88
863/4
62
841/2
851/4
93
97
661/2
88
83
1131/2
1063/4
751/4
851/4

91/2
83/4
81/4
9
4
1/4
11/2
141/2
5
111/4
11/8
31/4
24
201/2

Prior to 1924 the Atchison General 4s sold usually at about 7 to 10
points above the Adjustment 4s and yielded about 1/2% less. Since both
issues were considered safe without question, it would have been more
logical to purchase the junior issue at its 10% lower cost. After 1923 this
point of view asserted itself, and the price difference steadily narrowed.
During 1930 and part of 1931 the junior issue sold on numerous occasions at practically the same price as the General 4s. This relationship was
even more illogical than the unduly wide spread in 1922–1923, since the
advantage of the Adjustment 4s in price and yield was too negligible to
warrant accepting a junior position, even assuming unquestioned safety
for both liens.
Within a very short time this rather obvious truth was brought home
strikingly by the widening of the spread to over 14 points during the
demoralized bond-market conditions of June 1932. As the record
appeared in 1934, it could be inferred that a reasonable differential
between the two issues would be about 5 points and that either a substantial widening or a virtual disappearance of the spread would present an
opportunity for a desirable exchange of one issue for another. Two such
opportunities did in fact appear in 1934 and 1936, as shown in our table.

[151]

Fixed-value Investments

But this example is of further utility in illustrating the all-pervasive
factor of change and the necessity of taking it into account in bond analysis. By 1937 the failure of Atchison’s earnings to recover within striking
distance of its former normal, and the actual inadequacy of the margin
above interest requirements as judged by conservative standards, should
have warned the investor that the “adjustment” (i.e., contingent) element
in the junior issue could not safely be ignored. Thus a price relationship
that was logical at a time when safety of interest was never in question
could not be relied upon under the new conditions. In 1938 the poor
earnings actually compelled the road to defer the May 1 interest payment
on the adjustment bonds, as a result of which their price fell to 751/8 and
the spread widened to 24 points. Although the interest was later paid in
full and the price recovered to 96 in 1939, it would seem quite unwise for
the investor to apply pre-1932 standards to this bond issue.
A junior lien of Company X may be selected in preference to a firstmortgage bond of Company Y, on one of two bases:
1. The protection for the total debt of Company X is adequate and the yield of
the junior lien is substantially higher than that of the Company Y issue; or
2. If there is no substantial advantage in yield, then the indicated protection
for the total debt of Company X must be considerably better than that of
Company Y.

Example of 2:

Issue
Pacific Power and Light Co. First 5s, due 1955
American Gas and Electric Co. Debenture 5s, due 2028

Price in
1930

Fixed charges
earned, 1929*

101
101

1.53 times
2.52 times

* Average results approximately the same.

The appreciably higher coverage of total charges by American Gas and
Electric would have justified preferring its junior bonds to the first-mortgage issue of Pacific Power and Light, when both were selling at about the
same price.14
14 In 1937 the low price of Pacific Power and Light 5s was 51, against a low of 104 for the

American Gas and Electric Debentures.

[152]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Special Status of “Underlying Bonds.” In the railroad field an especial investment character is generally supposed to attach to what are
known as “underlying bonds.” These represent issues of relatively small
size secured by a lien on especially important parts of the obligor system,
and often followed by a series of “blanket mortgages.” The underlying
bond usually enjoys a first lien, but it may be a second- or even a thirdmortgage issue, provided the senior issues are also of comparatively small
magnitude.
Example: New York and Erie Railroad Third Mortgage Extended 41/2s,
due 1938, are junior to two small prior liens covering an important part
of the Erie Railroad’s main line. They are followed by four successive blanket mortgages on the system, and they have regularly enjoyed the favored
status of an underlying bond.
Bonds of this description have been thought to be entirely safe, regardless of what happens to the system as a whole. They have almost always
come through reorganization unscathed; and even during a receivership
interest payments are usually continued as a matter of course, largely
because the sum involved is proportionately so small. They are not
exempt, however, from fairly sharp declines in market value if insolvency
overtakes the system.
Examples: In the case of New York and Erie Third 41/2s (which had
been voluntarily extended on maturity in 1923 and again in 1933), principal and interest were defaulted in March 1938, following the bankruptcy
of the Erie two months earlier. The bid price declined to as low as 61.
However, the various reorganization plans filed to the end of 1939 all
provided for the payment of principal and interest in full on this issue.
Chicago and Eastern Illinois Consolidated 6s, due 1934, were finally
paid off in full in 1940, with further interest at 4%—but not until their
price had fallen as low as 32 in 1933.
Pacific Railway of Missouri First 4s and Second 5s and Missouri
Pacific Railway Third 4s, all extended from their original maturities to
1938, are underlying bonds of the Missouri Pacific system. They continued to receive interest and were left undisturbed in the receivership of
1915. Following the second bankruptcy in 1933, they continued to receive
interest until their maturity date. At that time payment of principal was
defaulted, but interest payments were continued through 1939. The various reorganization plans virtually provided for these bonds in full, by

Fixed-value Investments

[153]

offering them prior-lien, fixed-interest obligations of the new company.
But since 1931, the price of these three issues has been as low as 65, 60,
and 53, respectively.
Other bonds, however, once regarded as underlying issues, have not
fared so well following insolvency.
Example: Milwaukee, Sparta and Northwestern First 4s, due 1947,
ranked as an underlying bond of the Chicago and North Western
Railway, and for many years their price was not far below that of the
premier Union Pacific First 4s, due the same year. Yet the receivership of
the Chicago and North Western was followed by default of interest
on this issue in 1935 and collapse of its price to the abysmal low of 81/8
as late as 1939.
From the foregoing it would appear that in some cases underlying
bonds may be viewed as exceptions to our rule that a bond is not sound
unless the company is sound. For the most part such bonds are owned
by institutions or large investors. (The same observations may apply to
certain first-mortgage bonds of operating subsidiaries of public-utility
holding-company systems.)
In railroad bonds of this type, the location and strategic value of the
mileage covered are of prime importance. First-mortgage bonds on
nonessential and unprofitable parts of the system, referred to sometimes
as “divisional liens,” are not true underlying bonds in the sense that
we have just used the term. Divisional first liens on poorly located mileage
may receive much less favorable treatment in a reorganization than
blanket mortgage bonds ostensibly junior to them.
Example: Central Branch Union Pacific Railway First 4s, due 1938,
were said to “underly” the Missouri Pacific First and Refunding mortgage, which provided for their retirement. Yet the reorganization plans
presented to the end of 1939 all offered better treatment for the Missouri
Pacific First and Refunding 5s than for the ostensibly senior Central
Branch bonds.
As a practical matter it is not so easy to distinguish in advance
between the underlying bonds that come through reorganization
unscathed and those which suffer drastic treatment. Hence the ordinary
investor may be well advised to leave such issues out of his calculations
and stick to the rule that only strong companies have strong bonds.

Chapter 7

THE SELECTION OF FIXED-VALUE
INVESTMENTS: SECOND AND
THIRD PRINCIPLES

II. BONDS SHOULD BE BOUGHT ON A
DEPRESSION BASIS
The rule that a sound investment must be able to withstand adversity
seems self-evident enough to be termed a truism. Any bond can do well
when conditions are favorable; it is only under the acid test of depression
that the advantages of strong over weak issues become manifest and
vitally important. For this reason prudent investors have always favored
the obligations of old-established enterprises which have demonstrated
their ability to come through bad times as well as good.

Presumption of Safety Based upon Either the Character of the
Industry or the Amount of Protection. Confidence in the ability
of a bond issue to weather depression may be based on either of two different reasons. The investor may believe that the particular business will
be immune from a drastic shrinkage in earning power, or else that the
margin of safety is so large that it can undergo such a shrinkage without
resultant danger. The bonds of light and power companies have been
favored principally for the first reason, the bonds of United States Steel
Corporation subsidiaries for the second. In the former case it is the character of the industry, in the latter it is the amount of protection, which
justifies the purchase. Of the two viewpoints, the one which tries to avoid
the perils of depression appeals most to the average bond buyer. It seems
much simpler to invest in a depression-proof enterprise than to have to
rely on the company’s financial strength to pull its bonds through a period
of poor results.
[154]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

Fixed-value Investments

[155]

No Industry Entirely Depression-proof. The objection to this theory of investment is, of course, that there is no such thing as a depression-proof industry, meaning thereby one that is immune from the
danger of any decline in earning power. It is true that the Edison companies have shown themselves subject to only minor shrinkage in profits,
as compared, say, with the steel producers. But even a small decline may
prove fatal if the business is bonded to the limit of prosperity earnings.
Once it is admitted—as it always must be—that the industry can suffer
some reduction in profits, then the investor is compelled to estimate the
possible extent of the shrinkage and compare it with the surplus above
the interest requirements. He thus finds himself in the same position as
the holder of any other kind of bond, vitally concerned with the ability
of the company to meet the vicissitudes of the future.1
The distinction to be made, therefore, is not between industries
which are exempt from and those which are affected by depression, but
rather between those which are more and those which are less subject
to fluctuation. The more stable the type of enterprise, the better suited
it is to bond financing and the larger the portion of the supposed normal earning power which may be consumed by interest charges. As the
degree of instability increases, it must be offset by a greater margin of
safety to make sure that interest charges will be met; in other words, a
smaller portion of total capital may be represented by bonds. If there is
such a lack of inherent stability as to make survival of the enterprise
doubtful under continued unfavorable conditions (a question arising
frequently in the case of industrial companies of secondary size), then
the bond issue cannot meet the requirements of fixed-value investment,
even though the margin of safety—measured by past performance—
may be exceedingly large. Such a bond will meet the quantitative
but not the qualitative test, but both are essential to our concept of
investment.2

1 Note that a large number of utility holding-company issues (and even some overbonded
operating companies) defaulted in 1931–1932, whereas the subsidiary bonds of the United
States Steel Corporation maintained a high investment rating despite the exceedingly bad
operating results.
2 For examples of this important point, see our discussion of Studebaker Preferred stock on
p. 87 and of Willys-Overland Company First 61/2s on p. 767 of accompanying CD.

[156]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Investment Practice Recognizes Importance of Character of
the Industry. This conception of diverse margins of safety has been
solidly grounded in investment practice for many years. The threefold
classification of enterprises—as railroads, public utilities, or industrials—
was intended to reflect inherent differences in relative stability and
consequently in the coverage to be required above bond interest requirements. Investors thought well, for example, of any railroad which earned
its bond interest twice over, but the same margin in the case of an industrial bond was ordinarily regarded as inadequate. In the decade between
1920 and 1930, the status of the public-utility division underwent some
radical changes. A sharp separation was introduced between light, heat,
and power services on the one hand, and street-railway lines on the other,
although previously the two had been closely allied. The trolley companies, because of their poor showing, were tacitly excluded from the
purview of the term “public utility,” as used in financial circles, and in the
popular mind the name was restricted to electric, gas, water, and telephone companies. (Later on, promoters endeavored to exploit the popularity of the public utilities by applying this title to companies engaged in
all sorts of businesses, including natural gas, ice, coal, and even storage.)
The steady progress of the utility group, even in the face of the minor
industrial setbacks of 1924 and 1927, led to an impressive advance in its
standing among investors, so that by 1929 it enjoyed a credit rating fully
on a par with the railroads. In the ensuing depression, it registered a much
smaller shrinkage in gross and net earnings than did the transportation
industry, and its seems logical to expect that bonds of soundly capitalized
light and power companies will replace high-grade railroad bonds as the
premier type of corporate investment. (This seems true to the authors
despite the distinct recession in the popularity of utility bonds and stocks
since 1933, due to a combination of rate reductions, governmental competition and threatened dangers from inflation.)

Depression Performance as a Test of Merit. Let us turn our attention now to the behavior of these three investment groups in the two
recent depression tests—that of 1931–1933 and that of 1937–1938. Of
these, the former was of such unexampled severity that it may seem unfair
and impractical to ask that any investment now under consideration
should be measured by its performance in those disastrous times. We
have felt, however, that the experiences of 1931–1933 may be profitably

[157]

Fixed-value Investments

COMPARISON OF RAILROAD AND PUBLIC-UTILITY GROSS AND NET WITH THE AVERAGE
YIELD ON HIGH-GRADE RAILROAD AND UTILITY BONDS, 1926–1938 (UNIT $1,000,000)

Railroads

Year

Gross1

Net railway
operating
income2

1926
1927
1928
1929
1930
1931
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938

$6,383
6,136
6,112
6,280
5,281
4,188
3,127
3,095
3,272
3,452
4,053
4,166
3,565

$1,213
1,068
1,173
1,252
869
526
326
474
463
500
667
590
373

Public utilities
Yield on
railroad
bonds, %3

Gross4

5.13
4.83
4.85
5.18
4.96
6.09
7.61
6.09
4.96
4.95
4.24
4.34
5.21

$1,520
1,661
1,784
1,939
1,991
1,976
1,814
1,755
1,832
1,912
2,045
2,181
2,195

Yield on
Net5
public-utility
(index %) bonds, %3
100.0
106.8
124.0
142.5
127.7
123.5
96.6
98.2
88.1
92.9
120.7
125.8
106.0

5.11
4.96
4.87
5.14
5.05
5.27
6.30
6.25
5.40
4.43
3.88
3.93
3.87

1 Railway operating revenues for all Class I railroads in the United States (I.C.C.).
2 Net railway operating income for the same roads (I.C.C.).
3 Average yields on 40 rail and 40 utility bonds, respectively, as compiled by Moody’s.
4 Revenues from the sale of electric power to ultimate consumers, compiled by Edison Electric Institute. Data from 90% of
the industry are adjusted to cover 100% of the industry (Survey of Current Business).
5 Index of corporate profits of 15 public utilities, compiled by Standard Statistics Company, Inc. Figures are annual averages
of quarterly relatives in which 1926 is the base year.

viewed as a “laboratory test” of investment standards, involving degrees
of stress not to be expected in the ordinary vicissitudes of the future. Even
though the conditions prevalent in those years may not be duplicated, the
behavior of various types of securities at the time should throw a useful
light on investment problems.

Various Causes of Bond Collapses. 1. Excessive Funded Debt of Utilities. If we study the bond issues which suffered collapse in the post-bubble period, we shall observe that different causes underlay the troubles of
each group. The public-utility defaults were caused not by a disappearance of earnings but by the inability of overextended debt structures
to withstand a relatively moderate setback. Enterprises capitalized on a

[158]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

reasonably sound basis, as judged by former standards, had little difficulty in meeting bond interest. This did not hold true in the case of many
holding companies with pyramided capital structures which had
absorbed nearly every dollar of peak-year earnings for fixed charges and
so had scarcely any margin available to meet a shrinkage in profits. The
widespread difficulties of the utilities were due not to any weakness in the
light and power business, but to the reckless extravagance of its financing
methods. The losses of investors in public-utility bonds could for the
most part have been avoided by the exercise of ordinary prudence in
bond selection. Conversely, the unsound financing methods employed
must eventually have resulted in individual collapses, even in the ordinary course of the business cycle. In consequence, the theory of investment in sound public-utility bonds appears in no sense to have been
undermined by 1931–1933 experience.
2. Stability of Railroad Earnings Overrated. Turning to the railroads,
we find a somewhat different situation. Here the fault appears to be that
the stability of the transportation industry was overrated, so that investors
were satisfied with a margin of protection which proved insufficient. It
was not a matter of imprudently disregarding old established standards
of safety, as in the case of the weaker utilities, but rather of being content
with old standards when conditions called for more stringent requirements. Looking back, we can see that the failure of the carriers generally
to increase their earnings with the great growth of the country since prewar days was a sign of a weakened relative position, which called for a
more cautious and exacting attitude by the investor. If he had required
his railroad bonds to meet the same tests that he applied to industrial
issues, he would have been compelled to confine his selection to a relatively few of the strongly situated lines.3 As it turned out, nearly all of
these have been able to withstand the tremendous loss of traffic since
1929 without danger to their fixed charges. Whether or not this is a case

3 If, for example, the investor had restricted his attention to bonds of roads which in the

prosperous year 1928 covered their fixed charges 21/2 times or better, he would have confined his selections to bonds of: Atchison; Canadian Pacific; Chesapeake and Ohio; Chicago,
Burlington and Quincy; Norfolk and Western; Pere Marquette; Reading; and Union Pacific.
(With the exception of Pere Marquette, the bonds of these roads fared comparatively well in
the depression. Note, however, that the foregoing test may be more stringent than the one we
propose later on: average earnings  twice fixed charges.)

Fixed-value Investments

[159]

of wisdom after the event is irrelevant to our discussion. Viewing past
experience as a lesson for the future, we can see that selecting railroad
bonds on a depression basis would mean requiring a larger margin of
safety in normal times than was heretofore considered necessary.
The 1937–1938 Experience. These conclusions with respect to railroad and utility bonds are supported by the behavior of the two groups
in the 1937–1938 recession. Nearly all issues which met reasonably stringent quantitative tests at the beginning of 1937 came through the ensuing slump with a relatively small market decline and no impairment of
inherent position. On the other hand, bonds of both groups showing a
substandard earnings coverage for 1936 suffered in most cases a really
serious loss of quoted value, which in some instances proved the precursor of financial difficulties for the issuer.4
3. Depression Performance of Industrial Bonds. In the case of industrial obligations, the 1937–1938 pattern and the 1931–1933 pattern are
appreciably different, so that the investor’s attitude toward this type of
security may depend somewhat on whether he feels it necessary to guard
against the more or the less serious degree of depression. Studying the
1931–1933 record, we note that price collapses were not due primarily to
unsound financial structures, as in the case of utility bonds, nor to a miscalculation by investors as to the margin of safety needed, as in the case
of railroad bonds. We are confronted in many cases by a sudden disappearance of earning power, and a disconcerting question as to whether
the business can survive. A company such as Gulf States Steel, for example, earned its 1929 interest charges at least 31/2 times in every year from
1922 to 1929. Yet in 1930 and 1931 operating losses were so large as to
threaten its solvency.5 Many basic industries, such as the Cuban sugar
producers and our own coal mines, were depressed prior to the 1929
debacle. In the past, such eclipses had always proven to be temporary, and
investors felt justified in holding the bonds of these companies in the
expectation of a speedy recovery. But in this instance the continuance of
adverse conditions beyond all previous experience defeated their calculations and destroyed the values behind their investment.

4 See Appendix Note 11, p. 740 on accompanying CD, for a summary of the performance of
representative railroad and utility bonds in 1937–1938, as related to earnings coverage for 1936.
5 See Appendix Note 12, p. 741 on accompanying CD, for supporting data and other examples.

[160]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

From these cases we must conclude that even a high margin of safety
in good times may prove ineffective against a succession of operating
losses caused by prolonged adversity. The difficulties that befell industrial bonds, therefore, cannot be avoided in the future merely by more
stringent requirements as to bond-interest coverage in normal years.
If we examine more closely the behavior of the industrial bond list in
1932–1933 (taking all issues listed on the New York Stock Exchange), we
shall note that the fraction that maintained a price reflecting reasonable
confidence in the safety of the issue was limited to only 18 out of some
200 companies.6
The majority of these companies were of outstanding importance in
their respective industries. This point suggests that large size is a trait of
considerable advantage in dealing with exceptionally unfavorable developments in the industrial world, which may mean in turn that industrial
investments should be restricted to major companies. The evidence,
however, may be objected to on the ground of having been founded on
an admittedly abnormal experience. The less drastic test of 1937–1938
points rather towards the conventional conclusion that issues strongly
buttressed by past earnings can be relied on to withstand depressions.7
If, however, we go back over a longer period—say, since 1915—we shall
find perennial evidence of the instability of industrial earning power.
Even in the supposedly prosperous period between 1922 and 1929, the
bonds of smaller industrial enterprises did not prove a dependable
medium of investment. There were many instances wherein an apparently well-established earning power suffered a sudden disappearance.8
In fact these unpredictable variations were sufficiently numerous to suggest the conclusion that there is an inherent lack of stability in the small
6 These companies were: American Machine and Foundry, American Sugar Refining Com-

pany, Associated Oil Company, Corn Products Refining Company, General Baking Company, General Electric Company, General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Humble Oil and
Refining Company, International Business Machine Corporation, Liggett and Myers
Tobacco Company, P. Lorillard Company, National Sugar Refining Company, Pillsbury
Flour Mills Company, Smith (A.O.) Corporation, Socony-Vacuum Corporation, Standard
Oil Company of Indiana, Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and United States Steel
Corporation.
7 Appendix Note 13, p. 742 on accompanying CD, summarizes the performance of industrial

bonds in 1937–1938, as related to earnings for a period ended in 1936.
8 See Appendix Note 14, p. 743 on accompanying CD, for examples.

Fixed-value Investments

[161]

or medium-sized industrial enterprise, which makes them ill-suited to
bond financing. A tacit recognition of this weakness has been responsible in part for the growing adoption of conversion and subscription-warrant privileges in connection with industrial-bond financing.9 To what
extent such embellishments can compensate for insufficient safety will be
discussed in our chapters on Senior Securities with Speculative Features.
But in any event the widespread resort to these profit-sharing artifices
seems to confirm our view that bonds of smaller industrial companies
are not well qualified for consideration as fixed-value investments.

Unavailability of Sound Bonds No Excuse for Buying Poor
Ones. However, if we recommend that straight bond investment in the
industrial field be confined to companies of dominant size, we face the
difficulty that such companies are few in number and many of them have
no bonds outstanding. It may be objected further that such an attitude
would severely handicap the financing of legitimate businesses of secondary size and would have a blighting effect on investment-banking activities. The answer to these remonstrances must be that no consideration
can justify the purchase of unsound bonds at an investment price. The
fact that no good bonds are available is hardly an excuse for either issuing or accepting poor ones. Needless to say, the investor is never forced
to buy a security of inferior grade. At some sacrifice in yield he can always
find issues that meet his requirements, however stringent; and, as we shall
point out later, attempts to increase yield at the expense of safety are likely
to prove unprofitable. From the standpoint of the corporations and their
investment bankers, the conclusion must follow that if their securities
cannot properly qualify as straight investments, they must be given profitmaking possibilities sufficient to compensate the purchaser for the risk
he runs.

Conflicting Views on Bond Financing. In this connection, observations are in order regarding two generally accepted ideas on the subject of bond financing. The first is that bond issues are an element of
weakness in a company’s financial position, so that the elimination of
funded debt is always a desirable object. The second is that when companies are unable to finance through the sale of stock it is proper to raise
9 See footnote 3, p. 290.

[162]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

money by means of bond issues. In the writers’ view both of these widespread notions are quite incorrect. Otherwise there would be no really
sound basis for any bond financing. For they imply that only weak companies should be willing to sell bonds—which, if true, would mean that
investors should not be willing to buy them.

Proper Theory of Bond Financing. The proper theory of bond
financing, however, is of quite different import. A reasonable amount of
funded debt is of advantage to a prosperous business, because the stockholders can earn a profit above interest charges through the use of the
bondholders’ capital. It is desirable for both the corporation and the
investor that the borrowing be limited to an amount which can safely be
taken care of under all conditions. Hence, from the standpoint of sound
finance, there is no basic conflict of interest between the strong corporation which floats bonds and the public which buys them. On the other
hand, whenever an element of unwillingness or compulsion enters into
the creation of a bond issue by an enterprise, these bonds are ipso facto
of secondary quality and it is unwise to purchase them on a straight
investment basis.
Unsound Policies Followed in Practice. Financial policies followed
by corporations and accepted by the public have for many years run
counter to these logical principles. The railroads, for example, have
financed the bulk of their needs through bond sales, resulting in an overbalancing of funded debt as against stock capital. This tendency has been
repeatedly deplored by all authorities, but accepted as inevitable because
poor earnings made stock sales impracticable. But if the latter were true,
they also made bond purchases inadvisable. It is now quite clear that
investors were imprudent in lending money to carriers which themselves
complained of the necessity of having to borrow it.
While investors were thus illogically lending money to weak borrowers, many strong enterprises were paying off their debts through the sale
of additional stock. But if there is any thoroughly sound basis for corporate borrowing, then this procedure must also be regarded as unwise. If
a reasonable amount of borrowed capital, obtained at low interest rates,
is advantageous to the stockholder, then the replacement of this debt by
added stock capital means the surrender of such advantage. The elimination of debt will naturally simplify the problems of the management, but

Fixed-value Investments

[163]

surely there must be some point at which the return to the stockholders
must also be considered. Were this not so, corporations would be constantly raising money from their owners and they would never pay any
part of it back in dividends. It should be pointed out that the mania for
debt retirement in 1927–1929 has had a disturbing effect upon our banking situation, since it eliminated most of the good commercial borrowers and replaced them by second-grade business risks and by loans on
stock collateral, which were replete with possibilities of harm.

Significance of the Foregoing to the Investor. The above analysis
of the course of industrial bond borrowing in the last 15 years is not irrelevant to the theme of this chapter, viz., the application of depression standards to the selection of fixed-value investments. Recognizing the
necessity of ultra-stringent criteria of choice in the industrial field, the
bond buyer is faced by a further narrowing of eligible issues due to the
elimination of funded debt by many of the strongest companies. Clearly
his reaction must not be to accept the issues of less desirable enterprises,
in the absence of better ones, but rather to refrain from any purchases on
an investment basis if the suitable ones are not available. It appears to be
a financial axiom that whenever there is money to invest, it is invested;
and if the owner cannot find a good security yielding a fair return, he will
invariably buy a poor one. But a prudent and intelligent investor should
be able to avoid this temptation, and reconcile himself to accepting an
unattractive yield from the best bonds, in preference to risking his principal in second-grade issues for the sake of a large coupon return.

Summary. The rule that bonds should be bought on the basis of their
ability to withstand depression has been part of an old investment tradition. It was nearly lost sight of in the prosperous period culminating in
1929, but its importance was made painfully manifest during the following collapse and demonstrated again in the 1937–1938 recession. The
bonds of reasonably capitalized electric and gas companies have given a
satisfactory account of themselves during this decade and the same is
true—to a lesser degree—of the relatively few railroads which showed a
large margin above interest charges prior to 1930. In the industrial list,
however, even an excellent past record has in many cases proved undependable, especially where the company is of small or moderate size. For
this reason, the investor would seem to gain better protection against

[164]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

adverse developments by confining his industrial selections to companies
which meet the two requirements of (1) dominant size and (2) substantial margin of earnings over bond interest.

III. THIRD PRINCIPLE: UNSOUND TO SACRIFICE
SAFETY FOR YIELD
In the traditional theory of bond investment a mathematical relationship
is supposed to exist between the interest rate and the degree of risk
incurred. The interest return is divided into two components, the first
constituting “pure interest”—i.e., the rate obtainable with no risk of loss—
and the second representing the premium obtained to compensate for the
risk assumed. If, for example, the “pure interest rate” is assumed to be 2%,
then a 3% investment is supposed to involve one chance in a hundred of
loss, while the risk incurred in an 7% investment would be five times as
great, or 1 in 20. (Presumably the risk should be somewhat less than that
indicated, to allow for an “insurance profit.”)
This theory implies that bond-interest rates are closely similar to
insurance rates, and that they measure the degree of risk on some reasonably precise actuarial basis. It would follow that, by and large, the
return from high-and low-yielding investments should tend to equalize,
since what the former gain in income would be offset by their greater percentage of principal losses, and vice versa.

No Mathematical Relationship between Yield and Risk. This
view, however, seems to us to bear little relation to the realities of bond
investment. Security prices and yields are not determined by any exact
mathematical calculation of the expected risk, but they depend rather
upon the popularity of the issue. This popularity reflects in a general way
the investors’ view as to the risk involved, but it is also influenced largely
by other factors, such as the degree of familiarity of the public with the
company and the issue (seasoning) and the ease with which the bond can
be sold (marketability).
It may be pointed out further that the supposed actuarial computation of investment risks is out of the question theoretically as well as in
practice. There are no experience tables available by which the expected
“mortality” of various types of issues can be determined. Even if such
tables were prepared, based on long and exhaustive studies of past

Fixed-value Investments

[165]

records, it is doubtful whether they would have any real utility for the
future. In life insurance the relation between age and mortality rate is well
defined and changes only gradually. The same is true, to a much lesser
extent, of the relation between the various types of structures and the fire
hazard attaching to them. But the relation between different kinds of
investments and the risk of loss is entirely too indefinite, and too variable
with changing conditions, to permit of sound mathematical formulation.
This is particularly true because investment losses are not distributed
fairly evenly in point of time, but tend to be concentrated at intervals, i.e.,
during periods of general depression. Hence the typical investment hazard is roughly similar to the conflagration or epidemic hazard, which is
the exceptional and incalculable factor in fire or life insurance.

Self-insurance Generally Not Possible in Investment. If we were
to assume that a precise mathematical relationship does exist between
yield and risk, then the result of this premise should be inevitably to recommend the lowest yielding—and therefore the safest—bonds to all
investors. For the individual is not qualified to be an insurance underwriter. It is not his function to be paid for incurring risks; on the contrary
it is to his interest to pay others for insurance against loss. Let us assume
a bond buyer has his choice of investing $1,000 for $20 per annum without risk, or for $70 per annum with 1 chance out of 20 each year that his
principal would be lost. The $50 additional income on the second investment is mathematically equivalent to the risk involved. But in terms of
personal requirements, an investor cannot afford to take even a small
chance of losing $1,000 of principal in return for an extra $50 of income.
Such a procedure would be the direct opposite of the standard procedure
of paying small annual sums to protect property values against loss by fire
and theft.

The Factor of Cyclical Risks. The investor cannot prudently turn
himself into an insurance company and incur risks of losing his principal in exchange for annual premiums in the form of extra-large interest
coupons. One objection to such a policy is that sound insurance practice requires a very wide distribution of risk, in order to minimize the
influence of luck and to allow maximum play to the law of probability.
The investor may endeavor to attain this end by diversifying his holdings, but as a practical matter he cannot approach the division of risk

[166]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

attained by an insurance company. More important still is the danger
that many risky investments may collapse together in a depression
period, so that the investor in high-yielding issues will find a period
of large income (which he will probably spend) followed suddenly by a
deluge of losses of principal.
It may be contended that the higher yielding securities on the whole
return a larger premium above “pure interest” than the degree of risk
requires; in other words, that in return for taking the risk, investors will
in the long run obtain a profit over and above the losses in principal suffered. It is difficult to say definitely whether or not this is true. But even
assuming that the high coupon rates will, in the great aggregate, more
than compensate on an actuarial basis for the risks accepted, such bonds
are still undesirable investments from the personal standpoint of the average investor. Our arguments against the investor turning himself into an
insurance company remain valid even if the insurance operations all told
may prove profitable. The bond buyer is neither financially nor psychologically equipped to carry on extensive transactions involving the setting up of reserves out of regular income to absorb losses in substantial
amounts suffered at irregular intervals.

Risk and Yield Are Incommensurable. The foregoing discussion
leads us to suggest the principle that income return and risk of principal
should be regarded as incommensurable. Practically speaking, this means
that acknowledged risks of losing principal should not be offset merely
by a high coupon rate, but can be accepted only in return for a corresponding opportunity for enhancement of principal, e.g., through the purchase
of bonds at a substantial discount from par, or possibly by obtaining an
unusually attractive conversion privilege. While there may be no real
mathematical difference between offsetting risks of loss by a higher
income or by a chance for profit, the psychological difference is very
important. The purchaser of low-priced bonds is fully aware of the risk
he is running; he is more likely to make a thorough investigation of the
issue and to appraise carefully the chances of loss and of profit; finally—
most important of all—he is prepared for whatever losses he may sustain,
and his profits are in a form available to meet his losses. Actual investment experience, therefore, will not favor the purchase of the
typical high-coupon bond offered at about par, wherein, for example, a

Fixed-value Investments

[167]

7% interest return is imagined to compensate for a distinctly inferior
grade of security.10

Fallacy of the “Business Man’s Investment.” An issue of this type
is commonly referred to in the financial world as a “business man’s investment” and is supposedly suited to those who can afford to take some
degree of risk. Most of the foreign bonds floated between 1923 and 1929
belonged in that category. The same is true of the great bulk of straight
preferred stock issues. According to our view, such “business man’s investments” are an illogical type of commitment. The security buyer who can
afford to take some risk should seek a commensurate opportunity of
enhancement in price and pay only secondary attention to the income
obtained.

Reversal of Customary Procedure Recommended. Viewing the
matter more broadly, it would be well if investors reversed their customary attitude toward income return. In selecting the grade of bonds suitable to their situation, they are prone to start at the top of the list, where
maximum safety is combined with lowest yield, and then to calculate how
great a concession from ideal security they are willing to make for the
sake of a more attractive income rate. From this point of view, the ordinary investor becomes accustomed to the idea that the type of issue suited
to his needs must rank somewhere below the very best, a frame of mind
which is likely to lead to the acceptance of definitely unsound bonds,
either because of their high income return or by surrender to the blandishments of the bond salesman.
It would be sounder procedure to start with minimum standards of
safety, which all bonds must be required to meet in order to be eligible
for further consideration. Issues failing to meet these minimum requirements should be automatically disqualified as straight investments,
regardless of high yield, attractive prospects, or other grounds for partiality. Having thus delimited the field of eligible investments, the buyer may
then apply such further selective processes as he deems appropriate. He
may desire elements of safety far beyond the accepted minima, in which
case he must ordinarily make some sacrifice of yield. He may also indulge
10 In an exceptional year such as 1921 strongly entrenched bonds were offered bearing a 7%
coupon, due to the prevailing high money rates.

[168]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

his preferences as to the nature of the business and the character of the
management. But, essentially, bond selection should consist of working
upward from definite minimum standards rather than working downward in haphazard fashion from some ideal but unacceptable level of
maximum security.

Chapter 8

SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR
BOND INVESTMENT

IV. FOURTH PRINCIPLE: DEFINITE STANDARDS OF
SAFETY MUST BE APPLIED
Since the selection of high-grade bonds has been shown to be in good
part a process of exclusion, it lends itself reasonably well to the application of definite rules and standards designed to disqualify unsuitable
issues. Such regulations have in fact been set up in many states by legislative enactment to govern the investments made by savings banks and by
trust funds. In most such states, the banking department prepares each
year a list of securities which appear to conform to these regulations and
are therefore considered “legal,” i.e., eligible for purchase under the
statute.
It is our view that the underlying idea of fixed standards and minima
should be extended to the entire field of straight investment, i.e., investment for income only. These legislative restrictions are intended to promote a high average level of investment quality and to protect depositors
and beneficiaries against losses from unsafe securities. If such regulations
are desirable in the case of institutions, it should be logical for individuals to follow them also. We have previously challenged the prevalent idea
that the ordinary investor can afford to take greater investment risks than
a savings bank, and need not therefore be as exacting with respect to
the soundness of his fixed-value securities. The experience since 1928
undoubtedly emphasizes the need for a general tightening of investment
standards, and a simple method of attaining this end might be to confine all straight-bond selections to those which meet the legal tests
of eligibility for savings banks or trust funds. Such a procedure would
appear directly consonant with our fundamental principle that straight
[169]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[170]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

investments should be made only in issues of unimpeachable soundness,
and that securities of inferior grade must be bought only on an admittedly speculative basis.

New York Savings-bank Law as a Point of Departure. As a matter of practical policy, an individual bond buyer is likely to obtain fairly
satisfactory results by subjecting himself to the restrictions which govern
the investment of savings banks’ funds. But this procedure cannot be seriously suggested as a general principle of investment, because the legislative
provisions are themselves far too imperfect to warrant their acceptance as
the best available theoretical standards. The acts of the various states are
widely divergent; most of them are antiquated in important respects; none
is entirely logical or scientific. The legislators did not approach their task
from the viewpoint of establishing criteria of sound investments for universal use; consequently they felt free to impose arbitrary restrictions on
savings-bank and trust funds, which they would have hesitated to prescribe for investors generally. The New York statute, generally regarded as
the best of its class, is nevertheless marred by a number of evident defects.
In the formulation of comprehensive investment standards, the New York
legislation may best be used, therefore, as a guide or point of departure,
rather than as a final authority. The ensuing discussion will follow fairly
closely the pattern set forth in the statutory provisions (as they existed in
1939); but these will be criticized, rejected, or amplified, whenever such
emendation appears desirable.

GENERAL CRITERIA PRESCRIBED BY
THE NEW YORK STATUTE
The specific requirements imposed by the statute upon bond investments
may be classified under seven heads, which we shall proceed to enumerate and discuss:
1. The nature and location of the business or government.
2. The size of the enterprise, or the issue.
3. The terms of the issue.
4. The record of solvency and dividend payments.
5. The relation of earnings to interest requirements.
6. The relation of the value of the property to the funded debt.
7. The relation of stock capitalization to the funded debt.

[171]

Fixed-value Investments

NATURE AND LOCATION
The most striking features of the laws governing savings-bank investments is the complete exclusion of bonds in certain broad categories.
The New York provisions relative to permitted and prohibited classes
may be summarized as follows (subject to a 1938 amendment soon to be
discussed):
Admitted

Excluded

United States government, state and municipal
bonds.
Railroad bonds and electric, gas and telephone
mortgage bonds.
Bonds secured by first mortgages on
real estate.

Foreign government and foreign corporation
bonds.
Street railway and water bonds. Debentures
of public utilities.
All industrial bonds.
Bonds of financial companies (investment
trusts, credit concerns, etc.).

The Fallacy of Blanket Prohibitions. The legislature was evidently
of the view that bonds belonging to the excluded categories are essentially
too unstable to be suited to savings-bank investment. If this view is
entirely sound, it would follow from our previous reasoning that all issues
in these groups are unsuited to conservative investment generally. Such
a conclusion would involve revolutionary changes in the field of finance,
since a large part of the capital now regularly raised in the investment
market would have to be sought on an admittedly speculative basis.
In our opinion, a considerable narrowing of the investment category
is in fact demanded by the unsatisfactory experience of bond investors
over a fairly long period. Nevertheless, there are strong objections to the
application of blanket prohibitions of the kind now under discussion.
Investment theory should be chary of easy generalizations. Even if full
recognition is given, for example, to the unstable tendencies of industrial
bonds, as discussed in Chap. 7, the elimination of this entire major group
from investment consideration would seem neither practicable nor desirable. The existence of a fair number of industrial issues (even though a
small percentage of the total) which have maintained an undoubted
investment status through the severest tests, would preclude investors
generally from adopting so drastic a policy. Moreover, the confining of
investment demand to a few eligible types of enterprise is likely to make

[172]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

for scarcity, and hence for the acceptance of inferior issues merely because
they fall within these groups. This has in fact been one of the unfortunate
results of the present legislative restrictions.

Individual Strength May Compensate for Inherent Weakness
of a Class. It would seem a sounder principle, therefore, to require a
stronger exhibit by the individual bond to compensate for any weakness
supposedly inherent in its class, rather than to seek to admit all bonds of
certain favored groups and to exclude all bonds of others. An industrial
bond may properly be required to show a larger margin of earnings over
interest charges and a smaller proportion of debt to going-concern value
than would be required of an obligation of a gas or electric enterprise.
The same would apply in the case of traction bonds. In connection with
the exclusion of water-company bonds by the New York statute, it should
be noted that this group is considered by most other states to be on a par
with gas, electric, and telephone obligations. There seems to be no good
reason for subjecting them to more stringent requirements than in the
case of other types of public-service issues.

The 1938 Amendment to the Banking Law. In 1938 the New York
legislature, recognizing the validity of these objections to categorical
exclusions, proceeded to relieve the situation in a rather peculiar manner. It decreed that the Banking Board could authorize savings banks to
invest in interest-bearing obligations not otherwise eligible for investment, provided application for such authorization shall have been made
by not less than 20 savings banks, or by a trust company, all of the capital stock of which is owned by not less than 20 savings banks. (This meant
the Savings Bank Trust Company of New York.)
Clearly this amendment goes much farther than a mere widening of
the categories of savings-bank investment. What it does, in fact, is to
supersede—potentially, at least—all the specific requirements of the law
(other than the primary insistence on interest-paying bonds) by the combined judgment of the savings banks themselves and the Banking Board.
This means that, in theory, all seven of the criteria imposed by the
law may be set aside by agreement of the parties. Obviously there is
no practical danger that the legislative wisdom of the statute will be
completely flouted. In fact, investments authorized by virtue of this new
provision up to the end of 1939 are all unexceptionable in character. They

Fixed-value Investments

[173]

include previously ineligible debenture issues of very strong telephone
and industrial companies. (Curiously enough, no industrial mortgage
bond has as yet been approved, but this may serve to confirm our previous statement that good industrial bonds are likely to be debentures.)
The action to date under the 1938 amendment has represented a
praiseworthy departure from the unduly narrow restrictions of the statute
itself, which we have criticized above. We are by no means convinced,
however, that the legislation as it now stands is in really satisfactory form.
There seems to be something puerile about enacting a long list of rules
and then permitting an administrative body to waive as many of them as
it sees fit. Would it not be better to prescribe a few really important criteria, which must be followed in every instance, and then give the Banking Board discretionary power to exclude issues that meet these minimum
requirements but still are not sound enough in its conservative judgment?

Obligations of Foreign Governments. We have argued against any
broad exclusions of entire categories of bonds. But in dealing with foreign-government debts, a different type of reasoning may conceivably be
justified. Such issues respond in but small degree to financial analysis,
and investment therein is ordinarily based on general considerations,
such as confidence in the country’s economic and political stability and
the belief that it will faithfully endeavor to discharge its obligations. To a
much greater extent, therefore, than in the case of other bonds, an opinion may be justified or even necessitated as to the general desirability of
foreign-government bonds for fixed-value investment.
The Factor of Political Expediency. Viewing objectively the history of
foreign-bond investment in this country since it first assumed importance during the World War, it is difficult to escape an unfavorable conclusion on this point. In the final analysis, a foreign-government debt is
an unenforceable contract. If payment is withheld, the bondholder has
no direct remedy. Even if specific revenues or assets are pledged as security, he is practically helpless in the event that these pledges are broken.1

1 Among the numerous examples of this unhappy fact we may mention the pledge of specific

revenues behind the Dawes Loan (German government) 7s, due 1949, and the Sao Paulo
Secured 7s, due 1956. Following default of service of these two loans in 1934 and 1932,
respectively, nothing whatever was done, or could have been done, to enforce the claim
against the pledged revenues.

[174]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

It follows that while a foreign-government obligation is in theory a claim
against the entire resources of the nation, the extent to which these
resources are actually drawn upon to meet the external debt burden is
found to depend in good part on political expediency. The grave international dislocations of the postwar period made some defaults
inevitable, and supplied the pretext for others. In any event, because nonpayment has become a familiar phenomenon, its very frequency has
removed much of the resultant obloquy. Hence the investor has, seemingly less reason than of old to rely upon herculean efforts being made
by a foreign government to live up to its obligations during difficult times.
The Foreign-trade Argument. It is generally argued that a renewal of
large-scale international lending is necessary to restore world equilibrium. More concretely, such lending appears to be an indispensable
adjunct to the restoration and development of our export trade. But the
investor should not be expected to make unsound commitments for idealistic reasons or to benefit American exporters. As a speculative operation, the purchase of foreign obligations at low prices, such as prevailed
in 1932, might prove well justified by the attendant possibilities of profit;
but these tremendously depreciated quotations are in themselves a potent
argument against later purchases of new foreign issues at a price close to
100% of face value, no matter how high the coupon rate may be set.
The Individual-record Argument. It may be contended, however, that
investment in foreign obligations is essentially similar to any other form
of investment in that it requires discrimination and judgment. Some
nations deserve a high credit rating based on their past performance, and
these are entitled to investment preference to the same degree as are
domestic corporations with satisfactory records. The legislatures of several states have recognized the superior standing of Canada by authorizing savings banks to purchase its obligations, and Vermont has accepted
also the dollar bonds of Belgium, Denmark, Great Britain, Holland, and
Switzerland.
A strong argument in the contrary direction is supplied by the
appended list of the various countries having debts payable in dollars,
classified according to the credit rating indicated by the market action of
their bonds during the severe test of 1932.
1. Countries whose bonds sold on an investment basis: Canada, France,
Great Britain, Netherlands, Switzerland.

Fixed-value Investments

[175]

2. Countries whose bonds sold on a speculative basis: Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Czecho-Slovakia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Esthonia, Finland,
Germany, Guatemala, Greece, Haiti, Hungary, Japan, Jugoslavia, Mexico,
Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, Poland, Rumania, Russia, Salvador, Uruguay.
3. Borderline countries: Belgium, Ireland, Italy, Norway, Sweden.

Of the five countries in the first or investment group, the credit of two,
viz., France and Great Britain, was considered speculative in the preceding depression of 1921–1922. Out of 42 countries represented, therefore,
only three (Canada, Holland, and Switzerland) enjoyed an unquestioned
investment rating during the twelve years ending in 1932.
Twofold Objection to Purchase of Foreign-government Bonds. This evidence suggests that the purchase of foreign-government bonds is subject to
a twofold objection of generic character: theoretically, in that the basis for
credit is fundamentally intangible; and practically, in that experience with
the foreign group has been preponderantly unsatisfactory. Apparently it will
require a considerable betterment of world conditions, demonstrated by a
fairly long period of punctual discharge of international obligations, to warrant a revision of this unfavorable attitude toward foreign bonds as a class.
Canadian issues may undoubtedly be exempted from this blanket
condemnation, both on their record and because of the closeness of the
relationship between Canada and the United States. Individual investors,
for either personal or statistical reasons, may be equally convinced of the
high credit standing of various other countries, and will therefore be
ready to purchase their obligations as high-grade investments. Such
commitments may prove to be fully justified by the facts; but for some
years, at least, it would be well if the investor approached them in the
light of exceptions to a general rule of avoiding foreign bonds, and
required them accordingly to present exceptionally strong evidence of
stability and safety.2
2 The foregoing section relating to foreign-government bonds is reproduced without change

from the 1934 edition of this work. War conditions existing in 1940 add emphasis to our
conclusions. Note that at the end of 1939 the dollar bonds of only Argentina, Canada, and
Cuba were selling on better than a 6% basis in our markets. (Certain Cuban bonds were selling to yield over 6%. Note also that Great Britain, Netherlands, Sweden, and Switzerland had
no dollar bonds outstanding.) For data concerning foreign-bond defaults see various news
releases and reports of Foreign Bondholders’ Protective Council, Inc.

[176]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Bonds of Foreign Corporations. In theory, bonds of a corporation,
however prosperous, cannot enjoy better security than the obligations of
the country in which the corporation is located. The government,
through its taxing power, has an unlimited prior claim upon the assets
and earnings of the business; in other words, it can take the property away
from the private bondholder and utilize it to discharge the national debt.
But in actuality, distinct limits are imposed by political expediency upon
the exercise of the taxing power. Accordingly we find instances of corporations meeting their dollar obligations even when their government is
in default.3
Foreign-corporation bonds have an advantage over governmental
bonds in that the holder enjoys specific legal remedies in the event of
nonpayment, such as the right of foreclosure. Consequently it is probably true that a foreign company is under greater compulsion to meet its
debt than is a sovereign nation. But it must be recognized that the conditions resulting in the default of government obligations are certain to
affect adversely the position of the corporate bondholder. Restrictions
on the transfer of funds may prevent the payment of interest in dollars
even though the company may remain amply solvent.4 Furthermore, the
distance separating the creditor from the property, and the obstacles
interposed by governmental decree, are likely to destroy the practical
value of his mortgage security. For these reasons the unfavorable conclusions reached with respect to foreign-government obligations as
fixed-value investments must be considered as applicable also to foreigncorporation bonds.

SIZE
The bonds of very small enterprises are subject to objections which
disqualify them as media for conservative investment. A company of
relatively minor size is more vulnerable than others to unexpected happenings, and it is likely to be handicapped by the lack of strong banking
connections or of technical resources. Very small businesses, therefore,
have never been able to obtain public financing and have depended on private capital, those supplying the funds being given the double inducement
3 See Appendix Note 15, p. 743 on accompanying CD, for examples.
4 See Appendix Note 16, p. 744 on accompanying CD, for examples.

Fixed-value Investments

[177]

of a share in the profits and a direct voice in the management. The objections to bonds of undersized corporations apply also to tiny villages or
microscopic townships, and the careful investor in municipal obligations
will ordinarily avoid those below a certain population level.
The establishment of such minimum requirements as to size necessarily involves the drawing of arbitrary lines of demarcation. There is no
mathematical means of determining exactly at what point a company or
a municipality becomes large enough to warrant the investor’s attention.
The same difficulty will attach to setting up any other quantitative standards, as for example the margin of earnings above interest charges, or
the relation of stock or property values to bonded debt. It must be borne
in mind, therefore, that all these “critical points” are necessarily rule-ofthumb decisions, and the investor is free to use other amounts if they
appeal to him more. But however arbitrary the standards selected may
be, they are undoubtedly of great practical utility in safeguarding the
bond buyer from inadequately protected issues.

Provisions of New York Statute. The New York statute has prescribed
various standards as to minimum size in defining investments eligible for
savings banks. As regards municipal bonds, a population of not less than
10,000 is required for states adjacent to New York, and of 30,000 for other
states. Railroads must either own 500 miles of standard-gauge line or else
have operating revenues of not less than $10,000,000 per annum. Unsecured and income bonds of railroad companies are admitted only if
(among other special requirements) the net income available for dividends
amounts to $10,000,000. For gas and electric companies, gross revenues
must have averaged $1,000,000 per year during the preceding five years;
but in the case of telephone bonds, this figure must be $5,000,000. There
are further provisions to the effect that the size of the bond issue itself must
be not less than $1,000,000 for gas and electric companies, and not less
than $5,000,000 in the case of telephone obligations.
Some Criticisms of These Requirements. The figures of minimum gross
receipts do not appear well chosen from the standpoint of bond investment in general. The distinctions as to population requirements would
scarcely appeal to investors throughout the country. The alternative tests
for railroads, based on either mileage or revenues, are confusing and
unnecessary. The $10,000,000-gross requirement by itself is too high; it
would have eliminated, for example, the Bangor and Aroostook Railroad,

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[178]

one of the few lines to make a satisfactory exhibit during the 1930–1933
depression as well as before. Equally unwarranted is the requirement of
$5,000,000 gross for telephone concerns, as against only $1,000,000 for
gas and electric utilities. This provision would have ruled out the bonds
of Tri-State Telephone and Telegraph Company prior to 1927, although
they were then (and since) obligations of unquestioned merit. We believe
that the following proposed requirements for minimum size, although by
necessity arbitrarily taken, are in reasonable accord with the realities of
sound investment:
Minimum Requirement of Size
Municipalities
Public-utility enterprises
Railroad systems
Industrial companies

10,000 population
$2,000,000 gross
$3,000,000 gross
$5,000,000 gross

Industrial Bonds and the Factor of Size. Since industrial bonds are
not eligible for savings banks under the New York law, no minimum size
is therein prescribed. We have expressed the view that industrial obligations may be included among high-grade investments provided they meet
stringent tests of safety. The experience of the past decade indicates that
dominant or at least substantial size affords an element of protection
against the hazards of instability to which industrial enterprises are more
subject than are railroads or public utilities. A cautious investor, seeking
to profit from recent lessons, would apparently be justified in deciding to
confine his purchases of fixed-value bonds to perhaps the half dozen leading units in each industrial group, and also perhaps in adding the suggested minimum requirement of $5,000,000 annual sales.
Such minimum standards may be criticized as unduly stringent, in
that if they were universally applied (which in any event is unlikely) they
would make it impossible for sound and prosperous businesses of moderate size to finance themselves through straight bond issues. It is conceivable that a general stabilization of industrial conditions in the United
States may invalidate the conclusions derived from the extreme variations
of the past ten years. But until such a tendency in the direction of stability has actually demonstrated itself, we should favor a highly exacting
attitude toward the purchase of industrial bonds at investment levels.

Fixed-value Investments

[179]

Large Size Alone No Guarantee of Safety. These recommendations on the subject of minimum size do not imply that enormous dimensions are in themselves a guarantee of prosperity and financial strength.
The biggest company may be the weakest if its bonded debt is disproportionately large. Moreover, in the railroad, public-utility, and municipal
groups, no practical advantage attaches to the very largest units as compared with those of medium magnitude. Whether the gross receipts of an
electric company are twenty millions or a hundred millions has, in all
probability, no material effect on the safety of its bonds; and similarly a
town of 75,000 inhabitants may deserve better credit than would a city of
several millions. It is only in the industrial field that we have suggested
that the bonds of a very large enterprise may be inherently more desirable than those of middle-sized companies; but even here a thoroughly
satisfactory statistical showing on the part of the large company is necessary to make this advantage a dependable one.
Other Provisions Rejected. The New York statute includes an additional requirement in respect to unsecured railroad bonds, viz., that the
net earnings after interest charge must equal $10,000,000. This does not
appear to us to be justified, since we have previously argued against
attaching particular significance to the possession or lack of mortgage
security. There is a certain logical fallacy also in the further prescription
of a minimum size for the bond issue itself in the case of public utilities.
If the enterprise is large enough as measured by its gross business, then
the smaller the bond issue the easier it would be to meet interest and principal requirements. The legislature probably desired to avoid the inferior
marketability associated with very small issues. In our view, the element
of marketability is generally given too much stress by investors; and in
this case we do not favor following the statutory requirement with respect
to the size of the issue as a general rule for bond investment.

See accompanying CD for Chapter 9, “Speciﬁc
Standards for Bond Investment (Continued).”

Chapter 10

SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR
BOND INVESTMENT (Continued)

THE RELATION OF THE VALUE OF THE PROPERTY
TO THE FUNDED DEBT
In our earlier discussion (Chap. 6) we pointed out that the soundness of
the typical bond investment depends upon the ability of the obligor corporation to take care of its debts, rather than upon the value of the property on which the bonds have a lien. This broad principle naturally leads
directly away from the establishment of any general tests of bond safety
based upon the value of the mortgaged assets, where this value is considered apart from the success or failure of the enterprise itself.
Stating the matter differently, we do not believe that in the case of the
ordinary corporation bond—whether railroad, utility, or industrial—it
would be advantageous to stipulate any minimum relationship between
the value of the physical property pledged (taken at either original or
reproduction cost) and the amount of the debt. In this respect we are in
disagreement with statutory provisions in many states (including New
York) which reflect the traditional emphasis upon property values. The
New York law, for example, will not admit as eligible a gas, electric, or
telephone bond, unless it is secured by property having a value 662/3% in
excess of the bond issue. This value is presumably book value, which
either may be the original dollar cost less depreciation or may be some
more or less artificial value set up as a result of transfer or reappraisal.

Special Types of Obligations: 1. Equipment Obligations. It is
our view that the book value of public-utility properties—and of railroads
and the typical industrial plant as well—is no guidance in determining
the safety of the bond issues secured thereon. There are, however, various special types of obligations, the safety of which is in great measure
[180]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

Fixed-value Investments

[181]

dependent upon the assets securing them, as distinguished from the
going-concern value of the enterprise as a whole. The most characteristic of these, perhaps, is the railroad-equipment trust certificate, secured
by title to locomotives, freight cars, or passenger cars, and by the pledge
of the lease under which the railroad is using the equipment. The investment record of these equipment obligations is very satisfactory, particularly because until recently even the most serious financial difficulties of
the issuing road have very rarely prevented the prompt payment of interest and principal.1 The primary reason for these good results is that the
specific property pledged is removable and usable by other carriers. Consequently it enjoys an independent salable value, similar to automobiles,
jewelry, and other chattels on which personal loans are made. Even where
there might be great difficulty in actually selling the rolling stock to some
other railroad at a reasonable price, this mobility still gives the equipment
obligation a great advantage over the mortgages on the railroad itself.
Both kinds of property are essential to the operation of the line, but the
railroad bondholder has no alternative save to permit the receiver to operate his property, while the holder of the equipment lien can at least
threaten to take the rolling stock away. It is the possession of this alternative which in practice has proved of prime value to the owner of equipment trusts because it has virtually compelled the holders even of the first
mortgages on the road itself to subordinate their claim to his.
It follows that the holder of equipment-trust certificates has two separate sources of protection, the one being the credit and success of the borrowing railway, the other being the value of the pledged rolling stock. If
the latter value is sufficiently in excess of the money loaned against it, he
may be able to ignore the first or credit factor entirely, in the same way as
a pawn-broker ignores the financial status of the individual to whom he
lends money and is content to rely exclusively on the pledged property.
The conditions under which equipment trusts are usually created supply a substantial degree of protection to the purchaser. The legal forms
are designed to facilitate the enforcement of the lienholder’s rights in the
event of nonpayment. In practically all cases at least 20% of the cost of
the equipment is provided by the railway, and consequently the amount
of the equipment obligations is initially not more than 80% of the value
1 See Appendix Note 17, p. 744 on accompanying CD, for information on the investment
record of such issues.

[182]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

of the property pledged behind them. The principal is usually repayable
in 15 equal annual installments, beginning one year from issuance, so
that the amount of the debt is reduced more rapidly than ordinary depreciation would require.
The protection accorded the equipment-trust holder by these arrangements has been somewhat diminished in recent years, due partly to the
drop in commodity prices which has brought reproduction (and therefore, salable) values far below original cost, and also to the reduced
demand for equipment, whether new or used, because of the smaller traffic handled. Since 1930 certain railroads in receivership (e.g., Seaboard
Air Line and Wabash) have required holders of maturing equipment obligations to extend their maturities for a short period or to exchange them
for trustee’s or receiver’s certificates carrying a lower coupon. In the
unique case of one Florida East Coast Railway issue (Series “D”) the
receivers permitted the equipment-trust holders to take over and sell the
pledged equipment, which seemed to have been less valuable than that
securing other series. In this instance the holders realized only 43 cents
on the dollar from the sale and have a deficiency judgment (of doubtful
value) against the road for the balance. These maneuvers and losses suggest that the claim of “almost absolute safety” frequently made in behalf
of equipment issues will have to be moderated; but it cannot be denied
that this form of investment enjoys a positive and substantial advantage
through the realizability of the pledged assets.2 (This conclusion may be
supported by a concrete reference to the sale in November 1939 of
Chicago and North Western new Equipment Trust 21/2s, due 1940–1949,
at prices to yield only from 0.45 to 2.35%, despite the fact that all the
mortgage issues of that road were then in default.)

2. Collateral-trust Bonds. Collateral-trust bonds are obligations
secured by the pledge of stocks or other bonds. In the typical case, the
collateral consists of bonds of the obligor company itself, or of the bonds
or stocks of subsidiary corporations. Consequently the realizable value of
the collateral is usually dependent in great measure on the success of the
enterprise as a whole. But in the case of the collateral-trust issues
of investment companies, a development of recent years, the holder
may be said to have a primary interest in the market value of the pledged
2 See Appendix Note 18, p. 747 on accompanying CD, for comment and supporting data.

Fixed-value Investments

[183]

securities, so that it is quite possible that by virtue of the protective
conditions in the indenture, he may be completely taken care of under
conditions which mean virtual extinction for the stockholders. This type
of collateral-trust bond may therefore be ranked with equipment-trust
obligations as exceptions to our general rule that the bond buyer must
place his chief reliance on the success of the enterprise and not on the
property specifically pledged.
Going behind the form to the substance, we may point out that this
characteristic is essentially true also of investment-trust debenture obligations. For it makes little practical difference whether the portfolio is
physically pledged with a trustee, as under a collateral-trust indenture, or
whether it is held by the corporation subject to the claim of the debenture bondholders. In the usual case the debentures are protected by adequate provisions against increasing the debt, and frequently also by a
covenant requiring the market price of the company’s assets to be maintained at a stated percentage above the face amount of the bonds.
Example: The Reliance Management Corporation Debenture 5s, due
1954, are an instance of the working of these protective provisions. The
enterprise as a whole was highly unsuccessful, as is shown vividly by a
decline in the price of the stock from 69 in 1929 to 1 in 1933. In the case
of the ordinary bond issue, such a collapse in the stock value would have
meant almost certain default and large loss of principal. But here the fact
that the assets could be readily turned into cash gave significance to the
protective covenants behind the debentures. It made possible and compelled the repurchase by the company of more than three-quarters of the
issue, and it even forced the stockholders to contribute additional capital
to make good a deficiency of assets below the indenture requirements.
This resulted in the bonds selling as high as 88 in 1932 when the stock sold
for only 21/2. The balance of the issue was called at 1041/4 in February 1937.
In Chap. 18, devoted to protective covenants, we shall refer to
the history of a collateral-trust bond issue of an investment company
(Financial Investing Company), and we shall point out that the intrinsic
strength of such obligations is often impaired—unnecessarily, in our
opinion—by hesitation in asserting the bondholders’ rights.

3. Real Estate Bonds. Of much greater importance than either of
the two types of securities just discussed is the large field of real estate

[184]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

mortgages and real estate mortgage bonds. The latter represent participations of convenient size in large individual mortgages. There is no
doubt that in the case of such obligations the value of the pledged land
and buildings is of paramount importance. The ordinary real estate loan
made by an experienced investor is based chiefly upon his conclusions as
to the fair value of the property offered as security. It seems to us, however, that in a broad sense the values behind real estate mortgages are
going-concern values; i.e., they are derived fundamentally from the earning power of the property, either actual or presumptive. In other words,
the value of the pledged asset is not something distinct from the success
of the enterprise (as is possibly the case with a railroad-equipment trust
certificate), but is rather identical therewith.
This point may be made clearer by a reference to the most typical form
of real estate loan, a first mortgage on a single-family dwelling house.
Under ordinary conditions a home costing $10,000 would have a rental
value (or an equivalent value to an owner-tenant) of some $1,200 per year,
and would yield a net income of about $800 after taxes and other
expenses. A 5% first-mortgage loan on the savings-bank basis, i.e., 60%
of value, or $6,000, would therefore be protected by a normal earning
power of over twice the interest requirements. Stated differently, the rental
value could suffer a reduction of over one-third before the ability to meet
interest charges would be impaired. Hence the mortgagee reasons that
regardless of the ability of the then owner of the house to pay the carrying charges, he could always find a tenant or a new purchaser who would
rent or buy the property on a basis at least sufficient to cover his 60% loan.
(By way of contrast, it may be pointed out that a typical industrial plant,
costing $1,000,000 and bonded for $600,000, could not be expected to
sell or rent for enough to cover the 5% mortgage if the issuing company
went into bankruptcy.)
Property Values and Earning Power Closely Related. This illustration
shows that under normal conditions obtaining in the field of dwellings,
offices, and stores, the property values and the rental values go hand in
hand. In this sense it is largely immaterial whether the lender views mortgaged property of this kind as something with salable value or as something with an earning power, the equivalent of a going concern. To some
extent this is true also of vacant lots and unoccupied houses or stores,
since the market value of these is closely related to the expected rental

Fixed-value Investments

[185]

when improved or let. (It is emphatically not true, however, of buildings
erected for a special purpose, such as factories, etc.)
Misleading Character of Appraisals. The foregoing discussion is
important in its bearing on the correct attitude that the intending investor
in real estate bonds should take towards the property values asserted to
exist behind the issues submitted to him. During the great and disastrous
development of the real estate mortgage-bond business between 1923 and
1929, the only datum customarily presented to support the usual bond
offering—aside from an estimate of future earnings—was a statement of
the appraised value of the property, which almost invariably amounted to
some 662/3% in excess of the mortgage issue. If these appraisals had corresponded to the market values which experienced buyers of or lenders
on real estate would place upon the properties, they would have been of
real utility in the selection of sound real estate bonds. But unfortunately
they were purely artificial valuations, to which the appraisers were willing to attach their names for a fee, and whose only function was to deceive
the investor as to the protection which he was receiving.
The method followed by these appraisals was the capitalization on
a liberal basis of the rental expected to be returned by the property. By
this means, a typical building which cost $1,000,000, including liberal
financing charges, would immediately be given an “appraised value” of
$1,500,000. Hence a bond issue could be floated for almost the entire cost
of the venture so that the builders or promoters retained the equity (i.e.,
the ownership) of the building, without a cent’s investment, and in many
cases with a goodly cash profit to boot.3 This whole scheme of real estate
financing was honeycombed with the most glaring weaknesses, and it is
sad commentary on the lack of principle, penetration, and ordinary common sense on the part of all parties concerned that it was permitted to
reach such gigantic proportions before the inevitable collapse.4

3 The 419–4th Avenue Corporation (Bowker Building) floated a $1,230,000 bond issue in

1927 with a paid-in capital stock of only $75,000. (By the familiar process, the land and
building which cost about $1,300,000 were appraised at $1,897,788.) Default and receivership in 1931–1932 were inevitable.
4 See Appendix Note 19, p. 748 on accompanying CD, for report of Real Estate Securities

Committee of the Investment Bankers Association of America commenting on defaults in
this field.

[186]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Abnormal Rentals Used as Basis of Valuation. It was indeed true that
the scale of rentals prevalent in 1928–1929 would yield an abundantly
high rate of income on the cost of a new real estate venture. But this condition could not properly be interpreted as making a new building immediately worth 50% in excess of its actual cost. For this high income return
was certain to be only temporary, since it could not fail to stimulate more
and more building, until an oversupply of space caused a collapse in the
scale of rentals. This overbuilding was the more inevitable because it was
possible to carry it on without risk on the part of the owner, who raised
all the money needed from the public.
Debt Based on Excessive Construction Costs. A collateral result of this
overbuilding was an increase in the cost of construction to abnormally
high levels. Hence even an apparently conservative loan made in 1928 or
1929, in an amount not exceeding two-thirds of actual cost, did not enjoy
a proper degree of protection, because there was the evident danger
(subsequently realized) that a sharp drop in construction costs would
reduce fundamental values to a figure below the amount of the loan.
Weakness of Specialized Buildings. A third general weakness of real
estate-bond investment lay in the entire lack of discrimination as between
various types of building projects. The typical or standard real estate loan
was formerly made on a home, and its peculiar virtue lay in the fact that
there was an indefinitely large number of prospective purchasers or tenants to draw upon, so that it could always be disposed of at some moderate concession from the current scale of values. A fairly similar situation
is normally presented by the ordinary apartment house, or store, or office
building. But when a structure is built for some special purpose, such as
a hotel, garage, club, hospital, church, or factory, it loses this quality of
rapid disposability, and its value becomes bound up with the success of the
particular enterprise for whose use it was originally intended. Hence mortgage bonds on such structures are not actually real estate bonds in the
accepted sense, but rather loans extended to a business; and consequently
their safety must be judged by all the stringent tests surrounding the
purchase of an industrial obligation.
This point was completely lost sight of in the rush of real estate financing preceding the collapse in real estate values. Bonds were floated to
build hotels, garages, and even hospitals, on very much the same basis as
loans made on apartment houses. In other words, an appraisal showing

Fixed-value Investments

[187]

a “value” of one-half to two-thirds in excess of the bond issue was
considered almost enough to establish the safety of the loan. It turned
out, however, that when such new ventures proved commercially unsuccessful and were unable to pay their interest charges, the “real estate”
bondholders were in little better position than the holders of a mortgage
on an unprofitable railroad or mill property.5
Values Based on Initial Rentals Misleading. Another weakness should
be pointed out in connection with apartment-house financing. The rental
income used in determining the appraised value was based on the rentals
to be charged at the outset. But apartment-house tenants are accustomed
to pay a substantial premium for space in a new building, and they consider a structure old, or at least no longer especially modern and desirable, after it has been standing a very few years. Consequently, under
normal conditions the rentals received in the first years are substantially
larger than those which can conservatively be expected throughout the
life of the bond issue.
Lack of Financial Information. A defect related to those discussed
above, but of a different character, was the almost universal failure to supply the bond buyer with operating and financial data after his purchase.
This drawback applies generally to companies that sell bonds to the public but whose stock is privately held—an arrangement characteristic of
real estate financing. As a result, not only were most bondholders
unaware of the poor showing of the venture until default had actually
taken place, but—more serious still—at that time they frequently found
that large unpaid taxes had accrued against the property while the owners were “milking” it by drawing down all available cash.
Suggested Rules of Procedure. From this detailed analysis of the defects
of real estate bond financing in the past decade, a number of specific rules
of procedure may be developed to guide the investor in the future.
In the case of single-family dwellings, loans are generally made directly
by the mortgage holder to the owner of the home, i.e., without the intermediary of a real estate mortgage bond sold by a house of issue. But an
extensive business has also been transacted by mortgage companies (e.g.,
Lawyers Mortgage Company, Title Guarantee and Trust Company) in

5 See Appendix Note 20, p. 750 on accompanying CD, for example (Hudson Towers).

[188]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

guaranteed mortgages and mortgage-participation certificates, secured on
such dwellings.6
Where investments of this kind are made, the lender should be certain: (a) that the amount of the loan is not over 662/3% of the value of the
property, as shown either by actual recent cost or by the amount which
an experienced real estate man would consider a fair price to pay for the
property; and (b) that this cost or fair price does not reflect recent speculative inflation and does not greatly exceed the price levels existing for
a long period previously. If so, a proper reduction must be made in the
maximum relation of the amount of mortgage debt to the current value.
The more usual real estate mortgage bond represents a participation in
a first mortgage on a new apartment house or office building. In considering such offerings the investor should ignore the conventional “appraised
values” submitted and demand that the actual cost, fairly presented, should
exceed the amount of the bond issue by at least 50%. Secondly, he should
require an estimated income account, conservatively calculated to reflect
losses through vacancies and the decline in the rental scale as the building grows older. This income account should forecast a margin of at least
100% over interest charges, after deducting from earnings a depreciation
allowance to be actually expended as a sinking fund for the gradual retirement of the bond issue. The borrower should agree to supply the bondholders with regular operating and financial statements.
Issues termed “first-leasehold mortgage bonds” are in actuality second
mortgages. They are issued against buildings erected on leased land and
the ground rent operates in effect as a first lien or prior charge against the
entire property. In analyzing such issues the ground rent should be added
to the bond-interest requirements to arrive at the total interest charges of
the property. Furthermore, it should be recognized that in the field of real
estate obligations the advantage of a first mortgage over a junior lien is
much more clean-cut than in an ordinary business enterprise.7
6 Since 1933 real estate financing on single-family homes has been taken over so substantially by the Federal government, through the Federal Housing Administration (F.H.A.), that
practically no real estate bonds of this type have been sold to investors. Financing on larger
buildings has been greatly restricted. Practically all of it has been provided by financial institutions (insurance companies, etc.), and there have been virtually no sales of real estate securities to the general public (to the end of 1939).
7 See Appendix Note 21, p. 750 on accompanying CD, for examples and comment.

Fixed-value Investments

[189]

In addition to the above quantitative tests, the investor should be
satisfied in his own mind that the location and type of the building are
such as to attract tenants and to minimize the possibility of a large loss of
value through unfavorable changes in the character of the neighborhood.8
Real estate loans should not be made on buildings erected for a special or limited purpose, such as hotels, garages, etc. Commitments of this
kind must be made in the venture itself, considered as an individual business. From our previous discussion of the standards applicable to a highgrade industrial-bond purchase, it is difficult to see how any bond issue
on a new hotel, or the like, could logically be bought on a straight investment basis. All such enterprises should be financed at the outset by private capital, and only after they can show a number of years of successful
operation should the public be offered either bonds or stock therein.9
8 Footnote to 1934 edition: “One of the few examples of a conservatively financed real estate-

bond issue extant in 1933 is afforded by the Trinity Buildings Corporation of New York First
51/2s, due 1939, secured on two well-located office buildings in the financial district of New
York City. This issue was outstanding in the amount of $4,300,000, and was secured by a
first lien on land and buildings assessed for taxation at $13,000,000. In 1931, gross earnings
were $2,230,000 and the net after depreciation was about six times the interest on the firstmortgage bonds. In 1932, rent income declined to $1,653,000, but the balance for first-mortgage interest was still about 31/2 times the requirement. In September 1933 these bonds sold
close to par.”
This footnote and the sequel well illustrate the importance of the location factor referred
to in the text. Despite the improvement in general business conditions since 1933, the lessened activity in the financial district resulted in a loss of tenants and a severe decline in
rental rates. The net earnings of Trinity Building Corporation failed even to cover depreciation charges in 1938 and were less than interest charges, even ignoring depreciation; principal and interest were defaulted at maturity in 1939; the guarantee by United States Realty
and Improvement Company, the parent enterprise, proved inadequate; and the holders were
faced with the necessity of extending their principal and accepting a reduction in the fixed
coupon rate. In this instance an undoubtedly conservative financial set-up (a quantitative
factor) did not prove strong enough to offset a decline in the rental value of the neighborhood (a qualitative factor).
9 The subject of guaranteed real estate mortgage issues is treated in Chap. 17.

See accompanying CD for Chapter 11, “Speciﬁc Standards for Bond
Investment (Continued)”; Chapter 12, “Special Factors in the Analysis of
Railroad and Public-utility Bonds”; Chapter 13, “Other Special Factors in
Bond Analysis”; and Chapter 14, “The Theory of Preferred Stocks.”

Chapter 15

TECHNIQUE OF SELECTING PREFERRED
STOCKS FOR INVESTMENT

OUR DISCUSSION of the theory of preferred stocks led to the practical conclusion that an investment preferred issue must meet all the requirements
of a good bond, with an extra margin of safety to offset its contractual
disadvantages. In analyzing a senior stock issue, therefore, the same tests
should be applied as we have previously suggested and described with
respect to bonds.

More Stringent Requirements Suggested. In order to make the
quantitative tests more stringent, some increase is needed in the minimum earnings coverage above that prescribed for the various bond
groups. The criteria we propose are as follows:
MINIMUM AVERAGE-EARNINGS COVERAGE

For investment
bonds

For investment
preferred stocks

Public utilities

13/4 times fixed charges

Railroads

2 times fixed charges

Industrials

3 times fixed charges

2 times fixed charges
plus preferred dividends
21/2 times fixed charges plus
preferred dividends
4 times fixed charges plus
preferred dividends

Class of enterprise

These increases in the earnings coverage suggest that a corresponding
advance should be made in the stock-value ratio. It may be argued that
since this is a secondary test it is hardly necessary to change the figure. But
consistency of treatment would require that the minimum stock-value coverage be raised in some such manner as shown in the table on page 191.
[190]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[191]

Fixed-value Investments

The margins of safety above suggested are materially higher than
those hitherto accepted as adequate, and it may be objected that we are
imposing requirements of unreasonable and prohibitive stringency. It is
true that these requirements would have disqualified a large part of the
preferred-stock financing done in the years prior to 1931, but such severity would have been of benefit to the investing public. A general stabilization of business and financial conditions may later justify a more lenient
attitude towards the minimum earnings coverage, but until such stabilization has actually been discernible over a considerable period of time
the attitude of investors towards preferred stocks must remain extremely
critical and exacting.
Minimum current stock-value ratio
Class of enterprise

For investment bonds

Public utilities

$2 bonds to $1 stock

Railroads

$11/2 bonds to $1 stock

Industrials

$1 bonds to $1 stock

For investment
preferred stocks
$11/2 bonds and preferred to
$1 junior stock
$1 bonds and preferred to
$1 junior stock
$1 bonds and preferred to
$11/2 junior stock

Referring to the list of preferred stocks given on page 192 of accompanying CD, it will be noted that in the case of all the industrial issues the
stock-value ratio at its lowest exceeded 1.6 to 1, and also that the average
earnings coverage exceeded 5.6 times.1

Mere Presence of Funded Debt Does Not Disqualify Preferred
Stocks for Investment. It is proper to consider whether an investment
rating should be confined to preferred stocks not preceded by bonds. That
the absence of funded debt is a desirable feature for a preferred issue goes
without saying; it is an advantage similar to that of having a first mortgage on a property instead of a second mortgage. It is not surprising,
therefore, that preferred stocks without bonds ahead of them have as a
1 We do not consider it necessary to suggest an increase in minimum size above the figures
recommended for investment bonds.

[192]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

class made a better showing than those of companies with funded debt.
But from this rather obvious fact it does not follow that all preferred
stocks with bonds preceding are unsound investments, any more than it
can be said that all second-mortgage bonds are inferior in quality to all
first-mortgage bonds. Such a principle would entail the rejection of all
public-utility preferred stocks (since they invariably have bonds ahead of
them) although these are better regarded as a group than are the “nonbonded” industrial preferreds. Furthermore, in the extreme test of 1932,
a substantial percentage of the preferred issues which held up were preceded by funded debt.2
To condemn a powerfully entrenched security such as General Electric preferred in 1933 because it had an infinitesimal bond issue ahead of
it, would have been the height of absurdity. This example should illustrate forcibly the inherent unwisdom of subjecting investment selection
to hard and fast rules of a qualitative character. In our view, the presence
of bonds senior to a preferred stock is a fact which the investor must take
carefully into account, impelling him to greater caution than he might
otherwise exercise; but if the company’s exhibit is sufficiently impressive
the preferred stock may still be accorded an investment rating.

Total-deductions Basis of Calculation Recommended. In calculating the earnings coverage for preferred stocks with bonds preceding, it is absolutely essential that the bond interest and preferred
dividend be taken together. The almost universal practice of stating the
earnings on the preferred stock separately (in dollars per share) is exactly
similar to, and as fallacious as, the prior-deductions method of computing the margin above interest charges on a junior bond. If the preferred
stock issue is much smaller than the funded debt, the earnings per share
will indicate that the preferred dividend is earned more times than is
the bond interest. Such a statement must either have no meaning at all,
or else it will imply that the preferred dividend is safer than the bond
interest of the same company—an utter absurdity.3 (See the examples on
page 194.)
2 Out of the 21 such issues listed on p. 192 of accompanying CD eleven were preceded by
bonds, viz., five public utilities, one railroad, and five (out of 15) industrials.
3 See Appendix Note 28, p. 760 on accompanying CD, for comment upon neglect of this
point by writers of textbooks on investment.

Fixed-value Investments

[193]

The West Penn Electric Company Class A stock is in reality a second
preferred issue. In this example the customary statement makes the preferred dividend appear safer than the bond interest; and because the Class
A issue is small, it makes this second preferred issue appear much safer
than either the bonds or the first preferred. The correct statement shows
that the Class A requirements are covered 1.26 times instead of 7.43
times—a tremendous difference. The erroneous method of stating the
earnings coverage was probably responsible in good part for the high
price at which the Class A shares sold in 1937 (108). It is interesting to
observe that although the Class A shares had declined to 25 in 1932, they
later sold repeatedly at a higher price than the 7% preferred issue. Evidently some investors were still misled by the per-share earnings figures,
and imagined the second preferred safer than the first preferred.
An Apparent Contradiction Explained. Our principles of preferreddividend coverage lead to an apparent contradiction, viz., that the preferred stockholders of a company must require a larger minimum
coverage than the bondholders of the same company, yet by the nature of
the case the actual coverage is bound to be smaller. For in any corporation the bond interest alone is obviously earned with a larger margin than
the bond interest and preferred dividends combined. This fact has created the impression among investors (and some writers) that the tests of
a sound preferred stock may properly be less stringent than those of a
sound bond.4 But this is not true at all. The real point is that where a company has both bonds and preferred stock the preferred stock can be safe
4 See, for example, the following quotations from R. E. Badger and H. G. Guthmann, Invest-

ment Principles and Practices, New York, 1941:
“Similarly, it is a general rule that, on the average, the interest on industrial bonds should
be covered at least three times, in order that the bond should be considered safe” (p. 316).
“From the authors’ viewpoint, an industrial preferred stock should be regarded as speculative unless combined charges and dividend requirements are earned at least twice over a
period of years” (p. 319).
“One is probably safe in stating that, where combined charges are twice earned, including
interest charges on the bonds of the holding company, the presumption is in favor of the
soundness of such holding company issue. Likewise, where combined prior charges and preferred dividend requirements are earned 1.5 times, the preferred stock of the holding company will be favorably regarded” (p. 421).
See also F. F. Burtchett, Investments and Investment Policy, New York, 1938, p. 325, where
the author requires larger coverage of fixed charges on bonds than on preferred stocks of
merchandising enterprises.

[194]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

EXAMPLES OF CORRECT AND INCORRECT METHODS OF CALCULATING EARNINGS COVERAGE
FOR PREFERRED STOCKS

A.

Colorado Fuel and Iron Company:
1929 figures
Earned for bond interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$3,978,000
Interest charges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1,628,000
Preferred dividends . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .160,000
Balance for common . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2,190,000
Customary but incorrect statement
Correct statement
Int. charges earned. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2.4 times
Int. charges earned . . . . . . .2.4 times
Preferred dividend earned . . . . . . . . . .14.7 times
Interest and preferred
Earned per share of preferred . . . . . . .$117.50
dividends earned . . . . . .2.2 times
Note: The preceding statement of
earnings on the preferred stock
alone is either worthless or
dangerously misleading.

B.

Warner Bros. Pictures, Inc.:
Year ended Aug. 28, 1937
Earned for interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$10,760,000
Interest charges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4,574,000
Preferred dividends . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .397,000
Balance for common . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5,789,000
Customary but incorrect statement
Correct statement
Int. charges earned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2.35 times
Int. charges earned . . . . . .2.35 times
Preferred dividends earned . . . . . . . . .14.8 times
Interest and preferred
Earned per share of preferred . . . . . . .$56.99
dividends earned . . . . . . . . .2.1 times

C.

West Penn Electric Company:
1937 figures
Gross . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$40,261,000
Net before charges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13,604,000
Fixed charges (include preferred dividends of subsidiaries) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8,113,000
Dividends on 7% and 6% preferred issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2,267,000
Dividends on Class A stock (junior to 6% and 7% Pfd.). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .412,000
Balance for Class B and common . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2,812,000
Customary but incorrect statement
Correct statement
Times interest or
Earned
Times earned
dividends earned
per share
Fixed charges… 1.68 times
Fixed charges……………1.68 times
6% and 7%
Charges and
preferred
preferred
(combined)…2.42 times
$16.11
dividends . . . . . . . . . . . .1.31 times
Class A……….. 7.43 times
54.79
Fixed charges,
preferred dividends,
and Class A dividends .1.26 times

[195]

Fixed-value Investments

Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Commonwealth & Southern Corp.

Year

Number of
times interest
earned

Number of
times int. and
pfd. dividend
earned

Number of
times fixed
charges earned

Number of
times fixed
charges and pfd.
dividend earned

1930
1929
1928
1927
1926
1925

15.2
13.9
12.3
11.9
11.2
9.8

7.87
7.23
6.42
6.20
5.85
5.14

1.84
1.84
1.71
1.62
1.52
1.42

1.48
1.55
1.44
1.37
1.31
1.28

enough only if the bonds are much safer than necessary. Conversely, if the
bonds are only just safe enough, the preferred stock cannot be sound. This
is illustrated by two examples, as follows:
The Liggett and Myers preferred-dividend coverage (including, of
course, the bond interest as well) is substantially above our suggested
minimum of four times. The bond-interest coverage alone is therefore far
in excess of the smaller minimum required for it, viz., three times. On the
other hand, the Commonwealth and Southern fixed-charge coverage in
1930 was just about at the proposed minimum 13/4 times. This meant that
while the various bonds might qualify for investment, the 6% preferred
stock could not possibly do so, and the purchase of that issue at a price
above par in 1930 was an obvious mistake.
“Dollars-per-share” Formula Misleading. When a preferred stock has
no bonds ahead of it, the earnings may be presented either as so many
dollars per share or as so many times dividend requirements. The second
form is distinctly preferable, for two reasons. The more important one is
that the use of the “dollars per share” formula in cases where there are no
bonds is likely to encourage its use in cases where there are bonds. Security analysts and intelligent investors should make special efforts to avoid
and decry this misleading method of stating preferred-dividend coverage, and this may best be accomplished by dropping the dollars-per-share
form of calculation entirely. As a second point, it should be noted that the
significance of the dollars earned per share is dependent upon the market price of the preferred stock. Earnings of $20 per share would be much
more favorable for a preferred issue selling at 80 than for a preferred

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[196]

selling at 125. In the one case the earnings are 25%, and in the other only
16%, on the market price. The dollars-per-share figure loses all comparative value when the par value is less than $100, or when there is no-par
stock with a low dividend rate per share. Earnings of $18.60 per share in
1931 on S. H. Kress and Company 6% Preferred (par $10) are of course
far more favorable than earnings of $20 per share on some 7% preferred
stock, par $100.

Calculation of the Stock-value Ratio. The technique of applying
this test to preferred stocks is in all respects similar to that of the earnings-coverage test. The bonds, if any, and the preferred stock must be
taken together and the total compared with the market price of the common stock only. When calculating the protection behind a bond, the preferred issue is part of the stock equity; but when calculating the protection
behind the preferred shares, the common stock is now, of course, the only
junior security. In cases where there are both a first and second preferred
issue, the second preferred is added to the common stock in calculating
the equity behind the first preferred.
EXAMPLE OF CALCULATION OF STOCK-VALUE RATIOS FOR PREFERRED STOCKS
PROCTER AND GAMBLE COMPANY

Capitalization

Face amount

Low price
1932

Value at low
price in 1932

Bonds
8% pfd. (1st pfd.)
5% pfd. (2d pfd.)
Common

$10,500,000
2,250,000
17,156,000
6,140,000*

@ 140
@ 81
@ 20

$3,150,000
13,900,000
128,200,000

* Number of shares.

A. Stock-value ratio
for bonds

3,150,000  13,900,000  128,200,000
10,500,000

 13.8:1

B. Stock-value ratio
for 1st pfd.

13,900,000  128,200,000
10,500,000  3,150,000

 10.4:1

C. Stock-value ratio
for 2d pfd.

128,200,000
10,500,000  3,150,000  13,900,000

 4.6:1

Fixed-value Investments

[197]

Should the market value of the common stock be compared with the
par value or the market value of the preferred? In the majority of cases it
will not make any vital difference which figure is used. There are, however, an increasing number of no-par-value preferreds (and also a number like Island Creek Coal Company Preferred and Remington Rand,
Inc., Second Preferred in which the real par is entirely different from the
stated par).5 In these cases an equivalent would have to be constructed
from the dividend rate. Because of such instances and also those where
the market price tends to differ materially from the par value (e.g., Norfolk and Western Railway Company 4% Preferred in 1932 or Eastman
Kodak 6% Preferred in 1939), it would seem the better rule to use the
market price of preferred stocks regularly in computing stock-value
ratios. On the other hand the regular use of the face value of bond issues,
rather than the market price, is recommended, because it is much more
convenient and does not involve the objections just discussed in relation
to preferred shares.

Noncumulative Issues. The theoretical disadvantage of a noncumulative preferred stock as compared with a cumulative issue is very similar to the inferiority of preferred stocks in general as compared with
bonds. The drawback of not being able to compel the payment of dividends on preferred stocks generally is almost matched by the handicap
in the case of noncumulative issues of not being able to receive in the
future the dividends withheld in the past. This latter arrangement is so
patently inequitable that new security buyers (who will stand for almost
anything) object to noncumulative issues, and for many years new offerings of straight preferred stocks have almost invariably had the cumulative feature.6 Noncumulative issues have generally come into existence as
the result of reorganization plans in which old security holders have been
5 Island Creek Coal Preferred has a stated par of $1 and Remington Rand, Inc., Second

Preferred has a stated par of $25, but both issues carry a $6 dividend and they are entitled
to $120 per share and $100 per share respectively in the event of liquidation. Their true par
is evidently $100. The same is true of American Zinc Lead and Smelting First $5 Prior Preferred and $6 (Second) Preferred; par of each is $25.
6 The only important “straight,” noncumulative preferred stock sold to stockholders or the
public since the war was St. Louis-San Francisco Railway Company Preferred. In the case of
Illinois Central Railroad Company Noncumulative Preferred, the conversion privilege was
the overshadowing inducement at the time of issue.

[198]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

virtually forced to accept whatever type of security was offered them. But
in recent years the preferred issues created through reorganization have
been preponderantly cumulative, though in some cases this provision
becomes operative only after a certain interval. Austin Nichols and Company $5 Preferred, for example, was issued under a Readjustment Plan in
1930 and became cumulative in 1934. National Department Stores Preferred, created in 1935, became fully cumulative in 1938.
Chief Objection to Noncumulative Provision. One of the chief objections to the noncumulative provision is that it permits the directors to
withhold dividends even in good years, when they are amply earned, the
money thus saved inuring to the benefit of the common stockholders.
Experience shows that noncumulative dividends are seldom paid unless
they are necessitated by the desire to declare dividends on the common;
and if the common dividend is later discontinued, the preferred dividend
is almost invariably suspended soon afterwards.7
Example: St. Louis-San Francisco Railway Company affords a typical
example. No dividends were paid on the (old) preferred issue between
1916 and 1924, although the dividend was fully earned in most of these
years. Payments were not commenced until immediately before dividends
were initiated on the common; and they were continued (on the new preferred) less than a year after the common dividend was suspended in 1931.
The manifest injustice of such an arrangement led the New Jersey
courts (in the United States Cast Iron Pipe case)8 to decide that if dividends are earned on a noncumulative preferred stock but not paid, then
the holder is entitled to receive such amounts later before anything can
be paid on the common. This meant that in New Jersey a noncumulative
preferred stock was given a cumulative claim on dividends to the extent
that they were earned. The United States Supreme Court however, handed
7 Kansas City Southern Railway Company 4% Noncumulative Preferred, which paid divi-

dends between 1907 and 1929 while the common received nothing, is an outstanding exception to this statement. St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company 5% Noncumulative
Preferred received full dividends during 1923–1929 while no payments were made on the
common; but for a still longer period preferred dividends, although earned, were wholly or
partially withheld (and thus irrevocably lost).
8 Day v. United States Cast Iron Pipe and Foundry Company, 94 N.J. Eq. 389, 124 Atl. 546
(1924), aff ’d. 96 N.J. Eq. 738, 126 Atl. 302 (1925); Moran v. United States Cast Iron Pipe
and Foundry Company, 95 N.J. Eq. 389, 123 Atl. 546 (1924), aff ’d, 96 N.J. Eq. 698, 126 Atl.
329 (1925).

Fixed-value Investments

[199]

down a contrary decision (in the Wabash Railway case)9 holding that
while the noncumulative provision may work a great hardship on the
holder, he has nevertheless agreed thereto when he accepted the issue.
This is undoubtedly sound law, but the inherent objections to the noncumulative provision are so great (chiefly because of the opportunity it
affords for unfair policies by the directors) that it would seem to be advisable for the legislatures of the several states to put the New Jersey decision into statutory effect by prohibiting the creation of completely
noncumulative preferred stocks, requiring them to be made cumulative
at least to the extent that the dividend is earned. This result has been
attained in a number of individual instances through insertion of appropriate charter provisions.10

Features of the List of 21 Preferred Issues of Investment Grade.
Out of some 440 preferred stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange
in 1932, only 40, or 9%, were noncumulative. Of these, 29 were railroad
or street-railway issues and only 11 were industrial issues. The reader will
be surprised to note, however, that out of only 21 preferred stocks selling
continuously on an investment basis in 1932, no less than four were noncumulative. Other peculiarities are to be found in this favored list, and
they may be summarized as follows (see page 192 of accompanying CD):
1. Both the number of noncumulative issues and the number of preferred
stocks preceded by bonds are proportionately higher among the 21 “good”
companies than in the Stock Exchange list as a whole.
2. The industry best represented is the snuff business, with three companies.

9 Wabash Railway Company et al. v. Barclay et al., 280 U.S. 197 (1930), reversing Barclay v.
Wabash Railway, 30 Fed. (2d) 260 (1929). See discussion in A. A. Berle, Jr., and G. C. Means,
The Modern Corporation and Private Property, pp. 190–192.
10 See, for example, the provisions of George A. Fuller Company $3 Convertible Stock;

Aeolian Company 6% Class A Preferred; United States Lines Company Convertible Second
Preferred. A trend in the direction of preferred stocks with this type of provision is observable in numerous recent reorganization plans of railroads. See various plans presented
in 1936–1938 for Chicago and Eastern Illinois Railroad, Missouri Pacific Railroad, Erie
Railroad, St. Louis-San Francisco Railroad. An early example of this type of preferred is that
of Pittsburgh, Youngstown and Ashtabula Railway. But here the dividend becomes cumulative only if the full $7 rate is earned and less has been paid.

[200]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

3. Miscellaneous peculiarities:
a. Only one issue has a sinking fund provision.
b. One issue is a second preferred (Procter and Gamble).
c. One issue has a par value of only $1 (Island Creek Coal).
d. One issue was callable at close to the lowest market price of 1932–1933
(General Electric).

Matters of Form, Title, or Legal Right Relatively Immaterial. We trust
that no overzealous exponent of the inductive method will conclude from
these figures either: (1) that noncumulative preferreds are superior to
cumulative issues; or (2) that preferreds preceded by bonds are superior
to those without bonds; or (3) that the snuff business presents the safest
opportunity for investment. The real significance of these unexpected
results is rather the striking confirmation they offer to our basic thesis
that matters of form, title, or legal right are relatively immaterial, and that
the showing made by the individual issue is of paramount importance. If
a preferred stock could always be expected to pay its dividend without
question, then whether it is cumulative or noncumulative would become
an academic question solely, in the same way that the inferior contractual rights of a preferred stock as compared with a bond would cease to
have practical significance. Since the dividend on United States Tobacco
Company Preferred was earned more than sixteen times in the depression year 1931—and since, moreover, the company had been willing to
buy in a large part of the preferred issue at prices ranging up to $125 per
share—the lack of a cumulative provision caused the holders no concern
at all. This example must of course, be considered as exceptional; and as
a point of practical investment policy we should suggest that no matter
how impressive may be the exhibit of a noncumulative preferred stock, it
would be better to select a cumulative issue for purchase in order to enjoy
better protection in the event of unexpected reverses.11
11 See, for example, the record of American Car and Foundry Company 7% Noncumulative
Preferred. For many years prior to 1928 this issue sold higher than United States Tobacco
Company 7% Noncumulative Preferred. By 1929 it had completed 30 years of uninterrupted
dividend payments, during the last 20 of which its market price had never fallen below 100.
Yet in 1932 the dividend was passed and the quotation declined to 16. Similarly, Atchison,
Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company Preferred, a 5% noncumulative issue, paid full dividends between 1901 and 1932 and was long regarded as a gilt-edged investment. As late as

Fixed-value Investments

[201]

Amount Rather Than Mere Presence of Senior Obligations Important.
The relatively large number of companies in our list having bonds outstanding is also of interest, as demonstrating that it is not the mere presence of bonds, but rather the amount of the prior debt which is of serious
moment. In three cases the bonds were outstanding in merely a nominal sum, as the result of the fact that nearly all of these companies had
a long history, so that some of them carried small residues of old bond
financing.12
By a coincidence all three of the noncumulative industrial preferred
stocks in our list belong to companies in the snuff business. This fact is
interesting, not because it proves the investment primacy of snuff, but
because of the strong reminder it offers that the investor cannot safely
judge the merits or demerits of a security by his personal reaction to the
kind of business in which it is engaged. An outstanding record for a long
period in the past, plus strong evidence of inherent stability, plus the
absence of any concrete reason to expect a substantial change for
the worse in the future, afford probably the only sound basis available for
the selection of a fixed-value investment. The miscellaneous peculiarities
in our list (mentioned under 3, above) are also useful indications that
matters of form or minor drawbacks have no essential bearing on
the quality of an investment.

1931 the price reached 108 1/4, within a half-point of the highest level in its history, and a yield
of only 4.6%. The very next year the price fell to 35, and in the following year the dividend
was reduced to a $3 basis. It was later restored to 5% but in 1938 the dividend was omitted
entirely. This history might be pondered by investors willing to pay 112 for Norfolk and
Western 4% Noncumulative Preferred in 1939.
12 These companies were General Electric, American Tobacco, and Corn Products Refining.
The University of Michigan study by Dr. Rodkey recognizes this point in part by ignoring
certain bond issues amounting to less than 10% of capital and surplus.

Chapter 16

INCOME BONDS AND
GUARANTEED SECURITIES

I. INCOME BONDS
The contractual position of an income bond (sometimes called an adjustment bond) stands midway between that of a straight bond and a preferred stock. Practically all income obligations have a definite maturity,
so that the holder has an unqualified right to repayment of his principal
on a fixed date. In this respect his position is entirely that of the ordinary
bondholder. However, it should be pointed out that income bonds are
almost always given a long maturity date, so that the right of repayment
is not likely to be of practical importance in the typical case studied.
In fact we have discovered only one instance of income bondholders actually having received repayment of their principal in full by reason
of maturity.1

Interest Payment Sometimes Wholly Discretionary. In the matter of interest payments some income bonds are almost precisely in the
position of a preferred stock, because the directors are given practically
complete discretion over the amounts to be paid to the bondholders. The

1 This was a $500,000 issue of Milwaukee Lake Shore and Western Income 6s, issued in
1881, assumed by the Chicago and Northwestern in 1891, and paid off at maturity in 1911.
St. Louis-San Francisco Railway Company Income 6s and Adjustment 6s were both called
for repayment at par in 1928, which was 32 and 27 years, respectively, prior to their maturity.
This proved fortunate for the bondholders since the road went into receivership in 1932. The
history of the ’Frisco between its emergence from receivership in 1916 and its subsequent
relapse into receivership in 1932 is an extraordinary example of the heedlessness of both
investors and speculators, who were induced by a moderate improvement, shown in a few
years of general prosperity, to place a high rating on the securities of a railroad with a poor
previous record and a top-heavy capital structure.

[202]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

Fixed-value Investments

[203]

customary provisions require that interest be paid to the extent that
income is available, but many indentures permit the directors to set aside
whatever portion of the income they please for capital expenditures or
other purposes, before arriving at the “available” balance. In the case of
the Green Bay and Western Railroad Company Income Debentures
“Series B,” the amounts paid out between 1922 and 1931, inclusive, aggregated only 6% although the earnings were equal to only slightly less than
22%. The more recent indentures (e.g., Colorado Fuel and Iron Company
Income 5s, due 1970) tend to place definite limits on the percentage of
earnings which may be withheld in this manner from the income bondholders; but a considerable degree of latitude is usually reserved to the
directors. It may be said that individual income-bond issues may be found
illustrating almost every step in the range of variation between straight
preferred stocks and ordinary bonds.

Low Investment Rating of Income Bonds as a Class. Since the
contractual rights of income bonds are always more or less superior to
those of preferred stocks, it might be thought that a greater proportion
of income bonds than of preferred stocks would deserve an investment
rating. Such is not the case, however. In fact we know of only one income
obligation which has maintained an investment standing continuously
over any length of time, viz., Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway
Company Adjustment 4s, due 1995.2 We have here a contrast between

2 After more than forty years of uninterrupted interest payments, this issue lapsed temporarily
from grace in 1938. May 1 interest (on bonds entitled to semiannual interest) was deferred but
paid six months later. The price dropped from 1031/4 to 751/8 but recovered to 961/4—all in the
year 1938. This recovery is a striking commentary on the eagerness of investors for so-called
“prime bonds.”
Some guaranteed income bonds of leased railroads have maintained a high investment
standing, similar to that of guaranteed railroad stocks.
Example: Elmira and Williamsport Railroad Income 5s, due 2862, guaranteed by
Pennsylvania Railroad and by an important subsidiary. (Note the 1,000-year maturity.) Also
observe the superior position of Chicago, Terre Haute, and Southeastern Income 5s, guaranteed by the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad, in the reorganization of that
system (infra p. 209).
Among the newer crop of income bonds, one has qualified as an investment issue almost
from the start: Allied Owners Corporation 4s-5s, virtually guaranteed by Loews, Inc. In
the authors’ view, there was no excuse for making this an income bond in the reorganization
of 1936.

[204]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

theory and actuality, the reason being, of course, that income bonds have
been issued almost exclusively in connection with corporate reorganizations and have therefore been associated with companies of secondary credit standing. The very fact that the interest payments are
dependent on earnings implies the likelihood that the earnings may be
insufficient. Preferred-stock dividends are equally dependent upon earnings, but the same implication is not associated with them. Hence the
general investment status of income bonds as a class is seen to have been
governed by the circumstances under which they are created rather than
by the legal rights which attach to them. To use an analogy: If it had been
the general practice here, as in England, to avoid mortgage-bond issues
wherever possible, using them only where doubtful credit made this protection necessary, then we might find that mortgage bonds in general
would occupy an investment position distinctly inferior to that of debenture bonds.3

Increased Volume of Income Bonds Probable. Looking forward,
it may be true that in the future income obligations will show a larger
proportion of investment issues than will be found among preferred
stocks. The numerous reorganizations growing out of the 1930–1933
depression and the continued weakness of railway earnings have created
a large new crop of income bonds, and some of these companies may
later so improve their position as to place their income obligations in the
investment class, as happened to the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe after
its reorganization in 1895. There is also the point, so far almost overlooked, that income bonds effect a substantial saving in corporation taxes
as compared with preferred stocks, without important offsetting disadvantages. Some strong companies may some day be led to replace their
present preferred stocks—or to do their new financing—by income obligations, for the sake of this tax saving, in the same way as they are now
creating artificially low par values for their shares to reduce the transfer
taxes thereon. A development of this kind in the future might result in a
3 This actually proved to be the case in the industrial financing of 1937–1939. Practically all

the bond issues were debentures and were sold at unusually low interest rates. It may be said,
we believe, that industrial debentures now connote a higher type of security than industrial
mortgage bonds.

Fixed-value Investments

[205]

respectable number of income-bond issues deserving to rank as fixedvalue investments.4

Calculations of Margins of Safety for Income Bonds. The technique of analyzing an income-bond exhibit is identical with that for a preferred stock. Computations of earnings on the issue taken separately
must, of course, be rigorously avoided, although such calculations are
given by the statistical agencies.
We suggest that the minimum earnings coverage recommended in the
preceding chapter for preferred stocks be required also for income bonds
when selected as fixed-value investments.
Example: The following analysis of the Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad Company income account for 1930 will illustrate the proper method
of dealing with all the senior securities of a company having adjustment
bonds. It also shows how the two methods of figuring the fixed charges
of a railroad system (discussed in Chap. 12 on accompanying CD) are to
be applied to the analysis of income bonds and preferred stock.
Note that interest on income or adjustment bonds is not part of the
total interest charges when calculating the coverage for the fixed-interest
bonds. In this respect the position of an income bond is exactly that of a
preferred stock. Note also that the statement made by the statistical services that 57.29% was earned on the M-K-T Adjustment 5s. (i.e., that the
“interest was covered” more than eleven times) is valueless or misleading.
Significance of These Figures for the Investor in Early 1931. The 1930
earnings were somewhat lower than the ten-year average and could then
apparently be viewed as a fair indication of the normal earning power of
M-K-T. The coverage for the preferred stock was clearly inadequate from
any investment standpoint. The coverage for the adjustment-bond interest on the more conservative basis (the net-deductions method) was
4 The Associated Gas and Electric Company used the device of “bonds” convertible into preferred stock at the option of the company, and obtained this tax saving without the burden of
a fixed-bond obligation. The income-bond form would have been far less misleading to the
ordinary investor than this extraordinary invention.
Income bonds have been favored over preferred stocks in railroad reorganizations
because of legal restrictions on insurance companies which would prohibit them from holding preferred shares in place of their old bonds. Conceivably this consideration, as well as
the tax saving, could induce corporations to do new financing through income bonds in lieu
of preferred stocks.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[206]

Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad Company, Calendar Year 1930
(All dollar figures in thousands)
Gross revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$45,949
Railway operating income (net after taxes) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13,353
Gross income (net after rents, plus other income) . . . . . . . . . . . . .12,009
Fixed charges (fixed interest and other deductions) . . . . . . . . . . . .4,230
Balance for adjustment interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7,779
Adjustment interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .696
Balance for dividends (net income) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7,083
Preferred dividends . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4,645
Balance for common . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2,438
Net after taxes exceeds gross income. Hence use net-deductions test.
Net deductions  difference between net after taxes and balance for
adjustment interest
 $13,353  $7,779.
Times earned
Net deductions

 $ 5,574

Net deductions and adjustment interest



Net deductions, adjustment interest,
and preferred dividends

 $10,915

6,270

$13,353
$5,574
$13,353
$6,270
$13,353
$10,915

 2.40
 2.14
 1.22

below our minimum requirement of 21/2 times, so that this issue would
not have qualified for investment. The coverage for the fixed-bond interest was substantially above our minimum and indicated a satisfactory
degree of protection.
Naturally the disastrous decline of earnings in 1931–1933 could not
have been foreseen or fully guarded against. The market price of M-K-T
fixed obligations suffered severely in 1932; but since the company’s debt
structure was relatively conservative, it did not come so close to insolvency as the majority of other carriers. In fact, the 1932–1934 interest was
paid on the adjustment bonds, although such payment was not obligatory.
Subsequent developments are worth describing because of their practical bearing on bond investment. The following table should prove
instructive:

[207]

Fixed-value Investments

Range for year

Year

Balance for
interest

Net deductions
earned, times

41/2s, 1978

Adj. 5s

1930
1931
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938

11,999,000
5,579,000
4,268,000
3,378,000
2,093,000
2,457,000
4,773,000
3,274,000
1,120,000

2.40
1.22
1.01
0.86
0.65
0.71
1.09
0.86
0.49

921/2–101
431/2– 98
36– 70 3/4
55– 771/2
631/8– 83 3/4
281/2– 64
521/2– 83
38– 79 3/4
25– 453/4

86– 1081/2
34– 95
13– 60
323/4–65
29– 621/2
111/4–361/2
303/4–743/4
181/2–80
10– 24

It will be seen that the 1930 earnings did not in fact prove a guide to
the future normal earning power of M-K-T. Yet this mistake need not have
proved very costly to an individual investor who bought the fixed-interest bonds in 1931. Despite the decline in earnings and investment quality,
he had several opportunities to sell out advantageously during the next six
years. As we point out later (Chap. 21), proper investment technique
would have compelled such a sale, in view of the changed exhibit.
After 1934, interest on the adjustment bonds was paid only in 1937.
The price range of that issue is interesting chiefly as a reflection of the
heedlessness of bond buyers. Note that at the 1937 highs they paid the
same price for the adjustment 5s as for the 41/2s, despite the totally inadequate earnings coverage, and despite the fact that in 1932, 1934 and 1935
the senior issue had sold more than twice as high as the adjustments.

Senior Income Bonds. There are a few instances of income bonds
which are senior in their lien to other bonds bearing fixed interest. The
Atchison Adjustment 4s are the best known example, being followed by
4% fixed-interest debenture issues which have regularly sold at a lower
price except briefly in 1938. The situation holds true also with respect to
St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company Second Income 4s.5 While the
5 The various reorganization plans for this road (1936–1939) all give the Second Income 4s
much better treatment than is offered the junior fixed-interest issues. An unusual case is
afforded by Wabash Railway Noncumulative Income Debenture 6s, due 1939, interest on
which was payable “from net income.” Although called debentures, they are secured by a
direct lien and have priority over the Wabash Railroad Refunding and General Mortgage.
Although entitled by their terms only to noncumulative interest dependent on earnings, this

[208]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

theoretical status of such bonds is rather confusing, the practical procedure called for is, obviously, to treat the interest thereon as part of the
company’s fixed charges, when dealing with the system as a whole.

II. GUARANTEED ISSUES
No special investment quality attaches to guaranteed issues as such. Inexperienced investors may imagine that the word “guaranteed” carries a
positive assurance of safety; but, needless to say, the value of any guaranty depends strictly upon the financial condition of the guarantor. If the
guarantor has nothing, the guaranty is worthless. In contrast with the attitude of the financial novice, Wall Street displays a tendency to underestimate the value of a guaranty, as shown by the lower prices often current
for guaranteed issues in comparison with the debentures or even the preferred stock of the guarantor. This sophisticated distrust of guarantees
dates back to the Kanawha and Hocking Coal and Coke Company case
in 1915, when the guarantor railroad endeavored to escape its liability by
claiming that the guaranty, made in 1901, was beyond its corporate powers and hence void. This attempt at evasion, encouraged by the outcome
of antitrust suits in the Ohio and federal courts, in the end proved completely unsuccessful; but it cast a shadow over the value of all guarantees,
from which they have not completely emerged even after 25 years.6 We
know of no important case in which a solvent company has escaped the
consequences of its guaranty through legal technicalities.7
interest was paid regularly from 1916 through 1938, despite the fact that the company
entered receivership in 1931 and defaulted upon the junior-mortgage (fixed) interest in
1932. This issue was also given superior treatment in the various reorganization plans for the
Wabash filed to the end of 1939.
6 See Appendix Note 29, p. 761, for a condensed history of this famous case.
7 However, the shadowy form of “insolvency” provided for in Chap. XI of the Chandler
(Federal Bankruptcy) Act has been availed of to induce holders of guaranteed issues to modify their contract without sacrifice by the guarantor company and to force acceptance of the
modified terms by minority holders. Example: Modification of guaranty of Trinity Building
51/2s by United States Realty and Improvement proposed in March 1939.
Contrast this with the full payment in October 1932 of the unpurchased portion of Savoy
Plaza Corporation Debenture 51/2s, which had also been guaranteed by United States Realty
and Improvement. At that time unguaranteed First Mortgage bonds of Savoy Plaza had been
selling as low as 5. Note also the full payment in 1939 of Utica, Clinton and Binghamton
Railroad First 5s through funds supplied by Delaware and Hudson Railroad, the guarantor,
although Delaware and Hudson had not been operating the line for a great many years.

Fixed-value Investments

[209]

Status of Guaranteed Issues. If a company guarantees interest, dividend, or principal payments, its failure to meet this obligation will expose
it to insolvency. The claim against the guarantor ranks equally with an
unsecured debt of the company, so that guaranteed issues deserve the
same rating as a debenture bond of the guarantor and a better rating than
its preferred stock. A guaranteed issue may also be entitled to an investment rating because of its own position and earning power independent
of the guaranty. In such cases the guaranty may add to its security, but
it cannot detract therefrom even if the guarantor company itself is in
bad straits.
Examples: The Brooklyn Union Elevated Railroad 5s (see pages 78–79)
were guaranteed by the Brooklyn Heights Railroad Company, which went
into receivership in 1919; but the bond came through the reorganization
unscathed because of its own preferred position in the Brooklyn Rapid
Transit System. Similarly U. S. Industrial Alcohol Company Preferred dividends were guaranteed by Distilling Company of America; the latter
enterprise became bankrupt, but the Alcohol Company was easily able
to continue the dividend out of its own earnings and later to retire the
preferred issue at 125.
A common or preferred stock fully guaranteed by another company
has the status of a bond issue as far as the guarantor is concerned. If the
guaranty proves worthless, it would naturally return to the position of
a stock—usually a weak issue, but possibly a strong one, as in the case of
U. S. Industrial Alcohol Company Preferred just mentioned. A similar
situation obtains with respect to income bonds of one company guaranteed by another (e.g., Chicago, Terre Haute, and Southeastern Railway
Company Income 5s,8 guaranteed by the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul
and Pacific Railroad Company).
The value of a guarantee is sometimes very evident when part of an
issue is guaranteed and part is not.
8 Interest was continued on these income bonds (through 1939) despite receivership of the

guarantor company in 1935 and default on all its own obligations. This was due not to the
guarantee but to the strategic importance and substantial earnings of the Terre Haute
division. Note that in this case a divisional second-mortgage income bond fared substantially
better than the first mortgage on the main line of the system. Not the terms but the facts
determine investment performance.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[210]

Example:
ANACOSTIA AND POTOMAC RIVER RAILROAD FIRST 5S, DUE 1949

$500,000 guaranteed by Washington Ry. & Elec. Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . price 110 in 1939
$2,100,000 unguaranteed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . price 80 in 1939

In this case the Anacostia company’s earnings coverage was inadequate (1.36 times in 1938), but that of the guarantor company was high
(over 4 times in 1938 on a consolidated basis and over 11 times in that
year on a parent-only basis inclusive of interest for which it was contingently liable).

Exact Terms of Guaranty Are Important. The exact terms of a
guaranty have obviously a vital influence upon its value. A guaranty of
interest only is likely to be much less significant than a guaranty of principal as well.
Examples: Philippine Railway Company First 4s, due 1937, were guaranteed as to interest only by the Philippine government. The earnings of
the road itself were poor. Interest was paid promptly up to maturity, but
principal was defaulted. The price of the bond reflected this situation,
having sold no higher than 39 since 1929.9
Minneapolis, St. Paul and Saulte Saint Marie Railroad First Consolidated 4s and 5s due 1938: All the 4% bonds and about half the 5% bonds
were guaranteed as to interest only by Canadian Pacific Railway. Principal was defaulted on maturity, and the Canadian Pacific ceased to pay
interest, the price of the bonds declining to 6.10
On the other hand, this company’s First and Refunding 5 1/2 s, Series B,
due 1978,—a junior lien—are also guaranteed as to interest by Canadian
Pacific and in accordance with the guaranty continued to receive interest
after the senior lien was in default. These bonds sold at 64 in 1939, whereas
9 Efforts made by a protective committee to induce the Philippine government to buy the
bonds or assume liability for the principal resulted only in a scandal and a jail sentence for
the chairman of the committee in 1939. The bonds sold at 7 in 1939.
10 Bondholders brought legal action in 1939 to compel Canadian Pacific to continue to pay

interest until the principal was discharged.

Fixed-value Investments

[211]

the senior issues sold at 6. Note that in 1931 they sold as low as 35, whereas
the 1st Consolidated Guaranteed 5s, due 1938, sold at 45 and the Canadian Pacific (unsecured) Debenture stock sold at 56 7/8. It is clear that the
value of the long-term Canadian Pacific guaranty was not fully appreciated in 1931.
A similar disadvantage attaches to a guaranty of dividends running
for a limited period.
Examples: The actual working out of such a situation was shown in
the case of American Telegraph and Cable Company common stock,
which was guaranteed as to 5% dividends (only) for 50 years from 1882
by the Western Union Telegraph Company under a lease terminating in
1932. Because of the long record of dividend payments, investors came
finally to consider the dividend as a fixture, and as late as 1922 the stock
sold at 70. But in the meantime the strategic or trade value of the leased
cable properties was rapidly diminishing, so that the value of the stock at
the expiration of the lease was likely to be very small. A settlement was
made in 1930 with Western Union under which the American Telegraph
and Cable stockholders received the equivalent of about $20 for the principal of their stock.11
A rather unusual example of the importance of the exact terms of a
guaranty was supplied by Pratt and Whitney Preferred (retired in 1928).
According to the security manuals, the dividend on this issue was “guaranteed” by its parent company, Niles-Bement-Pond. But in fact the Niles
company agreed to make up unpaid dividends on Pratt and Whitney Preferred only to the extent that Niles had earnings available therefor after
payment of its own preferred dividends. Hence no dividends were received
by Pratt and Whitney Preferred stockholders from November 1924 to June
1926 without any claim being enforceable against Niles-Bement-Pond. In
view of the possibility of such special provisions, particular care must be
exercised to obtain complete information regarding the terms of a guaranty before purchasing any security on the strength thereof.
11 An alert investor might have taken warning of this possibility from statements contained
in the annual reports of Western Union, starting with 1913, wherein this company’s own
holdings of American Telegraph and Cable stock were written down annually towards an
estimated value of $10 per share in 1932.

[212]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Joint and Several Guarantees. Such guarantees are given by more
than one company to cover the same issue, and each company accepts
responsibility not only for its pro rata share but also for the share of any
other guarantor who may default. In other words, each guarantor concern is potentially liable for the entire amount of the issue. Since two or
more sponsors are better than one, bonds bearing a joint and several
guarantee are likely to have special advantages.
Example: The most familiar class of issues backed by such a guaranty
are the bonds of union railroad stations. An outstanding example is supplied by Kansas City Terminal Railway Company First 4s, due 1960,
which are guaranteed jointly and severally by no less than 12 railroads,
all of which use the company’s facilities. The 12 guarantors are as follows:
Atchison, Alton, Burlington, St. Paul, Great Western, Rock Island, Kansas
City Southern, M-K-T, Missouri Pacific, ’Frisco, Union Pacific and
Wabash.
The value of each of these individual guarantees has varied greatly
from road to road and from time to time, but at least three of the companies have consistently maintained sufficient financial strength to
assure a Terminal bondholder that his obligation would be met without difficulty. Investors have not fully appreciated the superior protection accorded by the combined responsibility of the 12 carriers as
compared with the liability of any one of them singly. The price record
shows that the Kansas City Terminal Railway Company 4s frequently
sold at no higher prices than representative issues of individual guarantor companies which later turned out to be of questionable soundness, whereas at no time was the safety of the Terminal bond ever a
matter of doubt.12
It would seem good policy for investors, therefore, to favor bonds of
this type, which carry the guaranty of a number of substantial enterprises,
in preference to the obligations of a single company.

12 See Appendix Note 30, p. 762 on accompanying CD, for supporting data.

Fixed-value Investments

[213]

Federal Land Bank Bonds. A somewhat different aspect of the joint
and several guarantee appears in the important case of the Federal Land
Bank bonds, which are secured by deposit of farm mortgages. The obligations of each of the 12 separate banks are guaranteed by the 11 others,
so that each Federal Land Bank bond is in reality a liability of the entire
system. When these banks were organized, there was created concurrently a group of Joint Stock Land Banks which also issued bonds, but the
obligations of one Joint Stock Bank were not guaranteed by the others.13
Both sets of land banks were under United States government supervision and the bonds of both were made exempt from federal taxation.
Practically all of the stock of the Federal Land Banks was subscribed for
originally by the United States government (which, however, did not
assume liability for their bonds); the Joint Stock Land Bank shares were
privately owned.
At the inception of this dual system, investors were disposed to consider the federal supervision and tax exemption as a virtual guarantee of
the safety of the Joint Stock Land Bank bonds, and they were therefore
willing to buy them at a yield only 1/2% higher than that returned by the
Federal Land Bank bonds. In comparing the nonguaranteed Joint Stock
bonds with the mutually guaranteed federal bonds, the following observations might well have been made:
1. Assuming the complete success of the farm-loan system, the guarantee would be superfluous, since each bond issue separately would have
enjoyed ample protection.
2. Assuming complete failure of the system, the guarantee would
prove worthless, since all the banks would be equally insolvent.
3. For any intermediate stage between these two extremes, the joint
and several guarantee might prove extremely valuable. This would be particularly true as to bonds of a farm-loan district subjected to extremely
adverse conditions of a local character.
13 The word “Joint” in the title referred to the ownership of the stock by various interests,
but it may have created an unfortunate impression among investors that there was a joint
responsibility by the group of banks for the liabilities of each. For a comprehensive account
and criticism of these banks, see Carl H. Schwartz, “Financial Study of the Joint Stock Land
Banks,” Washington, D. C., 1938.

[214]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

In view of the fact that the farm-loan system was a new and untried
undertaking, investors therein should have assured themselves of the
largest possible measure of protection. Those who in their eagerness for
the extra 1/2% of income return dispensed with the joint guarantee committed a patent mistake of judgment.14

14 A number of the Joint Stock bond issues defaulted during 1930–1932, a large proportion
sold at receivership prices, and all of them declined to a speculative price level. On the other
hand, not only were there no defaults among the Federal Land Bank bonds, but their prices
suffered a relatively moderate shrinkage, remaining consistently on an investment level. This
much more satisfactory experience of the investor in the Federal Land Bank bonds was due
in good part to the additional capital subscribed by the United States government to these
Banks, and to the closer supervision to which they were subjected, but the joint and several
guarantee undoubtedly proved of considerable benefit.
Note also that Joint Stock Land Bank bonds were made legal investments for trust
funds in many states, and remained so after 1932 despite their undoubtedly inadequate
security. Since May 1933 the Joint Stock Land Banks have been prohibited from taking on
new business, and orderly liquidation has been in process.

Chapter 17

GUARANTEED SECURITIES (Continued)

GUARANTEED REAL ESTATE MORTGAGES
AND MORTGAGE BONDS
The practice of guaranteeing securities reached its widest development
in the field of real estate mortgages. These guarantees are of two different types: the first being given by the corporation engaged in the sale
of the mortgages or mortgage participations (or by an affiliate); the
second and more recent form being the guaranty given by an independent surety company, which assumes the contingent liability in return
for a fee.
The idea underlying real estate mortgage guarantees is evidently that
of insurance. It is to the mortgage holder’s advantage to protect himself,
at some cost in income return, against the possibility of adverse developments affecting his particular property (such as a change in the character of the neighborhood). It is within the province of sound insurance
practice to afford this protection in return for an adequate premium, provided of course, that all phases of the business are prudently handled.
Such an arrangement will have the best chance of success if:
1. The mortgage loans are conservatively made in the first instance.
2. The guaranty or surety company is large, well managed, independent of
the agency selling the mortgages, and has a diversification of business in
fields other than real estate.
3. Economic conditions are not undergoing fluctuations of abnormal intensity.

The collapse in real estate values after 1929 was so extreme as to contravene the third of these conditions. Accordingly the behavior of real
estate mortgage guarantees during this period may not afford a really fair
guide to their future value. Nevertheless, some of the characteristics
which they revealed are worthy of comment.
[215]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[216]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

This Business Once Conservatively Managed. In the first place a
striking contrast may be drawn between the way in which the business
of guaranteeing mortgages had been conducted prior to about 1924 and
the lax methods which developed thereafter, during the very time that
this part of the financial field was attaining its greatest importance.
If we consider the policies of the leading New York City institutions
which guaranteed real estate mortgages (e.g., Bond and Mortgage Guarantee Company, Lawyers Mortgage Company), it is fair to say that for
many years the business was conservatively managed. The amount of
each mortgage was limited to not more than 60% of the value, carefully
determined; large individual mortgages were avoided; and a fair diversification of risk, from the standpoint of location, was attained. It is true
that the guarantor companies were not independent of the selling companies, nor did they have other types of surety business. It is true also
that the general practice of guaranteeing mortgages due only three to
five years after their issuance contained the possibility, later realized, of
a flood of maturing obligations at a most inconvenient time. Nevertheless, the prudent conduct of their activities had enabled them successfully to weather severe real estate depressions such as occurred in 1908
and 1921.
New and Less Conservative Practices Developed. The building
boom which developed during the “new era” was marked by an enormous
growth of the real estate mortgage business and of the practice of guaranteeing obligations of this kind. New people, new capital, and new methods entered the field. Several small local concerns which had been in the
field for a long period were transformed into highly aggressive organizations doing a gigantic and nation-wide business. Great emphasis was laid
upon the long record of success in the past, and the public was duly
impressed—not realizing that the size, the methods, and the personnel
were so changed that they were in fact dealing with a different institution.
In a previous chapter we pointed out how recklessly unsound were the
methods of financing real estate ventures during this period. The weakness of the mortgages themselves applied equally to the guarantees which
were frequently attached thereto for an extra consideration. The guarantor companies were mere subsidiaries of the sellers of the bonds. Hence,
when the crash came, the value of the properties, the real estate bond company, and the affiliated guarantor company all collapsed together.

Fixed-value Investments

[217]

Evil Effects of Competition and Contagion. The rise of the newer
and more aggressive real estate bond organizations had a most unfortunate effect upon the policies of the older concerns. By force of competition they were led to relax their standards of making loans. New mortgages
were granted on an increasingly liberal basis, and when old mortgages
matured, they were frequently renewed in a larger sum. Furthermore, the
face amount of the mortgages guaranteed rose to so high a multiple of the
capital of the guarantor companies that it should have been obvious that
the guaranty would afford only the flimsiest of protection in the event of
a general decline in values.
When the real estate market broke in 1931, the first consequence
was the utter collapse of virtually every one of the newer real estate
bond companies and their subsidiary guarantor concerns. As the
depression continued, the older institutions gave way also. The holders of guaranteed mortgages or participations therein (aggregating
about $3,000,000,000 guaranteed by New York title and mortgage companies alone) found that the guaranty was a mere name and that they
were entirely dependent upon the value of the underlying properties.
In most cases these had been mortgaged far more heavily than reasonable prudence would have permitted. Apparently only a very small
fraction of the mortgages outstanding in 1932 were created under the
conservative conditions and principles that had ruled up to, say, eight
years previously.

Guarantees by Independent Surety Companies. During the
1924–1930 period several of the independent surety and fidelity companies extended their operations to include the guaranteeing of real-estate
mortgages for a fee or premium. Theoretically, this should have represented the soundest method of conducting such operations. In addition
to the strength and general experience of the surety company there was
the important fact that such a guarantor, being entirely independent,
would presumably be highly critical of the issues submitted for its guaranty. But this theoretical advantage was offset to a great extent by the fact
that the surety companies began the practice of guaranteeing real estate
mortgage bonds only a short time prior to their debacle, and they were
led by the general overoptimism then current to commit serious errors
in judgment. In most cases the resultant losses to the guarantor were
greater than it could stand; several of the companies were forced into

[218]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

receivership (notably National Surety Company), and holders of bonds
with such guarantees failed to obtain full protection.1

LEASEHOLD OBLIGATIONS EQUIVALENT
TO GUARANTEES
The property of one company is often leased to another for a fixed annual
rental sufficient to pay interest and dividends on the former’s capital issues.
Frequently the lease is accompanied by a specific guaranty of such interest
and dividend payments, and in fact the majority of guaranteed corporate
issues originate in this fashion.2 But even if there is no explicit guaranty, a
lease or other contract providing fixed annual payments will supply the
equivalent of a guaranty on the securities of the lessee company.
Examples: An excellent instance of the value of such an arrangement
is afforded by the Westvaco Chlorine Products Corporation 51/2s, issued
in 1927 and maturing in 1937. The Westvaco Company agreed to sell part
of its output to a subsidiary of Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation,
and the latter enterprise guaranteed that monthly payments would be
made to the trustee sufficient to take care of the interest and retirement
of the 51/2% bonds. In effect this arrangement was a guaranty of interest
and principal of the Westvaco issue by Union Carbide and Carbon, a very
strong concern. By reason of this protection and the continuous purchases for redemption made thereunder, the price of the issue was maintained at 99 or higher throughout 1932–1933. This contrasts with a
decline in the price of Westvaco common stock from 1161/2 in 1929 to 3
in 1932. (The entire bond issue was called at 1001/2 in September 1935.)
Another interesting example is supplied by the Tobacco Products Corporation of New Jersey 61/2s, due 2022. The properties of this company
were leased to American Tobacco Company under a 99-year contract,
1 But in the case of the independent surety companies the guarantees proved of substantial,
if only partial, value. The bankruptcy estate of National Surety Company yielded a large cash
payment to holders of bonds bearing its guarantee. Some of the other companies managed
to remain solvent by affecting a kind of composition with bondholders, involving the
issuance of new bonds carrying a guarantee of interest at rather low rates, though not of
principal. Examples: Metropolitan Casualty Company, Maryland Casualty Company, United
States Fidelity and Guaranty Company.
2 For example Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago Railway Company Preferred and Com-

mon receive 7% dividends under a 999-year lease to the Pennsylvania Railroad Company.
These dividends are also guaranteed by the Pennsylvania.

Fixed-value Investments

[219]

expiring also in 2022, providing for annual payments of $2,500,000 (with
the privilege to the lessee to settle by a lump-sum payment equivalent to
the then present value of the rental, discounted at 7% per annum). By
means of a sinking-fund arrangement these rental payments were calculated to be sufficient to retire the bond issue in full prior to maturity, in
addition to taking care of the interest. These Tobacco Products 61/2s were
the equivalent of fixed obligations of American Tobacco Company. As
such they ranked ahead of American Tobacco Preferred, dividends on
which, of course, are not a fixed charge. When the bonds were created in
1931 the investing public was either sceptical of the validity of the lease
or—more probably—was not familiar with this situation, for American
Tobacco Preferred sold at a much higher relative price than the Tobacco
Products bonds. At the low price of 73 in 1932 the bonds yielded 8.90%,
while American Tobacco preferred was selling at 95, to yield 6.32%. In
January 1935 the lease was commuted by a lump-sum payment resulting
in the redemption of the Tobacco Products 61/2s at par.

Specific Terms of Lease Important. Example:
As in the case of guaranteed issues, the details of the lease arrangement may have a vital bearing on the status of the issue benefiting therefrom. Some of the elements here involved are illustrated by the following
example:
Georgia Midland Railway First 3s, due 1946. Not guaranteed, but
property leased to Southern Railway until 1995, at a rental equal to present bond interest. (Price in January 1939, 35.)
In this case the lease agreement is fully equivalent to a guarantee of
interest up to and far beyond the maturity date. The value of the guaranty
itself depends upon the solvency of the Southern Railway. The status of
the bond issue at maturity in 1946 will depend, however, on a number of
other factors as well, e.g.:
1. The market value of a long-term rental obligation of Southern Railway. If interest rates are low enough, and the credit of Southern Railway
high enough, the issue could be refunded at the same 3% interest rate into
a longer maturity. (This would seem far from probable in 1939.)
2. The value of the Georgia Midland mileage. If this mileage actually
earns substantially more than the rental paid, then Southern Railway
could be expected to make a special effort to pay the bonds at maturity,
for fear of otherwise losing control of the property. This would involve

[220]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

an agreement to pay such higher rental (i.e., interest rate) as may be necessary to permit extension or refunding of the bond maturity. (However,
traffic-density data in private hands in 1939 indicated that this mileage
was not a valuable part of the Southern Railway System.)
3. Possible payment on grounds of convenience, etc. If the Southern
Railway is prosperous in 1946, it may take care of this maturity merely to
avoid insolvency for part of the system. There is also the technical possibility that by the terms of its own “blanket” Development and General
Mortgage (under which sufficient bonds are reserved to refund the Georgia Midland 3s at maturity), it may be considered to have an obligation
to provide for payment of these bonds in 1946. (Here also, as in the two
previous paragraphs, the bondholder in 1939 could not be too confident
of the strength of his position).
The foregoing discussion will perhaps adequately explain the low
price of the Georgia Midland 3s at the beginning of 1939. It is interesting to note, as an element of security analysis, that the key fact in this
situation—the unprofitable character of the mileage covered—was not a
matter of public record but required a check into supplementary sources
of information.

Guaranteed Issues Frequently Undervalued. The Tobacco Products example illustrates the fairly frequent undervaluation of guaranteed
or quasi-guaranteed issues as compared with other securities of the guarantor enterprise. A well-known instance was that of San Antonio and
Aransas Pass Railway Company First 4s, due 1943, guaranteed as to principal and interest by Southern Pacific Company. Although these enjoyed
a mortgage security in addition to the guaranty they regularly sold at
prices yielding higher returns than did the unsecured obligations of the
Southern Pacific.3
3 A. S. Dewing, in his A Study of Corporation Securities, pp. 293–297, New York, 1934, makes
the following statements with respect to guaranteed bonds:
“There may be, however, instances in which a holding or controlling corporation will maintain the interest or rental on an unprofitable subsidiary’s bonds for strategic reasons.” (Here follow examples, including details concerning San Antonio and Aransas Pass First 4s, due 1943,
showing failure of the issuer to earn its charges in most years.) “Yet its [San Antonio and
Aransas Pass Railway’s] importance to the Southern Pacific Company’s lines is such that the
guarantor company very wisely meets the bond interest deficit… In spite of such instances, the
rule holds good almost always that the strength of a guaranteed bond is no greater than that of
the corporation issuing it and the earning capacity of the property directly covered by it.”

[221]

Fixed-value Investments

Examples: A more striking contrast was afforded by the price of
Barnhart Bros. and Spindler Company First and Second Preferred
(both guaranteed as to principal and dividends by American Type
Founders Company) in relation to the price of the guarantor’s own preferred stock which was not a fixed obligation. Additional examples of
this point are afforded by the price of Huyler’s of Delaware, Inc., Preferred, guaranteed by Schulte Retail Stores Corporation, as compared
with the price of Schulte Preferred; and by the price of Armour and
Company of Delaware guaranteed preferred, as compared with the
preferred stock of the guarantor company, Armour and Company of
Illinois. Some comparative quotations relating to these examples
are given below.
COMPARATIVE PRICES AND YIELDS OF GUARANTEED SECURITIES AND
SECURITIES OF THE GUARANTOR*

Issue
San Antonio & Aransas Pass 1st 4s/1943 (GTD)
Southern Pacific Co. Debenture 4s/1929
Barnhart Bros. & Spindler 7% 1st Pfd. (GTD)
Barnhart Bros. & Spindler 7% 2d Pfd. (GTD)
American Type Founders 7% Pfd
Huyler’s of Delaware 7% Pfd. (GTD)
Schulte Retail Stores 8% Pfd.
Armour of Delaware 7% Pfd. (GTD)
Armour of Illinois 7% Pfd.

Date

Price

Yield, %

Jan. 2, 1920
Jan. 2, 1920
1923 low price
1923 low price
1923 low price
April 11, 1928
April 11, 1928
Feb. 13, 1925
Feb. 13, 1925

561/4
81
90
80
95
1021/2
129
951/8
927/8

8.30
6.86
7.78
8.75
7.37
6.83
6.20
7.36
7.54

* If the reader traces the subsequent history of the various issues in this table, he will find a great variety of developments,
including assumption through merger (San Antonio and Aransas Pass Railroad), redemption (Barnhart Brothers and
Spindler), and default (Huylers of Delaware, Inc.). But the fact that the guaranteed issues were relatively undervalued is
demonstrated by the sequel in each case.

It is obvious that in cases of this sort advantageous exchanges can be
made from the lower yielding into the higher yielding security with no
It seems clear to us that these statements misinterpret the essential character of the obligation under a guarantee. Southern Pacific met the San Antonio and Aransas Pass bond interest deficit, not out of “wisdom” but by compulsion. The strength of a guaranteed bond may
be very much greater than that of the corporation issuing it, because that strength rests upon
the dual claim of the holder against both the issuing corporation and the guarantor.

[222]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

impairment of safety; or else into a much better secured issue with little
sacrifice of yield, and sometimes with an actual gain.4

INCLUSION OF GUARANTEES AND RENTALS
IN THE CALCULATION OF FIXED CHARGES
All obligations equivalent to bond interest should be included with a
company’s interest charges when calculating the coverage for its bond
issues. This point has already been explained in some detail in connection with railroad fixed charges, and it was touched upon briefly in our
discussion of public-utility bonds. The procedure in these groups offers
no special difficulties. But in the case of certain types of industrial companies, the treatment of rentals and guarantees may offer confusing variations. This question is of particular moment in connection with retail
enterprises, theater companies, etc., in which rent or other obligations
related to buildings occupied may be an important element in the general picture. Such a building may be owned by the corporation and paid
for by a bond issue, in which case the obligation will be fully disclosed in
both the balance sheet and the income account. But if another company
occupies a similar building under long-term lease, no separate measure
of the rental obligation appears in the income account and no indication
thereof can be found in the balance sheet. The second company may
appear sounder than the first, but that is only because its obligations are
undisclosed; essentially, both companies are carrying a similar burden.
Conversely, the outright ownership of premises free and clear carries an
important advantage (from the standpoint of preferred stock, particularly) over operation under long-term lease, although the capitalization
set-up will not reveal this advantage.
Examples: If Interstate Department Stores Preferred had been compared with The Outlet Company Preferred in 1929 the two exhibits might
have appeared closely similar; the earnings coverage averaged about the
same, and neither company showed any bond or mortgage liability. But
Outlet’s position was in actuality by far the stronger, because it owned its
land and buildings while those of Interstate (with a minor exception) were
held under lease. The real effect of this situation was to place a substantial
4 In Note 31 of the Appendix, p. 762 on accompanying CD, will be found a concise discus-

sion of certain interesting phases of guarantees and rentals, as illustrated by the N. Y. and
Harlem Railroad and the Mobile and Ohio Railroad situations.

Fixed-value Investments

[223]

fixed obligation ahead of Interstate Department Stores Preferred which
did not exist in the case of Outlet. In the chain-store field a similar observation would apply to a comparison of J. C. Penney Preferred and S. H.
Kress Preferred in 1932; for the latter company owned more than half of
its store properties, while nearly all the Penney locations were leased.

Lease Liabilities Generally Overlooked. The question of liability
under long-term leases received very little attention from the financial
world until its significance was brought home rudely in 1931 and 1932,
when the high level of rentals assumed in the preceding boom years
proved intolerably burdensome to many merchandising companies.
Example: The influence of this factor upon a supposed investment
security is shown with striking force in the case of United Cigar Stores
Preferred. This issue, and its predecessor, had for many years shown every
sign of stability and had sold accordingly at a consistently high level. For
1928 the company reported “no funded debt” and earnings equal to about
seven times the preferred dividend. Yet so crushing were the liabilities
under its long-term leases (and to carry properties acquired by subsidiaries), that in 1932 bankruptcy was resorted to and the preferred stock
was menaced with extinction.
Such Liabilities Complicated Analysis. It must be admitted that in
the case of companies where the rental factor is important, its obtrusion
has badly complicated the whole question of bond or preferred stock
analysis. Fortunately the investor now has some data as to the extent of
such leasehold obligations, since they are now required to be summarized
in registration statements filed with the S.E.C., and the actual rent payments must be stated each year (on Form 10-K).5 But the problem
remains whether or not these rentals should be treated, in whole or in
part, as the equivalent of fixed charges. To some extent, certainly, they are
identical rather with fixed “overhead”—e.g., depreciation, taxes, general
expense—which it has not been found feasible to add in with bond interest for the purpose of figuring a margin of safety. One type of solution is
obvious: If the company meets the earnings test, even after adding rents
paid to bond interest, the rent situation need not worry the investor.

5 The S.E.C. forms group “rents and royalties” together, but in the typical case this entire
item relates to rents and can be treated as such.

[224]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Example:
SWIFT AND COMPANY 33/4S, DUE 1950
1934–1938 Average Results
Balance for dividends . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $8,630,000
Interest paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,107,000
Rentals paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 996,000
Interest earned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5.1 times
Interest and rentals earned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3.8 times

We feel, however, that it would be neither fair nor practicable to
require every company to meet a test so severe. A compromise suggestion based on some study of actual exhibits may be hazarded, viz.: (1) that
one-third the annual rentals (for building space) be included with fixed
charges (and preferred dividends), to compute the earnings coverage; and
(2) that in the case of retail establishments (chain stores, department
stores) the minimum coverage required for interest plus one-third of
rentals be reduced from 3 to 2. This reduction would recognize the relative stability of retail business, after allowance is made for the special burden attaching to the rental factor. The corresponding coverage required
for a retail company’s preferred stock would be reduced from 4 to 21/2.
Examples:
(A) NONRETAIL BOND ISSUE LOEW’S, INC., 31/2S, DUE 1946
August 1934–August 1938
Average Results
Balance for dividends . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$10,097,000
Interest (and subsid. preferred dividends) paid. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2,614,000
One-third of rentals paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1,107,000
Interest, etc., earned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4.86 times
Interest and one-third of rentals earned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3.71 times
(B) RETAIL ENTERPRISE PREFERRED STOCK
1934–1938 Average Results
McCrory Stores Corp.
McLellan Stores Co.
6% Preferred
6% Preferred
Balance for common stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
$1,682,000
$1,148,000
Interest on bonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
abt. 200,000
One-third of rentals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
770,000*
434,000
Preferred dividends . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
300,000
180,000
Preferred dividend (and interest earned) . . .
4.36 times
7.38 times
Preferred dividend, interest
and 1/3 of rentals earned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.33 times
2.87 times
* 1935–1938 average.

Fixed-value Investments

[225]

Conclusions: Loew’s 31/2s pass our quantitative test for nonretail bond
issues. McLellan Preferred does, but McCrory Preferred does not, pass
our suggested test for retail-store preferred stocks.
The four preceding examples illustrate a simplified technique for earnings coverage. Instead of first computing the amount available for the
charges, we divide the charges (and preferred dividends) into the balance
after charges (and preferred dividends) and add 1 to the quotient.
The reader is warned that these suggested standards and the calculations illustrating them are submitted with considerable hesitation. They
represent a new departure in analytical method; the data for rentals paid
are available only at some effort; most serious of all, the arithmetical standards proposed are arbitrary and perhaps not the best that can be devised.
We might point out, further, that the new test may yield some unexpected
results. Note that McLellan Preferred has sold (in 1939) at a lower price
than McCrory Preferred—a point that may be justified by other factors.
Note, further, that if the same calculation as above is applied to W. T.
Grant 5% Preferred—a high-priced issue, which earned its dividend
nearly ten times over in 1934–1938—we should find that the preferred
dividend plus one-third of rentals was covered not quite 21/2 times.6

Status of Guaranteed Obligations. Some additional observations
may properly be made as to the computation of earnings coverage in the
case of guaranteed obligations. In the typical case the properties involved
in the guarantee form part of the whole enterprise; hence both the earnings therefrom and the guaranteed payments are included in a single
income statement.
Example: Neisner Realty Corporation 6s, due 1948, are guaranteed by
Neisner Brothers, Inc. The corporation’s operations and interest charges
are included in the parent company’s consolidated statement.
When the guaranteed security is outstanding against a separately
operated property, its standing may depend either on its own results or
on those of the guarantor. Hence the issue need be required to pass only
one of three alternative tests, based on (1) earnings of issuing company,
independent of the guarantee; or (2) combined earnings and charges of
the issuing and guarantor companies; or (3) earnings of guarantor company applied to its own charges plus its guarantees.
6 This stock, par 20, sold at 25 in 1939 although callable at 22.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[226]

Examples: a. Indiana Harbor Belt Railway General 4s and 41/2s, due
1957. Guaranteed as to principal and interest by New York Central Railroad and an important subsidiary. The Standard Statistics Bond Guide
gives as the interest coverage that of the guarantor, the New York Central
System. But the showing of the company itself is much better, e.g.:
Charges earned

1938
1937

N. Y. Central System

Indiana Harbor Belt

0.59 times
1.12 times

2.98 times
3.81 times

b. This is the typical situation, in which coverage is calculated from a
consolidated income account, including operations of both the parent
(guarantor) company and its guaranteed subsidiaries.
c. Minneapolis, St. Paul and Sault Sainte Marie 51/2s, due 1978, guaranteed as to interest by Canadian Pacific Railway. The “Soo line” shows
earnings of only a small part of total interest charges. Coverage for this
issue might best be computed by applying earnings of Canadian Pacific
Railway to the total of its own interest charges plus the guaranteed interest on these and other bonds guaranteed by Canadian Pacific Railway.

SUBSIDIARY COMPANY BONDS
The bonds of a subsidiary of a strong company are generally regarded as
well protected, on the theory that the parent company will take care of all
its constituents’ obligations. This viewpoint is encouraged by the common method of setting up consolidated income accounts, under which
all the subsidiary bond interest appears as a charge against all the combined earnings, ranking ahead of the parent company’s preferred and
common stocks. If, however, the parent concern is not contractually
responsible for the subsidiary bonds, by guaranty or lease (or direct
assumption), this form of statement may prove to be misleading. For if a
particular subsidiary proves unprofitable, its bond interest may conceivably not be taken care of by the parent company, which may be willing to
lose its investment in this part of its business and turn it over to the subsidiary’s bondholders. Such a development is unusual, but the possibility
thereof was forcibly demonstrated in 1932–1933 by the history of United
Drug Company 5s, due 1953.

Fixed-value Investments

[227]

Examples: United Drug was an important subsidiary of Drug, Inc.,
which had regularly earned and paid large dividends, gained chiefly from
the manufacture of proprietary medicines and other drugs. In the first
half of 1932, the consolidated income account showed earnings equal to
ten times the interest on United Drug 5s, and the record of previous years
was even better. While this issue was not assumed or guaranteed by Drug,
Inc., investors considered the combined showing so favorable as to assure
the safety of the United Drug 5s beyond question. But United Drug
owned, as part of its assets and business, the stock of Louis K. Liggett
Company, which operated a large number of drug stores and which was
burdened by a high-rental problem similar to that of United Cigar Stores.
In September 1932 Liggett’s notified its landlords that unless rents were
reduced it would be forced into bankruptcy.
This announcement brought rudely home to investors the fact that
the still prosperous Drug, Inc., was not assuming responsibility for the
liabilities of its (indirect) subsidiary, Liggett’s, and they immediately
became nervously conscious of the fact that Drug, Inc., was not responsible for interest payments on United Drug 5s either. Sales of these bonds
resulting from this discovery depressed the price from 93 earlier in the
year down to 42. At the latter figure, the $40,000,000 of United Drug 5s
were quoted at only $17,000,000, although the parent company’s stock
was still selling for more than $100,000,000 (3,500,000 shares at about
30). In the following year the “Drug, Inc., System” was voluntarily dissolved into its component parts—an unusual development—and the
United Drug Co. resumed its entirely separate existence. (It has since
shown an inadequate coverage for the 5% bonds.)
Consolidated Traction Company of New Jersey First 5s were obligations of a large but unprofitable subsidiary of Public Service Corporation
of New Jersey. The bonds were not guaranteed by the parent company.
When they matured in 1933 many of the holders accepted an offer of 65
for their bonds made by the parent company.
Saltex Looms, Inc., 1st 6s, due 1954, were obligations of a subsidiary
of Sidney Blumenthal & Co., Inc., but in no way guaranteed by the parent company. The consolidated earning statements of Blumenthal regularly deducted the Saltex bond interest before showing the amount
available for its own preferred stock. Interest on the bonds was defaulted,
however, in 1939; and in 1940 the bonds sold at 7 while Blumenthal preferred was quoted above 70.

[228]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Separate Analysis of Subsidiary Interest Coverage Essential.
These examples suggest that just as investors are prone to underestimate
the value of a guaranty by a strong company, they sometimes make the
opposite mistake and attach undue significance to the fact that a company is controlled by another. From the standpoint of fixed-value investment, nothing of importance may be taken for granted. Hence a
subsidiary bond should not be purchased on the basis of the showing of
its parent company, unless the latter has assumed direct responsibility for
the bond in question. In other cases the exhibit of the subsidiary itself can
afford the only basis for the acceptance of its bond issues.7
If the above discussion is compared with that on page 179 of accompanying CD, it will be seen that investors in bonds of a holding company
must insist upon a consolidated income account, in which the subsidiary
interest—whether guaranteed or not—is shown as a prior charge; but that
purchasers of unguaranteed subsidiary bonds cannot accept such consolidated reports as a measure of their safety, and must require a statement
covering the subsidiary alone. These statements may be obtainable only
with some difficulty, as was true in the case of United Drug 5s, but they
must nevertheless be insisted upon.

7 As a practical matter, the financial interest of the parent company in its subsidiary, and
other business reasons, may result in its protecting the latter’s bonds even though it is not
obligated to do so. This would be a valid consideration, however, only in deciding upon a
purchase on a speculative basis (i.e., carrying a chance of principal profit), but would not justify buying the bond at a full investment price. Concretely stated, it might have made United
Drug 5s an excellent speculation at 45, but they were a poor investment at 93.

Chapter 18

PROTECTIVE COVENANTS
AND REMEDIES OF SENIOR
SECURITY HOLDERS

IN THIS AND the two succeeding chapters we shall consider the provisions
usually made to protect the rights of bond owners and preferred stockholders against impairment, and the various lines of action which may
be followed in the event of nonfulfillment of the company’s obligations.
Our object here, as throughout this book, is not to supply information of
a kind readily available elsewhere, but rather to subject current practices
to critical examination and to suggest feasible improvements therein for
the benefit of security holders generally. In this connection a review of
recent developments in the field of reorganization procedure may also be
found of value.

Indenture or Charter Provisions Designed to Protect Holder
of Senior Securities. The contract between a corporation and the
owners of its bonds is contained in a document called the indenture or
deed of trust. The corresponding agreements relating to the rights of preferred stockholders are set forth in the Articles, or Certificate, of Incorporation. These instruments usually contain provisions designed to
prevent corporate acts injurious to senior security holders and to afford
remedies in case of certain unfavorable developments. The more important occurrences for which such provision is almost always made may be
listed under the following heads:
1. In the case of bonds:
a. Nonpayment of interest, principal, or sinking fund.
b. Default on other obligations, or receivership.
c. Issuance of new secured debt.
d. Dilution of a conversion (or subscription) privilege.
[229]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[230]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

2. In the case of preferred stocks:
a. Nonpayment of (cumulative) preferred dividends for a period of time.
b. Creation of funded debt or a prior stock issue.
c. Dilution of a conversion (or subscription) privilege.

A frequent, but less general, provision requires the maintenance of
working capital at a certain percentage of the bonded debt of industrial
companies. (In the case of investment-trust or holding-company bonds
it is the market value of all the assets which is subject to this provision.)
The remedies provided for bondholders in cases falling under 1a and
1b above are fairly well standardized. Any one of these untoward developments is designated as an “event of default” and permits the trustee to
declare the principal of the bond issue due and payable in advance of the
specified maturity date. The provisions therefor in the indenture are
known as “acceleration clauses.” Their purpose in the main is to enable
the bondholders to assert the full amount of their claim in competition
with the other creditors.

Contradictory Aspects of Bondholders’ Legal Rights. In considering these provisions from a critical standpoint, we must recognize that
there are contradictory aspects to the question of the bondholders’ legal
rights. Receivership1 is a dreaded word in Wall Street; its advent means
ordinarily a drastic shrinkage in the price of all the company’s securities,
including the bonds for the “benefit” of which the receivership was instituted. As we pointed out in a former chapter, the market’s appraisal of a
bond in default is no higher on the whole, and perhaps lower, than that
of a non-dividend-paying preferred stock of a solvent company.
The question arises, therefore, whether the bondholders might not be
better off if they did not have any enforceable claim to principal or interest payments when conditions are such as to make prompt payment impossible. For at such times the bondholder’s legal rights apparently succeed
1 “Receivership” was formerly a convenient term, applying to all kinds of financial difficulties
that involved court action. As a result of the Chandler Act (Bankruptcy Act of 1938),
receivers have been largely replaced by trustees. No doubt the word “receivership” will continue to be used—for a while at least—because the terms “trusteeship” and “bankruptcy” are
not quite satisfactory, the former being somewhat ambiguous, the latter having an overdrastic connotation. “Insolvency” is a suitable word but awkward to use at times.
So-called “equity receivers” will still be appointed in the future in connection with stockholder’s suits, voluntary liquidations, and other special matters.

Fixed-value Investments

[231]

only in ruining the corporation without benefiting the bondholder. As
long as the interest or principal is not going to be paid anyway, would it
not be to the interest of the bondholders themselves to postpone the date
of payment and keep the enterprise out of the courts?

Corporate Insolvency and Reorganization. This question leads
into the broad field of corporate insolvency and reorganization. We must
try, within as brief a space as possible, first, to describe the procedure followed prior to the amendatory legislation beginning in 1933; secondly,
to summarize the changes brought about by the recent statutes; and,
finally, to evaluate the bondholder’s position as it now appears. (The latter will be especially difficult, since the new laws have not yet had time
to prove their merits or deficiencies in actual practice.)
The old pattern for corporate reorganization went usually as follows:
Inability to pay interest or principal of indebtedness led to an application
by the corporation itself for a receiver.2 It was customary to select a
“friendly” court; the receiver was generally the company’s president; the
bondholders’ interests were represented by protective committees ordinarily formed by the investment banking houses that had floated the
issues. A reorganization plan was agreed upon by the committees and
then approved by the court. The plan usually represented a compromise
of the conflicting interests of the various ranks of security holders, under
which, generally speaking, everyone retained some interest in the new
company and everyone made some sacrifice. (In numerous cases, however, small and well-entrenched issues at the top were paid off or left
undisturbed; and in hopeless situations stock issues were sometimes completely wiped out.) The actual mechanics of reorganization was through
a foreclosure or bankruptcy sale. The properties were bought in in behalf
of the assenting security holders; and creditors who refused to participate
received in cash their pro rata share, if any, of the sale price. This price
was usually set so low that everyone was better off to join in the plan and
take new securities rather than to stay out and take cash.
Between 1933 and 1939 this procedure was completely transformed by
a series of remedial laws, the most important of which was the Chandler
2 Other “events of default”—e.g., failure to meet sinking-fund or working-capital requirements—

rarely resulted in receivership. Almost always bondholders preferred to overlook, or negotiate
over, these matters rather than harm themselves by throwing the company in the courts.

[232]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Act. The defects for which a cure was desired were of two kinds: On the
one hand the necessity for paying nonassenting bondholders had developed into a dilemma; because unduly low “upset,” or minimum, foreclosure-sale prices were being frowned on by the courts, whereas payment of
a fair price involved often an insuperable problem of finding the cash.
More serious was the fact that the whole mechanics of reorganization
tended to keep complete dominance of the situation in the hands of the
old controlling group—who may have been inefficient or even dishonest,
and who certainly had special interests to serve.
Beginning with the 1933 changes, a reorganization technique was set
up under which a plan accepted by two-thirds of the creditors and a
majority of the stockholders (if they had some “equity”), and approved
by the court, was made binding on all the security holders. This has done
away with the cumbersome and otherwise objectionable device of the
foreclosure sale. As perfected by the Chandler Act and the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, the new procedure for other than railroad companies
includes the following additional important points:3
1. The company must be turned over to at least one disinterested
trustee. This trustee must decide whether any claims should be asserted
against the old management and also whether or not the business is worth
continuing.
2. Actual responsibility for devising a reorganization plan devolves on
three disinterested agencies: (1) the trustee, who must present the plan
in the first instance; (2) the S.E.C. (when the liabilities exceed $3,000,000),
who may submit an advisory opinion thereon; (3) and the judge, who
must officially approve it. Although the security holders and their protective committees may make suggestions, their acceptance is not asked
for until the disinterested agencies have done their work. Furthermore,
apparently wide powers are now given the court to force acceptance upon
3 Provisions 1 to 4 appear in Chap. X of the Chandler Act, an outgrowth of the famous
Sec. 77B, which was added to the old bankruptcy act in 1933. Railroad reorganizations are
governed by Sec. 77, which was carried over into the Chandler Act intact, and by Chap. XV,
added in 1939 (see footnote 12, p. 238). There is also a Chap. XI proceeding under the
Chandler Act, relating to “arrangements” of unsecured indebtedness only. Note resort to
such proceedings by Haytian Corporation in 1938 and by United States Realty and Improvement Company in 1939. In the latter case the only matter affected was its guarantee of Trinity Buildings Corporation 51/2s, the company seeking to keep its own structure unchanged.
Difficulties developed, and the proceedings were replaced by others.

Fixed-value Investments

[233]

classes of holders who have failed to approve in the requisite percentage;
but the exact extent of these powers is still uncertain.
3. The reorganization plan must meet a number of standards of fairness prescribed in the statute, including provisions relating to voting
power, publication of reports, etc. The court must specifically approve the
new management.
4. The activities of protective committees are subject to close scrutiny
and supervision. Reorganization costs of all kinds, including compensation to all and sundry, must receive court sanction.
5. As distinct from reorganization procedure proper, the Trust Indenture Act prescribes a number of requirements for trustees acting under
bond indentures. These are designed both to obviate certain conflicts in
interest that have caused considerable complaint and also to insure a more
active attitude by the trustee in behalf of the bondholders.
There is no doubt at all in our minds that in the typical case the recent
legislation4 will prove highly beneficial. It should eliminate a number of
the abuses formerly attaching to receiverships and reorganizations. It
should also speed up materially the readjustment process. This should be
true, especially, after more definite standards of fairness in reorganization plans have come to be established, so that there will not be so much
room as heretofore for protracted disputes between the different ranks of
security holders.5

4 Legislation analogous to the mechanics of the 77B and Chandler Act provisions was applied
to real estate readjustments in the Schackno and Burchill Acts passed by the New York State
Legislature in 1933. In the same year The Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act, adopted in
Canada, provided that insolvent Canadian Companies might escape proceedings under the
Bankruptcy Act and work out compromises with creditors with the sanction of the court.
When properly approved, such compromises are binding on minority groups. See W. S.
Lighthall, The Dominion Companies Act 1934, annotated, pp. 289, 345 ff., Montreal, 1935.
5 The tendency of the S.E.C. advisory opinions, as well as the findings of the I.C.C. in rail-

road reorganizations, has been strongly in the direction of eliminating stockholders when
there appears to be no chance that earnings will cover former interest charges. For a discussion of this point by one of the authors, see Benjamin Graham, “Fair Reorganization Plans
under Chapter X of the Chandler Act,” Brooklyn Law Review, December 1938.
Despite the improvements in the law, railroad reorganizations have been subject to
extraordinary delays since 1933. In our opinion, however, this was due not so much to weaknesses remaining in the statute as it was to the extraordinary problem of devising fair plans
for extremely complicated corporate structures when the question of future earning power
was both highly controversial and of critical importance.

[234]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Alternative Remedy Suggested. Despite these undoubted reforms in
reorganization technique, we shall be bold enough to venture the assertion
that the ideal protective procedure for bondholders may often be found
along other and simpler lines. In our opinion—given a sufficiently simple
debt structure—the best remedy for all injuries suffered by bondholders is
the immediate vesting in them of voting control over the corporation,
together with an adequate mechanism to assure the intelligent exercise of
such control. In many cases the creditors would then be able to marshal the
company’s resources and earnings for their own protection in such a way
as to avoid recourse to expensive and protracted judicial proceedings.
Our suggestion falls into two parts: First, voting control by bondholders would, by the terms of the indenture, constitute the sole immediate
remedy for any event of default, including nonpayment of interest or principal. During such control, unpaid interest or principal would be considered subject to a grace period. But the directors representing the
bondholders should have the right to apply for a trusteeship under the
Chandler Act, if they feel that comprehensive reorganization is preferable
to an indefinite continuance of the moratorium plus control. Secondly, this
voting control could best be implemented through the indenture trustee—
a large and financially experienced institution, which is competent to represent the bondholders generally and to recommend to them suitable
candidates for the controlling directorships. Stockholder’s interests should
continue to be represented on the board by minority directors.
What this arrangement would mean in effect is the turning of a fixedinterest bond into an income bond during the period of bondholders’
control; and the postponement of maturing debt until voluntary extension or refinancing becomes feasible or else until liquidation or sale is
found to be the desirable course. It should also be feasible to extend the
basic technique and principle of voluntary recapitalization by statute (now
applying only to the various stock issues) to include a bond issue as well,
when the plan emanates from bondholders’ representatives who have the
alternative of keeping control and merely waiting.
Obviously, however, control cannot well be vested in creditors when
they belong to several classes with conflicting interests. In such cases
Chandler Act proceedings would seem necessary to cut the Gordian knot.
But, theoretically at least, a voting-control arrangement is possible with
a simple senior and a simple junior lien. If default should occur only with

Fixed-value Investments

[235]

respect to the junior lien, voting control would pass to that issue. If the
senior lien is defaulted, it would take control as a single class.
Although these suggestions may inspire doubt because of their novelty, it should be pointed out that the idea of voting by bondholders is
both an old one and growing in vogue. Although in the past it was an
exceptional arrangement, we now find that many reorganization plans,
providing for issuance of income bonds, give voting powers to these securities, generally calling for control of the board of directors until all or
most of the issue is retired or if interest is not paid in full.6 Furthermore,
many indentures covering fixed-interest bonds now provide for a vote by
bondholders on amendments to the indenture.7 It is also common for
Canadian trust indentures to provide for meetings of bondholders in
order to amend the terms of the indenture, including even the postponement or change of interest or principal payments.8 Such meetings may be
called by the trustee, by a stated proportion of the bondholders, or in
certain instances by the company itself.
It may be objected that the suggested arrangement would really give a
bondholder no better legal rights than a preferred stockholder and would
thus relegate him to the unsatisfactory position of having both a limited
6 Examples: The reorganization plan of New York State Railways (Syracuse System), dated
February 1939, provides that the holders of the new income notes shall be entitled to elect
two-thirds of the directors until at least 80% of the notes have been retired. Commercial
Mackay Corporation Income Debentures, due 1967, elect one-third of the directors until all
bonds are retired.
National Hotel of Cuba Income 6s, due 1959 (issued in 1929), were given voting control
in the event of default of one year’s interest. Older examples of voting rights given to bondholders include Erie Railroad Prior Lien 4s and General 4s, Mobile and Ohio Railroad
General 4s, Third Avenue Railway Adjustment 5s.
The 1934 reorganization of Maple Leaf Milling Company, Ltd. (Canada), provided that
the Indenture Trustee of the 51/2s due 1949 (later extended to 1958) would exercise effective
control of the company by ownership (in trust) of 2 out of 3 management or voting shares.
7 Generally excluded from this provision are changes in maturity dates of principal or interest, the rate of interest, the redemption price and the conversion rate. Examples: Richfield
Oil Corporation Debenture 4s, due 1952. The Industrial Rayon First 41/2s, due 1948, are
unusual in that the indenture permits a two-thirds vote of bondholders to postpone interest
payments. However, the New York Stock Exchange required an undertaking not to invoke
this clause, as a condition of listing the issue.
8 See the S.E.C. Report on the Study and Investigation of the Work, Activities, Personnel

and Functions of Protective and Reorganization Committees, Pt. VI, pp. 135–177, especially
pp. 138–143, 164–177, Washington, 1936.

[236]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

interest and an unenforceable claim. Our answer must be that, if the control device can be developed properly, it would provide an adequate remedy for both bondholders and preferred stockholders. In that case the basic
contractual advantage of bonds over preferred shares would vanish, except
to the extent of the right of bonds to repayment at a fixed date. We repeat,
in conclusion, the point made in our discussion of the theory of preferred
stocks (page 188 on accompanying CD) that the contractual disadvantage
of preferred shares is, at bottom, not so much a matter of inherent legal
rights as it is of practical corporate procedure and of the investor’s own
shortcomings.

Tendency of Securities of Insolvent Companies to Sell below
Their Fair Value. Some additional aspects of the corporate-reorganization question deserve attention. The first relates to the market action of
securities of insolvent companies. Receiverships in the past have been productive generally of a vast and pervasive uncertainty, which threatens
extinction to the stockholders but fails to promise anything specific to the
bondholders. As a result there has been a tendency for the securities of
companies in receivership to sell below their fair value in the aggregate;
and also a tendency for illogical relationships to be established between
the price of a bond issue in default and the price of the junior stock issues.
Examples: The Fisk Rubber Company case is an excellent example of
the former point; the Studebaker Corporation situation in September
1933 illustrates the latter.
MARKET VALUE OF FISK RUBBER SECURITIES IN APRIL 1932

$7,600,000 First 8s @ 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$ 1,200,000
8,200,000 Debenture 5 1/2s @ 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .900,000
Stock issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nominal
Total market value of the company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$ 2,100,000
BALANCE SHEET, JUNE 30, 1932

Cash . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$ 7,687,000
Receivables (less reserve of $1,425,000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4,838,000
Inventories (at lower of cost or market) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3,216,000
$15,741,000
Accounts Payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .363,000
Net current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$15,378,000
Fixed assets (less $8,400,000 depreciation) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23,350,000

[237]

Fixed-value Investments

The company’s securities were selling together for less than one-third
of the cash alone, and for only one-seventh of the net current assets,
allowing nothing for the fixed property.9
STUDEBAKER CORPORATION, SEPTEMBER 1933

Issue

Face amount

Market price

Market value

10-year 6% notes and other claims
Preferred stock
Common stock (2,464,000 shares)
Total value of stock issues

$22,000,000
5,800,000

40
27
6

$8,800,000
$1,500,000
14,700,000
$16,200,000

The company’s debt, selling at 40 cents on the dollar, was entitled to
prompt payment in full before the stockholder received anything. Nevertheless, the market placed a much larger value upon the stock issues than
upon the prior debt.

Voluntary Readjustment Plans. Realization of the manifest disadvantages of receivership has often led bondholders to accept suggestions
emanating from the management for a voluntary reduction of their contractual claims. Arrangements of this kind have varied from the old-fashioned type of “composition” (in which creditors extended or even curtailed
their claims, while the stockholders retained their interest intact) to cases
where the bondholders received a substantial part of the stock equity.
Examples: At the end of 1931 Radio-Keith-Orpheum Corporation,
needing funds to meet pressing obligations, found ordinary financing
impossible. The stockholders ratified a plan under which in effect they
surrendered 75% of their stock interest, which was given in turn as a
bonus to those who supplied the $11,600,000 required by purchasing
debenture notes. (Continued large losses, however, forced the company
into receivership a year later.)
In 1933 Fox Film Corporation effected a recapitalization of the same
general type. The stockholders gave up over 80% of their holdings, and
this stock was in turn exchanged for nearly all of approximately
$40,000,000 of 5-year notes and bank debt.
9 As pointed out in Chap. 50, below, the Fisk Rubber 8s later proved to be worth close to 100
and the 51/2s more than 70.

[238]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The Kansas City Public Service Company readjustment plan, also
consummated in 1933, was designed to meet the simpler problem of
reducing interest charges during a supposedly temporary period of subnormal earnings. It provided that the coupon rate on the 6% first-mortgage bonds should be reduced to 3% during the four years 1933–1936,
restored to 6% for 1937–1938, and advanced to 7% for 1939–1951, thus
making up the 12% foregone in the earlier years. A substantial sinking
fund, contingent upon earnings; was set up to retire the issue gradually
and to improve its market position.
It was obvious that the Kansas City Public Service bondholders were
better off to accept temporarily the 3% which could be paid rather than
to insist on 6% which could not be paid and thereby precipitate a receivership. (The previous receivership of the enterprise, terminated in 1926,
had lasted six years.) In this case the stockholders were not required to
give up any part of their junior interest to the bondholders in return for
the concessions made. While theoretically some such sacrifice and transfer would be equitable, it was not of much practical importance here
because any stock bonus given to the bondholders would have had a very
slight market value.10 It should be recognized as a principle, however, that
the waiving of any important right by the bondholders entitles them to
some quid pro quo from the stockholders—in the form either of a contribution of cash to the enterprise or of a transfer of some part of their claim
on future earnings to the bondholders.11
In 1939 additional legislation of a temporary nature was adopted,
designed to facilitate so-called “voluntary reorganizations” of railroads
by making them binding on all security holders.12 This statute was
10 In 1936 the company effected a second voluntary rearrangement, under which the interest
rate was fixed at 4%, and the bondholders received a rather nugatory bonus of common
stock. In 1939 still a third voluntary modification was accepted, in which bondholders took
30% in cash and 70% in preferred stock for their bonds—the money being advanced as a
loan by the R.F.C.
11 The reorganization of Industrial Office Building Company in 1932–1933 is a remarkable

example of the conversion of fixed-interest bonds into income bonds without sacrifice of any
kind by the stockholders. A detailed discussion of this instance is given in the Appendix
Note 32, p. 763 on accompanying CD.
12 This is the Chandler Railroad Readjustment Act of 1939, which actually adds a new Chap.

XV to the Bankruptcy Act. Action thereunder must be begun before July 31, 1940, and must be
substantially concluded within a year after its initiation. As far as the reorganization technique

Fixed-value Investments

[239]

intended specifically to aid the Baltimore and Ohio and Lehigh Valley
roads, which had previously proposed voluntary reorganization plans.
These were designed to reduce fixed-interest charges and to extend current and near maturities. The stockholders, in each case, were to retain
their interests intact.
As we have previously stated, it is our opinion that voluntary readjustment plans are desirable in themselves, but they should be proposed after
voting control over the corporation has passed to the bondholders, and
they are in a position to choose between alternative courses of action.

Change in the Status of Bond Trustees. Not the least important of
the remedial legislation enacted since 1933 is the “Trust Indenture Act of
1939.” This undertakes to correct a number of inadequacies and abuses in
the administration of their duties by bond trustees. The chief criticism of
the behavior of indenture trustees in the past is that they did not act as
trustees at all but merely as agents of the bondholders. This meant that as
a general rule they took no action on their own initiative but only when
directed to do so and were fully indemnified by a certain percentage of the
bondholders.13 Indentures have said practically nothing about the duties
of a trustee but a great deal about his immunities and indemnification.
The 1939 statute aims directly at this unsatisfactory situation by
including the following provision (in Section 315):
Duties of the Trustee in Case of Default
(c) The indenture to be qualified shall contain provisions requiring the indenture trustee to exercise in case of default (as such term is defined in the indenture) such of the rights and powers vested in it by such indenture, and to use
the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would
exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.

There are further provisions limiting the use of so-called “exculpatory
clauses,” which in the past made it impossible to hold a trustee to account
is concerned, it is not significantly different from that provided in Section 77. In both cases
approval of the I.C.C., of a court, and of a suitable percentage of security holders is required.
The important difference is that under the new Chap. XV there is no bankruptcy in the
involved legal sense. The company continues to administer its own affairs, and no contracts or
other obligations are affected except those specifically included in the plan of readjustment.
13 See Appendix Note 33, p. 766 on accompanying CD, for further discussion and an example on this point appearing in the first edition of this work.

[240]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

for anything except provable fraud or else negligence so gross as to be
equivalent thereto.
A further cause of complaint arose from the fact that the indenture
trustee has frequently been a creditor of the obligor (e.g., a trust company
holding its promissory notes) or else has been controlled by the same
interests. These situations have created conflicts of interest, or an unwillingness to act impartially and vigorously, which have militated strongly
against the bondholders. The Trust Indenture Act of 1939 contains stringent provisions designed to terminate these abuses.14

The Problem of the Protective Committee. Reform in the status
of indenture trustees may lead to a solution of the vexing problem of the
protective committee. Since 1929 the general status of protective committees has become uncertain and most unsatisfactory. Formerly it was
taken for granted that the investment bankers who floated the issue would
organize a protective committee in the event of default. But in recent years
there has been a growing tendency to question the propriety or desirability of such action. Bondholders may lack faith in the judgment of the issuing house, or they may question its ability to represent them impartially
because of other interests in or connections with the enterprise; or they
may even consider the underwriters as legally responsible for the losses
incurred. The arguments in favor of competent representation by agencies other than the houses of issue are therefore quite convincing. The difficulty lies however, in securing such competent representation. With the
original issuing houses out of the picture, anybody can announce himself as chairman of a protective committee and invite deposits. The whole
procedure has become unstandardized and open to serious abuses. Duplicate committees often appear; an undignified scramble for deposits takes
place; persons with undesirable reputations and motives can easily inject
themselves into the situation.
The new bankruptcy legislation of 1938 introduced some improvement into this situation by subjecting the activities and compensation of
14 The remedial legislation was an outgrowth of a trust indenture study made by the S.E.C.
and was greatly stimulated by the opinion delivered by Judge Rosenman in 1936 denying the
claims of holders of National Electric Power (secured) debentures to hold the trustee of the
issue accountable for the huge losses suffered by them. The judge held that the exculpatory
clauses saved the trustee in this case but that the whole system of indenture trusteeship was
in need of radical reform.

Fixed-value Investments

[241]

protective committees to court scrutiny. (In the case of railroads a committee cannot take part in a proceeding without prior permission from
the I.C.C.) Further legislation will probably be enacted regulating in
more detail the formation as well as the subsequent conduct of protective committees.

A Recommended Reform. The whole procedure might readily be
clarified and standardized now that the trustee under the indenture is
expected to assume the duty of actively protecting the bond issue. The
large institutions which hold these positions have the facilities, the experience, and the standing required for the successful discharge of such a
function. There seems no good reason, in the ordinary case, why the
trustee should not itself organize the protective committee, with one of
its executive officers as chairman and with the other members selected
from among the larger bondholders or their nominees. The possible conflict of interest between the trustee as representative of all the bondholders and the protective committee as representative of the depositing
holders only will be found on analysis rarely to be of more than technical and minor consequence. Such a conflict, if it should arise, could be
solved by submission of the question to the court. There is no difficulty
about awarding sufficient compensation to the trustee and its counsel for
their labors and accomplishment on behalf of the bondholders.
This arrangement envisages effective cooperation between the trustee
and a group of bondholders who in the opinion of the trustee are qualified to represent the issue as a whole. The best arrangement might be to
establish this bondholders’ group at the time the issue is sold, i.e., without waiting for an event of default to bring it into being, in order that
there may be from the very start some responsible and interested agency
to follow the affairs of the corporation from the bondholders’ standpoint,
and to make objections, if need be, to policies which may appear to
threaten the safety of the issue. Reasonable compensation for this service should be paid by the corporation. This would be equivalent in part
to representation of the bondholders on the board of directors. If the time
were to arrive when the group would have to act as a protective committee on behalf of the bondholders, their familiarity with the company’s
affairs should prove of advantage.

Chapter 19

PROTECTIVE COVENANTS (Continued)

Prohibition of Prior Liens. A brief discussion is desirable regarding
certain protective provisions other than those dealing with the ordinary
events of default. (The matter of safeguarding conversion and other
participating privileges against dilution will be covered in the chapters
dealing with Senior Securities with Speculative Features.) Dealing first
with mortgage bonds, we find that indentures almost always prohibit the
placing of any new prior lien on the property. Exceptions are sometimes
made in the case of bonds issued under a reorganization plan, when it is
recognized that a prior mortgage may be necessary to permit raising new
capital in the future.
Example: In 1926 Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul, and Pacific Railroad
Company issued $107,000,000 of Series A Mortgage 5% bonds and, junior thereto, $185,000,000 of Convertible Adjustment Mortgage 5s, in
exchange for securities of the bankrupt Chicago, Milwaukee, and St. Paul
Railway Company. The indentures permitted the later issuance of an
indefinite amount of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, which would
rank ahead of the Series A Mortgage 5s.1

Equal-and-ratable Security Clause. When a bond issue is unsecured it is almost always provided that it will share equally in any mortgage lien later placed on the property.
Example: The New York, New Haven, and Hartford Railroad Company sold a number of debenture issues between 1897 and 1908. These
bonds were originally unsecured, but the indentures provided that they
should be equally secured with any mortgage subsequently placed upon
the property. In 1920 a first and refunding mortgage was authorized by

1 In 1933 the St. Paul was granted permission to issue some of the new first and refunding

bonds, to be held as collateral for short-term loans made by the United States government.

[242]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

Fixed-value Investments

[243]

the stockholders; consequently the earlier issues have since been equally
secured with bonds issued under the new mortgage. They still carry the
title of “debentures,” but this is now a misnomer. There is, however, an
issue of 4% debentures, due in 1957, which did not carry this provision
and hence are unsecured. In 1939 the (unsecured) debenture 4s, due
1957, sold at one-third the price of the (secured) debenture 4s, due 1956,
e.g., 5 vs. 16.2

Purchase-money Mortgages. It is customary to permit without
restriction the assumption of purchase-money mortgages. These are liens
attaching only to new property subsequently acquired, and their assumption is not regarded as affecting the position of the other bondholders.
The latter supposition is not necessarily valid, of course, since it is possible thereby to increase the ratio of total debt of the enterprise to the total
shareholder’s equity in a manner which might jeopardize the position of
the existing bondholders.
Subordination of Bond Issues to Bank Debt in Reorganization.
In the case of bonds or notes issued under a reorganization plan it is
sometimes provided that their claim shall be junior to that of present or
future bank loans. This is done to facilitate bank borrowings which otherwise could be effected only by the pledging of receivables or inventories as security. An example of this arrangement is afforded by Aeolian
Company Five-year Secured 6% Notes, due in 1937, which were issued
under a capital readjustment plan in partial exchange for the Guaranteed
7% Preferred Stock of the company. The notes were subordinated to
$400,000 of bank loans, which were later paid.

Safeguards against Creation of Additional Amounts of the
Same Issue. Nearly all bonds or preferred issues enjoy adequate safeguards in respect to the creation of additional amounts of the issue. The
customary provisions require a substantial margin of earnings above
the requirements of the issue as thus enlarged. For example, additional
2 In exceptional cases, debenture obligations are entitled to a prior lien on the property in the

event that a subsequent mortgage is placed thereon. Example: National Radiator Corporation Debenture 61/2s, due 1947, and the successor corporation’s income debenture 5s, due
1946. In a second reorganization, effected in 1939, these debentures were replaced by stock.
Here is an excellent example of the relative unimportance of protective provisions, as compared with profitable operations.

[244]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

New York Edison Company First Lien and Refunding Mortgage Bonds
may not be issued, except for refunding purposes, unless consolidated net
earnings for a recent 12-month period have been at least 13/4 times the
annual interest charges on the aggregate bonded indebtedness of the company, including those to be issued. In the case of Wheeling Steel Corporation First Mortgage bonds the required ratio is 2 times.3
Provisions of this kind with reference to earnings-coverage are practically nonexistent in the railroad field, however. Railroad bonds of the
blanket-mortgage type more commonly restrict the issuance of additional
bonds through a provision that the total funded indebtedness shall not
exceed a certain ratio to the capital stock outstanding, and by a limitation
upon the emission of new bonds to a certain percentage of the cost or fair
value of newly acquired property. (See, for example, the Baltimore and
Ohio Railroad Company Refunding and General Mortgage Bonds and the
Northern Pacific Railway Company Refunding and Improvement Bonds.)
In the older bond issues it was customary to close the mortgage at a relatively small fixed amount, thus requiring that additional funds be raised
by the sale of junior securities. This provision gave rise to the favorably
situated “underlying bonds” to which reference was made in Chap. 6.
In the typical case additional issues of mortgage bonds may be made
only against pledge of new property worth considerably more than the
increase in debt. (See, for examples: Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company First Mortgage, under which further bonds may be issued to finance
75% of the cost of additions or improvements to the mortgaged properties; New York Edison Company, Inc., First Lien and Refunding Mortgage, under which bonds may be issued in further amounts to finance
additions and betterments up to 75% of the actual and reasonable expenditure therefor; Pere Marquette Railway Company First-mortgage bonds,
which may be issued up to 80% of the cost or fair value, whichever is the
lower, of newly constructed or acquired property.)
These safeguards are logically conceived and almost always carefully
observed. Their practical importance is less than might appear, however,
because in the ordinary instance the showing stipulated would be needed
anyway in order to attract buyers for the additional issue.
3 For similar provisions in the case of preferred stocks see Consolidated Edison Company of
New York $5 Preferred, General Foods Corporation $4.50 Preferred and Gotham Silk
Hosiery Company 7% Preferred.

Fixed-value Investments

[245]

Working-capital Requirements. The provisions for maintaining
working capital at a certain percentage of bonded debt, and for a certain
ratio of current assets to current liabilities, are by no means standardized.
They appear only in industrial bond indentures.4
The required percentages vary, and the penalties for nonobservance
vary also. In most cases the result is merely the prohibition of dividends
until the proper level or ratio of working capital is restored. In a few cases
the principal of the bond issue may be declared due.
Examples: 1. Sole penalty, prohibition of dividends. B. F. Goodrich First
41/4s, due 1956, and Wilson and Company First 4s, due 1955, require current assets to equal total indebtedness, i.e., net quick assets to equal
funded debt. In the case of West Virginia Pulp and Paper First 41/2 s, due
1952, subsidiary preferred stocks are included with funded debt.
The provisions of Fairbanks, Morse and Company Debenture 4s, due
1956, require that current assets equal (a) 110% of total liabilities and (b)
200% of current liabilities. In the case of Wheeling Steel First 41/2 s, due
1966, and Republic Steel General 41/2 s, due 1956, current assets must
equal 300% of current liabilities, and net current assets must equal 50%
of the funded debt.
2. Failure to meet requirement is an event of default. Skelly Oil Debenture 4s, due 1951, and Serial Notes, due 1937–1941. Here the company
agrees to maintain current assets equal to at least 200% of current liabilities.
In the case of Continental Steel 41/2s, due 1946, the required ratio
is 115%.
Among former examples may be cited American Machine and
Foundry 6s, due 1939, which had a twofold provision: the first prohibiting dividends unless net current assets equal 150% of the outstanding
bond issue, and the second requiring unconditionally that the net
current assets be maintained at 100% of the face value of outstanding
bonds. In the case of United States Radiator Corporation 5s, due 1938,
the company agreed at all times to maintain net working capital equal to
150% of the outstanding funded debt.
It would appear to be sound theory to require regularly some protective provisions on the score of working capital in the case of industrial
4 Ashland Home Telephone First 41/2s, due 1961, are a public-utility issue with a peculiar,

and rather weak, provision relating to net current assets.

[246]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

bonds. We have already suggested that an adequate ratio of net current
assets to funded debt be considered as one of the specific criteria in the
selection of industrial bonds. This criterion should ordinarily be set up
in the indenture itself, so that the bondholder will be entitled to the maintenance of a satisfactory ratio throughout the life of the issue and to an
adequate remedy if the figure declines below the proper point.
The prohibition of dividend payments under such conditions is sound
and practicable. But the more stringent penalty, which terms a deficiency
of working capital “an event of default,” is not likely to prove effective or
beneficial to the bondholder. The objection that receivership harms rather
than helps the creditors applies with particular force in this connection.
Referring to the United States Radiator 5s, mentioned above, we may
point out that the balance sheet of January 31, 1933, showed a default in
the 150% working-capital requirement. (The net current assets were
$2,735,000, or only 109% of the $2,518,000 bond issue.) Nevertheless, the
trustee took no steps to declare the principal due, nor was it asked to do
so by the required number of bondholders. In all probability a receivership invoked for this reason would have been considered as highly injurious to the bondholders’ interests. But this attitude would mean that the
provision in question should never have been included in the indenture.5

Voting Control as a Remedy. We have previously advanced and discussed the suggestion that the bondholders’ right to the appointment of
trustees in the event of any default might well be replaced by a right to
receive voting control over the enterprise. Whatever the reader’s view as
to the soundness of this suggestion as applied to default in payment of
interest or principal, we imagine that he will agree with us that it has merit
in the case of “secondary” defaults, e.g., failure to maintain working capital as agreed or to make sinking-fund payments; for the present alternatives—either to precipitate insolvency or to do nothing at all—are alike
completely unsatisfactory.
5 Similar situations existed in 1933 with respect to G. R. Kinney (shoe) Company 71/2s, due

1936, and Budd Manufacturing Company First 6s, due 1935. Early in 1934, the United States
Radiator Corporation asked the debenture holders to modify the provisions respecting both
working-capital maintenance and sinking-fund payments. No substantial quid pro quo was
offered for these concessions. Characteristically, the reason given by the company itself for this
move was not that the bondholders were entitled to some remedial action but that the “technical default under the indenture” interfered with projected bank borrowings by the company.

Fixed-value Investments

[247]

Protective Provisions for Investment-trust Issues. Investmenttrust bonds belong in a special category, we believe, because by their
nature they lend themselves to the application of stringent remedial provisions. Such bonds are essentially similar to the collateral loans made by
banks on marketable securities. As a protection for these bank loans, it is
required that the market value of the collateral be maintained at a certain
percentage in excess of the amount owed. In the same way the lenders of
money to an investment trust should be entitled to demand that the value
of the portfolio continuously exceed the amount of the loans by an
adequate percentage, e.g., 25%. If the market value should decline below
this figure, the investment trust should be required to take the same
action as any other borrower against marketable securities. It should
either put up more money (i.e., raise more capital from the stockholders)
or sell out securities and retire debt with the proceeds, in an amount
sufficient to restore the proper margin.
The disadvantages that inhere in bond investment generally justify
the bond buyer in insisting upon every possible safeguard. In the case of
investment-trust bonds, a very effective measure of protection may be
assured by means of the covenant to maintain the market value of the
portfolio above the bonded debt. Hence investors in investment-trust
issues should demand this type of protective provision, and—what is
equally important—they should require its strict enforcement. Although
this stand will inflict hardship upon the stockholders when market prices
fall, this is part of the original bargain, in which the stockholders agreed
to take most of the risk in exchange for the surplus profits.6
A survey of bond indentures of investment trusts discloses a signal lack
of uniformity in the matter of these protective provisions. Most of them do
require a certain margin of asset value over debt as a condition to the sale
6 If the market value of the assets falls below 100% of the funded debt, a condition of insolvency would seem to be created which entitles the bondholders to insist upon immediate
remedial action. For otherwise the stockholders would be permitted to speculate on the
future with what is entirely the bondholders’ capital. But even this apparently simple point is
not without its difficulties. In 1938, holders of Reynolds Investing Company 5s endeavored
to have a trustee appointed on grounds of insolvency, but stockholders claimed that the market price of certain large security holdings was less than their real value. After considerable
delay, trustees were appointed, pursuant to an agreement among the various interests. Note
that Guardian Investors Corporation 5s, due 1948, have been “under water” nearly all the
time since 1932 and sold as low as 24, without any remedial steps being taken.

[248]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

of additional bonds. The required ratio of net assets to funded debt varies
from 120% (e.g., General American Investors) to 250% (e.g., Niagara Shares
Corporation). The more usual figures are 125 or 150%. A similar restriction is placed upon the payment of cash dividends. The ratio required for
this purpose varies from 125% (e.g., Domestic and Foreign Investors) to
175% (which must be shown to permit cash dividends on Central States
Electric Corporation common). The modal figure is probably 140 or 150%.
But the majority of issues do not require at all times and unconditionally the maintenance of a minimum excess of asset value above bonded
indebtedness. Examples of such a covenant may indeed be given, e.g.,
General Public Service Corporation Convertible Debenture 5s, due 1953;
American European Securities Company Collateral 5s, due 1958; and
Affiliated Fund, Inc., Secured Convertible Debenture 41/2s and 4s, due
1949, all of which require maintenance of a 125% ratio of asset value at
market to funded debt. In the case of Affiliated Fund, the remedy provided is the immediate sale by the trustee of pledged collateral and the
retirement of bonds until the required ratio is restored. In the other cases
more elaborate machinery is invoked to declare the entire issue due and
payable. We would suggest that provisions of this type—preferably those
most simple of application—be a standard requirement for investmenttrust bond issues.7

SINKING FUNDS
In its modern form a sinking fund provides for the periodic retirement
of a certain portion of a senior issue through payments made by the corporation. The sinking fund acquires the security by call, by means of
sealed tenders, or by open-market purchases made by the trustee or the
corporation. In the latter case the corporation turns in the bonds to the
sinking fund in lieu of cash. The sinking fund usually operates once or
7 Another type of remedy appeared in the indenture securing the Reynolds Investing Company
5s, which provided that if at any time the net value of the assets should fall below 110% of the
bond issue, the latter should be due and payable on the next interest date. The same difficulty
arose in applying this provision as in the case of the solvency question discussed above.
Note also the case of Alleghany Corporation Collateral Trust 5s, due 1949. The offering
circular indicated that a coverage of 150% would be compulsory. Yet the indenture provided
that failure to maintain this margin would not constitute an event of default but would result
only in the prohibition of dividends and in the impounding by the trustee of the income
from the pledged collateral.

Fixed-value Investments

[249]

twice a year, but provisions for quarterly and even monthly payments are
by no means unusual. In the case of many bond issues, the bonds
acquired by the sinking fund are not actually retired but are “kept alive,”
i.e., they draw interest, and these interest sums are also used for sinkingfund purchases, thus increasing the latter at a compounded rate.
Example: An important instance of this arrangement was supplied by
the two issues of United States Steel Sinking Fund 5s, originally totaling
$504,000,000. Bonds of the junior issue, listed on the New York Stock
Exchange, were familiarly known in the bond market as “Steel Sinkers.”
By adding the interest on bonds in the fund, the annual payments grew
from $3,040,000 in 1902 to $11,616,000 in 1928. (The following year the
entire outstanding amounts of these issues were retired or provided for.)

Benefits. The benefits of a sinking fund are of a twofold nature. The
continuous reduction in the size of the issue makes for increasing safety
and the easier repayment of the balance at maturity. Also important is the
support given to the market for the issue through the repeated appearance of a substantial buying demand. Nearly all industrial bond issues
have sinking funds; the public-utility group shows about as many with as
without; in the railroad list sinking funds are exceptional. But in recent
years increasing emphasis has been laid upon the desirability of a sinking fund, and few long-term senior issues of any type are now offered
without such a provision.8

Indispensable in Some Cases. Under some circumstances a sinking
fund is absolutely necessary for the protection of a bond. This is true in
general when the chief backing of the issue consists of a wasting asset.
Bonds on mining properties invariably have a sinking fund, usually of
substantial proportions and based upon the tonnage mined. A sinking
fund of smaller relative size is regularly provided for real estate mortgage
bonds. In all these cases the theory is that the annual depletion or depreciation allowances should be applied to the reduction of the funded debt.
Examples: A special example of importance was the large Interborough Rapid Transit Company First and Refunding 5% issue, due 1966,
which was secured mainly by a lease on properties that belong to the City
8 During 1933 the Interstate Commerce Commission strongly recommended that railways
adopt sinking funds to amortize their existing debt. The Chicago and North Western Railway
thereupon announced a plan of this kind, the details of which were not particularly impressive.

[250]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

of New York. Obviously it was essential to provide through a sinking fund
for the retirement of the entire issue by the time the lease expired in 1967,
since the corporation would then be deprived of most of its assets and
earning power. Similarly with Tobacco Products 61/2s, due in 2022, which
depended for their value entirely upon the annual payments of $2,500,000
made by American Tobacco Company under a lease expiring in 2022.
The absence of a sinking fund under conditions of this kind invariably leads to trouble.
Examples: Federal Mining and Smelting Company supplied the
unusual spectacle of a mining enterprise with a large preferred-stock issue
($12,000,000); and furthermore the preferred stock had no sinking fund.
Declaration of a $10 dividend on the common in 1926 led to court action
to protect the preferred stock against the threatened breakdown of its
position through depletion of the mines coupled with the distribution of
cash earnings to the junior shares. As a result of the litigation the company refrained from further common dividends until 1937 and devoted
its surplus profits to reducing the preferred issue, which was completely
retired in 1939.
Iron Steamboat Company General Mortgage 4s, due 1932, had no
sinking fund, although the boats on which they were a lien were obviously subject to a constant loss in value. These bonds to the amount of
$500,000 were issued in 1902 and were a second lien on the entire property of the company (consisting mainly of seven small steamboats operating between New York City and Coney Island), junior to $100,000 of
first-mortgage bonds. During the years 1909 to 1925, inclusive, the company paid dividends on the common stock aggregating in excess of
$700,000 and by 1922 had retired all of the first-mortgage bonds through
the operation of the sinking fund for that issue. At this point the 4s, due
1932, became a first lien upon the entire property. In 1932, when the company went into bankruptcy, the entire issue was still outstanding. The
mortgaged property was sold at auction in February 1933 for $15,050, a
figure resulting in payment of less than 1 cent on the dollar to the bondholders. An adequate sinking fund might have retired the entire issue out
of the earnings which were distributed to the stockholders.
When the enterprise may be regarded as permanent, the absence of a
sinking fund does not necessarily condemn the issue. This is true not only
of most high-grade railroad bonds and of many high-grade utility bonds
but also of most of the select group of old-line industrial preferred stocks

Fixed-value Investments

[251]

that merit an investment rating, e.g., National Biscuit Preferred, which
has no sinking fund. From the broader standpoint, therefore, sinking
funds may be characterized as invariably desirable and sometimes but not
always indispensable.

Serial Maturities as an Alternative. The general object sought by a
sinking fund may be obtained by the use of serial maturities. The retirement of a portion of the issue each year by reason of maturity corresponds
to the reduction by means of sinking-fund purchases. Serial maturities
are relatively infrequent, their chief objection resting probably in the
numerous separate market quotations that they entail. In the equipmenttrust field, however, they are the general rule. This exception may
be explained by the fact that insurance companies and other financial
institutions are the chief buyers of equipment obligations, and for their
special needs the variety of maturity dates proves a convenience. Serial
maturities are also frequently employed in state and municipal financing.

Problems of Enforcement. The enforcement of sinking-fund provisions of a bond issue presents the same problem as in the case of
covenants for the maintenance of working capital. Failure to make a sinking-fund payment is regularly characterized in the indenture as an event
of default, which will permit the trustee to declare the principal due and
thus bring about receivership. The objections to this “remedy” are obvious, and we can recall no instance in which the omission of sinking-fund
payments, unaccompanied by default of interest, was actually followed
by enforcement of the indenture provisions. When the company continues to pay interest but claims to be unable to meet the sinking fund, it is
not unusual for the trustee and the bondholders to withhold action and
merely to permit arrears to accumulate. More customary is the making
of a formal request to the bondholders by the corporation for the
postponement of the sinking-fund payments. Such a request is almost
invariably acceded to by the great majority of bondholders, since the
alternative is always pictured as insolvency. This was true even in the case
of Interborough Rapid Transit 5s, for which—as we have pointed out—
the sinking fund was an essential element of protection.9

9 The plan of voluntary readjustment proposed in 1922 postponed sinking-fund payments
on these bonds for a five-year period. About 75% of the issue accepted this modification.

[252]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The suggestion made in respect to the working-capital covenants, viz.,
that voting control be transferred to the bondholders in the event of
default, is equally applicable to the sinking-fund provision. In our view
that would be distinctly preferable to the present arrangement under
which the bondholder must either do nothing to protect himself or else
take the drastic and calamitous step of compelling bankruptcy.
The emphasis we have laid upon the proper kind of protective provisions for industrial bonds should not lead the reader to believe that the
presence of such provisions carries an assurance of safety. This is far from
the case. The success of a bond investment depends primarily upon the
success of the enterprise and only to a very secondary degree upon the
terms of the indenture. Hence the seeming paradox that the senior securities that have fared best in the depression have on the whole quite unsatisfactory indenture or charter provisions. The explanation is that the best
issues as a class have been the oldest issues, and these date from times
when less attention was paid than now to protective covenants.
In Appendix Note 34 on accompanying CD, we present two examples
of the opposite kind (Willys-Overland Company First 61/2 s, due 1933,
and Berkey and Gay Furniture Company First 6s, due 1941) wherein a
combination of a strong statistical showing with all the standard protective provisions failed to safeguard the holders against a huge subsequent
loss. But while the protective covenants we have been discussing do not
guarantee the safety of the issue, they nevertheless add to the safety and
are therefore worth insisting upon.
Sinking-fund payments have been suspended without penalty in the case of numerous real
estate issues, under the provisions of various state mortgage moratorium laws. Example:
Harriman Building First 6s, due 1951. No sinking-fund payments were made between 1934
and 1939 by virtue of the New York Moratorium Law.

See accompanying CD for Chapter 20, “Preferred-stock
Protective Provisions. Maintenance of Junior Capital.”

Chapter 21

SUPERVISION OF
INVESTMENT HOLDINGS

Traditional Concept of “Permanent Investment.” A generation ago
“permanent investment” was one of the stock phrases of finance. It was
applied to the typical purchase by a conservative investor and may be said
to have embraced three constituent ideas: (1) intention to hold for an
indefinite period; (2) interest solely in annual income, without reference
to fluctuations in the value of principal; and (3) freedom from concern
over future developments affecting the company. A sound investment was
by definition one that could be bought, put away, and forgotten except on
coupon or dividend dates.
This traditional view of high-grade investments was first seriously
called into question by the unsatisfactory experiences of the 1920–1922
depression. Large losses were taken on securities that their owners had
considered safe beyond the need of examination. The ensuing seven
years, although generally prosperous, affected different groups of investment issues in such divergent ways that the old sense of complete security—with which the term “gilt-edged securities” was identified—suffered
an ever-increasing impairment. Hence even before the market collapse
of 1929, the danger ensuing from neglect of investments previously made,
and the need for periodic scrutiny or supervision of all holdings, had been
recognized as a new canon in Wall Street. This principle, directly opposed
to the former practice, is frequently summed up in the dictum, “There
are no permanent investments.”

Periodic Inspection of Holdings Necessary—but Troublesome.
That the newer view is justified by the realities of fixed-value investment
can scarcely be questioned. But it must be frankly recognized also that
this same necessity for supervision of all security holdings implies a rather
serious indictment of the whole concept of fixed-value investment. If risk
[253]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[254]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

of loss can be minimized only by the exercise of constant supervisory care,
in addition to the painstaking process of initial choice, has not such investment become more trouble than it is worth? Let it be assumed that the
typical investor, following the conservative standards of selection herein
recommended, will average a yield of 31/2% on a diversified list of corporate securities. This 31/2% return appears substantially higher than the
21/2% obtainable from long-term United States government bonds and
also more attractive than the 2 or 21/2% offered by savings banks. Nevertheless, if we take into account not only the effort required to make a
proper selection but also the greater efforts entailed by the subsequent
repeated check-ups, and if we then add thereto the still inescapable risk
of depreciation or definite loss, it must be confessed that a rather plausible argument can be constructed against the advisability of fixed-value
investments in general. The old idea of permanent, trouble-free holdings
was grounded on the not illogical feeling that if a limited-return investment could not be regarded as trouble-free it was not worth making at all.

Superiority of United States Savings Bonds. Objectively considered, investment experience of the last decade undoubtedly points away
from the fixed-value security field and into the direction of (1) United
States government bonds or savings-bank deposits; or (2) admittedly speculative operations, with endeavors to reduce risk and increase profits by
means of skillful effort; or (3) a search for the exceptional combination of
safety of principal with a chance for substantial profit. For all people of
moderate means United States Savings Bonds undoubtedly offer the most
suitable medium for fixed-value investment. In fact we are inclined to state
categorically that, on the basis of 1940 interest yields, their superiority to
other issues makes them the only sensible purchase of this type. The reason is, of course, that it is not possible to obtain a significantly higher
return on investment issues (save for a few obscure exceptions) without
injecting an element of principal risk which makes the commitment
unsound. In addition the holder’s redemption right before maturity is a
very valuable feature of the bonds. If only small investors as a class would
resolutely reject the various types of “savings plans,” with their multifarious titles, now being offered to them with an ostensible “sure income
return” of 4 to 6%, and thankfully take advantage of the 2.90% available
on United States Savings Bonds, we are convinced that they would save in
the aggregate an enormous amount of money, trouble and heartbreak.

Fixed-value Investments

[255]

But even if the ordinary investment problems of most investors could
be thus simply disposed of, many investors would remain who must consider other types of fixed-value investment. These include: (1) institutional investors of all kinds, e.g., savings and commercial banks, insurance
companies, educational and philanthropic agencies; (2) other large
investors, e.g., corporations and wealthy individuals; (3) those with moderate income derived wholly from investments, since the maximum
annual return ultimately obtainable from United States Savings Bonds is
limited to $2,500 per annum.1 It is true also that many smaller investors
will for one reason or another prefer to place part of their funds in other
types of fixed-value investment.
The second alternative, viz., to speculate instead of investing, is
entirely too dangerous for the typical person who is building up his capital out of savings or business profits. The disadvantages of ignorance, of
human greed, of mob psychology, of trading costs, of weighting of the
dice by insiders and manipulators,2 will in the aggregate far overbalance
the purely theoretical superiority of speculation in that it offers profit possibilities in return for the assumption of risk. We have, it is true, repeatedly argued against the acceptance of an admitted risk to principal
without the presence of a compensating chance for profit. In so doing,
however, we have not advocated speculation in place of investment but
only intelligent speculation in preference to obviously unsound and illadvised forms of investment. We are convinced that the public generally
will derive far better results from fixed-value investments, if selected with
exceeding care, than from speculative operations, even though these may
be aided by considerable education in financial matters. It may well be
that the results of investment will prove disappointing; but if so, the
results of speculation would have been disastrous.
The third alternative—to look for investment merit combined with
an opportunity for profit—presents, we believe, a suitable field for the talents of the securities analyst. But it is a dangerous objective to hold before
the untrained investor. He can readily be persuaded that safety exists
1 This is based on the maximum $7,500 permitted each year to one individual. After the
tenth year of continued investment, an annual income of $2,500 would accrue via the maturity of a $10,000 unit each year and its replacement by a new $7,500 subscription.
2 This factor has been greatly reduced by the operation of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.

[256]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

where there is only promise or, conversely, that an attractive statistical
showing is alone sufficient to warrant purchase.
Having thus considered the three alternative policies open to those
with capital funds, we see that fixed-value investment in the traditional
field of high-grade bonds and preferred stocks remains a necessary and
desirable activity for many individuals and corporate bodies. It is quite
clear also that periodic reexamination of investment holdings is necessary to reduce the risk of loss. What principles and practical methods can
be followed in such supervision?

Principles and Problems of Systematic Supervision; Switching.
It is generally understood that the investor should examine his holdings
at intervals to see whether or not all of them may still be regarded as
entirely safe and that if the soundness of any issue has become questionable, he should exchange it for a better one. In making such a “switch” the
investor must be prepared to accept a moderate loss on the holding he
sells out, which loss he must charge against his aggregate investment
income.
In the early years of systematic investment supervision, this policy
worked out extremely well. Seasoned securities of the high-grade type
tended to cling rather tenaciously to their established price levels and frequently failed to reflect a progressive deterioration of their intrinsic position until some time after this impairment was discoverable by analysis.
It was possible, therefore, for the alert investor to sell out such holdings
to some heedless and unsuspecting victim, who was attracted by the reputation of the issue and the slight discount at which it was obtainable in
comparison with other issues of its class. The impersonal character of the
securities market relieves this procedure of any ethical stigma, and it is
considered merely as establishing a proper premium for shrewdness and
a deserved penalty for lack of care.
Increased Sensitivity of Security Prices. In more recent years, however,
investment issues have lost what may have been called their “price inertia,” and their quotations have come to reflect promptly any materially
adverse development. This fact creates a serious difficulty in the way of
effective switching to maintain investment quality. By the time that any
real impairment of security is manifest, the issue may have fallen in price
not only to a speculative level but to a level even lower than the decline

Fixed-value Investments

[257]

in earnings would seem to justify.3 (One reason for this excessive price
decline is that an unfavorable apparent trend has come to influence prices
even more severely than the absolute earnings figures.) The owner’s natural reluctance to accept a large loss is reinforced by the reasonable belief
that he would be selling the issue at an unduly low price, and he is likely
to find himself compelled almost unavoidably to assume a speculative
position with respect to that security.

Exceptional Margins of Safety as Insurance against Doubt. The
only effective means of meeting this difficulty lies in following counsels
of perfection in making the original investment. The degree of safety
enjoyed by the issue, as shown by quantitative measures, must be so far
in excess of the minimum standards that a large shrinkage can be suffered
before its position need be called into question. Such a policy should
reduce to a very small figure the proportion of holdings about which the
investor will subsequently find himself in doubt. It would also permit him
to make his exchanges when the showing of the issue is still comparatively strong and while, therefore, there is a better chance that the
market price will have been maintained.
Example and Conclusion. As a concrete example, let us assume that
the investor buys an issue such as the Liggett and Myers Tobacco Company Debenture 5s, due 1951, which earned their interest an average of
nearly twenty times in 1934–1938, as compared with the minimum
requirement of three times. If a decline in profits should reduce the coverage to four times, he might prefer to switch into some other issue
(if one can be found) that is earning its interest eight to ten times. On
these assumptions he would have a fair chance of obtaining a full price
for the Liggett and Myers issue, since it would still be making an impressive exhibit. But if the influence of the downward trend of earnings has
depressed the quotation to a large discount, then he could decide to retain
the issue rather than accept an appreciable loss. In so doing he would have
the great advantage of being able to feel that the safety of investment was
still not in any real danger.
3 Many railroad bonds have proved an exception to this statement since 1933. Note, for
example, that Baltimore and Ohio Railroad First 4s, due 1948, sold at 1091/2 in 1936,
although the margin over total interest charges had long been much too small. In 1938
these bonds sold at 341/4.

[258]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Such a policy of demanding very high safety margins would obviously
prove especially beneficial if a period of acute depression and market
unsettlement should supervene. It is not practicable, however, to recommend this as a standard practice for all investors, because the supply of
such strongly buttressed issues is too limited, and because, further, it is
contrary to human nature for investors to take extreme precautions
against future collapse when current conditions make for optimism.4

Policy in Depression. Assuming that the investor has exercised merely
reasonable caution in the choice of his fixed-value holdings, how will he
fare and what policy should he follow in a period of depression? If the
depression is a moderate one, his investments should be only mildly
affected marketwise and still less in their intrinsic position. If conditions
should approximate those of 1930–1933, he could not hope to escape a
severe shrinkage in the quotations and considerable uneasiness over the
safety of his holdings. But any reasoned policy of fixed-value investment
requires the assumption that disturbances of the 1930–1933 amplitude are
nonrecurring in their nature and need not be specifically guarded against
in the future. If the 1921–1922 and the 1937–1938 experiences are
accepted instead as typical of the “recurrent severe depression,” a carefully
selected investment list should give a reasonably good account of itself in
such a period. The investor should not be stampeded into selling out holdings with a strong past record because of a current decline in earnings.
He is likely, however, to pay more attention than usual to the question
of improving the quality of his securities, and in many cases it should be
possible to gain some benefits through carefully considered switches.
The experiences of the 1937–1938 “recession” offer strong corroboration of the foregoing analysis. Practically all senior securities that would
have met our stringent requirements at the end of 1936 came through the
ensuing setback without serious damage marketwise. But bonds that have
sold at high levels despite an inadequate over-all earnings coverage—
particularly a large number of railroad issues—suffered an enormous
shrinkage in value. (See our discussion in Chap. 7 and also Appendix
Notes 11 and 13, pages 740 and 742 on accompanying CD.)
4 We must caution the reader, however, against assuming that very large coverage of interest

charges is, in itself, a complete assurance of safety. An operating loss eliminates the margin
of safety, however high it may have been. Hence, inherent stability is an essential requirement, as we emphasize in our Studebaker example given in Chap. 2.

Fixed-value Investments

[259]

Sources of Investment Advice and Supervision. Supervision of
securities involves the question of who should do it as well as how to do
it. Investors have the choice of various agencies for this purpose, of which
the more important are the following:
1. The investor himself.
2. His commercial bank.
3. An investment banking (or underwriting) house.
4. A New York Stock Exchange firm.
5. The advisory department of a large trust company.
6. Independent investment counsel or supervisory service.

The last two agencies charge fees for their service, whereas the three
preceding supply advice and information gratis.5
Advice from Commercial Bankers. The investor should not be his own
sole consultant unless he has training and experience sufficient to qualify him to advise others professionally. In most cases he should at least
supplement his own judgment by conference with others. The practice of
consulting one’s bank about investments is widespread, and it is undeniably of great benefit, especially to the smaller investor. If followed consistently it would afford almost complete protection against the hypnotic
wiles of the high-pressure stock salesman and his worthless “blue sky”
flotations.6 It is doubtful, however, if the commercial banker is the most
suitable adviser to an investor of means. Although his judgment is usually sound, his knowledge of securities is likely to be somewhat superficial, and he cannot be expected to spare the time necessary for a
thoroughgoing analysis of his clients’ holdings and problems.
Advice from Investment Banking Houses. There are objections of
another kind to the advisory service of an investment banking house. An
institution with securities of its own to sell cannot be looked to for entirely
impartial guidance. However ethical its aims may be, the compelling force
of self-interest is bound to affect its judgment. This is particularly true
5 A growing number of Stock Exchange firms now supply investment advice on a fee basis.
6 Under S.E.C. supervision the “blue-sky flotation” of the old school has largely disappeared
from interstate commerce, its place being taken by small but presumably legitimate enterprises which are sold to the public at excessively high prices. Numerous other types of fraud
are still fairly prevalent, as can be seen from the 1938 report of the Better Business Bureau
of New York City.

[260]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

when the advice is supplied by a bond salesman whose livelihood depends
upon persuading his customers to buy the securities that his firm has
“on its shelves.” It is true that the reputable underwriting houses consider
themselves as bound in some degree by a fiduciary responsibility toward
their clients. The endeavor to give them sound advice and to sell them
suitable securities arises not only from the dictates of good business practice but more compellingly from the obligations of a professional code
of ethics.
Nevertheless, the sale of securities is not a profession but a business
and is necessarily carried on as such. Although in the typical transaction
it is to the advantage of the seller to give the buyer full value and satisfaction, conditions may arise in which their interests are in serious conflict.
Hence it is impracticable, and in a sense unfair, to require investment
banking houses to act as impartial advisers to buyers of securities; and,
broadly speaking, it is unwise for the investor to rely primarily upon the
advice of sellers of securities.
Advice from New York Stock Exchange Firms. The investment departments of the large Stock Exchange firms present a somewhat different
picture. Although they also have a pecuniary interest in the transactions
of their customers, their advice is much more likely to be painstaking and
thoroughly impartial. Stock Exchange houses do not ordinarily own securities for sale. Although at times they participate in selling operations,
which carry larger allowances than the ordinary market commission,
their interest in pushing such individual issues is less vital than that of
the underwriting houses who actually own them. At bottom, the investment business or bond department of Stock Exchange firms is perhaps
more important to them as a badge of respectability than for the profits
it yields. Attacks made upon them as agencies of speculation may be
answered in part by pointing to the necessary services that they render
to conservative investors. Consequently, the investor who consults a large
Stock Exchange firm regarding a small bond purchase is likely to receive
time and attention out of all proportion to the commission involved.
Admittedly this practice is found profitable in the end, as a cold business
proposition, because a certain proportion of the bond customers later
develop into active stock traders. In behalf of the Stock Exchange houses
it should be said that they make no effort to persuade their bond clients
to speculate in stocks, but the atmosphere of a brokerage office is perhaps
not without its seductive influence.

Fixed-value Investments

[261]

Advice from Investment Counsel. Although the idea of giving investment
advice on a fee basis is not a new one, it has only recently developed into an
important financial activity. The work is now being done by special departments of large trust companies, by a division of the statistical services, and
by private firms designating themselves as investment counsel or investment
consultants. The advantage of such agencies is that they can be entirely
impartial, having no interest in the sale of any securities or in any commission on their client’s transactions. The chief disadvantage is the cost of the
service, which averages about 1/2% per annum on the principal involved. As
applied strictly to investment funds this charge would amount to about 1/7
or 1/8 of the annual income, which must be considered substantial.
In order to make their fees appear less burdensome, some of the private investment consultants endeavor to forecast the general course of the
bond market and to advise their clients as to when to buy or sell. It is
doubtful if trading in bonds, to catch the market swings, can be carried
on successfully by the investor. If the course of the bond market can be
predicted, it should be possible to predict that of the stock market as well,
and there would be undoubted technical advantages in trading in stocks
rather than in bonds. We are sceptical of the ability of any paid agency to
provide reliable forecasts of the market action of either bonds or stocks.
Furthermore we are convinced that any combined effort to advise upon
the choice of individual high-grade investments and upon the course of
bond prices is fundamentally illogical and confusing. Much as the investor
would like to be able to buy at just the right time and to sell out when
prices are about to fall, experience shows that he is not likely to be brilliantly successful in such efforts and that by injecting the trading element
into his investment operations he will disrupt the income return on his
capital and inevitably shift his interest into speculative directions.
It is not clear as yet whether or not advice on a fee basis will work out
satisfactorily in the field of standard high-grade investments, because of
their relatively small income return. In the purely speculative field the
objection to paying for advice is that if the adviser knew whereof he spoke
he would not need to bother with a consultant’s duties. It may be that the
profession of adviser on securities will find its most practicable field
in the intermediate region, where the adviser will deal with problems arising from depreciated investments, and where he will propose advantageous exchanges and recommend bargain issues selling considerably
below their intrinsic value.

This page intentionally left blank

PART III

SENIOR SECURITIES
WITH SPECULATIVE
FEATURES

Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

This page intentionally left blank

Introduc tion to Par t III

“ B LO O D A N D J U D G E M E N T ”
B Y J. E Z R A M E R K I N

I

f the names of Graham and Dodd are a talisman for value investors,
they are practically a sacrament for those who focus on bankrupt companies. After all, bankruptcy, or distressed, investing is perhaps the

purest form of value investing, the natural home for those who take Graham and Dodd seriously. In effect, distressed investing is a form of value
investing at a substantial discount. The former astronaut and airline CEO
Frank Borman has opined that “capitalism without bankruptcy is like Christianity without hell.” Not only is bankruptcy an inherent feature of the
landscape of risk, but the term “distressed investing” might ultimately be
redundant for the true disciple of Graham and Dodd. Because the average
observer does not view the securities of bankrupt or nearly bankrupt companies as a classic safe haven, we need to understand a bit more about the
authors’ understanding of “investing” and how that matches up with the
characteristics of distressed investing. In that light, it will become apparent
that distressed investing is a classic Graham and Dodd discipline.
Today, you can easily go online and buy 100 shares of Microsoft or
Apple, and we would say that those who do so have invested in those
companies. Graham and Dodd would demur. They view investment as “a
convenient omnibus word, with perhaps an admixture of euphemism—
that is, a desire to lend a certain respectability to financial dealings of

I am deeply grateful for the assistance of Jerome Balsam, general counsel at Gabriel Capital Group, in
preparing this introduction.

[265]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[266]

Introduction to Part III

miscellaneous character.” (p. 100) For the authors, investment is to be
contrasted with speculation, and they argue: “It should be essential,
therefore, for anyone engaging in financial operations to know whether
he is investing or speculating and, if the latter, to make sure that his
speculation is a justifiable one.” (p. 101)
Thus, the authors caution that “bonds should be bought on a
depression basis” because an investment cannot be sound unless it can
withstand true adversity. (p. 154) Think about that!—on a depression
basis. Moreover, while Graham and Dodd favor the reader with 727
pages of analysis, examples, charts, and advice, they caution that “stock
speculation,” that is, probably the majority of security purchases and
sales made by Americans today, “does not come within the scope of this
volume.” (p. 29) At nearly seven decades’ remove from Graham and
Dodd’s second edition, and even further from the Great Crash of 1929,
the language, let alone the permanent frame of mind, of disciplined
austerity does not come easily to the contemporary investor (let alone
speculator). Many repeat the mantras of value investing; few—even
among those who appreciate their wisdom—practice them consistently.
It is easy to get caught up with the crowd when the market is booming,
harder to think about what securities are really worth.
The temptation to speculate recurs regularly, as animal spirits send
markets soaring beyond valuations that the fundamentals would justify.
It is not easy to stay on the sidelines while others are busy getting rich.
In our generation, perhaps the ultimate example of speculation for the
sake of speculation came with the dot-com boom. It is then that prudence and caution give way to excitement, and propositions that would
ordinarily sound ridiculous become strangely plausible. It’s just like when
Big Julie, in the classic Broadway musical Guys and Dolls, challenged
Nathan Detroit to a game of craps played with dice that had no dots,
other than those Big Julie claimed he could see.

J. Ezra Merkin

[267]

Early in 2000, near the top of the market, Arthur J. Samberg, head of
the well-regarded hedge fund Pequot Capital Management and a topnotch technology investor, shared his four favorite stocks with the Barron’s Roundtable. (They were Critical Path, Double Click, Kana
Communications, and Message Media.) The Graham and Dodd who cautioned that “the notion that the desirability of a common stock was
entirely independent of its price seems inherently absurd” (p. 359) would
have blanched when Samberg said:
I’ll give you no numbers. I’ll give you no prices. I am not going to tell you
which ones are going to succeed or fail. I think they are all pretty good
companies, and if you bought a package of these stocks over the next
three to four years, you would do very well. . . . I hear this stuff all the time,
about how it is a bubble, it’s ridiculous. If you just use the numbers to do
this stuff, number one, you won’t buy them, which is probably a good
thing for some people. But you will never understand the amount of
change that’s going on, and how much is still ahead of us.

How the authors would have protested! I’ll give you no numbers? But
numbers are the raw material of the Graham and Dodd search for value.
I’ll give you no prices? Whether a security is a good buy or not is a function of its price relative to its value. Almost any security, regardless of its
characteristics, can be cheap or dear: it all depends how much you have
to pay for it.1
Distressed investors inevitably declare their allegiance to Graham and
Dodd. They take comfort with the authors’ ascetic posture and believe in
their mantras. They do not dream of “ten-baggers,” though, on rare occasions, they may come. The idea is to find valuable assets or inherently
1 Mason Hawkins and Staley Cates of the Longleaf family of funds, among the most successful Gra-

ham and Dodd acolytes of our era, emphasize what they call the price-to-value ratio of the stocks
they buy. They “talk so frequently about buying companies at ‘60% of intrinsic value or less’ it sounds
almost like a religious chant. But their method works.” Steven Goldberg, “Want to Win at Fund Investing? Learn from Longleaf,” Kiplinger.com, May 22, 2007.

[268]

Introduction to Part III

profitable companies that have nonetheless leveraged themselves up to
levels of debt unsustainable by their cash flows.2
Graham and Dodd’s margin of safety sends investors to scrutinize the
balance sheet and projected earnings. They perform the analytical function that the authors endorse, apply the same skills, study the same documents. For them, the balance sheet is the main thing, far more than
earnings, if for no other reason than necessity, as most bankrupt companies no longer have earnings. Graham and Dodd devote Part VI of the
1940 edition, nearly 70 pages, to balance sheet analysis. In the context of
equity investing, the authors prize stocks that sell below their current
asset, or liquidating, value. They preach: “When a common stock sells persistently below its liquidating value, then either the price is too low or the
company should be liquidated.” (p. 563) If you buy a security below liquidation value, you should not get hurt, even if liquidation is in the offing.
This is true for shareholders; how much more so for creditors, who precede shareholders in the hierarchy of claims.

The Varieties of Bankruptcy
I would like to suggest a typology of bankruptcy investing, consistent, I
believe, with Graham and Dodd’s approach. We will find that there are two
types of bankruptcies, which are, in effect, three. First, there are (1) liquidations, which are the purest Graham and Dodd exercise of all, as the
investor buys a security to create a workout that is entirely (or nearly
entirely) cash. It is a rate-of-return play, as the investor makes a judgment
that the balance sheet will support cash distributions above those implied
by the current prices of the securities. What’s more, these distributions will
be received soon enough to create a rate of return that justifies the risk
involved. Second, there are reorganizations, which come in two flavors: (2)
those producing a mélange of cash and securities and (3) those in which
2 This is especially true for reorganizations, more so than for liquidations, a distinction on which I
shall elaborate presently.

J. Ezra Merkin

[269]

the investor’s goal is control of the reorganized company. In the second
type of bankruptcy, “cash and securities” can consist of a bewildering array
of paper: senior debt, senior subordinated debt, mezzanine debt, junior
debt, preferred stock, and equity. The third type of bankruptcy, in which
the investor seeks control, is a polar opposite of a liquidation, in that the
hope is to achieve profit from seizing control of a going concern rather
than reaping the proceeds of the sale of its parts. The first and third types
of bankruptcy are conceptually simpler to structure, unlike the cash and
securities reorganizations, which have an intermediate goal (get some
cash out of the business at the outset and then hope it will prove profitable going forward) but the greatest structural complexity.
In almost all cases of distressed investing, holding periods start at a
year or two and can stretch longer—considerably longer when the
investor takes a controlling position in the company. Whereas Charles
Dickens once wrote to a friend that the character he most enjoyed portraying was “the rogue who transforms himself in a blink of an eye and
thereby instantly earns his eternal reward,” it is not the nature of a distressed investment to realize its goals in the blink of an eye or even in
the turn of a quarter or two. The process is necessarily drawn out, and
investors cannot easily wait till the end of the process to buy because
the product is often illiquid, all the more so when the investor wishes to
accumulate enough securities to achieve control.
In effect, the bankruptcy investor acts as the incubator, buying tadpoles and selling frogs. In liquidations, the frogs are very green: the
investor receives cash and, sometimes, a small amount of senior debt; in
reorganizations, on the other hand, the investor may receive a mélange,
or what I like to call a “grab bag,” of cash, senior debt, junior debt, and
new equity in a reorganized company. At the extreme, where the frogs
are greenest—in a liquidation—the investor is essentially creating cash
at a discount, weighted for time and risk. As the investor moves from
liquidation to reorganization to control reorganization, he or she moves

[270]

Introduction to Part III

away from classic Graham and Dodd balance sheet analysis toward
more speculative endeavors.
Distressed investors combine a financial analysis of a company’s capital structure with a legal analysis of the rights and prerogatives of bondholders at each level of the capital structure. As the authors noted,
litigation can be necessary “to cut the Gordian knot” when “creditors . . .
belong to several classes with conflicting interests.” (p. 234) Blending the
financial and legal analysis is crucial. As distressed investors contemplate
an investment, their financial flexibility is defined and limited by the
legal remedies made available by specific covenants and broader contract and bankruptcy law; simultaneously, their legal rights are circumscribed by what is financially achievable.3 In other words, distressed
investors cross-reference the legally permissible with the financially
doable. When they find the desired fit, they invest.
A few examples of recent (and not so recent) coups in distressed
investing give an idea of what takes place in the field. These examples
also suggest that, while individual investors may have success picking
stocks, it is far more difficult for them to partake in distressed investing.
Doing well in the bankruptcy process often entails expenditures of time
and resources that are beyond their capabilities.

Liquidations
Texaco: A Quasi-bankruptcy
In the standard liquidation, senior creditors are paid off as best as the
company’s assets will allow; sometimes, unsecured creditors are fortu-

3 When Graham and Dodd wrote Security Analysis, the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, also known as the
“Nelson Act,” was the law of the land. While bankruptcy procedure has since changed, with the 1978
adoption of the Bankruptcy Code and some subsequent amendments, most recently the Bankruptcy
Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005, these legal changes do not undermine the
general principles laid out by the authors.

J. Ezra Merkin

[271]

nate enough to receive a meaningful distribution too. In the rare cases
when even unsecured creditors are paid in full, the equity is not wiped
out. The very unusual story of Texaco—founded in 1901 as Texas Fuel
Company, eventually merged into Chevron a century later—offers useful
lessons about liquidations, even though Texaco was not liquidated and,
notwithstanding its bankruptcy filings, was never insolvent. Ultimately,
Texaco is most significant as an example of the use of the Bankruptcy
Code as an escape hatch, to evade legal or contractual liabilities.4
Distressed investing generally involves buying debt instruments of a
troubled company, because in most bankruptcies the equity is wiped out.
That is not always the case, however, and sometimes an astute investor can
find riches in the equity of a distressed company, as demonstrated by Carl
Icahn in the case of Texaco. Here’s what led the oil giant to bankruptcy.
In 1984, Texaco acquired Getty Oil Company, but it was sued by
Pennzoil, which contended that Texaco had interfered with its prior contract to buy part of Getty. The following year, a jury determined Texaco
was wrong and awarded Pennzoil $10.3 billion. To appeal the judgment,
Texaco would have had to post a multi-billion-dollar security bond,
which it could not do. Therefore, in 1987, Texaco filed for protection from
its creditors under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. This was not a
real bankruptcy but rather a nearly sui generis use of bankruptcy law to
fend off legal obligations. Although Texaco was legally bankrupt, it was
never insolvent. Upon the heels of the filing, Texaco’s stock fell from
nearly $32 to $28.50 before rebounding to $31.25. As an oil analyst put it
at the time, “While Texaco will be in bankruptcy, Texaco won’t be a bankrupt company.”5 Time magazine summarized the benefits to Texaco of
this unconventional bankruptcy:

4 Time, “Bankruptcy as an Escape Hatch,” March 5, 1984.
5 Janice Castro, “A Break in the Action,” Time, April 27, 1987.

[272]

Introduction to Part III

Taking advantage of liberalized bankruptcy laws enacted in 1978, which
no longer require corporations to demonstrate that they are insolvent,6
the oil giant is immune, for the moment, from far more than the debilitating bond judgment. Pennzoil can no longer slap liens, as it was reportedly preparing to do, on up to $8 billion in Texaco assets. With $3 billion
already in reserve, Texaco no longer has to pay $630 million worth of
annual interest on $7 billion in normal business debts. Nor is it required
to pay dividends on 242.3 million outstanding common shares, an estimated saving this year of nearly $727 million.7

Eventually, Texaco was able to settle with Pennzoil for a massive, but
at least manageable, $3 billion, and it emerged from bankruptcy.8 Most
of the distressed investing community focused on Texaco’s senior securities, such as preferred stock and bonds. Icahn, who had owned Texaco
stock before the bankruptcy, increased his holdings dramatically after
the Chapter 11 filing, eventually raising his stake to 16.6% of the company. Obviously, he was banking that the reorganization of Texaco would
not wipe out the equity. It was a very good call. After conducting an
unsuccessful proxy fight and making a play for the entire company, Icahn
successfully negotiated for a special dividend of $8 per share to stockholders, for a total of $1.9 billion. In addition, Texaco announced a $500
million stock buyback. At the end, Icahn had made $1.1 billion, or a
return of over 75%.9
6 Texaco is but one example of how the Bankruptcy Code may be used as an escape hatch. Crucially,

in NLRB v. Bildisco & Bildisco, 465 U.S. 513 (1984), the Supreme Court held that a company may use
section 365(a) of the code, which permits the bankruptcy trustee to assume or reject executory contracts, to escape from the terms of a collective-bargaining agreement by which it had been bound.
7 Ibid.
8 For an overview of the Texaco bankruptcy and Icahn’s subsequent jousting with the company, see

Mark Potts, “With Icahn Agreement, Texaco Emerges from Years of Trying Times,” Washington Post,
February 5, 1989, p. H2.
9 Michael Arndt, “Texaco, Icahn Make a Deal,” Chicago Tribune, January 30, 1989, p. C3. Maybe the

best bankruptcy investment of all is to try the case that sends the company into bankruptcy. Forbes
pegs the net worth of Joseph Jamail, Jr., the plaintiff’s lawyer in Pennzoil v. Texaco, at $1.5 billion.

J. Ezra Merkin

[273]

Texaco’s unusual situation can be summarized in one sentence, often
repeated by Graham and Dodd disciple Warren Buffett: A great investment opportunity occurs when a marvelous business encounters a onetime huge, but solvable, problem. The tale also serves as an example of
how perceptions had changed since Graham and Dodd’s day. Here was a
bankruptcy in which the equity was not wiped out—and no one
expected it to be wiped out—whereas Graham and Dodd had argued
that bondholders would be best off not enforcing their rights to the hilt
because “receivership” (to say nothing of “bankruptcy”) was so dreaded a
word on Wall Street that “its advent means ordinarily a drastic shrinkage
in the price of all the company’s securities, including the bonds for the
‘benefit’ of which the receivership was instituted.” (p. 230) By illuminating
bankruptcy, they made it not so scary. This change in perceptions is not
to the discredit of the authors. Indeed, they probably were indispensable
to the shift, in light of their role in educating the investing public. Call it
the Graham and Dodd Heisenberg effect. In light of Graham and Dodd,
the game shifted, all the way to Carl Icahn. The effect may be similarly
present in the authors’ relatively concise discussion of distressed investing. Their brevity is readily understandable not only because the field
has grown since Graham and Dodd published but because the themes
sounded throughout their work are inherently applicable to this mode,
such that dedicating a chapter to distressed investing as such would
have been nearly superfluous.

Grab Bag Reorganizations
In Graham and Dodd’s terminology, we move away from investment
toward speculation when we shift focus from liquidations to reorganizations that include cash plus a bag of securities. At the end of the reorganization process, the investor may hold several kinds of paper, each of
which may be valued differently.

[274]

Introduction to Part III

Adelphia Communications
Because companies often issue different classes of debt, bankruptcy litigation commonly involves a battle among the different classes of creditors. The bankruptcy of Adelphia Communications offers an example of
intercreditor strife and of how an accurate projection of the outcome can
lead to outsize returns.
John Rigas, the son of Greek immigrants, founded Adelphia in 1952,
which rose to become one of the largest cable companies in the United
States. Rigas was a pioneer in the industry, inducted into the Cable Television Hall of Fame in 2001. He also became a billionaire, owner of the
Buffalo Sabres, and philanthropic hero of Coudersport, Pennsylvania,
where his business empire got started. As the company grew, Rigas did
not run a tight ship. At one point, Adelphia’s debt reached 11 times its
market capitalization, compared to ratios of 1.28 for Comcast and 0.45
for Cox Communications.10 The whole edifice unraveled when an investment analyst figured out that the company was liable for $2.3 billion in
off-balance-sheet loans to Rigas family members, which they used to
buy Adelphia stock. Eventually, Adelphia filed for Chapter 11, and, in
August 2007, Rigas went to federal prison for conspiracy, securities fraud,
and bank fraud.
Adelphia’s bankruptcy featured intercreditor disputes over the proceeds. Even after the company’s assets had been sold to Time Warner
and Comcast—this being a reorganization, not a liquidation—there was
still intense litigation between the bondholders of the holding company,
Adelphia, and of a large subsidiary, Century Communications. Eventually,
the Century bondholders agreed to a 3% decrease in their recovery in
exchange for the support of several large bondholders for the plan of
reorganization. For the most part, the plan maintained the structural
10 These figures, and certain other details, come from Devin Leonard, “The Adelphia Story,” Fortune,
August 12, 2002.

J. Ezra Merkin

[275]

integrity of the Century bonds, while enabling Adelphia to emerge from
bankruptcy. The plan was eventually approved, notwithstanding some
remaining opposition from Adelphia bondholders. A contemporaneous
increase in cable valuations, as well as strong results from industry leaders Time Warner and Comcast, helped Adelphia to garner the votes it
needed in support of the plan. Those who bought Century bonds at the
bottom and held them through a contentious and protracted legal
process enjoyed a return of over 400%. In general, creditors received a
combination of cash and Time Warner Cable Class A common stock, with
percentage recoveries as of August 31, 2007, varying from 100% for certain trade claims to 99.6% for senior subordinated notes, 94.7% for some
senior notes, 83.7% for senior discount notes, 70.7% for other senior
notes, and a variety of other percentages down to 0% for Adelphia common stock, preferred stock, and convertible preferred stock.11

Winn-Dixie Stores
As it filed for bankruptcy in February 2005, Winn-Dixie was the eighthlargest food retailer in the United States, with revenues of $9.9 billion. The
company was founded by William Milton Davis in 1914, and at the time of
the bankruptcy Davis’s heirs still owned 35% of the common stock. WinnDixie’s Chapter 11 filing was precipitated by overexpansion and severe
competition, primarily fueled by Publix Super Markets and Wal-Mart
Stores. There was doubt whether the Florida-based company could
emerge, but there were also reasons for optimism. The new CEO was the
well-respected Peter Lynch, formerly the president and COO of Albertson’s.
As he asserted his leadership and operations stabilized, vendors cautiously
supported the reorganization plan. The company closed or sold a third of
its stores, downsizing distribution operations and headcount.

11 Information on Distribution to Certain Classes of Claims (available at
www.adelphiarestructuring.com).

[276]

Introduction to Part III

Still, vendors were reluctant to extend credit to Winn-Dixie, so the
company was unable to enjoy the “float” available to grocery stores that
turn over inventory before they have to pay for it. Some investors concluded that the company was likely to receive credit, unwind pent-up
working capital, and once again take advantage of the float as it
emerged from bankruptcy. In addition, they looked forward to the company’s ability, as part of the supermarket industry, to operate with negative working capital and receive significant fees for shelf space.
Moreover, Winn-Dixie had long-term leases at below-market rents. Management’s strategy, which included leasing space to Boston Markets
rather than operating its own roasted chicken counters, made sense to
investors. Thus, those who invested in Winn-Dixie were less concerned
than much of Wall Street that the company would fritter away its cash.
During the second quarter of 2006, Winn-Dixie bonds were available at
under 60 cents on the dollar, as the company was then effectively valued
at under $450 million, or approximately 5% of revenue. This was a rare
contemporary example of being able to buy a company for net working
capital, or one whose mark-to-market enterprise value was under 10% of
revenue. Graham and Dodd surely would have approved. Winn-Dixie
emerged from bankruptcy in December 2006. By the end of the second
quarter of 2007, on the heels of its emergence, the company’s enterprise
value had tripled to $1.4 billion.

Bradlees
At the conclusion of a grab bag reorganization, creditors may find themselves in a very different position from the one they occupied at the outset. As Graham and Dodd note, voting control over the corporation can
pass in bankruptcy to the bondholders, who will then become equity
holders in the new entity that enjoys a statutory fresh start. (p. 238) Thus,
even though most distressed investments are made in debt rather than
equity, there is an important equity component to the bankruptcy

[277]

J. Ezra Merkin

process. (The authors point out that debt may, of course, be exchanged
for equity under voluntary reorganization plans too. [pp. 236–237])
An example was Bradlees, a retailer that emerged from bankruptcy in
early 1999. Bondholders received cash, new notes, and equity. The stock
was hammered in the aftermath of the diminution in demand for all distressed securities at the end of 1998. At the bottom, Bradlees had nearly
$138 of sales per share of common stock, in contrast with the concededly more successful Wal-Mart’s $31. In the second quarter of 1999, Wall
Street woke up to the disparity, and Bradlees was the best-performing
over-the-counter stock of that three-month period. The new bonds shot
up in value too. By July, the total Bradlees postbankruptcy securities
package had reached an aggregate value of $1.55 (see table), in contrast
with a March low of 62 cents. By August 1999, Bradlees’ stocks alone
were worth far more than the old bonds. As the table shows, the equity
portion of these grab bags can be volatile, but they can be rewarding to
the patient investor.

Bradlees’ Grab Bag
Date
Old Bonds

6/30/9812/31/98 2/5/99 3/15/99 3/31/99 5/6/99 5/21/99 5/26/99 6/3/99 6/23/99 6/30/99 7/8/99

0.78 0.50

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Cash

-

-

0.20 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.20

Certificates

-

-

0.06 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.06

New Notes

-

-

0.22 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.26 0.26 0.26 0.27 0.27 0.27

Stock

-

-

0.26 0.14 0.20 0.53 0.58 0.51 0.57 0.84 0.86 1.02

Total

0.78 0.50 0.74 0.62 0.68 1.01 1.10 1.03 1.09 1.37 1.39 1.55

Most distressed investors did not hold on for the entire ride because
they knew Bradlees was no Wal-Mart but they could not predict when
Wall Street would recognize Bradlees’ deficiencies. As the masters taught,
it is difficult to hold a stock for more than a 200% gain “without a dangerous surrender to ‘bull-market psychology.’” (p. 324) Stated otherwise,
be an investor, not a speculator. Eventually, competition caught up with

[278]

Introduction to Part III

Bradlees, which filed a second bankruptcy petition in December 2000
and, this time around, was liquidated.12

Reorganization as Avenue to Control
As we move further down the ladder from classic Graham and Dodd
investing to something approaching speculation, we look at reorganizations that lead to control of the company. Warren Buffett has often
bought debt for a rate of return rather than for the creation of equity
and obtaining of control. He seems reluctant to complete the trip and
become a completely integrated bankruptcy investor. Others, however,
have pushed on for ownership and control.

Guinness Peat Aviation
For Graham and Dodd, low-grade bonds, together with preferred stock,
were Wall Street’s orphans. “The investor [in the Graham and Dodd sense
of the term] must not buy them, and the speculator generally prefers to
devote his attention to common stocks.” (p. 323) And yet, the authors
note, the large supply of these securities and the lack of demand may
make their price attractive.
An example of an attractive low-grade bond, and a fascinating case
study of the evolution of distressed investing, is Guinness Peat Aviation
(GPA), which served as a precursor of today’s common prepackaged
bankruptcies, or “prepacks.” That’s an arrangement in which the debtor
and creditors agree upon a reorganization plan before the bankruptcy filing, thereby making it much easier and more cost-efficient to file a bankruptcy petition and obtain confirmation in court. In GPA’s case, the
bankruptcy filing never proved necessary.
GPA was an Ireland-based commercial aircraft sales and leasing company founded in 1975. At its peak, it had 280 aircraft on lease to 83 air12 Reuters, “Bradlees Files for Bankruptcy,” December 26, 2000.

J. Ezra Merkin

[279]

lines. In 1990, the company placed a stunning order for 700 new aircraft,
valued at $17 billion. GPA, however, was a victim of bad timing. It floated
an IPO in 1992, during the downturn in the airline industry that followed
the 1991 Gulf War. The IPO failed to close, and GPA, with some $10 billion in debt thanks to the huge order, was in serious trouble. Its debt
cratered to about half its face value, which is the point at which distressed investors became involved. They snapped up bonds at yields 700
to 950 basis points over Treasuries because they liked the value of the
airplane collateral. Eventually, GPA was rescued by its larger competitor
GE Commercial Aviation Services. It was a great deal for the rescuer
because it could refinance GPA’s debt with the benefit of General Electric’s AAA rating. It was a great deal for distressed investors because once
GE assumed GPA’s obligations, GPA’s bonds became unsecured debt at
the bottom of GE’s balance sheet and still traded nearly at par.
Overnight, the bonds nearly doubled in value.

MCI WorldCom
One of the spectacular corporate collapses early in this century occurred
at WorldCom, the once and future MCI. From at least as early as 1999
and going into 2002, financial officers at the telecommunications company booked routine business costs as capital expenditures, which
understated expenses and thus resulted in an overstatement of income
by at least $9 billion. “In just a few years WorldCom erased $200 billion in
market value and shed thousands of jobs. By July 2002, the fraud and lax
supervision forced WorldCom into bankruptcy.”13
In December 2002, Michael Capellas was hired as the new CEO of the
company as it sought to reorganize. A federal court overseeing the Securities and Exchange Commission’s case against MCI WorldCom appointed
a former SEC chairman, Richard Breeden, as the company’s “corporate
13 Stephanie N. Mehta, “MCI: Is Being Good Good Enough?” Fortune, October 27, 2003.

[280]

Introduction to Part III

monitor.” Thus, Capellas and his management team needed to simultaneously deal with regulatory constraints, clean up the errors and fraud of
their predecessors, and try to do business in a highly competitive market.
Mark Neporent, the chief operating officer of Cerberus Capital Management, one of the distressed investors involved in the bankruptcy,
served as cochairman of the Official Creditors’ Committee.14 With competitors of the reorganizing MCI seeking to exclude the company from
federal contracts, Neporent testified to the Senate Judiciary Committee
with respect to the benefits of the reorganization process:
It is beyond doubt that MCI’s reorganization plan provides creditors with
a much greater chance of recovery than does liquidation, which would
literally throw away billions of dollars of value. MCI’s going-concern value
is estimated to be approximately $12 billion to $15 billion, while its liquidation value is only $4 billion. Not surprisingly, representatives of 90% of
MCI’s debt have quickly and efficiently resolved their internecine differences—exactly as contemplated by the Bankruptcy Code—and have
given their support to MCI’s proposed reorganization plan.15

By 2005, the reorganized MCI was back on its feet again, and its postbankruptcy owners sold the company to Verizon for about $8.4 billion,
comfortably more than the liquidation value averted by reorganization.
MCI was a case in which reorganization as a means of obtaining control
helped to unlock the value of the company’s assets.

Distressed Investing
A fundamental question about value investing in general, and distressed
investing in particular, is why should bargains be available? If the market is
14 Graham and Dodd were concerned that protective committees organized by investment bankers
may fail to protect investor interests impartially. They saluted the 1938 bankruptcy legislation that
subjected the activities and compensation of protective committees to court scrutiny. (pp. 240–241)
Today, of course, the activities of creditors’ committees, which play a major role in reorganizations,
are closely supervised.
15 Neporent’s testimony is available at judiciary.senate.gov.

J. Ezra Merkin

[281]

efficient, as academic theory would hold, why is today’s price not necessarily the very best guess at a security’s true value? Even though they
were professors, Graham and Dodd looked at reality rather than theory,
and they rejected the Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH) developed at the
University of Chicago before it had a name, let alone an acronym. They
famously analogized the market to a voting machine, producing results
that are the product partly of reason and partly of emotion, rather than an
exact and impersonal weighing machine. (p. 70) The authors relied on a
“twofold assumption: first, that the market price is frequently out of line
with the true value; and, second, that there is an inherent tendency for
these disparities to correct themselves.” (pp. 69–70) Before anyone from
the Chicago School has a coronary, let’s hear some more from Graham
and Dodd on the first assumption: “As to the truth of the former statement, there can be very little doubt—even though Wall Street often
speaks glibly of the ‘infallible judgment of the market’ and asserts that ‘a
stock is worth what you can sell it for—neither more nor less.’” (p. 70)
If the market gets the “correct” price “wrong” in ordinary investing,
such error occurs even more frequently in distressed investing. As
implied by the very name distressed investing, purchasers of distressed
securities search for bargains made available by the unhappiness of sellers who bought those securities in happier times. In Graham and Dodd’s
day, when a stock stopped paying dividends, many institutional holders
were compelled by their charters to sell. (pp. 127–128 on accompanying
CD) Today, the same is true of bonds when the issuer stops paying the
coupon. Thus, when a company experiences distress, there are many
forced sellers clamoring for the narrow exit doors, and there are not
enough buyers to widen the door and hold up the “correct” price. Even
the institutions that are not legally bound to sell when a coupon is
missed will often do so anyway. At many institutions, the idea of a workout department is the telephone: pick it up and sell the security. Against
this background, the distressed specialist is making a judgment that the

[282]

Introduction to Part III

securities retain value greater than that ascribed to them by the market
or even their current owners.
Wall Street, moreover, is constitutionally predisposed to overdo
things. The stereotype imagines a Wall Street populated by bulls and
bears. In reality, the Street itself is neither bull nor bear but shark, constantly shifting direction in an eternal search for food. This feeding
process involves massive shifts of capital, which, inevitably, is sometimes
misallocated. As Sir John Templeton reportedly put it, “Bull markets are
born in pessimism, grow on skepticism, mature on optimism, and die on
euphoria.”16 The bankruptcy investor lives off these misallocations. He or
she is long the downstream product of what the Wall Street shark wants
to sell. In good times, Wall Street permits the raising of debt and thereby
the retirement of stock, leading to an acquisition boom. Euphoria in Wall
Street’s debt-creation machine leads to a crash, and that is when the
bankruptcy investor supplies fresh equity and retires debt, frequently at
a discount.
To be sure, things have changed since Graham and Dodd’s time.
Technological advances and the democratization of finance arguably
make the market more efficient. After all, in 1940, you could not instantaneously track the prices of myriad securities via a Bloomberg terminal
or the Internet. You could not construct elaborate Excel spreadsheets
and instantaneously adjust all the figures by changing one number. You
could not receive e-mail alerts whenever there was news about the companies you followed. And there were not thousands of professionals
hunched over computer terminals all day competing for investment bargains. The late, legendary Leon Levy advised novices in the business to
assume that the decisions they are making today are simultaneously
being made by others at hundreds of offices around the country. As a

16 Bill Miller, “Good Times Are Coming!” Time, March 8, 2005.

J. Ezra Merkin

[283]

result, there is a good argument to be made that the markets are more
rational today than when Graham and Dodd wrote. In fact, Graham himself made that argument, during the final year of his life. “In the old days
any well-trained security analyst could do a good professional job of
selecting undervalued securities through detailed studies,” he told an
interviewer in 1976, “but in the light of the enormous amount of
research now being carried on, I doubt whether in most cases such
extensive efforts will generate sufficiently superior selections to justify
their cost.”17 In other words, Professor Graham feared that his work had
been so successful as to render itself obsolete. Not quite. Little did the
professor know that he was just getting started.

Graham and Dodd Today
Graham and Dodd recognized that things change. In the opening paragraph of their preface to the second edition, six years after the first edition, they observed that “things happen too fast in the economic world
to permit the authors to rest comfortably for long.” (p. xli) Sometimes the
authors were restless, appearing to be decades ahead of their time.

The Risk Insight
A prime example of Graham and Dodd’s prescience has found practical
application in an important sector of modern securities markets. Though
the authors, skeptical as always of the rationality of markets, said that
“security prices and yields are not determined by any exact mathematical calculation of the expected risk, but they depend rather upon the
popularity of the issue” (p. 164), they also laid the theoretical foundation,
upon which the edifice was constructed decades later, for high yield
investing. It was the authors who said, “If we assume that a fairly large
17 Kenneth L. Fisher, 100 Minds That Made the Market (New York: Wiley, 2007), p. 61. Fisher goes on to
observe of this late-in-life conversion: “Ironically, Graham’s adoption of ‘the efficient market’ was just
before computer backtests would poke all kind of holes in that theory.”

[284]

Introduction to Part III

proportion of a group of carefully selected low-priced bonds will escape
default, the income received on the group as a whole over a period of
time will undoubtedly far exceed the dividend return on similarly priced
common stocks.” (p. 327)
Others appropriated that idea to help sell junk bonds, especially the
low-grade original issue bonds that took Wall Street by storm in the
1980s. But there is little doubt that Graham and Dodd would have disapproved of such bonds. It’s one thing to buy fallen angels—once
investment-grade bonds whose issuers had fallen on hard times. Those
were usually senior securities that even in the case of a bankruptcy could
lay claim to some assets. Original issue junk had no such backing. Should
those bonds falter, there may not be any recovery at all.
During the 1980s, a significant percentage of the high yield bond
market consisted of securities that had never been sold directly to
investors but were parts of packages of securities and cash given to selling shareholders in acquisitions. The investment bank Drexel Burnham
Lambert perfected this strategy, creating such instruments as zerocoupon bonds (paying no interest for, say, five years) or “pay-in-kind (PIK)
preferreds,” which, instead of paying cash interest, just issued more preferred stock. Almost no one thought these securities were worth their
nominal value, but selling shareholders generally approved the transactions. As the decade ended, however, the junk bond market collapsed
and so did several of Drexel’s deals. These problems, coupled with
Drexel’s legal difficulties with the SEC and prosecutors, led to the firm’s
bankruptcy filing in 1990. Jeffrey Lane, former president of Shearson
Lehman Hutton, observed: “This is the nature of the financial service
business. You go into a steady decline, and then you fall off a cliff.”
It is one thing to buy fallen angels, former investment-grade bonds
whose issues had fallen on hard times, and quite another to issue an
angel that never took wing. Fallen angels were usually senior securities

J. Ezra Merkin

[285]

that could always lay claim to some assets, even in the case of a bankruptcy. The Drexel-designed securities that were exchanged lacked even
this saving grace. They were probably very good examples of what Graham and Dodd most disapproved of in the financial markets. In the
ensuing collapse, most of them had no recovery at all.
Graham and Dodd had the insight that the difference between the
risk-free rate of return and the yields offered by securities of varying risk
created investment opportunities, especially if a diversified portfolio
could lock in high returns while reducing the overall risk. In almost any
kind of investing, returns have at least some (if not a mathematically
exact) connection to the risk-free rate of return, with investors demanding higher returns for greater risk. The premium that investors demand
for high yield bonds over the safety of Fed Funds offers a good snapshot
for the market’s appetite for risk, as seen in this two-decade survey:

ARE YOU GETTING PAID TO TAKE RISK?
14
12
Percentage Points

10

Spread between Merrill
Lynch High Yield Index and
Fed Funds Rate

8
6
4
2

Jan-85
Nov-85
Sep-86
Jul-87
May-88
Mar-89
Jan-90
Nov-90
Sep-91
Jul-92
May-93
Mar-94
Jan-95
Nov-95
Sep-96
Jul-97
May-98
Mar-99
Jan-00
Nov-00
Sep-01
Jul-02
May-03
Mar-04
Jan-05
Nov-05
Sep-06
Jul-07

0

A two-decade survey of the spread between the Merrill Lynch High Yield (MLHY) Index and
the Fed Funds Rate. When the spread is high, high yield bonds are said to be cheap.

[286]

Introduction to Part III

The chart shows this spread over time by subtracting the risk-free
Fed Funds rate from the riskier Merrill Lynch High Yield (MLHY) Index.
The spread serves as a proxy for the returns available for opportunistic capital, including in the field of distressed investing. Unlike, say, venture capital,
with which the investor is seeking a pot of gold (albeit with some diversification so that the occasional winner offsets the losers), the chart is relevant to the large segment of any portfolio designed to create a rate of
return for opportunistic capital. That rate of return available is effectively
tethered to the risk-free rate, and the spread shown in the chart is the
simplest, and perhaps best, measure of where markets have priced it
over the last two decades.
The yields move in tandem most of the time, but the real opportunities come when they move in opposite directions—that is, when the
spread expands, it is time to buy; when it compresses, to sell. Note the
vast expansion in the spread from 1989 to 1991, which reflected some
weakness in the economy and led to the reelection defeat of George H.
W. Bush even though things had begun to improve before Election Day
1992. The spread was very narrow during the stock market boom of 1998,
began to expand as the dot-com bubble reached its peak, and exploded
after the bubble burst. The spread, which had expanded to under 1,200
basis points by the end of 2002, had shrunk to about 700 basis points by
the end of 2003, less than 400 by the start of 2006, and under 200 in early
2007. This powerful compression of yields served as a springboard for a
revaluation for all asset classes for which the High Yield Index is a proxy.
When the spread is at its widest, as in 1991 or 2002, investors are paid
handsomely for risk. When the spread is at its narrowest, as in early 2007,
the market is too sanguine about risk, and it becomes time to sell. Of
course, it is very difficult to predict where the spread will move tomorrow
or next week, but opportunistic investors recognize diversions from the
norm. When the spread is particularly wide, they go fishing; when it is
particularly narrow, they stay close to home and mend their nets.

J. Ezra Merkin

[287]

The way life works, of course, is that at times of wide spreads, with
huge opportunities available for alternative investment, it is extremely
difficult to raise capital in the area. Thus, once the spread narrows and
opportunities are fewer, money flows into alternatives. As Leon Levy was
wont to say: When you have the ideas, you can’t get the money; when
you can get the money, you don’t have the ideas. In this respect,
investors in the distressed investing sector do not behave so differently
from retail stock market investors.

First Principles and Paradigm Shifts
It is easy to acknowledge that seemingly immutable rules can become
obsolete, but difficult to know when that is the case. In the spring of 1951,
the Dow Jones Industrial Average stood at about 250. Professor Graham
told his class at Columbia University Business School that the Dow had
traded below 200 at some time during every full year since its inception in
1896. With Professor Graham’s best student ever—supposedly, the only
one ever to receive an A+ from the master—about to graduate that summer, the professor suggested that maybe the student would benefit from
delaying his investing career until after the Dow had completed its predictable decline to under 200, which had yet to happen in 1951. Showing
how richly he deserved the A+, Warren Buffett declined the advice, and a
good thing it was because the Dow did not return to 200 that year or in
any year since.18 “I had about ten thousand bucks” when Professor Graham gave his advice, Buffett told the Wall Street Journal. “If I had taken his
advice, I would probably still have about ten thousand bucks.”19
A few years later, in 1958, equity dividend yields fell below bond
yields for the first time. A sensible investor putting money to work at the
18 Kenneth Lee, Trouncing the Dow: A Value-Based Method for Making Huge Profits (New York: McGrawHill, 1998), pp. 1–2.
19 In Berkshire Hathaway’s 2000 annual report, Buffett said of his experience in Graham’s class that “a
few hours at the feet of the master proved far more valuable to me than had ten years of supposedly
original thinking.”

[288]

Introduction to Part III

time could hardly credit the change as part of a permanent new reality.
To the contrary, it must have seemed a mandate to short the stock market. Think of all the money lost over all the years by the true believers
who have argued: “This time is different.” Yet the seasoned professionals
of that time were cautious and wrong, and the irreverent optimists were
right. This time, it really was different. From the safe perspective of a half
century, it seems incontrovertible that a new valuation benchmark had
been established.
So when can one safely conclude that “this time is different,” especially in light of all the times that it really is not different? In 1951, Professor Graham’s rule of 200 had held for 55 years. Once breached, it never
again proved true, but who would have had Buffett’s foresight and
audacity to conclude that it could safely be ignored? The 1958 investor
who waited for the century-old relationship between dividend yields and
bond market yields to reassert itself is still waiting too. Once reversed,
that relationship has moved ever farther apart.
Still, if Graham and Dodd’s bible cannot be understood today without
commentary, the attitude embodied in this work is timeless. As long as
investors remain human, and thus subject to greed, fear, pressure, doubt,
and the entire range of human emotions, there will be money to be
made by those who steel themselves to overcome emotion. As long as
the human tendency to march in herds persists, there will be opportunities for contrarians who are unafraid to stand alone. Think of Graham
and Dodd as embodying the spirit of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark, who
declared: “Blest are those/Whose blood and judgement are so well commingled,/That they are not a pipe for Fortune’s finger/To sound what
stop she please.”20
20 Hamlet, Act III, Scene 2.

Chapter 22

PRIVILEGED ISSUES

WE COME now to the second major division of our revised classification
of securities, viz., bonds and preferred stocks presumed by the buyer to
be subject to substantial change in principal value. In our introductory
discussion (Chap. 5) we subdivided this group under two heads: those
issues which are speculative because of inadequate safety, and those which
are speculative because they possess a conversion or similar privilege
which makes possible substantial variations in market price.1

SENIOR ISSUES WITH SPECULATIVE PRIVILEGES
In addition to enjoying a prior claim for a fixed amount of principal and
income, a bond or preferred stock may also be given the right to share in
benefits accruing to the common stock. These privileges are of three
kinds, designated as follows:
1. Convertible—conferring the right to exchange the senior issue for
common stock on stipulated terms.
2. Participating—under which additional income may be paid to the
senior security holder, dependent usually upon the amount of common
dividends declared.
3. Subscription—by which holders of the bond or preferred stock
may purchase common shares, at prices, in amounts, and during periods,
stipulated.2

1 In the 1934 edition we had here a section on investment-quality senior issues obtainable at
bargain levels. Although these were plentiful in the 1931–1933 period, they have since
grown very scarce—even in the market decline of 1937–1938. To save space, therefore, we
are now omitting this section.
2 There is still a fourth type of profit-sharing arrangement, of less importance than the three
just described, which made its first appearance in the 1928–1929 bull market. This is the socalled “optional” bond or preferred stock. The option consists of taking interest or dividend
payments in a fixed amount of common stock (i.e., at a fixed price per share) in lieu of cash.

[289]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[290]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Since the conversion privilege is the most familiar of the three, we
shall frequently use the term “convertible issues” to refer to privileged
issues in general.

Such Issues Attractive in Form. By means of any one of these three
provisions a senior security can be given virtually all the profit possibilities that attach to the common stock of the enterprise. Such issues must
therefore be considered as the most attractive of all in point of form, since
they permit the combination of maximum safety with the chance of
unlimited appreciation in value. A bond that meets all the requirements
of a sound investment and in addition possesses an interesting conversion privilege would undoubtedly constitute a highly desirable purchase.

Their Investment Record Unenviable: Reasons. Despite this
impressive argument in favor of privileged senior issues as a form of
investment, we must recognize that actual experience with this class has
not been generally satisfactory. For this discrepancy between promise and
performance, reasons of two different kinds may be advanced.
The first is that only a small fraction of the privileged issues have actually met the rigorous requirements of a sound investment. The conversion
feature has most often been offered to compensate for inadequate security.3 This weakness was most pronounced during the period of greatest
For example, Commercial Investment Trust $6 Convertible Preference, Optional Series of
1929, gave the holder the option to take his dividend at the annual rate of one-thirteenth
share of common instead of $6 in cash. This was equivalent to a price of $78 per share for
the common, which meant that the option would be valuable whenever the stock was selling
above 78. Similarly, Warner Brothers Pictures, Inc., Optional 6% Convertible Debentures,
due 1939, issued in 1929, gave the owner the option to take his interest payments at the
annual rate of one share of common stock instead of $60 in cash.
It may be said that this optional arrangement is a modified form of conversion privilege,
under which the interest or dividend amounts are made separately convertible into common
stock. In most, possibly all, of these issues, the principal is convertible as well. The separate
convertibility of the income payments adds somewhat, but not a great deal, to the attractiveness of the privilege.
3 The Report of the Industrial Securities Committee of the Investment Bankers Association
of America for 1927 quotes, presumably with approval, a suggestion that since a certain
percentage of the senior securities of moderate-sized industrial companies “are liable to
show substantial losses over a period of five or ten years,” investors therein should be given
a participation in future earnings through a conversion or other privilege to compensate for
this risk. See Proceedings of the Sixteenth Annual Convention of the Investment Bankers
Association of America, pp. 144–145, 1927.

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[291]

vogue for convertible issues, between 1926 and 1929.4 During these years
it was broadly true that the strongly entrenched industrial enterprises
raised money through sales of common stock, whereas the weaker—or
weakly capitalized—undertakings resorted to privileged senior securities.
The second reason is related to the conditions under which profit may
accrue from the conversion privilege. Although there is indeed no upper
limit to the price that a convertible bond may reach, there is a very real
limitation on the amount of profit that the holder may realize while still
maintaining an investment position. After a privileged issue has advanced
with the common stock, its price soon becomes dependent in both directions upon changes in the stock quotation, and to that extent the continued holding of the senior issue becomes a speculative operation. An
example will make this clear:
Let us assume the purchase of a high-grade 31/2% bond at par, convertible into two shares of common for each $100 bond (i.e., convertible
into common stock at 50). The common stock is selling at 45 when the
bond is bought.
First stage: (1) If the stock declines to 35, the bond may remain close
to par. This illustrates the pronounced technical advantage of a convertible issue over the common stock. (2) If the stock advances to 55, the price
of the bond will probably rise to 115 or more. (Its “immediate conversion
value” would be 110, but a premium would be justified because of its
advantage over the stock.) This illustrates the undoubted speculative possibilities of such a convertible issue.
Second stage: The stock advances further to 65. The conversion value
of the bond is now 130, and it will sell at that figure, or slightly higher. At
this point the original purchaser is faced with a problem. Within wide
limits, the future price of his bond depends entirely upon the course of
the common stock. In order to seek a larger profit he must risk the loss
of the profit in hand, which in fact constitutes a substantial part of the
present market value of his security. (A drop in the price of the common

4 Prior to the appearance on Feb. 16, 1939, of Release No. 208 (Statistical Series) of the S.E.C.,

no comprehensive compilation of the dollar volume of privileged issues has been made and
regularly maintained. That release gave data on a quarterly basis for the period from Apr. 1,
1937, through Dec. 31, 1938, and additional data have since been published quarterly by the
S.E.C. Further evidence of the volume of this type of financing over a much longer period is
presented in Appendix Note 35, p. 770 on accompanying CD.

[292]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

could readily induce a decline in the bond from 130 to 110.) If he elects
to hold the issue, he places himself to a considerable degree in the position of the stockholders, and this similarity increases rapidly as the price
advances further. If, for example, he is still holding the bond at a level say
of 180 (90 for the stock), he has for all practical purposes assumed the
status and risks of a stockholder.
Unlimited Profit in Such Issues Identified with Stockholder’s Position.
The unlimited profit possibilities of a privileged issue are thus in an
important sense illusory. They must be identified not with the ownership
of a bond or preferred stock but with the assumption of a common stockholder’s position—which any holder of a nonconvertible may effect by
exchanging his bond for a stock. Practically speaking, the range of profit
possibilities for a convertible issue, although still maintaining the advantage of an investment holding, must usually be limited to somewhere
between 25 and 35% of its face value. For this reason original purchasers
of privileged issues do not ordinarily hold them for more than a small
fraction of the maximum market gains scored by the most successful
among them, and consequently they do not actually realize these very
large possible profits. Thus the profits taken may not offset the losses
occasioned by unsound commitments in this field.

Examples of Attractive Issues. The two objections just discussed must
considerably temper our enthusiasm for privileged senior issues as a class,
but they by no means destroy their inherent advantages nor the possibilities of exploiting them with reasonable success. Although most new convertible offerings may have been inadequately secured,5 there are fairly
frequent exceptions to the rule, and these exceptions should be of prime
interest to the alert investor. We append three leading examples of such
opportunities, taken from the utility, the railroad, and the industrial fields.
1. Commonwealth Edison Company Convertible Debenture 31/2s, Due
1958. These bonds were offered to shareholders in June and September
1938 at par. The statistical exhibit of the company gave every assurance
that the debentures were a sound commitment at that price. They were
convertible into 40 shares of common stock until maturity or prior
redemption.
5 This criticism does not apply to convertible bonds issued from 1933 to date, the majority of
which meet our investment standards.

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[293]

In September 1938 the debentures could have been bought on the
New York Stock Exchange at par when the stock was selling at 241/2. At
these prices the bonds and stock were selling very close to a parity, and a
slight advance in the price of the stock would enable the holder of the
bond to sell at a profit. Less than a year later (July 1939) the stock had
risen to 313/8, and the bonds to 1243/4.
2. Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company Convertible 5s, Due 1946.
These bonds were originally offered to shareholders in June 1916. They
were convertible into common stock at 75 until April 1, 1920; at 80 from
the latter date until April 1, 1923; at 90 from the latter date until April 1,
1926; and at 100 from the latter date until April 1, 1936.
Late in 1924 they could have been bought on a parity basis (i.e., without payment of a premium for the conversion privilege) at prices close to
par. Specifically, they sold on November 28, 1924, at 101 when the stock
sold at 91. At that time the company’s earnings were showing continued
improvement and indicated that the bonds were adequately secured.
(Fixed charges were covered twice in 1924.) The value of the conversion
privilege was shown by the fact that the stock sold at 131 in the next year,
making the bonds worth 145.
3. Rand Kardex Bureau, Inc., 51/2s, Due 1931. These bonds were originally offered in December 1925 at 991/2. They carried stock-purchase
warrants (detachable after January 1, 1927) entitling the holder to purchase 221/2 shares of Class A common at $40 per share during 1926, at
$42.50 per share during 1927, at $45 per share during 1928, at $47.50 per
share during 1929, and at $50 per share during 1930. (The Class A stock
was in reality a participating preferred issue.) The bonds could be turned
in at par in payment for the stock purchased under the warrants, a provision that virtually made the bonds convertible into the stock.
The bonds appeared to be adequately secured. The previous exhibit
(based on the earnings of the predecessor companies) showed the following coverage for the interest on the new bond issue:
Year
1921 (depression year)
1922 (depression year)
1923
1924
1925 (9 months)

Number of Times Interest Covered
1.7
2.3
6.7
7.2
12.2

[294]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Net current assets exceed twice the face value of the bond issue.
When the bonds were offered to the public, the Class A stock was
quoted at about 42, indicating an immediate value for the stock-purchase
warrants. The following year the stock advanced to 53, and the bonds to
1301/2. In 1927 (when Rand Kardex merged with Remington Typewriter)
the stock advanced to 76, and the bonds to 190.

Example of an Unattractive Issue. By way of contrast with these
examples we shall supply an illustration of a superficially attractive but
basically unsound convertible offering, such as characterized the
1928–1929 period.
National Trade Journals, Inc., 6% Convertible Notes, Due 1938. The
company was organized in February 1928 to acquire and publish about
a dozen trade journals. In November 1928 it sold $2,800,000 of the foregoing notes at 97 1/2. The notes were initially convertible into 27 shares of
common stock (at $37.03 per share) until November 1, 1930; into 25
shares (at $40 a share) from the latter date until November 1, 1932; and
at prices that progressively increased to $52.63 a share during the last two
years of the life of the bonds.
These bonds could have been purchased at the time of issuance and
for several months thereafter at prices only slightly above their parity
value as compared with the market value of the equivalent stock. Specifically, they could have been bought at 971/2 on November 30, when the
stock sold at 341/8, which meant that the stock needed to advance only
two points to assure a profit on conversion.
However, at no time did the bonds appear to be adequately secured,
despite the attractive picture presented in the offering circular. The circular exhibited “estimated” earnings of the predecessor enterprise based
on the 31/2 years preceding, which averaged 4.16 times the charges on the
bond issue. But close to half of these estimated earnings were expected
to be derived from economies predicted to result from the consolidation
in the way of reduction of salaries, etc. The conservative investor would
not be justified in taking these “earnings” for granted, particularly in a
hazardous and competitive business of this type, with a relatively small
amount of tangible assets.
Eliminating the estimated “earnings” mentioned in the preceding
paragraph the exhibit at the time of issuance and thereafter was as follows:

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

Year
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929
1930
1931

Price range
of bonds

100 97 1/2
99 50
42 10
101/2 5

Price range
of stock

357/830
34 5/8 5
63/8 1/2
1

Prevailing
conversion
price

Times interest
earned

$37.03
37.03
37.03$40
40.00

1.73*
2.52*
2.80*
1.69†
1.86†
0.09†
Receivership

[295]

Earned per
share on
common
$0.78*
1.84*
2.20*
1.95
1.04
1.68(d)

* Predecessor enterprise. Pre-share figures are after estimating federal taxes.
† Actual earnings for last 10 months of 1928 and succeeding calendar years.

Receivers were appointed in June 1931. The properties were sold in
August of that year, and bondholders later received about 81/2 cents on
the dollar.

Principle Derived. From these contrasting instances an investment
principle may be developed that should afford a valuable guide to the selection of privileged senior issues. The principle is as follows: A privileged senior issue, selling close to or above face value, must meet the requirements either
of a straight fixed-value investment or of a straight common-stock speculation, and it must be bought with one or the other qualification clearly in view.
The alternative given supplies two different approaches to the purchase of a privileged security. It may be bought as a sound investment
with an incidental chance of profit through an enhancement of principal,
or it may be bought primarily as an attractive form of speculation in the
common stock. Generally speaking, there should be no middle ground.
The investor interested in safety of principal should not abate his requirements in return for a conversion privilege; the speculator should not be
attracted to an enterprise of mediocre promise because of the pseudosecurity provided by the bond contract.
Our opposition to any compromise between the purely investment
and the admittedly speculative attitude is based primarily on subjective
grounds. Where an intermediate stand is taken, the result is usually confusion, clouded thinking, and self-deception. The investor who relaxes
his safety requirements to obtain a profit-sharing privilege is frequently

[296]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

not prepared, financially or mentally, for the inevitable loss if fortune
should frown on the venture. The speculator who wants to reduce his risk
by operating in convertible issues is likely to find his primary interest
divided between the enterprise itself and the terms of the privilege, and
he will probably be uncertain in his own mind as to whether he is at bottom a stockholder or a bondholder. (Privileged issues selling at substantial discounts from par are not in general subject to this principle, since
they belong to the second category of speculative senior securities to be
considered later.)
Reverting to our examples, it will be seen at once that the Commonwealth Edison 31/2s could properly have been purchased as an investment
without any regard to the conversion feature. The strong possibility that
this privilege would be of value made the bond almost uniquely attractive at the time of issuance. Somewhat similar statements could be made
with respect to the Chesapeake and Ohio and the Rand Kardex bonds.
Any of these three securities should also have been attractive to a speculator who was persuaded that the related common stock was due for an
advance in price.
On the other hand the National Trade Journals Debentures could not
have passed stringent qualitative and quantitative tests of safety. Hence
they should properly have been of interest only to a person who had full
confidence in the future value of the stock. It is hardly likely, however,
that most of the buying of this issue was motivated by the primary desire
to invest or speculate in the National Trade Journals common stock, but
it was based rather on the attractive terms of the conversion privilege and
on the feeling that the issue was “fairly safe” as a bond investment. It is
precisely this compromise between true investment and true speculation
that we disapprove, chiefly because the purchaser has no clear-cut idea of
the purpose of his commitment or of the risk that he is incurring.

Rules Regarding Retention or Sale. Having stated a basic principle
to guide the selection of privileged issues, we ask next what rules can be
established regarding their subsequent retention or sale. Convertibles
bought primarily as a form of commitment in the common stock may be
held for a larger profit than those acquired from the investment standpoint. If a bond of the former class advances from 100 to 150, the large
premium need not in itself be a controlling reason for selling out;
the owner must be guided rather by his views as to whether or not the

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[297]

common stock has advanced enough to justify taking his profit. But when
the purchase is made primarily as a safe bond investment, then the limitation on the amount of profit that can conservatively be waited for
comes directly into play. For the reasons explained in detail above, the
conservative buyer of privileged issues will not ordinarily hold them for
more than a 25 to 35% advance. This means that a really successful investment operation in the convertible field does not cover a long period of
time. Hence such issues should be bought with the possibility of long-term
holding in mind but with the hope that the potential profit will be realized fairly soon.
The foregoing discussion leads to the statement of another investment
rule, viz.:
In the typical case, a convertible bond should not be converted by the
investor. It should be either held or sold.

It is true that the object of the privilege is to bring about such conversion when it seems advantageous. If the price of the bond advances substantially, its current yield will shrink to an unattractive figure, and there
is ordinarily a substantial gain in income to be realized through the
exchange into stock. Nevertheless when the investor does exchange his
bond into the stock, he abandons the priority and the unqualified claim
to principal and interest upon which the purchase was originally
premised. If after the conversion is made things should go badly, his
shares may decline in value far below the original cost of his bond, and
he will lose not only his profit but part of his principal as well.
Moreover he is running the risk of transforming himself—generally,
as well as in the specific instances—from a bond investor into a stock
speculator. It must be recognized that there is something insidious about
even a good convertible bond; it can easily prove a costly snare to the
unwary. To avoid this danger the investor must cling determinedly to a
conservative viewpoint. When the price of his bond has passed out of the
investment range, he must sell it; most important of all, he must not consider his judgment impugned if the bond subsequently rises to a much
higher level. The market behavior of the issue, once it has entered the
speculative range, is no more the investor’s affair than the price gyrations
of any speculative stock about which he knows nothing.
If the course of action here recommended is followed by investors
generally, the conversion of bonds would be brought about only through

[298]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

their purchase for this specific purpose by persons who have decided
independently to acquire the shares for either speculation or supposed
investment.6 The arguments against the investor’s converting convertible
issues apply with equal force against his exercising stock-purchase
warrants attached to bonds bought for investment purposes.
A continued policy of investment in privileged issues would, under
favorable conditions, require rather frequent taking of profits and replacement by new securities not selling at an excessive premium. More concretely, a bond bought at 100 would be sold, say, at 125 and be replaced
by another good convertible issue purchasable at about par. It is not likely
that satisfactory opportunities of this kind will be continuously available
or that the investor would have the means of locating all those that are at
hand. But the trend of financing in recent years offers some promise that
a fair number of really attractive convertibles may again make their
appearance. Following the 1926–1929 period, marked by a flood of privileged issues generally of poor quality, and the 1930–1934 period, in
which the emphasis on safety caused the virtual disappearance of conversion privileges from new bond offerings, there has been a definite swing
of the pendulum towards a middle point, where participating features are
at times employed to facilitate the sale of sound bond offerings.7 Most of
those sold between 1934 and 1939 either carried very low coupon rates
or immediately jumped to a prohibitive premium. But we incline to the
view that the discriminating and careful investor is again likely to find a
reasonable number of attractive opportunities presented in this field.

6 In actual practice, conversions often result also from arbitrage operations involving the
purchase of the bond and the simultaneous sale of the stock at a price slightly higher than
the “conversion parity.”
7 For data regarding the relative frequency of privilege issues between 1925 and 1938,

see Appendix Note 35, p. 770 on accompanying CD, and the S.E.C. statistical releases
referred to in a footnote on page 291.

Chapter 23

TECHNICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF
PRIVILEGED SENIOR SECURITIES

IN THE PRECEDING chapter privileged senior issues were considered in their
relationship to the broader principles of investment and speculation.
To arrive at an adequate knowledge of this group of securities from their
practical side, a more intensive discussion of their characteristics is
now in order. Such a study may conveniently be carried on from three
successive viewpoints: (1) considerations common to all three types of
privilege—conversion, participation, and subscription (i.e., “warrant”); (2)
the relative merits of each type, as compared with the others; (3) technical
aspects of each type, considered by itself.1

CONSIDERATIONS GENERALLY APPLICABLE TO
PRIVILEGED ISSUES
The attractiveness of a profit-sharing feature depends upon two major
but entirely unrelated factors: (1) the terms of the arrangement and (2)
the prospects of profits to share. To use a simple illustration:
Company A

Company B

4% bond selling at 100
Convertible into stock at 50 (i.e., two
shares of stock for a $100 bond)

4% bond selling at 100
Convertible into stock at 331/3
(i.e., three shares of stock for a
$100 bond)
Stock selling at 30

Stock selling at 30

1 This subject is treated at what may appear to be disproportionate length because of the

growing importance of privileged issues and the absence of thoroughgoing discussion
thereof in the standard descriptive textbooks.

[299]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[300]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Terms of the Privilege vs. Prospects for the Enterprise. The
terms of the conversion privilege are evidently more attractive in the
case of Bond B; for the stock need advance only a little more than
3 points to assure a profit, whereas Stock A must advance over 20 points
to make conversion profitable. Nevertheless, it is quite possible that
Bond A may turn out to be the more advantageous purchase. For conceivably Stock B may fail to advance at all while Stock A may double or
triple in price.
As between the two factors, it is undoubtedly true that it is more profitable to select the right company than to select the issue with the most
desirable terms. There is certainly no mathematical basis on which the
attractiveness of the enterprise may be offset against the terms of the privilege, and a balance struck between these two entirely dissociated elements of value. But in analyzing privileged issues of the investment grade,
the terms of the privilege must receive the greater attention, not because
they are more important but because they can be more definitely dealt
with. It may seem a comparatively easy matter to determine that one
enterprise is more promising than another. But it is by no means so easy
to establish that one common stock at a given price is clearly preferable
to another stock at its current price.
Reverting to our example, if it were quite certain, or even reasonably
probable, that Stock A is more likely to advance to 50 than Stock B to
advance to 33, then both issues would not be quoted at 30. Stock A, of
course, would be selling higher. The point we make is that the market
price in general reflects already any superiority that one enterprise has
demonstrated over another. The investor who prefers Bond A because he
expects its related stock to rise a great deal faster than Stock B, is exercising independent judgment in a field where certainty is lacking and where
mistakes are necessarily frequent. For this reason we doubt that a successful policy of buying privileged issues from the investment approach
can be based primarily upon the purchaser’s view regarding the future
expansion of the profits of the enterprise. (In stating this point we are
merely repeating a principle previously laid down in the field of fixedvalue investment.)
Where the speculative approach is followed, i.e., where the issue is
bought primarily as a desirable method of acquiring an interest in the

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[301]

stock, it would be quite logical, of course, to assign dominant weight to
the buyer’s judgment as to the future of the company.

Three Important Elements. 1. Extent of the Privilege. In examining
the terms of a profit-sharing privilege, three component elements are seen
to enter. These are:
a. The extent of the profit-sharing or speculative interest per dollar of
investment.
b. The closeness of the privilege to a realizable profit at the time of purchase.
c. The duration of the privilege.

The amount of speculative interest attaching to a convertible or
warrant-bearing senior security is equal to the current market value of
the number of shares of stock covered by the privilege. Other things being
equal, the larger the amount of the speculative interest per dollar of
investment the more attractive the privilege.
Examples: Rand Kardex 51/2s, previously described, carried warrants
to buy 221/2 shares of Class A stock initially at 40. Current price of Class
A stock was 42. The “speculative interest” amounted to 221/2  42, or
$945 per $1,000 bond.
Reliable Stores Corporation 6s, offered in 1927, carried warrants to
buy only 5 shares of common stock initially at 10. Current price of the
common was 12. Hence the “speculative interest” amounted to 5  12,
or only $60 per $1,000 bond.
Intercontinental Rubber Products Co. 7s offered an extraordinary
example of a large speculative interest attaching to a bond. As a result of
peculiar provisions surrounding their issuance in 1922, each $1,000 note
was convertible into 100 shares of stock and also carried the right to purchase 400 additional shares at 10. When the stock sold at 10 in 1925, the
speculative interest per $1,000 note amounted to 500  10, or $5,000. If
the notes were then selling, say, at 120, the speculative interest would have
equalled 417% of the bond investment—or 70 times as great as in the case
of the Reliable Stores offering.
The practical importance of the amount of speculative interest can be
illustrated by the following comparison, covering the three examples
above given.

[302]

Item
Number of shares covered
by each $1,000 bond
Base price
Increase in value of bond
when stock advances:
25% above base price
50% above base price
100% above base price

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Reliable
Stores 6s

Rand Kardex
5 1/2s

Intercontinental
Rubber 7s

5
$10.00

221/2
$40.00

500
$10.00

12.50
25.00
50.00

225.00
450.00
900.00

1,250.00
2,500.00
5,000.00

In the case of convertible bonds the speculative interest always
amounts to 100% of the bond at par when the stock sells at the conversion price. Hence in these issues our first and second component
elements express the same fact. If a bond selling at par is convertible into
stock at 50, and if the stock sells at 30, then the speculative interest
amounts to 60% of the commitment, which is the same thing as saying
that the current price of the stock is 60% of that needed before conversion would be profitable. Stock-purchase-warrant issues disclose no such
fixed relationship between the amount of the speculative interest and the
proximity of this interest to a realizable profit. In the case of the Reliable
Stores 6s, the speculative interest was very small, but it showed an actual
profit at the time of issuance, since the stock was selling above the
subscription price.
Significance of Call on Large Number of Shares at Low Price. It may be
said parenthetically that a speculative interest in a large number of shares
selling at a low price is technically more attractive than one in a smaller
number of shares selling at a high price. This is because low-priced shares
are apt to fluctuate over a wider range percentagewise than higher priced
stocks. Hence if a bond is both well secured and convertible into many
shares at a low price, it will have an excellent chance for very large profit
without being subject to the offsetting risk of greater loss through a speculative dip in the price of the stock.
For example, as a matter of form of privilege, the Ohio Copper Company 7s, due 1931, convertible into 1,000 shares of stock selling at $1, had
better possibilities than the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Convertible
41/2 s, due 1948, convertible into 6 shares of common, selling at 166 2/3,

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[303]

although in each case the amount of speculative interest equalled $1,000
per bond. As it turned out, Ohio Copper stock advanced from less than
$1 a share in 1928 to 47/8 in 1929, making the bond worth close to 500%
of par. It would have required a rise in the price of Atchison from 166 to
800 to yield the same profit on the convertible 41/2 s, but the highest price
reached in 1929 was under 300.
In the case of participating issues, the extent of the profit-sharing interest would ordinarily be considered in terms of the amount of extra
income that may conceivably be obtained as a result of the privilege. A
limited extra payment (e.g., Bayuk Cigars, Inc., 7% Preferred, which may
receive not more than 1% additional) is of course less attractive than an
unlimited participation (e.g., White Rock Mineral Springs Company 5%
Second Preferred, which received a total of 261/4% in 1930).
2 and 3. Closeness and Duration of the Privilege. The implications of
the second and third factors in valuing a privilege are readily apparent.
A privilege having a long period to run is in that respect more desirable
than one expiring in a short time. The nearer the current price of the
stock to the level at which conversion or subscription becomes profitable
the more attractive does the privilege become. In the case of a participation feature, it is similarly desirable that the current dividends or earnings on the common stock should be close to the figure at which the extra
distribution on the senior issue commences.
By “conversion price” is meant the price of the common stock equivalent to a price of 100 for the convertible issue. If a preferred stock is convertible into 12/3 as many shares of common, the conversion price of the
common is therefore 60. The term “conversion parity,” or “conversion
level,” may be used to designate that price of the common which is equivalent to a given quotation for the convertible issue, or vice versa. It can be
found by multiplying the price of the convertible issue by the conversion
price of the common. If the preferred stock just mentioned is selling at
90, the conversion parity of the common becomes 60  90%  54. This
means that to a buyer of the preferred at 90 an advance in the common
above 54 will create a realizable profit. Conversely, if the common sold at
66, one might say that the conversion parity of the preferred is 110.
The “closeness” of the privilege may be stated arithmetically as the
ratio between the market price and the conversion parity of the common
stock. In the foregoing example, if the common is selling at 54 and the

[304]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

preferred at 110 (equivalent to 66 for the common), the “index of closeness” becomes 54  66, or 0.82.

COMPARATIVE MERITS OF THE THREE
TYPES OF PRIVILEGES
From the theoretical standpoint, a participating feature—unlimited in
time and possible amount—is the most desirable type of profit-sharing
privilege. This arrangement enables the investor to derive the specific
benefit of participation in profits (viz., increased income) without modifying his original position as a senior-security holder. These benefits may
be received over a long period of years. By contrast, a conversion privilege can result in higher income only through actual exchange into the
stock and consequent surrender of the senior position. Its real advantage
consists, therefore, only of the opportunity to make a profit through the
sale of the convertible issue at the right time. Similarly the benefits from
a subscription privilege may conservatively be realized only through sale
of the warrants (or by the subscription to and prompt sale of the stock).
If the common stock is purchased and held for permanent income, the
operation involves the risking of additional money on a basis entirely
different from the original purchase of the senior issue.

Example of Advantage of Unlimited Participation Privilege.
An excellent practical example of the theoretical advantages attaching to
a well-entrenched participating security is afforded by Westinghouse
Electric and Manufacturing Company Preferred. This issue is entitled to
cumulative prior dividends of $3.50 per annum (7% on $50 par) and in
addition participates equally per share with the common in any dividends
paid on the latter in excess of $3.50. As far back as 1917 Westinghouse
Preferred could have been bought at 521/2, representing an attractive
straight investment with additional possibilities through its participating
feature. In the ensuing 15 years to 1932 a total of about $7 per share was
disbursed in extra dividends above the basic 7%. In the meantime an
opportunity arose to sell out at a large profit (the high price being 284 in
1929), which corresponded to the enhancement possibilities of a convertible or subscription-warrant issue. If the stock was not sold, the profit was
naturally lost in the ensuing market decline. But the investor’s original
position remained unimpaired, for at the low point of 1932 the issue was

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[305]

still paying the 7% dividend and selling at 52 1/2—although the common
had passed its dividend and had fallen to 15 5/8.
In this instance the investor was able to participate in the surplus profits of the common stock in good years while maintaining his preferred
position, so that, when the bad years came, he lost only his temporary
profit. Had the issue been convertible instead of participating, the investor
could have received the higher dividends only through converting and
would later have found the dividend omitted on his common shares and
their value fallen far below his original investment.

Participating Issues at Disadvantage, Marketwise. Although
from the standpoint of long-pull-investment holding, participating issues
are theoretically the most desirable, they may behave somewhat less satisfactorily in a major market upswing than do convertible or subscription-warrant issues. During such a period a participating senior security
may regularly sell below its proper comparative price. In the case of Westinghouse Preferred, for example, its price during 1929 was usually from
5 to 10 points lower than that of the common, although its intrinsic value
per share could not be less than that of the junior stock.2
The reason for this phenomenon is as follows: The price of the common stock is made largely by speculators interested chiefly in quick profits, to secure which they need an active market. The preferred stock, being
closely held, is relatively inactive. Consequently the speculators are willing to pay several points more for the inferior common issue simply
because it can be bought and sold more readily and because other speculators are likely to be willing to pay more for it also.
The same anomaly arises in the case of closely held common stocks
with voting power, compared with the more active nonvoting issue of the
same company. American Tobacco B and Liggett and Myers Tobacco B
(both nonvoting) have for years sold higher than the voting stock. A similar situation formerly existed in the two common issues of Bethlehem
2 A much greater price discrepancy of this kind existed in the case of White Rock Mineral
Springs Participating Preferred and common during 1929 and 1930. Because of this market
situation, holders of nearly all the participating preferred shares accepted an offer to
exchange into common stock, although this meant no gain in income and the loss of their
senior position.

[306]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Steel, Pan American Petroleum and others.3 The paradoxical principle
holds true for the securities market generally that in the absence of a special demand relative scarcity is likely to make for a lower rather than a
higher price.
In cases such as Westinghouse and American Tobacco the proper
corporate policy would be to extend to the holder of the intrinsically more
valuable issue the privilege of exchanging it for the more active but intrinsically inferior issue. The White Rock company actually took this step.
Although the holders of the participating preferred might make a mistake in accepting such an offer, they cannot object to its being made to
them, and the common stockholders may gain but cannot lose through
its acceptance.

Relative Price Behavior of Convertible and Warrant-bearing
Issues. From the standpoint of price behavior under favorable market
conditions the best results are obtained by holders of senior securities
with detachable stock-purchase warrants.
To illustrate this point we shall compare certain price relationships
shown in 1929 between four privileged issues and the corresponding
common stocks. The issues are as follows:
1. Mohawk Hudson Power Corporation 7% Second Preferred, carrying warrants to buy 2 shares of common at 50 for each share of preferred.
2. White Sewing Machine Corporation 6% Debentures, due 1936, carrying warrants to buy 21/2 shares of common stock for each $100 bond.
3. Central States Electric Corporation 6% Preferred, convertible into
common stock at $118 per share.
4. Independent Oil and Gas Company Debentures 6s, due 1939,
convertible into common stock at $32 per share.
The following table shows in striking fashion that in speculative markets issues with purchase warrants have a tendency to sell at large premiums in relation to the common-stock price and that these premiums are
much greater than in the case of similarly situated convertible issues.
3 The persistently wide spread between the market prices for R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company common and Class B stocks rests on the special circumstance that officers and employees of the company who own the common stock enjoy certain profit-sharing benefits not
accorded to holders of the Class B stock. The New York Stock Exchange will no longer list
nonvoting common stocks, nor are these permitted to be issued in reorganizations effected
under Chap. X of the 1938 Bankruptcy Act.

[307]

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

Senior issue
Mohawk Hudson
2d Pfd
White Sewing
Machine 6s
Central States
Electric Pfd
Independent Oil &
Gas 6s

Realizable
Amount
value of
by which
senior issue senior issue
based on sold above
privilege
parity,
(conversion
(“preor subscrip- mium”),
tion parity)
points

Market
price of
common

Conversion
or subscription price
of common

Price of
senior
issue

521/2

50

163*

105

58

39

40

1231/2†

971/2

26

116

118

97

98

1

31

32

105

97

8

* Consisting of 107 for the preferred stock, ex-warrants, plus 56 for the warrants.
† Consisting of 981/2 for the bonds, ex-warrants, plus 25 for the warrants.

Advantage of Separability of Speculative Component. This
advantage of subscription-warrant issues is due largely to the fact that
their speculative component (i.e., the subscription warrant itself) can be
entirely separated from their investment component (i.e., the bond or
preferred stock ex-warrants). Speculators are always looking for a chance
to make large profits on a small cash commitment. This is a distinguishing characteristic of stock option warrants, as will be shown in detail in
our later discussion of these instruments. In an advancing market, therefore, speculators bid for the warrants attached to these privileged issues,
and hence they sell separately at a substantial price even though they may
have no immediate exercisable value. These speculators greatly prefer
buying the option warrants to buying a corresponding convertible bond,
because the latter requires a much larger cash investment per share of
common stock involved.4 It follows, therefore, that the separate market
4 Note that the Independent Oil and Gas bonds represented a commitment of $33.60 per
share of common, whereas the White Sewing Machine warrants involved a commitment of
only $10 per share of common. But the former meant ownership of either a fixed claim or a
share of stock, whereas the latter meant only the right to buy a share of stock at a price above
the market.

[308]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

values of the bond plus the option warrant (which combine to make the
price of the bond “with warrants”) may considerably exceed the single
quotation for a closely similar convertible issue.

Second Advantage of Warrant-bearing Issues. Subscription-warrant issues have a second point of superiority, in respect to callable provisions. A right reserved by the corporation to redeem an issue prior to
maturity must in general be considered as a disadvantage to the holder;
for presumably it will be exercised only when it is to the benefit of the
issuer to do so, which means usually that the security would otherwise
sell for more than the call price.5 A callable provision, unless at a very
high premium, might entirely vitiate the value of a participating privilege. For with such a provision there would be danger of redemption as
soon as the company grew prosperous enough to place the issue in line
for extra distributions.6 In some cases participating issues that are callable
are made convertible as well, in order to give them a chance to benefit
from any large advance in the market price of the common that may have
taken place up to the time of call. (See for examples: National Distillers
Products Corporation $2.50 Cumulative Participating Convertible Preferred;7 Kelsey-Hayes Wheel Company $1.50 Participating Convertible
Class A stock.) Participating bonds are generally limited in their right to
participate in surplus earnings and are commonly callable. (See White
Sewing Machine Corporation Participating Debenture 6s, due 1940;
5 The callable feature may be—and recently has been—an unfavorable element of great

importance even in “straight” nonconvertible bonds.
In a few cases a callable feature works out to the advantage of the holder, by facilitating
new financing which involves the redemption of the old issue at a price above the previous
market. But the same result could be obtained, if there were no right to call, by an offer to
“buy in” the security. This was done in the case of United States Steel Corporation 5s, due
1951, which were not callable but were bought in at 110.
6 Dewing cites the case of Union Pacific Railroad—Oregon Short Line Participating 4s,
issued in 1903, which were secured by the pledge of Northern Securities Company stock.
The bondholders had the right to participate in any dividends in excess of 4% declared on
the deposited collateral. The bonds were called at 102 1/2 just at the time when participating
distributions seemed likely to occur. See Arthur S. Dewing, A Study of Corporation
Securities, p. 328, New York, 1934.
7 Coincident with the rise of the common stock from 16 7/8 to 124 7/8 in 1933, all the National

Distillers Preferred Stock was converted in that year. Nearly all the conversions were precipitated by a change in the conversion rate after June 30, 1933. The small balance was converted as a result of the calling of issue at 40 and dividend in August.

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[309]

United Steel Works Corporation Participating 61/2s, Series A, due 1947;
neither of which is convertible.) Sometimes participating issues are protected against loss of the privilege through redemption by setting the call
price at a very high figure. Something of this sort was apparently
attempted in the case of San Francisco Toll-Bridge Company Participating 7s, due 1942, which were callable at 120 through November 1, 1933,
and at lower prices thereafter. Celluloid Corporation Participating Second Preferred is callable at 150, whereas Celanese Corporation Participating First Preferred is noncallable.
Another device to prevent vitiating the participating privilege through
redemption is to make the issue callable at a price that may be directly
dependent upon the value of the participating privilege. For example,
Siemens and Halske Participating Debentures, due in 2930, are callable
after April 1, 1942, at the average market price for the issue during the six
months preceding notice of redemption but at not less than the original issue
price (which was over 230% of the par value). The Kreuger and Toll 5%
Participating Debentures had similar provisions.
Even in the case of a convertible issue a callable feature is technically
a serious drawback because it may operate to reduce the duration of the
privilege. Conceivably a convertible bond may be called just when the
privilege is about to acquire real value.8
But in the case of issues with stock-purchase warrants, the subscription privilege almost invariably runs its full time even though the senior
issue itself may be called prior to maturity. If the warrant is detachable, it
simply continues its separate existence until its own expiration date. Frequently, the subscription privilege is made “nondetachable”; i.e., it can be
exercised only by presentation of the senior security. But even in these
8 This danger was avoided in the case of Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Convertible

41/2 s, due 1948, by permitting the issue to be called only after the conversion privilege
expired in 1938. (On the other hand, Affiliated Fund Secured Convertible Debentures are
callable at par at any time on 30 days’ notice, in effect allowing the company to destroy any
chance of profiting from the conversion privilege.)
Another protective device recently employed is to give the holder of a convertible issue a
stock-purchase warrant, at the time the issue is redeemed, entitling the holder to buy the
number of shares of common stock that would have been received upon conversion if the senior issue had not been redeemed. See Freeport Texas Company 6% Cumulative Convertible
Preferred, issued in January 1933. United Biscuit 7% Preferred, convertible into 21/2 shares of
common, is callable at 110; but if called before Dec. 31, 1935, the holder had the option to
take $100 in cash, plus a warrant to buy 21/2 shares of common at 40 until Jan. 1, 1936.

[310]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

instances, if the issue should be redeemed prior to the expiration of the
purchase-option period, it is customary to give the holder a separate warrant running for the balance of the time originally provided.
Example: Prior to January 1, 1934, United Aircraft and Transport
Corporation had outstanding 150,000 shares of 6% Cumulative Preferred
stock. These shares carried nondetachable warrants for one share of common stock at $30 a share for each two shares of preferred stock held. The
subscription privilege was to run to November 1, 1938, and was protected
by a provision for the issuance of a detached warrant evidencing the same
privilege per share in case the preferred stock was redeemed prior to
November 1, 1938. Some of the preferred stock was called for redemption
on January 1, 1933, and detached warrants were accordingly issued to the
holders thereof. (A year later the remainder of the issue was called and
additional warrants issued.)

Third Advantage of Warrant-bearing Issues. Subscription-warrant issues have still a third advantage over other privileged securities,
and this is in a practical sense probably the most important of all. Let us
consider what courses of conduct are open to holders of each type in the
favorable event that the company prospers, that a high dividend is paid
on the common, and that the common sells at a high price.
1. Holder of a participating issue:
a. May sell at a profit.
b. May hold and receive participating income.
2. Holder of a convertible issue:
a. May sell at a profit.
b. May hold but will receive no benefit from high common dividend.
c. May convert to secure larger income but sacrifices his senior
position.
3. Holder of an issue with stock-purchase warrants:
a. May sell at a profit.
b. May hold but will receive no benefit from high common dividend.
c. May subscribe to common to receive high dividend. He may invest
new capital, or he may sell or apply his security ex-warrants to
provide funds to pay for the common. In either case he undertakes
the risks of a common stockholder in order to receive the high
dividend income.

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[311]

d. May dispose of his warrants at a cash profit and retain his original
security, ex-warrants. (The warrant may be sold directly, or he
may subscribe to the stock and immediately sell it at the current
indicated profit.)

The fourth option listed above is peculiar to a subscription-warrant
issue and has no counterpart in convertible or participating securities. It
permits the holder to cash his profit from the speculative component of
the issue and still maintain his original investment position. Since the typical buyer of a privileged senior issue should be interested primarily in
making a sound investment—with a secondary opportunity to profit
from the privilege—this fourth optional course of conduct may prove a
great convenience. He is not under the necessity of selling the entire
commitment, as he would be if he owned a convertible, which would then
require him to find some new medium for the funds involved. The reluctance to sell one good thing and buy another, which characterizes the
typical investor, is one of the reasons that holders of high-priced convertibles are prone to convert them rather than to dispose of them. In the case
of participating issues also, the owner can protect his principal profit only
by selling out and thus creating a reinvestment problem.
Example: The theoretical and practical advantage of subscription-warrant issues in this respect may be illustrated in the case of Commercial
Investment Trust Corporation 6 1/2 % Preferred. This was issued in 1925
and carried warrants to buy common stock at an initial price of $80 per
share. In 1929 the warrants sold as high as $69.50 per share of preferred.
The holder of this issue was therefore enabled to sell out its speculative
component at a high price and to retain his original preferred-stock commitment, which maintained an investment status throughout the depression until it was finally called for redemption at 110 on April 1, 1933. At
the time of the redemption call the common stock was selling at the
equivalent of about $50 per old share. If the preferred stock had been convertible, instead of carrying warrants, many of the holders would
undoubtedly have been led to convert and to retain the common shares.
Instead of netting a large profit they would have been faced with a
substantial loss.

Summary. To summarize this section, it may be said that, for long-pull
holding, a sound participating issue represents the best form of profit-

[312]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

sharing privilege. From the standpoint of maximum price advance under
favorable market conditions, a senior issue with detachable stockpurchase warrants is likely to show the best results. Furthermore,
subscription-warrant issues as a class have definite advantages in that the
privilege is ordinarily not subject to curtailment through early redemption of the security, and they permit the realization of a speculative profit
while retaining the original investment position.

Chapter 24

TECHNICAL ASPECTS OF
CONVERTIBLE ISSUES

THE THIRD DIVISION of the subject of privileged issues relates to technical
aspects of each type, separately considered. We shall first discuss convertible issues.
The effective terms of a conversion privilege are frequently subject to
change during the life of the issue. These changes are of two kinds: (1) a
decrease in the conversion price, to protect the holder against “dilution”;
and (2) an increase in the conversion price (in accordance usually with a
“sliding-scale” arrangement) for the benefit of the company.

Dilution, and Antidilution Clauses. The value of a common stock
is said to be diluted if there is an increase in the number of shares without a corresponding increase in assets and earning power. Dilution may
arise through split-ups, stock dividends, offers of subscription rights at a
low price, and issuance of stock for property or services at a low valuation per share. The standard “antidilution” provisions of a convertible
issue endeavor to reduce the conversion price proportionately to any
decrease in the per-share value arising through any act of dilution.
The method may be expressed in a formula, as follows: Let C be the
conversion price, O be the number of shares now outstanding, N be the
number of new shares to be issued, and P be the price at which they are
to be issued.
Then
C′ (the new conversion price)  CO
___
____
NP
ON

The application of this formula to Chesapeake Corporation Convertible
Collateral 5s, due 1947, is given in Appendix Note 36, page 770 on accompanying CD. A simpler example of an antidilution adjustment is afforded by
[313]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[314]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

the Central States Electric Corporation 6% Convertible Preferred previously
referred to (page 306). After its issuance in 1928, the common stock received
successive stock dividends of 100 and 200%. The conversion price was
accordingly first cut in half (from $118 to $59 per share) and then again
reduced by two-thirds (to $19.66 per share).
A much less frequent provision merely reduces the conversion price
to any lower figure at which new shares may be issued. This is, of course,
more favorable to the holder of the convertible issue.1
Protection against Dilution Not Complete. Although practically all
convertibles now have antidilution provisions, there have been exceptions.2 As a matter of course, a prospective buyer should make certain
that such protection exists for the issue he is considering.
It should be borne in mind that the effect of these provisions is to
preserve only the principal or par value of the privileged issue against
dilution. If a convertible is selling considerably above par, the premium
will still be subject to impairment through additional stock issues or a
special dividend. A simple illustration will make this clear.
A bond is convertible into stock, par for par. The usual antidilution
clauses are present. Both bond and stock are selling at 200.
Stockholders are given the right to buy new stock, share for share, at
par ($100). These rights will be worth $50 per share, and the new stock
(or the old stock “ex-rights”) will be worth 150. No change will be made
in the conversion basis, because the new stock is not issued below the
old conversion price. However, the effect of offering these rights must
be to compel immediate conversion of the bonds, since otherwise they
would lose 25% of their value. As the stock will be worth only 150
“ex-rights,” instead of 200, the value of the unconverted bonds would
drop proportionately.
The foregoing discussion indicates that, when a large premium or market profit is created for a privileged issue, the situation is vulnerable to
sudden change. Although prompt action will always prevent loss through
such changes, their effect is always to terminate the effective life of the
1 See Appendix Note 37, p. 772 on accompanying CD, for example (Consolidated Textile
Corporation 7s, due 1923).
2 See Appendix Note 38, p. 772 on accompanying CD, for example (American Telephone

and Telegraph Company Convertible 41/2s, due 1933).

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[315]

privilege.3 The same result will follow, of course, from the calling of a privileged issue for redemption at a price below its then conversion value.
Where the number of shares is reduced through recapitalization, it is
customary to increase the conversion price proportionately. Such recapitalization measures include increases in par value, “reverse split-ups”
(e.g., issuance of 1 no-par share in place of, say, 5 old shares), and
exchanges of the old stock for fewer new shares through consolidation
with another company.4

Sliding Scales Designed to Accelerate Conversion. The provisions just discussed are intended to maintain equitably the original
basis of conversion in the event of subsequent capitalization changes.
On the other hand, a “sliding-scale” arrangement is intended definitely
to reduce the value of the privilege as time goes on. The underlying purpose is to accelerate conversion, in other words, to curtail the effective
duration and hence the real value of the option. Obviously, any diminution of the worth of the privilege to its recipients must correspondingly
benefit the donors of the privilege, who are the company’s common
shareholders.
The more usual terms of a sliding scale prescribe a series of increases
in the conversion price in successive periods of time. A more recent variation makes the conversion price increase as soon as a certain portion of
the issue has been exchanged.
Examples: American Telephone and Telegraph Company Ten-year
Debenture 4 1/2 s, due 1939, issued in 1929, were made convertible into
common at $180 per share during 1930, at $190 per share during 1931
and 1932, and at $200 per share during 1933 to 1937, inclusive. These
prices were later reduced through the issuance of additional stock at $100,
in accordance with the standard antidilution provision.
3 To guard against this form of dilution, holders of convertible issues are sometimes given
the right to subscribe to any new offerings of common stock on the same basis as if they
owned the amount of common shares into which their holdings are convertible. See the
indentures securing New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad Company, Convertible
Debenture 6s, due 1948, and Commercial Investment Trust Corporation Convertible
Debenture 51/2 s, due 1949.
4 See Appendix Note 39, p. 773 on accompanying CD, for example of Dodge Brothers, Inc.,

Convertible Debenture 6s, due 1940.

[316]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Anaconda Copper Mining Company Debenture 7s, due 1938, were
issued in the amount of $50,000,000. The first $10,000,000 presented were
convertible into common stock at $53 per share; the second $10,000,000
were convertible at $56; the third at $59; the fourth at $62, and the final
lot at $65. An $8,000,000 issue of Hiram Walker-Goderham and Worts
41/4s, due 1945, was convertible as follows: at $40 per share for the first
$2,000,000 block of bonds; at $45 per share for the next block of
$2,000,000; the third block at $55; and the final block at $60 per share.
Sliding Scale Based on Time Intervals. The former type of sliding scale,
based on time intervals, is a readily understandable method of reducing
the liberality of a conversion privilege. Its effect can be shown in the case
of Porto Rican-American Tobacco Company 6s, due 1942. These were
convertible into pledged Congress Cigar Company, Inc., stock at $80 per
share prior to January 2, 1929, at $85 during the next three years and at
$90 thereafter. During 1928 the highest price reached by Congress Cigar
was 871/4, which was only a moderate premium above the conversion
price. Nevertheless a number of holders were induced to convert before
the year-end, because of the impending rise in the conversion basis. These
conversions proved very ill-advised, since the price of the common fell to
43 in 1929, against a low of 89 for the bonds. In this instance, the adverse
change in the conversion basis not only meant a smaller potential profit
for those who delayed conversion until after 1928 but also involved a risk
of serious loss through inducing conversion at the wrong time.
Sliding Scale Based on Extent Privilege Is Exercised. The second
method, however, based on the quantities converted, is not so simple in
its implications. Since it gives the first lot of bonds converted an advantage over the next, it evidently provides a competitive stimulus to early
conversion. By so doing it creates a conflict in the minds of the holder
between the desire to retain his senior position and the fear of losing the
more favorable basis of conversion through prior action by other bondholders. This fear of being forestalled will ordinarily result in large-scale
conversions as soon as the stock advances moderately above the initial
conversion price, i.e., as soon as the bond is worth slightly more than the
original cost. Accordingly, the price of the senior issue should oscillate
over a relatively narrow range while the common stock is advancing and
while successive blocks of bonds are being converted.

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[317]

Example: The sequence of events normally to be expected is shown
fairly well by the market action of Hiram Walker-Goderham and Worts
Convertible 41/4s described on page 312. The bonds, issued in 1936 at par,
ranged in price between 100 and 1111/4 during 1936–1939. In the same
period the stock ranged between 261/8 and 54. If the initial conversion
price of 40 for the stock had prevailed throughout the period, the bonds
should have sold for at least 135 when the stock sold at 54. But meanwhile,
as the price of the stock rose, successive blocks of the bonds were converted (partly under the impetus supplied by successive calls for redemption of parts of the issue), thus tipping off higher conversion prices until
the $55 bracket was reached in 1937. In consequence the bonds did not
appreciate commensurately with the rise in the price of the stock.5
When the last block under such a sliding scale is reached, the competitive element disappears, and the bond or preferred stock is then in
the position of an ordinary convertible, free to advance indefinitely with
the stock.
It should be pointed out that issues with such a sliding-scale provision do not always follow this theoretical behavior pattern. The Anaconda
Copper Company Convertible 7s, for example, actually sold at a high premium (30%) in 1928, before the first block was exhausted. This seems to
have been one of the anomalous incidents of the highly speculative
atmosphere at the time.6 From the standpoint of critical analysis, a convertible of this type must be considered as having very limited possibilities of enhancement until the common stock approaches the last and
highest conversion price.7
The sliding-scale privilege on a “block” basis belongs to the objectionable category of devices that tend to mislead the holder of securities as

5 See pp. 266–267 of the 1934 edition of this work for a more detailed exhibit of a similar

record in Engineers Public Service Company $5 Convertible Preferred in 1928–1929.
6 The size of the premium was due in part to the high coupon rate. The bonds were, however, callable at 110, a point that the market ignored.
7 In some cases (e.g., Porto Rican-American 6s, already mentioned, and International Paper

and Power Company First Preferred) the conversion privilege ceases entirely after a certain
fraction of the issue has been converted. This maintains the competitive factor throughout
the life of the privilege and in theory should prevent it from ever having any substantial value.

[318]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

to the real nature and value of what he owns. The competitive pressure to take advantage of a limited opportunity introduces an element of compulsion into the exercise of the conversion right which is
directly opposed to that freedom of choice for a reasonable time which
is the essential merit of such a privilege. There seems no reason why
investment bankers should inject so confusing and contradictory a feature into a security issue. Sound practice would dictate its complete abandonment or in any event the avoidance of such issues by intelligent
investors.

Issues Convertible into Preferred Stock. Many bond issues
were formerly made convertible into preferred stock. Ordinarily some
increase in income was offered to make the provision appear attractive. (For examples, see Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad Company
Adjustment 5s, due 1967, convertible prior to January 1, 1932 into
$7 preferred stock; Central States Electric Corporation Debenture 5s,
due 1948, convertible into $6 preferred stock; G. R. Kinney Company
Secured 71/2 s, due 1936, convertible into $8 preferred stock; American
Electric Power Corporation 6s, due 1957, convertible into $7 preferred
stock.)
There have been instances in which a fair-sized profit has been realized through such a conversion right, but the upper limitation on the
market value of the ordinary preferred stock is likely to keep down the
maximum benefits from such a privilege to a modest figure. Moreover,
since developments in recent years have made preferred stocks in general
appear far less desirable than formerly, the right to convert, say, from a
4% bond into a 5% preferred is likely to constitute more of a danger to
the unwary than an inducement to the alert investor. If the latter is looking for convertibles, he should canvass the market thoroughly and
endeavor to find a suitably secured issue convertible into common stock.
In a few cases where bonds are convertible into preferred stock, the
latter is in turn convertible into common or participates therewith, and
this double arrangement may be equivalent to convertibility of the bond
into common stock. For example, International Hydro-Electric System
6s, due 1944, are convertible into Class A stock, which is in reality a
participating second preferred.

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[319]

There are also bond issues convertible into either preferred or common
or into a combination of certain amounts of each.8 Although any individual issue of this sort may turn out well, in general it may be said that complicated provisions of this sort should be avoided (both by issuing
companies and by security buyers) because they tend to create confusion.

Bonds Convertible at the Option of the Company. The unending flood of variations in the terms of conversion and other privileges that
developed during the 1920’s made it difficult for the untrained investor
to distinguish between the attractive, the merely harmless, and the positively harmful. Hence he proved an easy victim to unsound financing
practices which in former times might have stood out as questionable
because of their departure from the standard. As an example of this sort
we cite the various Associated Gas and Electric Company “Convertible
Obligations” which were made convertible by their terms into preferred
or Class A stock at the option of the company. Such a contraption was
nothing more than a preferred stock masquerading as a bond. If the purchasers were entirely aware of this fact and were willing to invest in
the preferred stock, they would presumably have no cause to complain.
But it goes without saying that an artifice of this kind lends itself far too
readily to concealment and possible misrepresentation.9
8 See, for example, the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company Convertible Adjustment Mortgage 5s, Series A, due Jan. 1, 2000, which are convertible into 5 shares
of the preferred and 5 shares of common. For other examples see p. 623 in the Appendix of
the 1934 edition of this work.
9 These anomalous securities were variously entitled “investment certificates,” “convertible
debenture certificates,” “interest-bearing allotment certificates,” and “convertible obligations.”
In 1932 the company compelled the conversion of the large majority of them, but the holder
was given an option (in addition to those already granted by the terms of the issues) of converting into equally anomalous “Convertible Obligations, Series A and B, due 2022,” which
are likewise convertible into stock at the option of the company. The company was deterred
from compelling the conversion of some $17,000,000 “5 1/2 % Investment Certificates” after
Nov. 15, 1933, by a provision in the indenture for that issue prohibiting the exercise of the
company’s option in case dividends on the $5.50 Dividend Series Preferred were in arrears
(no dividends having been paid thereon since June 15, 1932).
It is interesting to note that the Pennsylvania Securities Commission prohibited the sale
of these “Convertible Obligations” in December 1932 because of their objectionable provisions. The company resisted the Commission’s order in the Federal District Court of

[320]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Bonds Convertible into Other Bonds. Some bonds are convertible
into other bonds. The usual case is that of a short-term issue, the holder
of which is given the right to exchange into a long-term bond of the same
company. Frequently the long-term bond is deposited as collateral security for the note. (For example, Interborough Rapid Transit Company 7s,
due 1932, were secured by deposit of $1,736 of the same company’s First
and Refunding 5s, due 1966, for each $1,000 note, and they were also
convertible into the deposited collateral, the final rate being $1,000 of 5s
for $900 of 7% notes.) The holder thus has an option either to demand
repayment at an early date or to make a long-term commitment in the
enterprise. In practice, this amounts merely to the chance of a moderate
profit at or before maturity, in the event that the company prospers, or
interest rates fall, or both.
Unlike the case of a bond convertible into a preferred stock, there is
usually a reduction in the coupon rate when a short-term note is converted into a long-term bond. The reason is that short-term notes are
ordinarily issued when interest rates, either in general or for the specific
company, are regarded as abnormally high, so that the company is unwilling to incur so steep a rate for a long-term bond. It is thus expected that,
when normal conditions return, long-term bonds can be floated at a
much lower rate; and hence the right to exchange the note for a long-term
bond, even on a basis involving some reduction in income, may prove to
be valuable.10
Convertible Bonds with an Original Market Value in Excess of
Par. One of the extraordinary developments of the 1928–1929 financial
Philadelphia but later dropped its suit (see 135 Chronicle 4383, 4559; 136 Chronicle
326, 1011).
10 See the following issues taken from the 1920–1921 period: Shawinigan Water and Power

Company 7 1/2 % Gold Notes, issued in 1920 and due in 1926, convertible into First and
Refunding 6s, Series B, due 1950, which were pledged as security; San Joaquin Light and
Power Corporation Convertible Collateral Trust 8s, issued in 1920 and due in 1935, convertible into the pledged Series C First and Refunding 6s, due 1950; Great Western Power
Company of California Convertible Gold 8s, issued in 1920 and due in 1930, convertible
into pledged First and Refunding 7s, Series B, due in 1950.
Another type of bond-for-bond conversion is represented by Dawson Railway and Coal
5s, due 1951, which are convertible into El Paso and Southwestern Railroad Company First
5s, due 1965 (the parent company, which in turn is a subsidiary of the Southern Pacific).
Such examples are rare and do not invite generalization.

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[321]

pyrotechnics was the offering of convertible issues with an original market value greatly in excess of par. This is illustrated by Atchison, Topeka
and Santa Fe Railway Company Convertible 41/2s, due 1948, and by
American Telephone and Telegraph Company Convertible 41/2s, due
1939. Initial trading in the former on the New York Curb Market (on a
“when issued” basis) in November 1928 was around 125, and initial trading in the latter on the New York Stock Exchange (on a “when issued”
basis) on May 1, 1929, was at 142. Obviously investment in the bonds at
these levels represented primarily a commitment in the common stock,
since they were immediately subject to the danger of a substantial loss of
principal value if the stock declined. Furthermore the income return was
entirely too low to come under our definition of investment. Although it
may be thought that the stockholders were acquiring a normal investment through the exercise of their subscription right to purchase the
issues at par, the essential nature of their commitment was determined
by the initial market value of the security to which they were subscribing. For this reason we think such financing should be condemned,
because under the guise of an attractive investment it created a basically
speculative form of security.

A Technical Feature of Some Convertible Issues. A technical feature of the American Telephone and Telegraph convertible issue deserves
mention. The bonds were made convertible at 180, but, instead of presenting $180 of bonds to obtain a share of stock, the holder might present $100
of bonds and $80 in cash. The effect of such an option is to make the bond
more valuable whenever the stock sells above 180 (i.e., whenever the conversion value of the bond exceeds 100). This is illustrated as follows:
If the stock sells at 360, a straight conversion basis of 180 would make
the bond worth 200. But by the provision accepting $80 per share in cash,
the value of the bond becomes 360  80  280.
This arrangement may be characterized as a combination of a conversion privilege at 180 with a stock purchase right at 100.
Delayed Conversion Privilege. The privilege of converting is sometimes not operative immediately upon issuance of the obligation.
Examples: This was true, for example, of Brooklyn Union Gas Company Convertible 51/2s, discussed in Note 38 of the Appendix on accompanying CD. Although they were issued in December 1925, the right to

[322]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

convert did not accrue until January 1, 1929. Similarly, New York, New
Haven, and Hartford Railroad Company Convertible Debenture 6s, due
in 1948, although issued in 1907, were not convertible until January 15,
1923; Chesapeake Corporation Convertible 5s, due 1947, were issued in
1927 but did not become convertible until May 15, 1932.
More commonly the suspension of the conversion privilege does not
last so long as these examples indicate, but in any event this practice introduces an additional factor of uncertainty and tends to render the privilege less valuable than it would be otherwise. This feature may account
in part for the spread, indicated in Note 38, page 772, of the Appendix on
accompanying CD, which existed during 1926, 1927, and the early part
of 1928 between the Brooklyn Union Gas Company 51/2s and the related
common stock.

See accompanying CD for Chapter 25, “Senior
Securities with Warrants. Participating Issues.
Switching and Hedging.”

Chapter 26

SENIOR SECURITIES OF
QUESTIONABLE SAFETY

AT THE LOW point of the 1932 securities market the safety of at least 80%
of all corporate bonds and preferred stocks was open to some appreciable degree of doubt.1 Even prior to the 1929 crash the number of speculative senior securities was very large, and it must inevitably be still larger
for some years to come. The financial world is faced, therefore, with the
unpleasant fact that a considerable proportion of American securities
belong to what may be called a misfit category. A low-grade bond or preferred stock constitutes a relatively unpopular form of commitment. The
investor must not buy them, and the speculator generally prefers to devote
his attention to common stocks. There seems to be much logic to the view
that if one decides to speculate he should choose a thoroughly speculative medium and not subject himself to the upper limitations of market
value and income return, or to the possibility of confusion between speculation and investment, which attach to the lower priced bonds and preferred stocks.

Limitation of Profit on Low-priced Bonds Not a Real Drawback. But however impressive may be the objection to these nondescript
securities, the fact remains that they exist in enormous quantities, that
they are owned by innumerable security holders, and that hence they must
be taken seriously into account in any survey of security analysis. It is reasonable to conclude that the large supply of such issues, coupled with the
lack of a natural demand for them, will make for a level of prices below
their intrinsic value. Even if an inherent unattractiveness in the form of
such securities be admitted, this may be more than offset by the attractive price at which they may be purchased. Furthermore, the limitations
1 See Appendix Note 42, p. 776 on accompanying CD, for data on bond prices in 1931–1934
and 1939.

[323]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[324]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

of principal profit in the case of a low-priced bond, as compared with a
common stock, may be of only minor practical importance, because the
profit actually realized by the common-stock buyer is ordinarily no greater
than that obtainable from a speculative senior security. If, for example, we
are considering a 4% bond selling at 35, its maximum possible price
appreciation is about 70 points, or 200%. The average common-stock purchase at 35 cannot be held for a greater profit than this without a dangerous surrender to “bull-market psychology.”

Two Viewpoints with Respect to Speculative Bonds. There are
two directly opposite angles from which a speculative bond may be
viewed. It may be considered in its relation to investment standards and
yields, in which case the leading question is whether or not the low price
and higher income return will compensate for the concession made in
the safety factor. Or it may be thought of in terms of a common-stock
commitment, in which event the contrary question arises; viz., “Does the
smaller risk of loss involved in this low-priced bond, as compared with a
common stock, compensate for the smaller possibilities of profit?” The
nearer a bond comes to meeting investment requirements—and the
closer it sells to an investment price—the more likely are those interested
to regard it from the investment viewpoint. The opposite approach is evidently suggested in the case of a bond in default or selling at an extremely
low price. We are faced here with the familiar difficulty of classification
arising from the absence of definite lines of demarcation. Some issues can
always be found reflecting any conceivable status in the gamut between
complete worthlessness and absolute safety.
Common-stock Approach Preferable. We believe, however, that the
sounder and more fruitful approach to the field of speculative senior
securities lies from the direction of common stocks. This will carry with
it a more thorough appreciation of the risk involved and therefore a
greater insistence upon either reasonable assurance of safety or especially
attractive possibilities of profit or both. It induces also—among intelligent security buyers at least—a more intensive examination of the corporate picture than would ordinarily be made in viewing a security from
the investment angle.
Such an approach would be distinctly unfavorable to the purchase of
slightly substandard bonds selling at moderate discounts from par. These,
together with high-coupon bonds of second grade, belong in the category

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[325]

of “business men’s investments” which we considered and decided against
in Chap. 7. It may be objected that a general adoption of this attitude
would result in wide and sudden fluctuations in the price of many issues.
Assuming that a 4% bond deserves to sell at par as long as it meets strict
investment standards, then as soon as it falls slightly below these standards its price would suffer a precipitous decline, say, to 70; and, conversely, a slight improvement in its exhibit would warrant its jumping
suddenly back to par. Apparently there would be no justification for intermediate quotations between 70 and 100.
The real situation is not so simple as this, however. Differences of opinion may properly exist in the minds of investors as to whether or not a
given issue is adequately secured, particularly since the standards are qualitative and personal as well as arithmetical and objective. The range
between 70 and 100 may therefore logically reflect a greater or lesser agreement concerning the safety of the issue. This would mean that an investor
would be justified in buying such a bond, say, at 85, if his own considered
judgment regarded it as sound, although he would recognize that there
was doubt on this score in the minds of other investors that would account
for its appreciable discount from a prime investment price. According to
this view, the levels between 70 and 100, approximately, may be designated
as the range of “subjective variations” in the status of the issue.
The field of speculative values proper would therefore commence
somewhere near the 70 level (for bonds with a coupon rate of 4% or
larger) and would offer maximum possibilities of appreciation of at least
50% of the cost. (In the case of other senior issues, 70% of normal value
might be taken as the dividing line.) In making such commitments, it is
recommended that the same general attitude be taken as in the careful
purchase of a common stock; in other words, that the income account
and the balance sheet be submitted to the same intensive analysis and that
the same effort be made to evaluate future possibilities—favorable and
unfavorable.

Important Distinctions between Common Stocks and Speculative Senior Issues. We shall not seek, therefore, to set up standards
of selection for speculative senior issues in any sense corresponding to the
quantitative tests applicable to fixed-value securities. On the other hand,
although they should preferably be considered in their relationship to the
common-stock approach and technique, it is necessary to appreciate

[326]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

certain rather important points of difference that exist between common
stocks as a class and speculative senior issues.
Low-priced Bonds Associated with Corporate Weakness. The limitation
on the profit possibilities of senior securities has already been referred to.
Its significance varies with the individual case, but in general we do not
consider it a controlling disadvantage. A more emphatic objection is made
against low-priced bonds and preferred stocks on the ground that they are
associated with corporate weakness, retrogression, or depression. Obviously the enterprise behind such a security is not highly successful, and
furthermore, it must have been following a downward course, since the
issue originally sold at a much higher level. In 1928 and 1929 this consideration was enough to condemn all such issues absolutely in the eyes of
the general public. Businesses were divided into two groups: those which
were successful and progressing, and those which were on the downgrade
or making no headway. The common shares of the first group were desirable no matter how high the price; but no security belonging to the second group was attractive, irrespective of how low it sold.
This concept of permanently strong and permanently weak corporations has been pretty well dissipated by the subsequent depression, and
we are back to the older realization that time brings unpredictable
changes in the fortunes of business undertakings.2 The fact that the low
price of a bond or preferred stock results from a decline in earnings need
not signify that the company’s outlook is hopeless and that there is nothing ahead but still poorer results. Many of the companies that fared very
badly in 1931–1933 regained a good part of their former earning power,
and their senior securities recovered from exceedingly low prices to
investment levels. It turned out, therefore, that there was just as much
reason to expect substantial recoveries in the quotations of depressed
senior securities as in the price of common stocks generally.
Many Undervalued in Relation to Their Status and Contractual Position. We have already mentioned that the unpopularity of speculative
senior securities tends to make them sell at lower prices than common
stocks, in relation to their intrinsic value. From the standpoint of the
intelligent buyer this must be considered a point in their favor. With
2 But see later references to The Ebb and Flow of Investment Value, by Mead and Grodinski,

published in 1939, which strongly espouses the thesis stated in the previous paragraph
(infra, p. 371 and Appendix Note 71, p. 845 on accompanying CD).

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[327]

respect to their intrinsic position, speculative bonds—and, to a lesser
degree, preferred stocks—derive important advantages from their contractual rights. The fixed obligation to pay bond interest will usually result
in the continuation of such payments as long as they are in any way possible. If we assume that a fairly large proportion of a group of carefully
selected low-priced bonds will escape default, the income received on the
group as a whole over a period of time will undoubtedly far exceed the
dividend return on similarly priced common stocks.
Preferred shares occupy an immeasurably weaker position in this
regard, but even here the provisions transferring voting control to the senior shares in the event of suspension of dividends will be found in some
cases to impel their continuance. Where the cash resources are ample, the
desire to maintain an unbroken record and to avoid accumulations will
frequently result in paying preferred dividends even though poor earnings
have depressed the market price.
Examples: Century Ribbon Mills, Inc., failed to earn its 7% preferred
dividend in eight out of the thirteen years from 1926 to 1938, inclusive,
and the price repeatedly declined to about 50. Yet the preferred dividend
was continued without interruption during this entire period, while the
common received a total of but 50 cents. Similarly, a purchaser of Universal Pictures Company First Preferred at about 30 in 1929 would have
received the 8% dividend during three years of depression before the
payment was finally suspended.
Contrasting Importance of Contractual Terms in Speculation and Investment. The reader should appreciate the distinction between the investment
and the speculative qualities of preferred stocks in this matter of dividend
continuance. From the investment standpoint, i.e., the dependability of the
dividend, the absence of an enforceable claim is a disadvantage as compared with bonds. From the speculative standpoint, i.e., the possibility of
dividends’ being continued under unfavorable conditions, preferred stocks
have certain semicontractual claims to consideration by the directors that
undoubtedly give them an advantage over common stocks.

Bearing of Working-capital and Sinking-fund Factors on Safety
of Speculative Senior Issues. A large working capital, which has been
characteristic of even nonprosperous industrials for some years past, is
much more directly advantageous to the senior securities than to the common stock. Not only does it make possible the continuance of interest or

[328]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

preferred-dividend payments, but it has an important bearing also on the
retirement of the principal, either at maturity or by sinking-fund operations or by voluntary repurchase. Sinking-fund provisions, for bonds as
well as preferred stocks, contribute to the improvement of both the market quotation and the intrinsic position of the issue. This advantage is not
found in the case of common stocks.
Examples: Francis H. Leggett Company, manufacturers and wholesalers of food products, issued $2,000,000 of 7% preferred stock carrying
a sinking-fund provision which retired 3% of the issue annually. By June
30, 1932, the amount outstanding had been reduced to $608,500, and,
because of the small balance remaining, the issue was called for redemption at 110, in the depth of the depression. Similarly, Century Ribbon Mills
Preferred was reduced from $2,000,000 to $544,000 between 1922 and
1938; and Lawrence Portland Cement Company Debenture 51/2s were
reduced from $2,000,000 to $650,000 on December 31, 1938, the balance
being called for redemption on April 1, 1939.
Importance of Large Net-current-asset Coverage. Where a low-priced
bond is covered several times over by net current assets, it presents a special type of opportunity, because experience shows that the chances of
repayment are good, even though the earnings may be poor or irregular.
Examples: Electric Refrigeration Corporation (Kelvinator) 6s, due
1936, sold at 66 in November 1929 when the net current assets of the
company according to its latest statement amounted to $6,008,900 for the
$2,528,500 of bonds outstanding. It is true that the company had operated at a deficit in 1927 and 1928, but fixed charges were earned nearly
nine times in the year ended September 30, 1929, and the net current
assets were nearly four times the market value of the bond issue. The
bonds recovered to a price close to par in 1930 and were redeemed at 105
in 1931. Similarly, Electric Refrigeration Building Corporation First 6s,
due 1936, which were in effect guaranteed by Kelvinator Corporation
under a lease, sold at 70 in July 1932 when the net current assets of the
parent company amounted to about six times the $1,073,000 of bonds
outstanding and over eight times the total market value of the issue. The
bonds were called at 1011/2 in 1933.
Other examples that may be cited in this connection are Murray
Corporation First 61/2s, due 1934, which sold at 68 in 1932 (because of
current operating deficits) although the company had net current assets

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[329]

of over 21/2 times the par value of the issue and nearly four times their
market value at that price; Sidney Blumenthal and Company 7% Notes, due
1936, which sold at 70 in 1926 when the company had net current assets
of twice the par value of the issue and nearly three times the total market
value thereof (they were called at 103 in 1930); Belding, Heminway Company 6s, due 1936, which sold at 67 in 1930 when the company had net current assets of nearly three times the par value of the issue and over four
times its market value. In the latter case drastic liquidation of inventories
occurred in 1930 and 1931, proceeds from which were used to retire about
80% of the bond issue through purchases in the market. The balance of the
issue was called for payment at 101 early in 1934.
In the typical case of this kind the chance of profit will exceed the
chance of loss, and the probable amount of profit will exceed the probable amount of loss. It may well be that the risk involved in each individual case is still so considerable as to preclude us from applying the term
“investment” to such a commitment. Nevertheless, we suggest that if the
insurance principle of diversification of risk be followed by making a
number of such commitments at the same time, the net result should be
sufficiently dependable to warrant our calling the group purchase an
investment operation. This was one of the possibilities envisaged in our
broadened definition of investment as given in Chap. 4.
Limitations upon Importance of Current-asset Position. It is clear that
considerable weight attaches to the working-capital exhibit in selecting
speculative bonds. This importance must not be exaggerated, however,
to the point of assuming that, whenever a bond is fully covered by net
current assets, its safety is thereby assured. The current assets shown in
any balance sheet may be greatly reduced by subsequent operating losses;
more important still, the stated values frequently prove entirely undependable in the event of insolvency.3
Of the many examples of this point which can be given, we shall mention R. Hoe and Company 7% Notes and Ajax Rubber Company First 8s.
Although these obligations were covered by net working capital in 1929,
they subsequently sold as low as 2 cents on the dollar. (See also our
3 The comparative reliability of the various components in the current-assets figure (cash

assets, receivables, inventories) will receive detailed treatment in a discussion of balancesheet analysis in Part VI.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[330]

discussion of Willys-Overland Company First 61/2 s and Berkey and Gay
Furniture Company First 6s in Note 34 of the Appendix on accompanying CD.4)
EXAMPLES OF LOW-PRICED INDUSTRIAL BONDS COVERED BY NET CURRENT ASSETS, 1932*
Normal interest
coverage

Date of
Funded
balance Net current debt at
sheet
assets†
part†

Period

Times
earned‡

Name of issue

Due

Low price
1932

American Seating 6s

1936

17

Sept. 1932

$ 3,826

$ 3,056

1924–1930

5.2

Crucible Steel 5s

1940

39

June 1932

16,163

13,250

1924–1930

9.4

McKesson &

1950

25

June 1932

42,885

20,848

1925–1930

4.1

1947

21

June 1932

4,598

2,417

1922–1930

3.9

1942

54

Dec. 1931

4,327

1,963

1922–1930

5.5

Robbins 51/2s
Marion Steam
Shovel 6s
National Acme 6s

* See Appendix Note 43, p. 777 on accompanying CD, for a brief discussion of the sequel to these examples first given in the 1934
edition of this work.
† 000 omitted.
‡ Coverage for 1931 charges, adjusted where necessary.

We must distinguish, therefore, between the mere fact that the working capital, as reported, covers the funded debt and the more significant
fact that it exceeds the bond issue many times over. The former statement
is always interesting, but by no means conclusive. If added to other favorable factors, such as a good earnings coverage in normal years and a generally satisfactory qualitative showing, it might make the issue quite
attractive but preferably as part of a group-purchase in the field.

Speculative Preferred Stocks. Stages in Their Price History. Speculative
preferred stocks are more subject than speculative bonds to irrational activity, so that from time to time such preferred shares are overvalued in the
market in the same way as common stocks. We thus have three possible
stages in the price history of a preferred issue, in each of which the market
quotation tends to be out of line with the value:
1. The first stage is that of original issuance, when investors are persuaded to buy the offering at a full investment price not justified by its
intrinsic merit.
4 Perhaps it should be added that three of the four issues mentioned in this paragraph had

spectacular recoveries from the low prices of the depression (e.g., the new Hoe 7s, which
were exchanged for the old 7s, sold at 100 in 1937).

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[331]

2. In the second stage the lack of investment merit has become
manifest, and the price drops to a speculative level. During this period
the decline is likely to be overdone, for reasons previously discussed.
3. A third stage sometimes appears in which the issue advances speculatively in the same fashion as common stocks. On such occasions
certain factors of questionable importance—such as the amount of dividend accumulations—are overemphasized.
An example of this third or irrational stage will be given a little later.
The Rule of “Maximum Valuation for Senior Issues.” Both as a
safeguard against being led astray by the propaganda that is characteristic of the third stage and also as a general guide in dealing with speculative senior issues, the following principle of security analysis is
presented, which we shall call “the rule of maximum valuation for
senior issues.”
A senior issue cannot be worth, intrinsically, any more than a common
stock would be worth if it occupied the position of that senior issue, with
no junior securities outstanding.

This statement may be understood more readily by means of
an example.
Company X and Company Y have the same value. Company X has
80,000 shares of preferred and 200,000 shares of common. Company Y
has only 80,000 shares of common and no preferred. Then our principle
states that a share of Company X preferred cannot be worth more than a
share of Company Y common. This is true because Company Y common
represents the same value that lies behind both the preferred and common of Company X.
Instead of comparing two equivalent companies such as X and Y, we
may assume that Company X is recapitalized so that the old common is
eliminated and the preferred becomes the sole stock issue, i.e., the new
common stock. (To coin a term, we may call such an assumed change the
“communizing” of a preferred stock.) Then our principle merely states
the obvious fact that the value of such a hypothetical common stock cannot be less than the value of the preferred stock it replaces, because it is
equivalent to the preferred plus the old common. The same idea may be
applied to a speculative bond, followed either by common stock only or
by both preferred and common. If the bond is “commonized,” i.e., if it is
assumed to be turned into a common stock, with the old stock issues

[332]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

eliminated, then the value of the new common stock thus created cannot
be less than the present value of the bond.
This relationship must hold true regardless of how high the coupon
or dividend rate, the par value or the redemption price of the senior issue
may be and, particularly, regardless of what amount of unpaid interest or
dividends may have accumulated. For if we had a preferred stock with
accumulations of $1,000 per share, the value of the issue could be no
greater than if it were a common stock (without dividend accumulations)
representing complete ownership of the business. The unpaid dividends
cannot create any additional value for the company’s securities in the
aggregate; they merely affect the division of the total value between the
preferred and the common.
Excessive Emphasis Placed on Amount of Accrued Dividends. Although
a very small amount of analysis will show the above statements to be
almost self-evident truths, the public fails to observe the simplest rules of
logic when once it is in a gambling mood. Hence preferred shares with
large dividend accruals have lent themselves readily to market manipulation in which the accumulations are made the basis for a large advance
in the price of both the preferred and common. An excellent example of
such a performance was provided by American Zinc, Lead, and Smelting
Company shares in 1928.
American Zinc preferred stock was created in 1916 as a stock dividend
on the common, the transaction thus amounting to a split-up of old common into preferred and new common. The preferred was given a stated
par of $25 but had all the attributes of a $100-par stock ($6 cumulative
dividends, redemption and liquidating value of $100). This arrangement
was evidently a device to permit carrying the preferred issue in the balance sheet as a much smaller liability than it actually represented. Between
1920 and 1927 the company reported continuous deficits (except for a negligible profit in 1922); preferred dividends were suspended in 1921, and
by 1928 about $40 per share had accumulated.
In 1928 the company benefited moderately from the prevailing prosperity and barely earned $6 per share on the preferred. However, the
company’s issues were subjected to manipulation that advanced the price
of the preferred from 35 in 1927 to 118 in 1928, while the common rose
even more spectacularly from 6 to 57. These advances were accompanied by rumors of a plan to pay off the accumulated dividends—exactly

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[333]

how, not being stated. Naturally enough, this development failed to
materialize.5
The irrationality of the gambling spirit is well shown here by the
absurd acceptance of unpaid preferred dividends as a source of value for
both the preferred and the common. The speculative argument in behalf
of the common stock ran as follows: “The accumulated preferred dividends are going to be paid off. This will be good for the common. Therefore let us buy the common.” According to this topsy-turvy reasoning, if
there were no unpaid preferred dividends ahead of the common it would
be less attractive (even at the same price), because there would then be
in prospect no wonderful plan for clearing up the accumulations.
We may use the American Zinc example to demonstrate the practical
application of our “rule of maximum valuation for senior issues.” Was
American Zinc Preferred too high at 118 in 1928? Assuming the preferred
stockholders owned the company completely, this would then mean a
price of 118 for a common stock earning $6 per share in 1928 after eight
years of deficits. Even in the hectic days of 1928 speculators would not
have been at all attracted to such a common stock at that price, so that
the application of our rule should have prevented the purchase of the
preferred stock at its inflated value.
The quotation of 57 reached by American Zinc common was
evidently the height of absurdity, since it represented the following valuation for the company:
Preferred stock, 80,000 sh. @ 118 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 9,440,000
Common stock, 200,000 sh. @ 57 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11,400,000
Total valuation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $20,840,000
Earnings, 1928 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
481,000
Average earnings, 1920–1927 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
188,000(d)

In order to equal the above valuation for the American Zinc Company the hypothetical common stock (80,000 shares basis) would have
had to sell at $260 per share, earning a bare $6 and paying no dividend.

5 But years later, in 1936, accumulated preferred dividends were taken care of by a recapitalization plan which gave the preferred stockholders the bulk of the enlarged common issue.

[334]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

This figure indicates the extent to which the heedless public was led astray
in this case by the exploitation of unpaid dividends.
American Hide and Leather Company offers another, but less striking,
example of this point. In no year between 1922 and 1928, inclusive, did
the company earn more than $4.41 on the preferred, and the average profits were very small. Yet in each of these seven years, the preferred stock
sold as high as 66 or higher. This recurring strength was based largely on
the speculative appeal of the enormous accumulated preferred dividends
which grew from about $120 to $175 per share during this period.
Applying our rule, we may consider American Hide and Leather Preferred as representing complete ownership of the business, which to all
intents and purposes it did. We should then have a common stock which
had paid no dividends for many years and with average earnings at best
(using the 1922–1927 period) of barely $2 per share. Evidently a price of
above 65 for such a common stock would be far too high. Consequently
this price was excessive for American Hide and Leather Preferred, nor
could the existence of accumulated dividends, however large, affect this
conclusion in the slightest.

Variation in Capital Structure Affects Total Market Value of
Securities. From the foregoing discussion it might be inferred that the
value of a single capital-stock issue must always be equivalent to the combined values of any preferred and common stock issues into which it
might be split. In a theoretical sense this is entirely true, but in practice
it may not be true at all, because a division of capitalization into senior
securities and common stock may have a real advantage over a single
common-stock issue. This subject will receive extended treatment under
the heading of “Capitalization Structure” in Chap. 40.
The distinction between the idea just suggested and our “rule of
maximum valuation” may be clarified as follows:
1. Assume Company X  Company Y
2. Company X has preferred (P) and common (C); Company Y has
common only (C′)
3. Then it would appear that
Value of P  value of C  value of C ′

since each side of the equation represents equal things, namely the total
value of each company.

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[335]

But this apparent relationship may not hold good in practice because
the preferred-and-common capitalization method may have real advantages over a single common-stock issue.
On the other hand, our “rule of maximum valuation” merely states
that the value of P alone cannot exceed value of C′. This should hold true
in practice as well as in theory, except in so far as manipulative or heedlessly speculative activity brushes aside all rational considerations.
Our rule is stated in negative form and is therefore essentially negative
in its application. It is most useful in detecting instances where preferred
stocks or bonds are not worth their market price. To apply it positively it
would be necessary, first, to arrive at a value for the preferred on a “communized” basis (i.e., representing complete ownership of the business) and
then to determine what deduction from this value should be made to
reflect the part of the ownership fairly ascribable to the existing common
stock. At times this approach will be found useful in establishing the fact
that a given senior issue is worth more than its market price. But such a
procedure brings us far outside the range of mathematical formulas and
into the difficult and indefinite field of common-stock valuation, with
which we have next to deal.

This page intentionally left blank

PART IV

THEORY OF
COMMON-STOCK
INVESTMENT. THE
DIVIDEND FACTOR

Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

This page intentionally left blank

Introduc tion to Par t IV

G O W I T H T H E F LO W
BY BRUCE BERKOWITZ

I

n the urban, melting-pot neighborhood where I grew up, one of the
most popular retail establishments was the corner variety store. Area
residents frequented the place for small, everyday needs—a newspa-

per or magazine or a quart of milk. We kids showed up constantly with
what change we had cajoled from family members or earned by running
errands, eager to spend it on candy bars, chewing gum, and soft drinks.
The owner had one cash register, seated on a countertop near the
front door. Into it went the cash from customers’ purchases. The proprietor took out what he needed to stock the shelves, pay the rent, maintain
the store, and meet his small payroll. If there was anything left after that,
the proprietor had the choice of using the remaining cash to invest in the
business’s growth, pay down debts, or meet personal living expenses.
Years later, after I had started working in the investment business, I
began reading the annual reports written by Berkshire Hathaway chairman Warren Buffett, which led me to the works of Benjamin Graham and
David Dodd. I soon realized that the financial operations of this simple
variety store represented a good example of free cash flow. Graham and
Dodd referred to that excess cash as “earnings power” or “owner earnings.” That’s the amount of cash an owner can pocket after paying all
expenses and making whatever investments are necessary to maintain
the business. This free cash flow is the well from which all returns are
drawn, whether they are dividends, stock buybacks, or investments capable of enhancing future returns.
[339]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[340]

Introduction to Part IV

Graham and Dodd were among the first to apply careful financial
analysis to common stocks. Until then, most serious investment analysis
had focused on fixed income securities. Graham and Dodd argued that
stocks, like bonds, have a well-defined value based on a stream of future
returns. With bonds, the returns consist of specific payments made under
contractual commitments. With stocks, the returns consist of dividends
that are paid from the earnings of the business, or cash that could have
been used to pay dividends that was instead reinvested in the business.
By examining the assets of a business and their earnings (or cash
flow) power, Graham and Dodd argued that the value of future returns
could be calculated with reasonable accuracy. Once determined, this
value helps you decide whether to purchase a particular stock. A calculated value of $20 for a stock trading at $10 per share would allow for a
profit even if your estimate was off by a few dollars. But if you estimated
a $12 value for a stock trading at $10 per share, it would fail to make the
buy list; even though the stock was somewhat undervalued, there would
not be a sufficient margin for error.

Sharpen Your Pencil
The fundamental problem of equity investing is how to value a company. In
the 1930s, that was done by measuring tangible assets. The reason: much
of the stock market’s capitalization in that era was based on raw materials
(mainly mining companies), transportation (railroads), utilities, and manufacturing. All of those industries had significant amounts of plant, equipment, and inventory. Today, service firms dominate the economy, and,
even in manufacturing, much of a firm’s capital comes from intangibles—
software, acquired brands, customers, product portfolios—that do not
appear explicitly on the balance sheet. For example, relatively little of the
value of software companies like Oracle and Microsoft or a business services firm like Automated Data Processing is captured by tangible assets.

Bruce Berkowitz

[341]

To value equities, we at Fairholme begin by calculating free cash flow.
We start with net income as defined under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Then we add back noncash charges such as depreciation and amortization, which are formulaic calculations based on
historical costs (depreciation for tangible assets, amortization for intangibles) and may not reflect a reduction in those assets’ true worth.
Even so, most assets deteriorate in value over time, and we have to
account for that. So we subtract an estimate of the company’s cost of
maintaining tangible assets such as the office, plant, inventory, and
equipment; and intangible assets like customer traffic and brand identity.
Investment at this level, properly deployed, should keep the profits of the
business in a steady state.
That is only the beginning. For instance, companies often misstate the
costs of employees’ pension and postretirement medical benefits. They
also overestimate their benefit plans’ future investment returns or underestimate future medical costs, so in a free cash flow analysis, you need to
adjust the numbers to reflect those biases.
Companies often lowball what they pay management. For instance,
until the last several years, most companies did not count the costs of
stock option grants as employee compensation, nor did the costs show
up in any other line item. Some went so far as to try to mask this options
expense by repurchasing large quantities of shares in the open market to
offset the stock options exercised by employees. The problem: companies were often paying much more on the open market than they
received from employees exercising options granted years before. This
difference was rarely reported as an official cost of doing business.
Another source of accounting-derived profits comes from long-term
supply contracts. For instance, when now-defunct Enron entered into a
long-term trading or supply arrangement, the company very optimistically estimated the net present value of future profits from the deal and

[342]

Introduction to Part IV

put that into the current year’s earnings even though no cash was
received. Enron is gone, but not the practice. Insurance companies and
banks still have considerable leeway in how they estimate the future
losses arising from insured events or loan defaults. And for any company,
gains and losses on derivative contracts are difficult to nail down with
precision since the markets for such instruments are thin.
Some companies understate free cash flow because they expense the
cost of what are really investments in their growth. For instance, adding
new auto insurance customers may cost as much as 20% to 30% more
than the cash received from new policyholders in their first year. Some of
this excess cost goes to replace customers who did not renew their policies. But if the number of policyholders is growing, a portion of the
expense represents investment in growth. Berkshire Hathaway’s GEICO
subsidiary does just this, and as a result, accounting earnings understate
free cash flow assuming a steady-state business. When Microsoft sells a
Windows program, the company recognizes that future servicing costs
are part of that sale. Microsoft accounts for these costs by spreading the
revenues and expenses over a number of years. The result is to defer
profits to future periods and provide the company with a cushion against
future adverse developments.
All of these noncash accounting conventions illustrate the difficulty of
identifying a company’s current free cash flow. Still, we are far from done.
My associates and I next want to know (a) how representative is current
cash flow of average past flow, and (b) is it increasing or decreasing—
that is, does the company face headwinds or ride on tailwinds?

Cash Flow Where You Least Expect It
Certainly one company facing stiff headwinds in 2008 was Mohawk
Industries, a carpeting and flooring firm we first purchased in 2006 at
prices in the low $60s. At the time, the company reported GAAP earnings

Bruce Berkowitz

[343]

of $6.70 per share, but our analysis showed free cash flow of $9 per share.
Why was free cash flow so much greater than earnings? First, Mohawk
had been growing by acquiring some of the smaller players as part of an
industrywide consolidation, so it gained economies of scale that allowed
the company to reduce capital spending and lower its working capital
needs. Even more important, the use of GAAP required Mohawk to take
significant charges against its earnings to amortize the intangible assets
it had picked up in its buying spree. (The difference between what a
company pays for an acquisition and the acquired company’s book value
goes on the balance sheet as an intangible asset called “goodwill.”) These
charges reduced net income but did not take any cash out of the business. All told, we calculated that Mohawk was selling at less than seven
times its free cash flow, an attractive valuation. It was akin to buying a
bond yielding 14%, with a decent chance that the coupon payments
would rise over time.
In 2008, in the midst of a seriously depressed new housing market
(most carpeting and flooring go into new construction), Mohawk Industries was still generating $6 to $7 a share of free cash flow. The stock at
$75 a share was trading at around 11 to 12 times free cash flow, still an
attractive multiple for a company in a cyclical downswing. True, revenues
were slumping, but industry consolidation had largely eliminated oncerampant price-cutting competition among manufacturers. In fact, manufacturers were able to pass along increased raw materials costs to
customers. That has helped to preserve profit margins and cash flow.
While the carpeting and flooring industry will continue to fluctuate with
the economy, Mohawk’s management has been able to keep its free cash
flow generation fairly steady.
Not surprisingly, investors who search for companies with good free
cash flow often find them in mature industries, such as the flooring business. Capital required for growth is limited and financing demands are

[344]

Introduction to Part IV

modest, so free cash is plentiful. That’s not usually the case with highgrowth companies, but sometimes meticulous analysis will uncover one,
such as EchoStar Corp., parent of the DISH satellite TV business.
That company went public in June 1995, on the premise that there
was room for another pay-TV provider. By 2000, at the peak of Wall
Street’s infatuation with all things tech, EchoStar had 3.4 million subscribers, an enterprise value (market value of equity, plus net debt) of
approximately $30 billion, and a reported annual loss of nearly $800 million. Worse yet, the company was consuming cash like crazy as it sought
to build its infrastructure and customer base—and that alone would take
it off many value investors’ radar.
Fast forward five years, and the subscriber count topped 12 million.
With many of the start-up costs behind it, free cash was flowing and
growing—monthly subscriber fees are a pretty reliable income stream.
Yet at that time, in 2005, EchoStar’s enterprise value was just $17 billion.
Clearly, the market was not giving the company much credit for its cashgenerating abilities. That allowed Fairholme to purchase shares in an
excellent franchise business with a double-digit free cash flow yield while
risk-free investments were paying 5%.
Some companies produce plentiful cash flow, but their corporate
structures mask it. That’s the case with Leucadia National, a holding company with an eclectic mix of businesses. Leucadia’s portfolio of businesses resembles that of Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway. While these
companies in aggregate do not necessarily produce steady cash flow for
the holding company, at the subsidiary level cash flow can be very good,
and ultimately that value will benefit the parent company. Leucadia’s free
cash flow is quite variable and unpredictable, mainly because its managers are always buying and selling businesses in its portfolio. But management has proven skillful at deploying the company’s cash. Its net
worth has compounded at close to 25% per annum for almost three
decades. If you invest in a company such as Leucadia or Berkshire Hath-

Bruce Berkowitz

[345]

away, you are banking on management’s ability to identify investments
with high free cash flow.
Leucadia and Berkshire Hathaway point to another important aspect
of evaluating free cash flow: how management deploys cash and
whether those decisions enhance shareholder value. As mentioned earlier, free cash flow can either be returned to shareholders via dividends or
share repurchases, or it can be reinvested in the business. Graham and
Dodd equated cash returns to shareholders with dividends. The tax
advantages of stock buybacks were hardly considered in capital allocation decisions, and in fact, they are of little interest to the institutional
investors who dominate today’s markets.
Today, share buybacks at discounted prices are clearly preferable to
dividends. The qualifying factor here is the price. If the company buys
back undervalued stock, selling shareholders suffer while long-term
shareholders benefit. If the company buys its stock at inflated prices, sellers benefit and long-term holders lose out. Value investors, having a
long-term orientation, generally look for companies that consistently
repurchase their stocks during periods of undervaluation.
Management must decide when to return cash to shareholders and
when to invest it. Earnings intelligently invested will generate higher
future levels of free cash flow. On the other hand, poorly invested earnings destroy value. Warren Buffett has been an undisputed genius of capital allocation for over 50 years, and no one minds that his Berkshire
Hathaway does not pay a dividend. On the other hand, some managements, especially those in struggling industries, would benefit their
investors by returning capital to them rather than reinvesting in the business at low rates of return.

Dividends as Signals
Traditionally, corporate boards have tended to set dividend payouts at
levels that are comfortably covered by earnings. That way, a greater share

[346]

Introduction to Part IV

of earnings is retained in good times. In bad times, dividends are often
maintained even if they exceed free cash flow. A board might do that to
express its long-term confidence in the business. If earnings are growing,
a board will steadily increase the dividends, though usually at a slower
pace than earnings.
Now, investors scrutinize companies’ dividend policies as a window into
management’s thinking about the durability of the free cash flow. If
changes in cash flow were considered temporary, companies presumably
would not adjust dividends. If management believed the changes were
likely to be permanent, it would adjust dividends accordingly. If management regarded new investment opportunities as relatively low risk, those
opportunities could be financed with debt, allowing dividends to remain
untouched. If new opportunities were viewed as relatively risky, they might
have to be financed through a reduction in the dividend. If these strategies
were honestly executed, they would help investors extrapolate from current to likely future cash flow and hence, to equity value. In this context, a
high dividend level would be a positive factor in equity valuation.
The danger here is that management may be tempted to manipulate
the dividend to create an inappropriately favorable picture of future cash
flow. Companies under stress, such as General Motors or Citigroup have
been, are almost always late to cut their dividends. In such cases
investors who buy stocks with unusually rich dividend yields and deteriorating fundamentals are asking for trouble. These dividends are likely to
be sliced. Companies that pay dividends with the proceeds of newly
issued equity rather than free cash flow are similarly likely to be manipulating investors through false signals. Real estate investment trusts and
income trusts, which must pay out virtually all their income to shareholders, are similarly reluctant to reduce their stated distributions.
On the other hand, companies that have free cash to distribute and
poor investment prospects should make higher dividend payouts. Also,

Bruce Berkowitz

[347]

companies like Dell Computer and Amazon.com that operate with significantly negative working capital—they collect from purchasers before
they have to pay suppliers—and little fixed investment have minimal
need to reinvest earnings. Yet they stubbornly pay no dividends and
accumulate large amounts of cash.

Whose Cash Is It Anyway?
Identifying a company with a big cash stash and the ability to generate
more is a great start. But the cash doesn’t do the shareholder any good
unless management makes smart investments with it, or returns it to its
owners via dividends or share buybacks. Management talent and intentions are crucial.
Sometimes there is just too much cash to ignore, even if it is under
the control of folks who won’t invest it or distribute it. In those cases
activist investors often take large stakes and pressure managers to
“unlock the value” in the company; failing that, they try to replace those
managers. One way or another, if there’s enough money in the cash register, somebody will find a way to get it out.

Chapter 27

THE THEORY OF COMMONSTOCK INVESTMENT

IN OUR INTRODUCTORY discussion we set forth the difficulties inherent in
efforts to apply the analytical technique to speculative situations. Since the
speculative factors bulk particularly large in common stocks, it follows that
analysis of such issues is likely to prove inconclusive and unsatisfactory;
and even where it appears to be conclusive, there is danger that it may be
misleading. At this point it is necessary to consider the function of common-stock analysis in greater detail. We must begin with three realistic
premises. The first is that common stocks are of basic importance in our
financial scheme and of fascinating interest to many people; the second is
that owners and buyers of common stocks are generally anxious to arrive
at an intelligent idea of their value; the third is that, even when the underlying motive of purchase is mere speculative greed, human nature desires
to conceal this unlovely impulse behind a screen of apparent logic and
good sense. To adapt the aphorism of Voltaire, it may be said that if there
were no such thing as common-stock analysis, it would be necessary to
counterfeit it.

Broad Merits of Common-stock Analysis. We are thus led to the
question: “To what extent is common-stock analysis a valid and truly
valuable exercise, and to what extent is it an empty but indispensable ceremony attending the wagering of money on the future of business and of
the stock market?” We shall ultimately find the answer to run somewhat
as follows: “As far as the typical common stock is concerned—an issue
picked at random from the list—an analysis, however elaborate, is
unlikely to yield a dependable conclusion as to its attractiveness or its real
value. But in individual cases, the exhibit may be such as to permit reasonably confident conclusions to be drawn from the processes of analysis.” It would follow that analysis is of positive or scientific value only in
[348]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[349]

the case of the exceptional common stock, and that for common stocks
in general it must be regarded either as a somewhat questionable aid to
speculative judgment or as a highly illusory method of aiming at values
that defy calculation and that must somehow be calculated none the less.
Perhaps the most effective way of clarifying the subject is through
the historical approach. Such a survey will throw light not only upon
the changing status of common-stock analysis but also upon a closely
related subject of major importance, viz., the theory of common-stock
investment. We shall encounter at first a set of old established and seemingly logical principles for common-stock investment. Through the
advent of new conditions, we shall find the validity of these principles
impaired. Their insufficiency will give rise to an entirely different concept of common-stock selection, the so-called “new-era theory,” which
beneath its superficial plausibility will hold possibilities of untold mischief in store. With the prewar theory obsolete and the new-era theory
exploded, we must finally make the attempt to establish a new set of
logically sound and reasonably dependable principles of common-stock
investment.

History of Common-stock Analysis. Turning first to the history of
common-stock analysis, we shall find that two conflicting factors have
been at work during the past 30 years. On the one hand there has been
an increase in the investment prestige of common stocks as a class, due
chiefly to the enlarged number that have shown substantial earnings, continued dividends, and a strong financial condition. Accompanying this
progress was a considerable advance in the frequency and adequacy of
corporate statements, thus supplying the public and the securities analyst
with a wealth of statistical data. Finally, an impressive theory was constructed asserting the preeminence of common stocks as long-term
investments. But at the time that the interest in common stocks reached
its height, in the period between 1927 and 1929, the basis of valuation
employed by the stock-buying public departed more and more from the
factual approach and technique of security analysis and concerned itself
increasingly with the elements of potentiality and prophecy. Moreover,
the heightened instability in the affairs of industrial companies and
groups of enterprises, which has undermined the investment quality of
bonds in general, has of course been still more hostile to the maintenance
of true investment quality in common stocks.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[350]

Analysis Vitiated by Two Types of Instability. The extent to which
common-stock analysis has been vitiated by these two developments, (1)
the instability of tangibles and (2) the dominant importance of intangibles, may be better realized by a contrast of specific common stocks prior
to 1920 and in more recent times. Let us consider four typical examples:
Pennsylvania Railroad; Atchison, Topeka, and Santa Fe Railway; National
Biscuit; and American Can.
PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY

Year

Range for stock

Earned per share

Paid per share

1904
1905
1906
1907
1908
1909
1910
1911
1912
1913

70–56
74–66
74–61
71–52
68–52
76–63
69–61
65–59
63–60
62–53

$4.63
4.98
5.83
5.32
4.46
4.37
4.60
4.14
4.64
4.20

$3.00
3.00
3.25
3.50
3.00
3.00
3.00
3.00
3.00
3.00

1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929
1930
1931
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938

48–41
50–42
55–43
57–49
68–57
77–62
110–73
87–53
64–16
23–7
42–14
38–20
33–27
45–28
50–20
25–14

5.16
3.82
6.23
6.77
6.83
7.34
8.82
5.28
1.48
1.03
1.46
1.43
1.81
2.94
2.07
0.84

3.00
3.00
3.00
3.125
3.50
3.50
3.875
4.00
3.25
0.50
0.50
1.00
0.50
2.00
1.25
0.50

[351]

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

ATCHISON, TOPEKA, AND SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY

Year

Range of stock

Earned per share

Paid per share

1904
1905
1906
1907
1908
1909
1910
1911
1912
1913

89–64
93–78
111–85
108–66
101–66
125–98
124–91
117–100
112–103
106–90

$ 9.47*
5.92*
12.31*
15.02*
7.74*
12.10*
8.89*
9.30*
8.19*
8.62*

$ 4.00
4.00
4.50
6.00
5.00
5.50
6.00
6.00
6.00
6.00

1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929
1930
1931
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938

105–94
121–97
141–116
172–122
200–162
204–183
299–195
243–168
203–79
94–18
80–35
74–45
60–36
89–59
95–33
45–22

15.48
15.47
17.19
23.42
18.74
18.09
22.69
12.86
6.96
0.55
1.03(d)
0.33
1.38
1.56
0.60
0.83

6.00
6.00
7.00
7.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
Nil
2.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
Nil

* Fiscal years ended June 30.

American Can was a typical example of a prewar speculative stock. It
was speculative for three good and sufficient reasons: (1) It paid no dividend; (2) its earnings were small and irregular; (3) the issue was “watered,”
i.e., a substantial part of its stated value represented no actual investment
in the business. By contrast, Pennsylvania, Atchison, and National Biscuit
were regarded as investment common stocks—also for three good and
sufficient reasons: (1) They showed a satisfactory record of continued

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[352]

dividends; (2) the earnings were reasonably stable and averaged substantially in excess of the dividends paid; and (3) each dollar of stock was
backed by a dollar or more of actual investment in the business.
NATIONAL BISCUIT COMPANY

Year

Range for stock

Earned per share

Paid per share

1909
1910
1911
1912
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918

120–97
120–100
144–117
161–114
130–104
139–120
132–116
131–118
123–80
111–90

$ 7.67*
9.86*
10.05*
9.59*
11.73*
9.52*
8.20*
9.72*
9.87†
11.63

$ 5.75
6.00
8.75
7.00
7.00
7.00
7.00
7.00
7.00
7.00

1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929
1930
1931
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938

(old basis)‡
370–266
541–352
553–455
714–518
1,309–663
1,367–1,117
1,657–980
1,628–1,148
1,466–637
820–354
1,061–569
866–453
637–389
678–503
584–298
490–271

(old basis)‡
$35.42
38.15
40.53
44.24
49.77
51.17
57.40
59.68
50.05
42.70
36.93
27.48
22.93
30.28
28.35
30.80

(old basis)‡
$21.00
28.00
28.00
35.00
42.00
49.00
52.50
56.00
49.00
49.00
49.00
42.00
31.50
35.00
28.00
28.00

* Earnings for the year ended Jan. 31 of the following year.
† Eleven months ending Dec. 31, 1917.
‡ Stock was split 4 for 1 in 1922, followed by a 75% stock dividend. In 1930 it was again split 21/2 for 1. Published figures
applicable to new stock were one-seventh of those given above for 1923–1929. Likewise the foregoing figures for 1930–1938
are 171/2 times the published figures for those years.

[353]

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

If we study the range of market price of these issues during the decade
preceding the World War (or the 1909–1918 period for National Biscuit),
we note that American Can fluctuated widely from year to year in the
fashion regularly associated with speculative media but that Pennsylvania, Atchison, and National Biscuit showed much narrower variations
and evidently tended to oscillate about a base price (i.e., 97 for Atchison,
64 for Pennsylvania, and 120 for National Biscuit) that seemed to represent a well-defined view of their investment or intrinsic value.
AMERICAN CAN COMPANY

Year

Range for stock

Earned per share

Paid per share

1904
1905
1906
1907
1908
1909
1910
1911
1912
1913

...............
...............
...............
8–3
10–4
15–8
14–7
13–9
47–11
47–21

$ 0.51*
1.39(d)†
1.30(d)‡
0.57(d)
0.44(d)
0.32(d)
0.15(d)
0.07
8.86
5.21

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

1923
1924
1925

108–74
164–96
297–158

19.64
20.51
32.75

$ 5.00
6.00
7.00

1926
1927
1928
1929
1930
1931
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938

(old basis)§
379–233
466–262
705–423
1,107–516
940–628
779–349
443–178
603–297
689–542
898–660
825–660
726–414
631–425

(old basis)§
26.34
24.66
41.16
48.12
48.48
30.66
19.56
30.24
50.32
34.98
34.80
36.48
26.10

(old basis)§
13.25
12.00
12.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
24.00
24.00
24.00
30.00
36.00
24.00
24.00

* Fiscal year ended Mar. 31, 1905.
† Nine months ended Dec. 31, 1905.
‡ Excluding fire losses of 58 cents a share.
§ Stock was split 6 for 1 in 1926. Published figures applicable to new stock were one-sixth of those given for 1926–1938.

[354]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Prewar Conception of Investment in Common Stocks. Hence
the prewar relationship between analysis and investment on the one hand
and price changes and speculation on the other may be set forth as
follows: Investment in common stocks was confined to those showing stable dividends and fairly stable earnings; and such issues in turn were
expected to maintain a fairly stable market level. The function of analysis
was primarily to search for elements of weakness in the picture. If the earnings were not properly stated; if the balance sheet revealed a poor current
position, or the funded debt was growing too rapidly; if the physical plant
was not properly maintained; if dangerous new competition was threatening, or if the company was losing ground in the industry; if the management was deteriorating or was likely to change for the worse; if there
was reason to fear for the future of the industry as a whole—any of these
defects or some other one might be sufficient to condemn the issue from
the standpoint of the cautious investor.
On the positive side, analysis was concerned with finding those issues
which met all the requirements of investment and in addition offered the
best chance for future enhancement. The process was largely a matter of
comparing similar issues in the investment class, e.g., the group of dividend-paying Northwestern railroads. Chief emphasis would be laid upon
the relative showing for past years, in particular the average earnings
in relation to price and the stability and the trend of earnings. To a lesser
extent, the analyst sought to look into the future and to select the industries or the individual companies that were likely to show the most
rapid growth.
Speculation Characterized by Emphasis on Future Prospects. In the
prewar period it was the well-considered view that when prime emphasis
was laid upon what was expected of the future, instead of what had been
accomplished in the past, a speculative attitude was thereby taken. Speculation, in its etymology, meant looking forward; investment was allied
to “vested interests”—to property rights and values taking root in the past.
The future was uncertain, therefore speculative; the past was known,
therefore the source of safety. Let us consider a buyer of American Can
common in 1910. He may have bought it believing that its price was going
to advance or be “put up” or that its earnings were going to increase or
that it was soon going to pay a dividend or possibly that it was destined
to develop into one of the country’s strongest industrials. From the pre-

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[355]

war standpoint, although one of these reasons may have been more intelligent or creditable than another, each of them constituted a speculative
motive for the purchase.
Technique of Investing in Common Stocks Resembled That for Bonds.
Evidently there was a close similarity between the technique of investing
in common stocks and that of investing in bonds. The common-stock
investor, also, wanted a stable business and one showing an adequate margin of earnings over dividend requirements. Naturally he had to content
himself with a smaller margin of safety than he would demand of a bond,
a disadvantage that was offset by a larger income return (6% was standard on a good common stock compared with 41/2% on a high-grade
bond), by the chance of an increased dividend if the business continued
to prosper, and—generally of least importance in his eyes—by the possibility of a profit. A common-stock investor was likely to consider himself
as in no very different position from that of a purchaser of second-grade
bonds; essentially his venture amounted to sacrificing a certain degree of
safety in return for larger income. The Pennsylvania and Atchison examples during the 1904–1913 decade will supply specific confirmation of
the foregoing description.
Buying Common Stocks Viewed as Taking a Share in a Business.
Another useful approach to the attitude of the prewar common-stock
investor is from the standpoint of taking an interest in a private business.
The typical common-stock investor was a business man, and it seemed
sensible to him to value any corporate enterprise in much the same manner as he would value his own business. This meant that he gave at least
as much attention to the asset values behind the shares as he did to their
earnings records. It is essential to bear in mind the fact that a private business has always been valued primarily on the basis of the “net worth” as
shown by its statement. A man contemplating the purchase of a partnership or stock interest in a private undertaking will always start with the
value of that interest as shown “on the books,” i.e., the balance sheet, and
will then consider whether or not the record and prospects are good
enough to make such a commitment attractive. An interest in a private
business may of course be sold for more or less than its proportionate
asset value; but the book value is still invariably the starting point of the
calculation, and the deal is finally made and viewed in terms of the premium or discount from book value involved.

[356]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Broadly speaking, the same attitude was formerly taken in an investment purchase of a marketable common stock. The first point of departure was the par value, presumably representing the amount of cash or
property originally paid into the business; the second basal figure was the
book value, representing the par value plus a ratable interest in the accumulated surplus. Hence in considering a common stock, investors asked
themselves: “Is this issue a desirable purchase at the premium above book
value, or the discount below book value, represented by the market
price?” “Watered stock” was repeatedly inveighed against as a deception
practiced upon the stock-buying public, who were misled by a fictitious
statement of the asset values existing behind the shares. Hence one of the
protective functions of security analysis was to discover whether or not
the value of the fixed assets, as stated on the balance sheet of a company,
fairly represented the actual cost or reasonable worth of the properties.
Investment in Common Stocks Based on Threefold Concept. We thus
see that investment in common stocks was formerly based upon the
threefold concept of: (1) a suitable and established dividend return, (2) a
stable and adequate earnings record, and (3) a satisfactory backing of tangible assets. Each of these three elements could be made the subject of
careful analytical study, viewing the issue both by itself and in comparison with others of its class. Common-stock commitments motivated by
any other viewpoint were characterized as speculative, and it was not
expected that they should be justified by a serious analysis.

THE NEW-ERA THEORY
During the postwar period, and particularly during the latter stage of the
bull market culminating in 1929, the public acquired a completely different attitude towards the investment merits of common stocks. Two of the
three elements above stated lost nearly all their significance, and the third,
the earnings record, took on an entirely novel complexion. The new
theory or principle may be summed up in the sentence: “The value of a
common stock depends entirely upon what it will earn in the future.”
From this dictum the following corollaries were drawn:
1. That the dividend rate should have slight bearing upon the value.
2. That since no relationship apparently existed between assets and
earning power, the asset value was entirely devoid of importance.
3. That past earnings were significant only to the extent that they indicated what changes in the earnings were likely to take place in the future.

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[357]

This complete revolution in the philosophy of common-stock investment took place virtually without realization by the stock-buying public
and with only the most superficial recognition by financial observers. An
effort must be made to reach a thorough comprehension of what this
changed viewpoint really signifies. To do so we must consider it from
three angles: its causes, its consequences and its logical validity.

Causes for This Changed Viewpoint. Why did the investing public
turn its attention from dividends, from asset values, and from average earnings to transfer it almost exclusively to the earnings trend, i.e., to the changes
in earnings expected in the future? The answer was, first, that the records
of the past were proving an undependable guide to investment; and, second, that the rewards offered by the future had become irresistibly alluring.
The new-era concepts had their root first of all in the obsolescence of
the old-established standards. During the last generation the tempo
of economic change has been speeded up to such a degree that the fact
of being long established has ceased to be, as once it was, a warranty of
stability. Corporations enjoying decade-long prosperity have been precipitated into insolvency within a few years. Other enterprises, which had
been small or unsuccessful or in doubtful repute, have just as quickly
acquired dominant size, impressive earnings, and the highest rating. The
major group upon which investment interest was chiefly concentrated,
viz., the railroads, failed signally to participate in the expansion of
national wealth and income and showed repeated signs of definite retrogression. The street railways, another important medium of investment
prior to 1914, rapidly lost the greater portion of their value as the result
of the development of new transportation agencies. The electric and gas
companies followed an irregular course during this period, since they
were harmed rather than helped by the war and postwar inflation, and
their impressive growth was a relatively recent phenomenon. The history
of industrial companies was a hodge-podge of violent changes, in which
the benefits of prosperity were so unequally and so impermanently distributed as to bring about the most unexpected failures alongside of the
most dazzling successes.
In the face of all this instability it was inevitable that the threefold basis
of common-stock investment should prove totally inadequate. Past
earnings and dividends could no longer be considered, in themselves, an
index of future earnings and dividends. Furthermore, these future earn-

[358]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

ings showed no tendency whatever to be controlled by the amount of the
actual investment in the business—the asset values—but instead
depended entirely upon a favorable industrial position and upon capable
or fortunate managerial policies. In numerous cases of receivership, the
current assets dwindled, and the fixed assets proved almost worthless.
Because of this absence of any connection between both assets and earnings and between assets and realizable values in bankruptcy, less and less
attention came to be paid either by financial writers or by the general public to the formerly important question of “net worth,” or “book value”;
and it may be said that by 1929 book value had practically disappeared
as an element in determining the attractiveness of a security issue. It is a
significant confirmation of this point that “watered stock,” once so burning an issue, is now a forgotten phrase.

Attention Shifted to the Trend of Earnings. Thus the prewar
approach to investment, based upon past records and tangible facts,
became outworn and was discarded. Could anything be put in its place?
A new conception was given central importance—that of trend of earnings. The past was important only in so far as it showed the direction in
which the future could be expected to move. A continuous increase in
profits proved that the company was on the upgrade and promised still
better results in the future than had been accomplished to date. Conversely, if the earnings had declined or even remained stationary during
a prosperous period, the future must be thought unpromising, and the
issue was certainly to be avoided.

The Common-stocks-as-long-term-investments Doctrine.
Along with this idea as to what constituted the basis for common-stock
selection emerged a companion theory that common stocks represented
the most profitable and therefore the most desirable media for long-term
investment. This gospel was based upon a certain amount of research,
showing that diversified lists of common stocks had regularly increased
in value over stated intervals of time for many years past. The figures
indicated that such diversified common-stock holdings yielded both a
higher income return and a greater principal profit than purchases of
standard bonds.
The combination of these two ideas supplied the “investment theory”
upon which the 1927–1929 stock market proceeded. Amplifying the principle stated on page 356, the theory ran as follows:

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[359]

1. “The value of a common stock depends on what it can earn in the future.”
2. “Good common stocks are those which have shown a rising trend of
earnings.”
3. “Good common stocks will prove sound and profitable investments.”

These statements sound innocent and plausible. Yet they concealed
two theoretical weaknesses that could and did result in untold mischief.
The first of these defects was that they abolished the fundamental
distinctions between investment and speculation. The second was that
they ignored the price of a stock in determining whether or not it was a
desirable purchase.

New-era Investment Equivalent to Prewar Speculation. A
moment’s thought will show that “new-era investment,” as practiced by
the public and the investment trusts, was almost identical with speculation as popularly defined in preboom days. Such “investment” meant
buying common stocks instead of bonds, emphasizing enhancement of
principal instead of income, and stressing the changes of the future
instead of the facts of the established past. It would not be inaccurate to
state that new-era investment was simply old-style speculation confined
to common stocks with a satisfactory trend of earnings. The impressive
new concept underlying the greatest stock-market boom in history
appears to be no more than a thinly disguised version of the old cynical
epigram: “Investment is successful speculation.”

Stocks Regarded as Attractive Irrespective of Their Prices. The
notion that the desirability of a common stock was entirely independent
of its price seems incredibly absurd. Yet the new-era theory led directly
to this thesis. If a public-utility stock was selling at 35 times its maximum
recorded earnings, instead of 10 times its average earnings, which was the
preboom standard, the conclusion to be drawn was not that the stock was
now too high but merely that the standard of value had been raised.
Instead of judging the market price by established standards of value, the
new era based its standards of value upon the market price. Hence all
upper limits disappeared, not only upon the price at which a stock could
sell but even upon the price at which it would deserve to sell. This fantastic reasoning actually led to the purchase at $100 per share of common
stocks earning $2.50 per share. The identical reasoning would support
the purchase of these same shares at $200, at $1,000, or at any conceivable price.

[360]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

An alluring corollary of this principle was that making money in the
stock market was now the easiest thing in the world. It was only necessary to buy “good” stocks, regardless of price, and then to let nature take
her upward course. The results of such a doctrine could not fail to be
tragic. Countless people asked themselves, “Why work for a living when
a fortune can be made in Wall Street without working?” The ensuing
migration from business into the financial district resembled the famous
gold rush to the Klondike, except that gold was brought to Wall Street
instead of taken from it.

Investment Trusts Adopted This New Doctrine. An ironical sidelight is thrown on this 1928–1929 theory by the practice of the investment trusts. These were formed for the purpose of giving the untrained
public the benefit of expert administration of its funds—a plausible idea
and one that had been working reasonably well in England. The earliest
American investment trusts laid considerable emphasis upon certain
time-tried principles of successful investment, which they were much better qualified to follow than the typical individual. The most important of
these principles were:
1. To buy in times of depression and low prices and to sell out in times of
prosperity and high prices.
2. To diversify holdings in many fields and probably in many countries.
3. To discover and acquire undervalued individual securities as the result of
comprehensive and expert statistical investigations.

The rapidity and completeness with which these traditional principles
disappeared from investment-trust technique is one of the many marvels
of the period. The idea of buying in times of depression was obviously
inapplicable. It suffered from the fatal weakness that investment trusts
could be organized only in good times, so that they were virtually compelled to make their initial commitments in bull markets. The idea of
world-wide geographical distribution had never exerted a powerful
appeal upon the provincially minded Americans (who possibly were right
in this respect), and with things going so much better here than abroad
this principle was dropped by common consent.
Analysis Abandoned by Investment Trusts. But most paradoxical was
the early abandonment of research and analysis in guiding investment-

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[361]

trust policies. However, since these financial institutions owed their existence to the new-era philosophy, it was natural and perhaps only just that
they should adhere closely to it. Under its canons investment had now
become so beautifully simple that research was unnecessary and elaborate statistical data a mere incumbrance. The investment process consisted merely of finding prominent companies with a rising trend of
earnings and then buying their shares regardless of price. Hence the
sound policy was to buy only what every one else was buying—a select
list of highly popular and exceedingly expensive issues, appropriately
known as the “blue chips.” The original idea of searching for the undervalued and neglected issues dropped completely out of sight. Investment
trusts actually boasted that their portfolios consisted exclusively of the
active and standard (i.e., the most popular and highest priced) common
stocks. With but slight exaggeration, it might be asserted that under this
convenient technique of investment, the affairs of a ten-million-dollar
investment trust could be administered by the intelligence, the training
and the actual labors of a single thirty-dollar-a-week clerk.
The man in the street, having been urged to entrust his funds to the
superior skill of investment experts—for substantial compensation—was
soon reassuringly told that the trusts would be careful to buy nothing
except what the man in the street was buying himself.
The Justification Offered. Irrationality could go no further; yet it is
important to note that mass speculation can flourish only in such an
atmosphere of illogic and unreality. The self-deception of the mass speculator must, however, have its element of justification. This is usually
some generalized statement, sound enough within its proper field, but
twisted to fit the speculative mania. In real estate booms, the “reasoning”
is usually based upon the inherent permanence and growth of land values. In the new-era bull market, the “rational” basis was the record of
long-term improvement shown by diversified common-stock holdings.

A Sound Premise Used to Support an Unsound Conclusion.
There was, however, a radical fallacy involved in the new-era application
of this historical fact. This should be apparent from even a superficial
examination of the data contained in the small and rather sketchy volume from which the new-era theory may be said to have sprung. The
book is entitled Common Stocks as Long Term Investments, by Edgar

[362]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Lawrence Smith, published in 1924.1 Common stocks were shown to have
a tendency to increase in value with the years, for the simple reason that
they earned more than they paid out in dividends and thus the reinvested
earnings added to their worth. In a representative case, the company
would earn an average of 9%, pay 6% in dividends, and add 3% to surplus. With good management and reasonable luck the fair value of the
stock would increase with its book value, at the annual rate of 3% compounded. This was, of course, a theoretical rather than a standard pattern,
but the numerous instances of results poorer than “normal” might be offset by examples of more rapid growth.
The attractiveness of common stocks for the long pull thus lay essentially in the fact that they earned more than the bond-interest rate upon
their cost. This would be true, typically, of a stock earning $10 and selling at 100. But as soon as the price was advanced to a much higher price
in relation to earnings, this advantage disappeared, and with it disappeared the entire theoretical basis for investment purchases of common
stocks. When in 1929 investors paid $200 per share for a stock earning
$8, they were buying an earning power no greater than the bond-interest rate, without the extra protection afforded by a prior claim. Hence in
using the past performances of common stocks as the reason for paying
prices 20 to 40 times their earnings, the new-era exponents were starting
with a sound premise and twisting it into a woefully unsound conclusion.
In fact their rush to take advantage of the inherent attractiveness of
common stocks itself produced conditions entirely different from those
which had given rise to this attractiveness and upon which it basically
depended, viz., the fact that earnings had averaged some 10% on market
price. As we have seen, Edgar Lawrence Smith plausibly explained the
growth of common-stock values as arising from the building up of asset
values through the reinvestment of surplus earnings. Paradoxically
enough, the new-era theory that exploited this finding refused to accord
the slightest importance to the asset values behind the stocks it favored.
Furthermore, the validity of Mr. Smith’s conclusions rested necessarily
upon the assumption that common stocks could be counted on to behave
1 The reader is referred to Chelcie C. Bosland, The Common Stock Theory of Investment, Its
Development and Significance, New York, 1937, for a survey of the literature on the common-stock theory. Common Stock Indexes by Alfred Cowles 3d and associates, Bloomington,
Ind., 1939, is a significant work on this subject which has appeared since publication of Professor Bosland’s book.

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[363]

in the future about as they had in the past. Yet the new-era theory threw
out of account the past earnings of corporations except in so far as they
were regarded as pointing to a trend for the future.
Examples Showing Emphasis on Trend of Earnings. Take three companies with the following exhibits:
EARNINGS PER SHARE

Year

Company A
(Electric
Power & Light)

Company B
(Bangor &
Aroostook R. R.)

Company C
(Chicago
Yellow Cab)

1925
1926
1927
1928
1929

$1.01
1.45
2.09
2.37
2.98

$6.22
8.69
8.41
6.94
8.30

$5.52
5.60
4.54
4.58
4.47

$1.98
865/8

$7.71
903/8

$4.94
35

5-year average
High price, 1929

The 1929 high prices for these three companies show that the newera attitude was enthusiastically favorable to Company A, unimpressed
by Company B, and definitely hostile to Company C. The market considered Company A shares worth more than twice as much as Company C
shares, although the latter earned 50% more per share than Company A
in 1929 and its average earnings were 150% greater.2

Average vs. Trend of Earnings. These relationships between price
and earnings in 1929 show definitely that the past exhibit was no longer
a measure of normal earning power but merely a weathervane to show
which way the winds of profit were blowing. That the average earnings
had ceased to be a dependable measure of future earnings must indeed
be admitted, because of the greater instability of the typical business to
which we have previously alluded. But it did not follow at all that the trend
of earnings must therefore be a more dependable guide than the average;
and even if it were more dependable, it would not necessarily provide a
safe basis, entirely by itself, for investment.
2 See Appendix Note 44, p. 778 on accompanying CD, for a discussion of the subsequent

performance of these three companies.

[364]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The accepted assumption that because earnings have moved in a certain direction for some years past they will continue to move in that direction is fundamentally no different from the discarded assumption that
because earnings averaged a certain amount in the past they will continue
to average about that amount in the future. It may well be that the earnings trend offers a more dependable clue to the future than does the earnings average. But at best such an indication of future results is far from
certain, and, more important still, there is no method of establishing a logical relationship between trend and price.3 This means that the value placed
upon a satisfactory trend must be wholly arbitrary, and hence speculative,
and hence inevitably subject to exaggeration and later collapse.
Danger in Projecting Trends into the Future. There are several reasons
why we cannot be sure that a trend of profits shown in the past will continue in the future. In the broad economic sense, there is the law of diminishing returns and of increasing competition which must finally flatten
out any sharply upward curve of growth. There is also the flow and ebb
of the business cycle, from which the particular danger arises that the
earnings curve will look most impressive on the very eve of a serious
setback. Considering the 1927–1929 period we observe that since the
trend-of-earnings theory was at bottom only a pretext to excuse rank
speculation under the guise of “investment,” the profit-mad public was
quite willing to accept the flimsiest evidence of the existence of a favorable trend. Rising earnings for a period of five, or four, or even three years
only, were regarded as an assurance of uninterrupted future growth and
a warrant for projecting the curve of profits indefinitely upward.

3 The new-era investment theory was conspicuously reticent on the mathematical side. The
relationship between price and earnings, or price and trend of earnings was anything that
the market pleased to make it (note the price of Electric Power and Light compared with its
earnings record given on p. 363). If an attempt were to be made to give a mathematical
expression to the underlying idea of valuation, it might be said that it was based on the
derivative of the earnings, stated in terms of time. In recent years more serious efforts have
been made to establish a mathematical basis for discounting expected future earnings or dividends. See Gabriel Preinreich, The Theory of Dividends, New York, 1935; and J. B. Williams,
The Theory of Investment Value, Cambridge, Mass., 1938. The latter work is built on the
premise that the value of a common stock is equal to the present value of all future dividends. This principle gives rise to an elaborate series of mathematical equations designed to
calculate exactly what a common stock is worth, assuming certain vital facts about future
earnings, distribution policy and interest rates.

[365]

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

Example: The prevalent heedlessness on this score was most evident
in connection with the numerous common-stock flotations during this
period. The craze for a showing of rising profits resulted in the promotion of many industrial enterprises that had been favored by temporary
good fortune and were just approaching, or had already reached, the peak
of their prosperity. A typical example of this practice is found in the offering of preferred and common stock of Schletter and Zander, Inc., a manufacturer of hosiery (name changed later to Signature Hosiery Company).
The company was organized in 1929, to succeed a company organized in
1922, and the financing was effected by the sale of 44,810 shares of $3.50
convertible preferred shares at $50 per share and 261,349 voting-trust certificates for common stock at $26 per share. The offering circular presented the following exhibit of earnings from the constituent properties:
Year

Net after federal
taxes

Per share of
preferred

Per share of
common

1925
1926
1927
1928

$ 172,058
339,920
563,856
1,021,308

$ 3.84
7.58
12.58
22.79

$0.06
0.70
1.56
3.31

18.13
4.01(d)

2.51
1.81(d)

The subsequent record was as follows:
1929
1930

812,136
179,875(d)

In 1931 liquidation of the company’s assets was begun, and a total of
$17 per share in liquidating dividends on the preferred had been paid up
to the end of 1933. (Assets then remaining for liquidation were negligible.) The common was wiped out.
This example illustrates one of the paradoxes of financial history, viz.,
that at the very period when the increasing instability of individual companies had made the purchase of common stocks far more precarious
than before, the gospel of common stocks as safe and satisfactory investments was preached to and avidly accepted by the American public.

Chapter 28

NEWER CANONS OF COMMONSTOCK INVESTMENT

OUR EXTENDED discussion of the theory of common-stock investment has
thus far led only to negative conclusions. The older approach, centering
upon the conception of a stable average earning power, appears to have
been vitiated by the increasing instability of the typical business. As for
the new-era view, which turned upon the earnings trend as the sole criterion of value, whatever truth may lurk in this generalization, its blind
adoption as a basis for common-stock purchases, without calculation or
restraint, was certain to end in an appalling debacle. Is there anything at
all left, then, of the idea of sound investment in common stocks?
A careful review of the preceding criticism will show that it need not
be so destructive to the notion of investment in common stocks as a first
impression would suggest. The instability of individual companies may
conceivably be offset by means of thoroughgoing diversification. Moreover, the trend of earnings, although most dangerous as a sole basis for
selection, may prove a useful indication of investment merit. If this
approach is a sound one, there may be formulated an acceptable canon
of common-stock investment, containing the following elements:
1. Investment is conceived as a group operation, in which diversification of risk is depended upon to yield a favorable average result.
2. The individual issues are selected by means of qualitative and quantitative tests corresponding to those employed in the choice of fixed-value
investments.
3. A greater effort is made, than in the case of bond selection, to determine the future outlook of the issues considered.
Whether or not a policy of common-stock acquisition based upon the
foregoing principles deserves the title of investment is undoubtedly open
to debate. The importance of the question, and the lack of well-defined
[366]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[367]

and authoritative views thereon, compel us to weigh here the leading
arguments for and against this proposition.

THREE GENERAL APPROACHES
Secular Expansion as Basis. May the ownership of a carefully
selected, diversified group of common stocks, purchased at reasonable
prices, be characterized as a sound investment policy? An affirmative
answer may be developed from any one of three different kinds of
assumptions relating to the future of American business and the policy
of selection that is followed. The first will posit that certain basic and
long-established elements in this country’s economic experience may still
be counted upon. These are (1) that our national wealth and earning
power will increase, (2) that such increase will reflect itself in the
increased resources and profits of our important corporations, and (3)
that such increases will in the main take place through the normal process
of investment of new capital and reinvestment of undistributed earnings.
The third part of this assumption signifies that a broad causal connection
exists between accumulating surplus and future earning power, so that
common-stock selection is not a matter purely of chance or guesswork
but should be governed by an analysis of past records in relation to current market prices.
If these fundamental conditions still obtain, then common stocks with
suitable exhibits should on the whole present the same favorable opportunities in the future as they have for generations past. The cardinal defect
of instability may not be regarded, therefore, as menacing the long-range
development of common stocks as a whole. It does indeed exert a powerful temporary effect upon all business through the variations of the economic cycle, and it has permanently adverse effects upon individual
enterprises and single industries. But of these two dangers, the latter may
be offset in part by careful selection and chiefly by wide diversification;
the former may be guarded against by unvarying insistence upon the reasonableness of the price paid for each purchase.
They would be rash authors who would express themselves unequivocably for or against this basic assumption that American business will
develop in the future pretty much as in the past. In our Introduction we
point out that the experience of the last fifteen years weighs against this

[368]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

proposition. Without seeking to prophesy the future, may it not suffice
to declare that the investor cannot safely rely upon a general growth of
earnings to provide both safety and profit over the long pull? In this
respect it would seem that we are back to the investor’s attitude in 1913—
with the difference that his caution then seemed needlessly blind to the
powerful evidences of secular growth inherent in our economy. Our caution today would appear, at least, to be based on bitter experience and on
the recognition of some newer and less promising factors in the whole
business picture.

Individual Growth as Basis of Selection. Those who would reject
the suggestion that common-stock investment may be founded securely
on a general secular expansion may be attracted to a second approach.
This stresses the element of selectivity and is based on the premise that
certain favored companies may be relied on to grow steadily. Hence such
companies, when located, can be bought with confidence as long-term
investments. This philosophy of investment is set forth at some length in
the 1938 report of National Investors Corporation, an investment trust,
from which we quote as follows:
The studies by this organization, directed specifically toward improved procedure in selection, afford evidence that the common stocks of growth companies—that is, companies whose earnings move forward from cycle to cycle,
and are only temporarily interrupted by periodic business depressions—offer
the most effective medium of investment in the field of common stocks,
either in terms of dividend return or longer term capital appreciation. We
believe that this general conclusion can be demonstrated statistically and is
supported by economic analysis and practical reasoning.

In considering this statement critically, we must start with the
emphatic but rather obvious assertion that the investor who can successfully identify such “growth companies” when their shares are available at
reasonable prices is certain to do superlatively well with his capital. Nor
can it be denied that there have been investors capable of making such
selections with a high degree of accuracy and that they have benefited
hugely from their foresight and good judgment. But the real question is
whether or not all careful and intelligent investors can follow this policy
with fair success.

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[369]

Three Aspects of the Problem. Actually the problem falls into three
parts: First, what is meant by a “growth company”? Second, can the
investor identify such concerns with reasonable accuracy? Third, to what
extent does the price paid for such stocks affect the success of the program?
1. What Are Growth Companies? The National Investors Corporation
discussion defined growth companies as those “whose earnings move forward from cycle to cycle.” How many cycles are needed to meet this definition? The fact of the matter seems to be that prior to 1930 a large
proportion of all publicly owned American businesses grew from cycle
to cycle. The distinguishing characteristic of growth companies, as now
understood, developed only in the period between 1929 and 1936–1937.
In this one cycle we find that most companies failed to regain their full
depression losses. The minority that did so stand out from the rest, and
it is these which are now given the complimentary title of “growth companies.” But since this distinction is in reality based on performance during a single cycle, how sure can the investor be that it will be maintained
over the longer future?
It is true, from what we have previously said, that many of the companies that expanded from 1929 to 1937 had participated in the general
record of growth prior to 1929, so that they combine the advantages of a
long period of upbuilding and an exceptional ability to expand in the last
decade. The following are examples of large and well-known companies
of this class:
Air Reduction
Allis Chalmers
Coca-Cola
Commercial Credit
Dow Chemical
Du Pont
International Business Machines
International Nickel
Libbey-Owens-Ford

Monsanto Chemical
Owens-Illinois Glass
J. C. Penney
Procter & Gamble
Sherwin-Williams Paint
Standard Oil of New Jersey
Scott Paper
Union Carbide and Carbon

2. Can the Investor Identify Them? But our natural enthusiasm for
such excellent records is tempered somewhat by a sobering consideration. This is the fact that, viewed historically, most successful companies

[370]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

of the past are found to have pursued a well-defined life cycle, consisting
first of a series of struggles and setbacks; second, of a halcyon period of
prosperity and persistent growth; which in turn passes over into a final
phase of supermaturity—characterized by a slackening of expansion and
perhaps an actual loss of leadership or even profitability.1 It follows that
a business that has enjoyed a very long period of increasing earnings may
ipso facto be nearing its own “saturation point.” Hence the seeker for
growth stocks really faces a dilemma; for if he chooses newer companies
with a short record of expansion, he runs the risk of being deceived by a
temporary prosperity; and if he chooses enterprises that have advanced
through several business cycles, he may find this apparent strength to be
the harbinger of coming weakness.
We see, therefore, that the identification of a growth company is not
so simple a matter as it may at first appear. It cannot be accomplished
solely by an examination of the statistics and records but requires a considerable supplement of special investigation and of business judgment.
Proponents of the growth-company principle of investment are wont currently to lay great emphasis on the element of industrial research. In the
absence of general business expansion, exceptional gains are likely to be
made by companies supplying new products or processes. These in turn
are likely to emerge from research laboratories. The profits realized from
cellophane, ethyl gas and various plastics, and from advances in the arts
of radio, photography, refrigeration, aeronautics, etc., have created a natural enthusiasm for research as a business asset and a natural tendency
to consider the possession of research facilities as the sine qua non of
industrial progress.
Still here, too, caution is needed. If the mere ownership of a research
laboratory could guarantee a successful future, every company in the land
would have one. Hence, the investor must pay heed to the kind of facilities owned, the abilities of the researchers and the potentialities of the
field under investigation. It is not impossible to study these points successfully, but the task is not easy, and the chance of error is great.
3. Does the Price Discount Potential Growth? The third source of difficulty is perhaps the greatest. Assuming a fair degree of confidence on
1 This characteristic pattern of successful enterprise is discussed at length in the 1938 report
of National Investors Corporation, pp. 4–6.

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[371]

the part of the investor that the company will expand in the future, what
price is he justified in paying for this attractive element? Obviously, if he
can get a good future for nothing, i.e., if the price reflects only the past
record, he is making a sound investment. But this is not the case, of
course, if the market itself is counting on future growth. Characteristically,
stocks thought to have good prospects sell at relatively high prices. How
can the investor tell whether or not the price is too high? We think that
there is no good answer to this question—in fact we are inclined to think
that even if one knew for a certainty just what a company is fated to earn
over a long period of years, it would still be impossible to tell what is
a fair price to pay for it today. It follows that once the investor pays a
substantial amount for the growth factor, he is inevitably assuming certain
kinds of risk; viz., that the growth will be less than he anticipates, that
over the long pull he will have paid too much for what he gets, that for a
considerable period the market will value the stock less optimistically
than he does.
On the other hand, assume that the investor strives to avoid paying a
high premium for future prospects by choosing companies about which
he is personally optimistic, although they are not favorites of the stock
market. No doubt this is the type of judgment that, if sound, will prove
most remunerative. But, by the very nature of the case, it must represent
the activity of strong-minded and daring individuals rather than investment in accordance with accepted rules and standards.2
May Such Purchases Be Described as Investment Commitments? This
has been a longish discussion because the subject is important and not
too well comprehended in Wall Street. Our emphasis has been laid more
on the pitfalls of investing for future growth than on its advantages. But
we repeat that this method may be followed successfully if it is pursued
with skill, intelligence and diligent study. If so, is it appropriate to call such
purchases by the name of “investment”? Our answer is “yes,” provided
that two factors are present: the first, already mentioned, that the elements
affecting the future are examined with real care and a wholesome

2 The “expanding-industry” criterion of common-stock investment is vigorously championed in an arresting book The Ebb and Flow of Investment Values, New York, 1939, by
Edward S. Mead and J. Grodinsky. For a consideration of their views in some detail see
Appendix Note 71, p. 845 on accompanying CD.

[372]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

scepticism, rather than accepted quickly via some easy generalization; the
second, that the price paid be not substantially different from what a prudent business man would be willing to pay for a similar opportunity presented to him to invest in a private undertaking over which he could
exercise control.
We believe that the second criterion will supply a useful touchstone
to determine whether the buyer is making a well-considered and legitimate commitment in an enterprise with an attractive future, or instead,
under the guise of “investment,” he is really taking a flier in a popular
stock or else letting his private enthusiasm run away with his judgment.
It will be argued, perhaps, that common-stock investments such as we
have been discussing may properly be made at a considerably higher price
than would be justified in the case of a private business, first, because
of the great advantage of marketability that attaches to listed stocks and,
second, because the large size and financial power of publicly owned companies make them inherently more attractive than any private enterprise
could be. As to the second point, the price to be paid should suitably reflect
any advantages accruing by reason of size and financial strength, but this
criterion does not really depend on whether the company is publicly or
privately owned. On the first point, there is room for some difference of
opinion whether or not the ability to control a private business affords a
full counterweight (in value analysis) to the advantage of marketability
enjoyed by a listed stock. To those who believe marketability is more valuable than control, we might suggest that in any event the premium to be
paid for this advantage cannot well be placed above, say, 20% of the value
otherwise justified without danger of introducing a definitely speculative
element into the picture.

Selection Based on Margin-of-safety Principle. The third
approach to common-stock investment is based on the margin-of-safety
principle. If the analyst is convinced that a stock is worth more than he
pays for it, and if he is reasonably optimistic as to the company’s future,
he would regard the issue as a suitable component of a group investment
in common stocks. This attack on the problem lends itself to two possible techniques. One is to buy at times when the general market is low,
measured by quantitative standards of value. Presumably the purchases
would then be confined to representative and fairly active issues. The

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[373]

other technique would be employed to discover undervalued individual
common stocks, which presumably are available even when the general
market is not particularly low. In either case the “margin of safety” resides
in the discount at which the stock is selling below its minimum intrinsic
value, as measured by the analyst. But with respect to the hazards and the
psychological factors involved, the two approaches differ considerably.
Let us discuss them in their order.
Factors Complicating Efforts to Exploit General Market Swings. A
glance at the chart on page 6, showing the fluctuations of common-stock
prices since 1900, would suggest that prices are recurrently too high and
too low and that consequently there should be repeated opportunities
to buy stocks at less than their value and to sell them out later at fair
value or higher. A crude method of doing this—but one apparently
encouraged by the chart itself—would consist simply of drawing a
straight line through the approximate midpoints of past market swings
and then planning to buy somewhere below this line and to sell somewhere above it.
Perhaps such a “system” would be as practical as any, but the analyst
is likely to insist on a more scientific approach. One possible refinement
would operate as follows:
1. Select a diversified list of leading industrial common stocks.
2. Determine a base or “normal” value for the group by capitalizing
their average earnings at some suitable figure, related to the going longterm interest rate.
3. Determine a buying point at some percentage below this normal
value and a selling point above it. (Or buying and selling may be done
“on a scale down” and “on a scale up.”)
A method of this kind has plausible logic to recommend it, and it is
favored also by an age-old tradition that success in the stock market
is gained by buying at depressed levels and selling out when the public is
optimistic. But the reader will suspect at once that there is a catch to it
somewhere. What are its drawbacks?
As we see it, the difficulties attending this idea are threefold: First,
although the general pattern of the market’s behavior may be properly
anticipated, the specific buying and selling points may turn out to have
been badly chosen, and the operator may miss his opportunity at one
extreme or the other. Second, there is always a chance that the character

[374]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

of the market’s behavior may change significantly, so that a scheme of
operation that would have worked well in the past will cease to be practicable. Third, the method itself requires a considerable amount of human
fortitude. It generally involves buying and selling when the prevalent psychology favors the opposite course, watching one’s shares go lower after
purchase and higher after sale and often staying out of the market for long
periods (e.g., 1927–1930) when most people are actively interested in
stocks. But despite these disadvantages, which we do not minimize, it is
our view that this method has a good deal to commend it to those temperamentally qualified to follow it.
The Undervalued-individual-issue Approach. The other application of
the principle of investing in undervalued common stocks is directed at
individual issues, which upon analysis appear to be worth substantially
more than they are selling for. It is rare that a common stock will appear
satisfactory from every qualitative angle and at the same time will be
found to be selling at a low price by such quantitative standards as earnings, dividends, and assets. Issues of this type would undoubtedly be eligible for a group purchase that would fulfill our supplementary criterion
of “investment” given in Chap. 4. (“An investment operation is one that
can be justified on both qualitative and quantitative grounds.”)
Of more practical importance is the question whether or not investment can be successfully carried on in common stocks that appear cheap
from the quantitative angle and that—upon study—seem to have average
prospects for the future. Securities of this type can be found in reasonable
abundance, as a result of the stock market’s obsession with companies considered to have unusually good prospects of growth. Because of this emphasis on the growth factor, quite a number of enterprises that are long
established, well financed, important in their industries and presumably
destined to stay in business and make profits indefinitely in the future, but
that have no speculative or growth appeal, tend to be discriminated against
by the stock market—especially in years of subnormal profits—and to sell
for considerably less than the business would be worth to a private owner.3
3 Note that we have applied the touchstone of “value to a private investor” to justify two different types of investment in common stocks: (1) purchase of issues thought to have exceptional
prospects at no higher price than would be paid for a corresponding interest in a private business, and (2) purchase of issues with good records and average prospects at a much lower price
than the business is worth to a private owner. See Appendix Note 45, p. 778 on accompanying
CD, for the exhibit of an issue of the latter type (Swift and Company).

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[375]

We incline strongly to the belief that this last criterion—a price far less
than value to a private owner—will constitute a sound touchstone for the
discovery of true investment opportunities in common stocks. This view
runs counter to the convictions and practice of most people seeking to
invest in equities, including practically all the investment trusts. Their
emphasis is mainly on long-term growth, prospects for the next year, or
the indicated trend of the stock market itself. Undoubtedly any of these
three viewpoints may be followed successfully by those especially well
equipped by experience and native ability to exploit them. But we are not
so sure that any of these approaches can be developed into a system or
technique that can be confidently followed by everyone of sound intelligence who has studied it with care. Hence we must raise our solitary voice
against the use of the term investment to characterize these methods of
operating in common stocks, however profitable they may be to the truly
skillful. Trading in the market, forecasting next year’s results for various
businesses, selecting the best media for long-term expansion—all these
have a useful place in Wall Street. But we think that the interests of
investors and of Wall Street as an institution would be better served if
operations based primarily on these factors were called by some other
name than investment.
Whether or not our own concept of common-stock investment is a
valid one may be more intelligently considered after we have given
extended treatment to the chief factors that enter into a statistical analysis of a stock issue. The need for such analysis is quite independent of our
investment philosophy. After all, common stocks exist and are actively
dealt in by the public. Those who buy and sell will properly seek to arm
themselves with an adequate knowledge of financial practice and with the
tools and technique necessary for an intelligent analysis of corporate
statements.
Such information and equipment for the common-stock investor
form the subject matter of the following chapters.

Chapter 29

THE DIVIDEND FACTOR IN COMMONSTOCK ANALYSIS

A NATURAL classification of the elements entering into the valuation of a
common stock would be under the three headings:
1. The dividend rate and record.
2. Income-account factors (earning power).
3. Balance-sheet factors (asset value).

The dividend rate is a simple fact and requires no analysis, but its exact
significance is exceedingly difficult to appraise. From one point of view
the dividend rate is all-important, but from another and equally valid
standpoint it must be considered an accidental and minor factor. A basic
confusion has grown up in the minds of managements and stockholders
alike as to what constitutes a proper dividend policy. The result has been
to create a definite conflict between two aspects of common-stock ownership: one being the possession of a marketable security, and the other
being the assumption of a partnership interest in a business. Let us
consider the matter in detail from this twofold approach.

Dividend Return as a Factor in Common-stock Investment.
Until recent years the dividend return was the overshadowing factor in
common-stock investment. This point of view was based on simple logic.
The prime purpose of a business corporation is to pay dividends to its
owners. A successful company is one that can pay dividends regularly and
presumably increase the rate as time goes on. Since the idea of investment
is closely bound up with that of dependable income, it follows that investment in common stocks would ordinarily be confined to those with a
well-established dividend. It would follow also that the price paid for an
investment common stock would be determined chiefly by the amount
of the dividend.
[376]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[377]

We have seen that the traditional common-stock investor sought to
place himself as nearly as possible in the position of an investor in a bond
or a preferred stock. He aimed primarily at a steady income return, which
in general would be both somewhat larger and somewhat less certain than
that provided by good senior securities. Excellent illustrations of the effect
of this attitude upon the price of common stocks are afforded by
the records of the earnings, dividends and annual price variations of
American Sugar Refining between 1907 and 1913 and of Atchison,
Topeka, and Santa Fe Railway between 1916 and 1925 presented herewith.
AMERICAN SUGAR REFINING COMPANY

Year

Range for stock

Earned per share

Paid per share

1907
1908
1909
1910
1911
1912
1913

138–93
138–99
136–115
128–112
123–113
134–114
118–100

$10.22
7.45
14.20
5.38
18.92
5.34
0.02(d)

$7.00
7.00
7.00
7.00
7.00
7.00
7.00

ATCHISON, TOPEKA, AND SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY

Year

Range for stock

Earned per share

Paid per share

1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
1924
1925

109–100
108–75
100–81
104–81
90–76
94–76
109–92
105–94
121–97
141–116

$14.74
14.50
10.59*
15.41*
12.54*
14.69†
12.41
15.48
15.47
17.19

$6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
7

* Results for these years based on actual operations. Results of federal operation were: 1918—$9.98; 1919—$16.55;
1920—$13.98.
† Includes nonrecurrent income. Excluding the latter the figure for 1921 would have been $11.29.

[378]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The market range of both issues is surprisingly narrow, considering
the continuous gyrations of the stock market generally during those periods. The most striking feature of the exhibit is the slight influence exercised both by the irregular earnings of American Sugar and by the
exceptionally well-maintained and increasing earning power on the part
of Atchison. It is clear that the price of American Sugar was dominated
throughout by its $7 rate and that of Atchison by its $6 rate, even though
the earnings records would apparently have justified an entirely different
range of relative market values.

Established Principle of Withholding Dividends. We have, therefore, on the one hand an ingrained and powerfully motivated tradition
which centers investment interest upon the present and past dividend
rate. But on the other hand we have an equally authoritative and wellestablished principle of corporate management which subordinates the
current dividend to the future welfare of the company and its shareholders. It is considered proper managerial policy to withhold current earnings from stockholders, for the sake of any of the following advantages:
1. To strengthen the financial (working-capital) position.
2. To increase productive capacity.
3. To eliminate an original overcapitalization.

When a management withholds and reinvests profits, thus building
up an accumulated surplus, it claims confidently to be acting for the best
interests of the shareholders. For by this policy the continuance of the
established dividend rate is undoubtedly better assured, and furthermore
a gradual but continuous increase in the regular payment is thereby made
possible. The rank and file of stockholders will give such policies their
support, either because they are individually convinced that this procedure redounds to their advantage or because they accept uncritically the
authority of the managements and bankers who recommend it.
But this approval by stockholders of what is called a “conservative dividend policy” has about it a peculiar element of the perfunctory and even
the reluctant. The typical investor would most certainly prefer to have his
dividend today and let tomorrow take care of itself. No instances are on
record in which the withholding of dividends for the sake of future profits has been hailed with such enthusiasm as to advance the price of the

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[379]

stock. The direct opposite has invariably been true. Given two companies
in the same general position and with the same earning power, the one paying the larger dividend will always sell at the higher price.
Policy of Withholding Dividends Questionable. This is an arresting fact,
and it should serve to call into question the traditional theory of corporate finance that the smaller the percentage of earnings paid out in dividends the better for the company and its stockholders. Although investors
have been taught to pay lip service to this theory, their instincts—and perhaps their better judgment—are in revolt against it. If we try to bring a
fresh and critical viewpoint to bear upon this subject, we shall find that
weighty objections may be leveled against the accepted dividend policy of
American corporations.
Examining this policy more closely, we see that it rests upon two quite
distinct assumptions. The first is that it is advantageous to the stockholders to leave a substantial part of the annual earnings in the business; the
second is that it is desirable to maintain a steady dividend rate in the face
of fluctuations in profits. As to the second point, there would be no question at all, provided the dividend stability is achieved without too great
sacrifice in the amount of the dividend. Assume that the earnings vary
between $5 and $15 annually over a period of years, averaging $10. No
doubt the stockholder’s advantage would be best served by maintaining
a stable dividend rate of $8, sometimes drawing upon the surplus to
maintain it, but on the average increasing the surplus at the rate of $2 per
share annually.
This would be an ideal arrangement. But in practice it is rarely followed. We find that stability of dividends is usually accomplished by the
simple expedient of paying out a small part of the average earnings. By a
reductio ad absurdum it is clear that any company that earned $10 per
share on the average could readily stabilize its dividend at $1. The question arises very properly if the shareholders might not prefer a much
larger aggregate dividend, even with some irregularity. This point is well
illustrated in the case of Atchison.
The Case of Atchison. Atchison maintained its dividend at the annual
rate of $6 for the 15 years between 1910 and 1924. During this time the
average earnings were in excess of $12 per share, so that the stability was
attained by withholding over half the earnings from the stockholders.
Eventually this policy bore fruit in an advance of the dividend to $10,

[380]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

which rate was paid between 1927 and 1931, and was accompanied by a
rise in the market price to nearly $300 per share in 1929. Within
six months after the last payment at the $10 rate (in December 1931) the
dividend was omitted entirely. Viewed critically, the stability of the Atchison dividend between 1910 and 1924 must be considered as of dubious
benefit to the stockholders. During its continuance they received an
unduly small return in relation to the earnings; when the rate was finally
advanced, the importance attached to such a move promoted excessive
speculation in the shares; finally, the reinvestment of the enormous sums
out of earnings failed to protect the shareholders from a complete loss of
income in 1932. Allowance must be made, of course, for the unprecedented character of the depression in 1932. But the fact remains that the
actual operating losses in dollars per share up to the passing of the dividend were entirely insignificant in comparison with the surplus accumulated out of the profits of previous years.
United States Steel, Another Example. The Atchison case illustrates
the two major objections to what is characterized and generally approved
of as a “conservative dividend policy.” The first objection is that stockholders receive both currently and ultimately too low a return in relation
to the earnings of their property; the second is that the “saving up of profits for a rainy day” often fails to safeguard even the moderate dividend
rate when the rainy day actually arrives. A similarly striking example of
the ineffectiveness of a large accumulated surplus is shown by that leading industrial enterprise, United States Steel.
The following figures tell a remarkable story:
Profits available for the common stock, 1901–1930 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$2,344,000,000
Dividends paid:
Cash . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .891,000,000
Stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .203,000,000
Undistributed earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1,250,000,000
Loss after preferred dividends Jan. 1, 1931–June 30, 1932 . . . . . . . . . . . . .59,000,000
Common dividend passed June 30, 1932.

A year and a half of declining business was sufficient to outweigh
the beneficial influence of 30 years of practically continuous reinvestment
of profits.

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[381]

The Merits of “Plowing-back” Earnings. These examples serve
to direct our critical attention to the other assumption on which
American dividend policies are based, viz., that it is advantageous to the
stockholders if a large portion of the annual earnings are retained in the
business. This may well be true, but in determining its truth a number
of factors must be considered that are usually left out of account. The
customary reasoning on this point may be stated in the form of a syllogism, as follows:
Major premise—Whatever benefits the company benefits the stockholders.
Minor premise—A company is benefited if its earnings are retained
rather than paid out in dividends.
Conclusion—Stockholders are benefited by the withholding of corporate
earnings.

The weakness of the foregoing reasoning rests of course in the major
premise. Whatever benefits a business benefits its owners, provided the
benefit is not conferred upon the corporation at the expense of the stockholders. Taking money away from the stockholders and presenting it to
the company will undoubtedly strengthen the enterprise, but whether or
not it is to the owners’ advantage is an entirely different question. It is
customary to commend managements for “plowing earnings back into
the property”; but, in measuring the benefits from such a policy, the time
element is usually left out of account. It stands to reason that, if a business paid out only a small part of its earnings in dividends, the value of
the stock should increase over a period of years, but it is by no means so
certain that this increase will compensate the stockholders for the dividends withheld from them, particularly if interest on these amounts is
compounded.
An inductive study would undoubtedly show that the earning power
of corporations does not in general expand proportionately with increases
in accumulated surplus. Assuming that the reported earnings were actually available for distribution, then stockholders in general would certainly
fare better in dollars and cents if they drew out practically all of these
earnings in dividends. An unconscious realization of this fact has much
to do with the tendency of common stocks paying liberal dividends to
sell higher than others with the same earning power but paying out only
a small part thereof.

[382]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Dividend Policies Arbitrary and Sometimes Selfishly Determined. One of the obstacles in the way of an intelligent understanding
by stockholders of the dividend question is the accepted notion that the
determination of dividend policies is entirely a managerial function, in
the same way as the general running of the business. This is legally true,
and the courts will not interfere with the dividend action or inaction
except upon an exceedingly convincing showing of unfairness. But if
stockholders’ opinions were properly informed, it would insist upon curtailing the despotic powers given the directorate over the dividend policy. Experience shows that these unrestricted powers are likely to be
abused for various reasons. Boards of directors usually consist largely of
executive officers and their friends. The officers are naturally desirous of
retaining as much cash as possible in the treasury, in order to simplify
their financial problems; they are also inclined to expand the business
persistently for the sake of personal aggrandizement and to secure higher
salaries. This is a leading cause of the unwise increase of manufacturing
facilities which has proved recurrently one of the chief unsettling factors
in our economic situation.
The discretionary power over the dividend policy may also be abused
in more sinister fashion, sometimes to permit the acquisition of shares at
an unduly low price, at other times to facilitate unloading at a high quotation. The heavy surtaxes imposed upon large incomes frequently make
it undesirable from the standpoint of the large stockholders that earnings
be paid out in dividends. Hence dividend policies may be determined at
times from the standpoint of the taxable status of the large stockholders
who control the directorate. This is particularly true in cases where these
dominant stockholders receive substantial salaries as executives. In such
cases they are perfectly willing to leave their share of the earnings in the
corporate treasury, since the latter is under their control and since by so
doing they retain control over the earnings accruing to the other stockholders as well.

Arbitrary Control of Dividend Policy Complicates Analysis of
Common Stocks. Viewing American corporate dividend policies as a
whole, it cannot be said that the virtually unlimited power given the management on this score has redounded to the benefit of the stockholders.
In entirely too many cases the right to pay out or withhold earnings at will
is exercised in an unintelligent or inequitable manner. Dividend policies

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[383]

are often so arbitrarily managed as to introduce an additional uncertainty
in the analysis of a common stock. Besides the difficulty of judging the
earning power, there is the second difficulty of predicting what part of the
earnings the directors will see fit to disburse in dividends.
It is important to note that this feature is peculiar to American corporate finance and has no close counterpart in the other important countries. The typical English, French, or German company pays out
practically all the earnings of each year, except those carried to reserves.1
Hence they do not build up large profit-and-loss surpluses, such as are
common in the United States. Capital for expansion purposes is provided
abroad not out of undistributed earnings but through the sale of additional stock. To some extent, perhaps, the reserve accounts shown in foreign balance sheets will serve the same purpose as an American surplus
account, but these reserve accounts rarely attain a comparable magnitude.

Plowing Back Due to Watered Stock. The American theory of “plowing back” earnings appears to have grown out of the stock-watering practices of prewar days. Many of our large industrial companies made their
initial appearance with no tangible assets behind their common shares and
with inadequate protection for their preferred issues. Hence it was natural
that the management should seek to make good these deficiencies out of
subsequent earnings. This was particularly true because additional stock
could not be sold at its par value, and it was difficult therefore to obtain
new capital for expansion except through undistributed profits.2
Examples: Concrete examples of the relation between overcapitalization and dividend policies are afforded by the outstanding cases of Woolworth and United States Steel Corporation.
In the original sale of F. W. Woolworth Company shares to the public, made in 1911, the company issued preferred stock to represent all the
tangible assets and common stock to represent the good-will. The balance sheet accordingly carried a good-will item of $50,000,000 among the
assets, offsetting a corresponding liability for 500,000 shares of common,
par $100.3 As Woolworth prospered, a large surplus was built up out of
1 See Appendix Note 46, p. 781 on accompanying CD, for discussion and examples.
2 The no-par-value device is largely a post-1918 development.
3 This was for many years a standard scheme for financing of industrial companies. It was

followed by Sears Roebuck, Cluett Peabody, National Cloak and Suit, and others.

[384]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

earnings, and amounts were charged against this surplus to reduce the
good-will account, until finally it was written down to $1.4
In the case of United States Steel Corporation, the original capitalization exceeded tangible assets by no less than $768,000,000, representing
all the common and more than half the preferred stock. This “water” in
the balance sheet was not shown as a good-will item, as in the case of
Woolworth, but was concealed by an overvaluation of the fixed assets (i.e.,
of the “Property Investment Accounts”). Through various accounting
methods, however, the management applied earnings from operations to
the writing off of these intangible or fictitious assets. By the end of 1929
a total of $508,000,000—equal to the entire original common-stock
issue—had been taken from earnings or surplus and deducted from the
property account. The balance of $260,000,000 was set up separately as
an intangible asset in the 1937 report and then written off entirely in 1938
by means of a reduction in the stated value of the common stock.
Some of the accounting policies above referred to will be discussed
again, with respect to their influence on investment values, in our chapters on Analysis of the Income Account and Balance-sheet Analysis. From
the dividend standpoint it is clear that in both of these examples the decision to retain large amounts of earnings, instead of paying them out to
the stockholders, was due in part to the desire to eliminate intangible
items from the asset accounts.

Conclusions from the Foregoing. From the foregoing discussion
certain conclusions may be drawn. These bear, first on the very practical
question of what significance should be accorded the dividend rate as
compared with the reported earnings and, secondly, upon the more theoretical but exceedingly important question of what dividend policies
should be considered as most desirable from the standpoint of the stockholders’ interest.
Experience would confirm the established verdict of the stock market
that a dollar of earnings is worth more to the stockholder if paid him in
dividends than when carried to surplus. The common-stock investor
should ordinarily require both an adequate earning power and an adequate
4 It should be noted that when the good-will of Woolworth was originally listed in the balance sheet at $50,000,000, its actual value (as measured by the market price of the shares)
was only some $20,000,000. But when the good-will was written down to $1, in 1925, its real
value was apparently many times $50,000,000.

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[385]

dividend. If the dividend is disproportionately small, an investment purchase will be justified only on an exceptionally impressive showing of earnings (or by a very special situation with respect to liquid assets). On the
other hand, of course, an extra-liberal dividend policy cannot compensate
for inadequate earnings, since with such a showing the dividend rate must
necessarily be undependable.
To aid in developing these ideas quantitatively, we submit the following definitions:
The dividend rate is the amount of annual dividends paid per share,
expressed either in dollars or as a percentage of a $100 par value. (If the
par value is less than $100, it is inadvisable to refer to the dividend rate
as a percentage figure since this may lead to confusion.)
The earnings rate is the amount of annual earnings per share, expressed
either in dollars or as a percentage of a $100 par value.
The dividend ratio, dividend return or dividend yield, is the ratio of the
dividend paid to the market price (e.g., a stock paying $6 annually and
selling at 120 has a dividend ratio of 5%).
The earnings ratio, earnings return or earnings yield, is the ratio of the
annual earnings to the market price (e.g., a stock earning $6 and selling
at 50 shows an earnings yield of 12%).5

Let us assume that a common stock A, with average prospects, earning $7 and paying $5 should sell at 100. This is a 7% earnings ratio and
5% dividend return. Then a smilar common stock, B, earning $7 but paying only $4, should sell lower than 100. Its price evidently should be
somewhere between 80 (representing a 5% dividend yield) and 100 (representing a 7% earnings yield). In general the price should tend to be
established nearer to the lower limit than to the upper limit. A fair
approximation of the proper relative price would be about 90, at which
level the dividend yield is 4.44%, and the earnings ratio is 7.78%. If the
investor makes a small concession in dividend yield below the standard,
he is entitled to demand a more than corresponding increase in the earning power above standard.
In the opposite case a similar stock, C, may earn $7 but pay $6. Here
the investor is justified in paying some premium above 100 because of
5 The term earnings basis has the same meaning as earnings ratio. However, the term dividend
basis is ambiguous, since it is used sometimes to denote the rate and sometimes the ratio.

[386]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

the larger dividend. The upper limit, of course, would be 120 at which
price the dividend ratio would be the standard 5%, but the earnings ratio
would be only 5.83%. Here again the proper price should be closer to the
lower than to the upper limit, say, 108, at which figure the dividend yield
would be 5.56% and the earnings ratio 6.48%.

Suggested Principle for Dividend Payments. Although these figures are arbitrarily taken, they correspond fairly well with the actualities
of investment values under what seem now to be reasonably normal conditions in the stock market. The dividend rate is seen to be important,
apart from the earnings, not only because the investor naturally wants
cash income from his capital but also because the earnings that are not
paid out in dividends have a tendency to lose part of their effective value
for the stockholder. Because of this fact American shareholders would do
well to adopt a different attitude than hitherto with respect to corporate
dividend policies. We should suggest the following principle as a desirable modification of the traditional viewpoint:
Principle: Stockholders are entitled to receive the earnings on their
capital except to the extent they decide to reinvest them in the business.
The management should retain or reinvest earnings only with the specific approval of the stockholders. Such “earnings” as must be retained to
protect the company’s position are not true earnings at all. They should
not be reported as profits but should be deducted in the income statement as necessary reserves, with an adequate explanation thereof. A compulsory surplus is an imaginary surplus.6
Were this principle to be generally accepted, the withholding of earnings would not be taken as a matter of course and of arbitrary determination by the management, but it would require justification corresponding
to that now expected in the case of changes in capitalization and of the
sale of additional stock. The result would be to subject dividend policies
to greater scrutiny and more intelligent criticism than they now receive,
thus imposing a salutary check upon the tendency of managements to
expand unwisely and to accumulate excessive working capital.7
6 We refer here to a surplus which had to be accumulated in order to maintain the company’s
status, and not to a surplus accumulated as a part of good management.
7 The suggested procedure under the British Companies Act of 1929 requires that dividend
payments be approved by the shareholders at their annual meeting but prohibits the

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[387]

If it should become the standard policy to disburse the major portion
of each year’s earnings (as is done abroad), then the rate of dividend will
vary with business conditions. This would apparently introduce an added
factor of instability into stock values. But the objection to the present
practice is that it fails to produce the stable dividend rate which is its
avowed purpose and the justification for the sacrifice it imposes. Hence
instead of a dependable dividend that mitigates the uncertainty of earnings we have a frequently arbitrary and unaccountable dividend policy
that aggravates the earnings hazard. The sensible remedy would be to
transfer to the stockholder the task of averaging out his own annual
income return. Since the common-stock investor must form some fairly
satisfactory opinion of average earning power, which transcends the
annual fluctuations, he may as readily accustom himself to forming a similar idea of average income. As in fact the two ideas are substantially identical, dividend fluctuations of this kind would not make matters more
difficult for the common-stock investor. In the end such fluctuations will
work out more to his advantage than the present method of attempting,
usually unsuccessfully, to stabilize the dividend by large additions to the
surplus account.8 On the former basis, the stockholder’s average income
would probably be considerably larger.
A Paradox. Although we have concluded that the payment of a liberal portion of the earnings in dividends adds definitely to the attractiveness of a common stock, it must be recognized that this conclusion
involves a curious paradox. Value is increased by taking away value. The
more the stockholder subtracts in dividends from the capital and surplus
fund the larger value he places upon what is left. It is like the famous legend of the Sibylline Books, except that here the price of the remainder is
increased because part has been taken away.
approval of a rate greater than that recommended by the directors. Despite the latter proviso,
the mere fact that the dividend policy is submitted to the stockholders for their specific
approval or criticism carries an exceedingly valuable reminder to the management of its
responsibilities, and to the owners of their rights, on this important question.
Although this procedure is not required by the Companies Act in all cases, it is generally
followed in England. See Companies Act of 1929, Sections 6–10; Table A to the Companies
Act of 1929, pars. 89–93; Palmer’s Company Law, pp. 222–224, 13th ed., 1929.
8 For a comprehensive study of the effects of withholding earnings on the regularity of divi-

dend payments, see O. J. Curry, Utilization of Corporate Profits in Prosperity and Depression,
Ann Arbor, 1941.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[388]

This point is well illustrated by a comparison of Atchison and Union
Pacific—two railroads of similar standing—over the ten-year period
between January 1, 1915, and December 31, 1924.
Per share of common
Item

Union Pacific

Atchison

Earned, 10 years 1915–1924
Net adjustments in surplus account
Total available for stockholders

$142.00
dr. 1.50*
$140.50

$137
cr. 13
$150

Dividends paid
Increase in market price
Total realizable by stockholders

$97.50
33.00
$130.50

$60
25
$85

Increase in earnings, 1924 over 1914
Increase in book value, 1924 over 1914
Increase in dividend rate, 1924 over 1914
Increase in market price, 1924 over 1914

9%†
25%
25%
28%

109%†
70%
none
27%

Market price, Dec. 31, 1914
Market price, Dec. 31, 1924
Earnings, year ended June 30, 1914
Earnings, calendar year 1924

116
149
$13.10
14.30

93
118
$7.40
15.45

* Excluding about $7 per share transferred from reserves to surplus.
† Calendar year 1924 compared with year ended June 30, 1914.

It is to be noted that because Atchison failed to increase its dividend
the market price of the shares failed to reflect adequately the large
increase both in earning power and in book value. The more liberal dividend policy of Union Pacific produced the opposite result.
This anomaly of the stock market is explained in good part by the
underlying conflict of the two prevailing ideas regarding dividends which
we have discussed in this chapter. In the following brief summary of the
situation we endeavor to indicate the relation between the theoretical and
the practical aspects of the dividend question.

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[389]

Summary
1. In some cases the stockholders derive positive benefits from an
ultraconservative dividend policy, i.e., through much larger eventual
earnings and dividends. In such instances the market’s judgment proves
to be wrong in penalizing the shares because of their small dividend. The
price of these shares should be higher rather than lower on account of the
fact that profits have been added to surplus instead of having been paid
out in dividends.
2. Far more frequently, however, the stockholders derive much greater
benefits from dividend payments than from additions to surplus. This
happens because either: (a) the reinvested profits fail to add proportionately to the earning power or (b) they are not true “profits” at all but
reserves that had to be retained merely to protect the business. In this
majority of cases the market’s disposition to emphasize the dividend and
to ignore the additions to surplus turns out to be sound.
3. The confusion of thought arises from the fact that the stockholder
votes in accordance with the first premise and invests on the basis of the
second. If the stockholders asserted themselves intelligently, this paradox
would tend to disappear. For in that case the withholding of a large percentage of the earnings would become an exceptional practice, subject to
close scrutiny by the stockholders and presumably approved by them
from a considered conviction that such retention would be beneficial to
the owners of the shares. Such a ceremonious endorsement of a low dividend rate would probably and properly dispel the stock market’s scepticism on this point and permit the price to reflect the earnings that are
accumulating as well as those which were paid out.
The foregoing discussion may appear to conflict with the suggestion,
advanced in the previous chapter, that long-term increases in commonstock values are often due to the reinvestment of undistributed profits.
We must distinguish here between the two lines of argument. Taking our
standard case of a company earning $10 per share and paying dividends
of $7, we have pointed out that the repeated annual additions of $3 per
share to surplus should serve to increase the value of the stock over a
period of years. This may very well be true, and at the same time the rate
of increase in value may be substantially less than $3 per annum compounded. If we take the reverse case, viz., $3 paid in dividends and $7

[390]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

added to surplus, the distinction is clearer. Undoubtedly the large addition to surplus will expand the value of the stock, but quite probably also
this value will fail to increase at the annual rate of $7 compounded. Hence
the argument against reinvesting large proportions of the yearly earnings
would remain perfectly valid. Our criticism is advanced against the
latter type of policy, e.g., the retention of 70% of the earnings, and not
against the normal reinvestment of some 30% of the profits.

Dividend Policies since 1934. If the dividend practice of American
corporations were to be judged solely by the record during 1934–1939,
the criticism expressed in this chapter would have to be softened considerably. In these recent years there has been a definite tendency towards
greater liberality in dividend payments, particularly by companies that
do not have clearly defined opportunities for profitable expansion. Retention of earnings by rapidly growing enterprises, e.g., airplane manufacturers, is hardly open to objection. Since the end of 1932, on the other
hand, General Motors Corporation has disbursed about 80% of earnings
to common-stock holders, with no wide deviation in any year through
1939. In 1939 the Treasury Department announced that it would use 70%
as a rough or preliminary test to decide whether or not a company is subject to the penalty taxes for improper accumulation of surplus.
As far as stock prices are concerned, it can hardly be said that they
have been unduly influenced by arbitrary dividend policies in these recent
years. For not only have the policies themselves been far less arbitrary
than in former times, but there has been a definite tendency in the stock
market to subordinate the dividend factor to the reported and prospective earnings.
The Undistributed-profits Tax. The more liberal dividends of recent
years have been due in part to the highly controversial tax on undistributed profits. This was imposed by Congress in 1936, on a graduated scale
running from 7 to 27%. Following violent criticism, the tax was reduced
to a vestigial 21/2% in 1938 and repealed entirely the following year. Its
main object was to compel companies to distribute their earnings, so that
they might be subject to personal income taxes levied against the stockholders. A secondary objective appears to have been to restrict the accumulation of corporate surpluses, which were thought by some to be
injurious, either because they withheld purchasing power from individuals or because they were conducive to unwise expansion. But the tax was

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[391]

widely and violently condemned, chiefly on the ground that it prevented
the creation of surplus or reserve funds essential to meet future losses or
emergencies or expansion needs. It was said to lay a heavy penalty on
corporate thrift and prudence and to bear with particular severity on
small or new corporations which must rely largely on retained profits for
their growth.
Law Objectionable but Criticized on Wrong Grounds. In our own
opinion the law was a very bad one, but it has been criticized largely on
the wrong grounds. Its objective, as first announced, was to tax corporations exactly as if they were partnerships and hence to equalize the taxation basis of corporate and unincorporated businesses. Much could be
said in favor of this aim. But as the bill was finally passed it effectively
superposed partnership taxation on top of corporate taxation, thus heavily discriminating against the corporate form and especially against small
stockholders. Nor was it a practicable tax as far as wealthy holders were
concerned, because the extremely high personal tax rates, combined with
the corporation taxes (state and federal), created an over-all burden
undoubtedly hostile to individual initiative. Fully as bad were the technical details of the tax law, which compelled distributions in excess of actual
accounting profits, disregarded very real capital losses and allowed no
flexibility in the treatment of inventory values.
Despite the almost universal opinion to the contrary, we do not believe
that the undistributed profits tax really prevented the reinvestment of
earnings, except to the extent that these were diminished by personal
income taxes—as they would be in an unincorporated business. Corporations had available a number of methods for retaining or recovering
these earnings, without subjecting them to the penalty tax. These devices
included (1) declaration of taxable stock dividends (e.g., in preferred
stock); (2) payment of “optional” dividends, so contrived as to impel the
stockholders to take stock rather than cash; (3) offering of additional stock
on attractive terms at the time of payment of cash dividends. Critics of the
tax have asserted that these methods are inconvenient or impracticable.
Our own observation is that they were quite practicable and were resorted
to by a fair number of corporations in 1936 and 1937,9 but that they were

9 See Rolbein, David L., “Noncash Dividends and Stock Rights as Methods for Avoidance of
the Undistributed Profits Tax,” XII The Journal of Business of the University of Chicago 221–264,

[392]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

avoided by the majority, either from unfamiliarity or from a desire to
throw as harsh a light as possible upon the law.
Proper Dividend Policy. In view of the scepticism that we have
expressed as to whether or not stockholders are really benefited by
dividend-withholding policies, we may be thought sympathetic to the
idea of preventing reinvestment of profits by imposing penalty taxes
thereon. This is far from true. Dividend and reinvestment policies should
be controlled not by law but by the intelligent decision of stockholders.
Individual cases may well justify retention of earnings to an extent far
greater than is ordinarily desirable. The practice should vary with the
circumstances; the policy should be determined and proposed in the
first instance by the management; but it should be subject to independent consideration and appraisal by stockholders in their own interest, as
distinguished from that of the corporation as a separate entity or the management as a special group.
July, 1939. For more comprehensive surveys of this tax see Alfred G. Buehler, The Undistributed Profits Tax, New York, 1937 (an adverse appraisal), and Graham, Benjamin, “The Undistributed Profits Tax and the Investor,” LXVI Yale Law Journal 1–18, November, 1936,
elaborating the views expressed above.

See accompanying CD for Chapter 30, “Stock Dividends.”

PART V

ANALYSIS OF THE
INCOME ACCOUNT.
THE EARNINGS
FACTOR IN
COMMON-STOCK
VALUATION

Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

This page intentionally left blank

Introduc tion to Par t V

T H E Q U E S T F O R R AT I O N A L I N V E S T I N G
BY GLENN H. GREENBERG

T

rue confession: I never read Security Analysis while at Columbia
Business School. Never even took a securities analysis course.
Instead, some invisible hand guided me into stock research and

later money management, where I have labored for the past 33 years. It
wasn’t until perhaps the middle of my investment career that I decided it
was time to pick up Graham and Dodd and see what all the buzz was
about. The first 300 pages dealt with fixed income securities, which I have
seldom owned and were of little interest to me. The equity section
seemed dated: topics such as determining the earnings power of industrial cyclicals and the appropriate depreciation of utility plant and equipment conjured up sepia-tone images of a bygone era. I was running my
own investment business and in need of immediate investment ideas.
Could this book help me find my next winner? Not likely, I decided. So
imagine my reaction years later when an editor from McGraw-Hill called
to ask me to write this introduction. After a long, long silence I asked if he
could send me a copy.
Rereading Graham and Dodd felt a little bit like reading Polonius’s
charge to his son in Hamlet as he departs to pursue his studies abroad
(“neither a borrower nor a lender be” and “to thine own self be true”). Yes,
the advice was sound, but it seemed so obvious. In Part V, we are counseled against placing too much emphasis on near-term earnings and
warned not to trust unscrupulous management. We are cautioned about

[395]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[396]

Introduction to Part V

manipulation of financial statements and urged to appreciate the qualitative aspects of a business we invest in. A bright line is drawn for us separating speculation from investment. The appropriate level of debt in the
capital structure, how to think about commodity-based investments, and
the manic-depressive nature of markets are all addressed—well of course
these ideas sound familiar because they have been interwoven through
so many annual letters by Warren Buffett and cited by other great
investors who credit Graham and Dodd for some portion of their investment success. As implied by the title of this part, Graham and Dodd do
present detailed discussion and analysis of the income statement
accounts, but it is the more general investment precepts that I and others
treasure. This work is the more remarkable because it was written during
the uniquely depressed circumstances of 1934, a nation of 25% unemployment with most businesses struggling to survive. Yet Graham and
Dodd were able to codify the principles that have inspired great investors
through 75 years of remarkable prosperity. Their insights are as applicable now as ever.
The purpose of Part V is to explore analysis of the income accounts in
order to estimate the earnings power of the business and thereby determine if the stock is undervalued. There is no magic formula for this task:
the future may resemble the past—or it may not! Virtually every page of
this part is filled with useful analysis of company financials and great clarity of thought on a wide variety of industries. Financial analysis, not the
CEO’s letter, is key to assessing a business. There is a total absence of
terms like “story,” “concept,” “paradigm,” or “trend” to justify an investment. We all want to buy low and sell high, but first we must develop
confidence in the sustainability of a business in order to arrive at a sound
judgment about what constitutes “low” and “high.”
Estimating average future earnings is not easy. In the 1930s there was
tremendous volatility in earnings because of the operating leverage inher-

Glenn H. Greenberg

[397]

ent in manufacturing and resource businesses. The challenge in determining earnings power in today’s more stable economy is different but no less
daunting. There are global competitors and disruptive new technologies.
Financial companies have developed extraordinary new products, which
have been profitable to date but now face testing. Technology firms have
to constantly reinvent themselves. Even the most stable businesses may
surprise. I recall visiting Coca-Cola in late 1993. It was generally hailed as
the finest business in the world because of its pricing power and boundless international growth opportunities. Valued at 18 times earnings, it
was a bargain provided that earnings could grow over 15% annually for
an extended period of time. It never occurred to anyone that this incredible franchise would have flattish earnings from 1996 through 2002.

How We Invest
At my firm, Chieftain Capital Management, we evaluate an investment
opportunity based on the predictability of the business and a dispassionate calculation of its expected rate of return. We read all of a company’s
public filings, we analyze its industry and competitors (of which, ideally,
there should not be many), we talk to its management team and industry
experts, and we gather any other relevant data we can find, distilling it all
into a historical analysis of the performance of the business. Obvious
questions arise: Can margins continue to rise? Is the business becoming
more capital intensive? Why are sales slowing? And so on. This analysis
becomes the basis for further discussions with management and ultimately our projections of future results.
We and other investors today tend to focus on cash flow after capital
expenditures (free cash flow), instead of earnings, to evaluate the investment merits of a business. One advantage of this approach is that it helps
shortcut a good many games that management can play in reporting
profits. Moreover, earnings are seldom synonymous with cash available

[398]

Introduction to Part V

for shareholders, and it is the latter that should matter to investors. It has
always struck me as curious that the first questions asked by a private
investor are, how much money must I put up, how much cash will I get
back, and how fast? Why should investors in publicly traded stocks ask
different questions?
Finally, we calculate the rate of return implied by the free cash flows
we expect the business to generate, in perpetuity, taking into account
the investments the company needs to make to continue its growth. We
generally will not buy a stock unless it is priced to give us at least a 15%
rate of return. Obviously, there is much judgment involved in determining such a hurdle rate, and it must be refined to reflect the quality of the
business and expected returns from alternative investment opportunities.
In 1974 our investment hurdle would have been much higher—perhaps
25%—because there were so many undervalued stocks to choose from
and interest rates were higher. By insisting on a very high rate of return,
compared to the high-single-digit return we calculate to be offered by
the broader market, we give ourselves significant margin for error. Our
goal is to set the bar very high knowing that there will be few times
when we find a great business selling at a price that will also give us a
great rate of return. We seldom find a stock meeting these criteria, so
when we do, we build a large position: never less than 5% of our assets
and often as much as 25%. We sell a stock when the return in our model
drops to 10%—even though our alternative may be cash earning less
than 5%. At all times we are mindful that our approach is only as good as
our assumptions about the future, and small changes in our assumptions,
such as the growth rate of cash flows over the long term, can dramatically alter prospective returns.
A recent reminder of the importance of assumptions is a purchase we
made in early 2007 of Ryanair, the world’s largest airline as measured by
passengers. The Irish company sports by far the lowest fares of anyone in

Glenn H. Greenberg

[399]

the short-haul business in the European markets it serves. In 10 years, it
has grown its passengers tenfold and yet it has only a 7% share of the
market. Last year its average fare was 44 euros, which compares with 66
euros for easyJet, 91 for Aer Lingus, and well over 100 euros for all the
flag carriers. Even so, Ryanair has averaged 20% net margins over the
past decade, versus low single digits for its rivals. We paid 16 times the
current year’s earnings estimates and felt this price was justified by
Ryanair’s huge cost advantages and growth prospects. Then the price of
oil doubled again. The shares have declined 30% since our initial investment, and the profit outlook has dimmed.
Still, the business franchise is intact. Nothing has happened that
makes us believe the long-term value of our investment has diminished.
In fact, during this period of adversity, other low-cost carriers are
expected to cease operations. Lenders are likely to be cautious in funding
possible new entrants, and consumers may wish to trade down to take
advantage of Ryanair’s low fares. Over time, a company with this kind of
cost advantage must take market share and earn attractive returns.
The process I have just described is our attempt to cover the bases
outlined by the authors of Security Analysis. For Graham and Dodd, step 1
is careful quantitative analysis with particular attention to identifying real,
not accounting, earnings. Accounting has always presented management
with opportunities to misrepresent results. In 1934, companies ran nonrecurring gains through the profit-and-loss statement and stretched out
depreciation schedules to make earnings look better than they were.
Managers would charge certain losses directly to shareholders’ equity,
bypassing (and inflating) net income in the process. In addition to earnings, Graham and Dodd were also attuned to the importance of free cash
flow, as in their discussion of the Eureka Pipe Line (Chapter 36 on accompanying CD). Just as Graham and Dodd illustratively juxtapose the perspectives of the private businessperson and the public investor, my

[400]

Introduction to Part V

partners and I often ask ourselves the question: If this were a private
business, how would we measure its value?

Accounting Challenges
Today, the accounting challenges for the investor are far more difficult. The
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has issued any number of
accounting mandates that muddy the waters. For example, while I certainly
oppose excessive granting of stock options to management and employees, there are numerous difficulties in accounting for them as a current
expense as prescribed by the recent FASB statement 123R. First off, stock
options are a noncash obligation and may never cost the shareholder a
penny—but under 123R even a deeply out-of-the-money option will still
result in an expense years after being awarded to an employee. Second,
stock options are already reflected in the diluted share base used to calculate the earnings-per-share (EPS) figures most investors focus on; by further
burdening net income with an expense for options, diluted EPS under
today’s accounting clearly reflects double counting. Finally, valuing options
requires numerous assumptions and thus opens the door to manipulation.
By the way, the previous approach to accounting for stock options was
even odder: options granted with a strike price equal to the market price
had no expense impact, but those granted below market would, in some
cases, result in an expense every year thereafter that the underlying stock
rose. There is equal confusion to be found in the FASB approach to
accounting for derivatives, hedging, pensions, leases, and recognition of
profits for carried interests, to name a few. Now companies can even record
a profit if their debt gets downgraded. Sometimes accounting rules seem
designed to carry us very far from economic reality, and some managers
are quite amenable to taking investors on such a journey.
Having analyzed the historical record, the second and far greater challenge is to determine “the utility of this past record as an indication of

Glenn H. Greenberg

[401]

future earnings.” Graham and Dodd call it a “qualitative survey of the
enterprise.” Is the future of the business adequately predictable so as to
permit a long-term investment? Is the business growing so rapidly as to
attract numerous competitors? Is it subject to being undermined by a
new technology or changing consumer taste? Will it be squashed by
imports or Wal-Mart or by a business model enabled by the Internet? In
other words, how predictable are future cash flows? And how do we feel
about the corporate culture and management leadership? Can they be
relied on to be shrewd, rational, and motivated to maximize the value of
our investment? Or do they have a different agenda? Will management
itself follow the Graham and Dodd principles in investing the shareholders’ money?

Whose Company Is It?
This last point is particularly important. Often managers get confused
and believe that it is their company, which they can run to satisfy their
personal needs—and few such managers would acknowledge that this
applies to them. We spend a lot of time getting to know the stewards
of the companies in which we invest to ascertain their personal priorities. Small observations can sometimes provide a clue. A CEO who
won’t answer tough questions directly is a warning sign. A deeply
tanned CEO wearing a lot of gold jewelry is not likely to be someone
we feel we can trust.
Worse yet is a CEO who undervalues his stock by offering it in
exchange for shares of a company with less attractive business prospects
than his own. This happened in 2004 when Comcast CEO Brian Roberts
made a surprise offer to purchase Disney in an all-stock deal that would
have been hugely dilutive to free cash flow and would have radically
changed the nature of the company. Clearly the motivation of the management was to build an empire by owning an American icon rather

[402]

Introduction to Part V

than to build the value of its own business, on a per share basis, for the
investors. We sold a large portion of our Comcast shares upon learning of
the offer. Worried about dilution of the value of the company, others did
the same, driving down the stock price by over 20%. Roberts subsequently withdrew the Disney offer since he no longer had a sufficiently
valuable stock with which to make the acquisition.
Similarly, it can be disheartening to discuss the concept of share
repurchases with some managers. If we ask whether the cash return on a
capital project is as good as the return from buying back stock, they generally look at us as though we’re speaking in a foreign tongue.
This qualitative assessment allows the discriminating investor to single out truly good businesses. Few investors active today lived as I did
through the bear market of 1973 to 1974 or the crash of 1987, when the
market lost 30% of its value in only a few days. As I watched the disasters
around me, I made a promise to myself to avoid any stock that I would
not feel comfortable holding through another 1987-like crash. The reason
is simple: in the aftermath of a collapse, much wealth has evaporated
and confidence is circling the drain. Wild rumors are flying—and many
may just be true. Without confidence in the staying power of a business,
the overwhelming tendency is simply to follow the crowd and sell. Many
who do sell are so shell-shocked that they are afraid to buy again until
well after a recovery has occurred. Trading on emotions is nearly always
the wrong thing to do, especially for those investors who have carefully
done their homework. Certainly a good business can hit a rough patch,
but it is not unusual for such a business to regain its footing. Sometimes
huge stock declines occur for no apparent reason.
I recall that shortly after making a new investment in LabCorp in
August 2002, the company reported quarterly earnings that were 6% shy
of Street estimates. The stock, for which we had paid $34, or 12 times the
next year’s free cash flow, fell as low as $18 in October 2002. Of course,

Glenn H. Greenberg

[403]

we were horrified at the sudden loss, but after checking our research and
confirming our understanding of the favorable characteristics of the business, we tripled our position at what proved to be bargain prices. At $18,
the stock was trading at less than 7 times expected free cash flow.
LabCorp met all our definitions for an outstanding business. It was
very profitable and had low capital requirements. The industry had consolidated from seven national competitors to two with only modest
regional overlap, LabCorp being one of them. More importantly, it was
difficult to enter the business because of the third-party medical payment system that we have in our country. A new entrant would have
trouble getting reimbursed by health insurance companies, which want
to send business to only the lowest-cost labs. LabCorp has continued to
prosper due in part to the aging of the population, and it is now on the
cusp of benefiting from the introduction of early cancer detection blood
tests, such as one for ovarian cancer. All of this leads to the question of
why it collapsed in the fall of 2002. Who knows? But only through careful
research can one develop the confidence to take advantage of such a
bargain.
After completing the quantitative and qualitative analyses, Graham
and Dodd address the issue of valuation. They emphasize the importance
of looking at average earnings, so as not to be misled by a recent year of
abnormal performance, and of applying a conservative valuation multiple to such earnings. The authors admit that money can be made buying
a stock with a high price-to-earnings (P/E) multiple but that such an
investment must be deemed “speculative”—a gamble no different from a
bet on a commodity future or a roll of the dice. A successful speculation
is simply luck, and few investors are lucky for long. Probably the most
important principle from this book is that stock investing is a risky business. The future is unknowable. Not only are earnings subject to many
uncertainties, but P/E multiples can change drastically based on uncon-

[404]

Introduction to Part V

trollable factors such as interest rates, investor sentiment, or government
actions. Foreign investing can be particularly speculative. While the
growth in developing countries is faster than in our own, there are serious imponderables: Will regulations change in a way that handicaps the
foreign investor? What are the chances the business will be nationalized?
Will a contract with a foreign government be honored? And there are
more mundane risks such as currency fluctuations, the accuracy of local
accounting practices, and management corruption.

A Daunting Challenge
If Graham and Dodd are so widely read and respected, why are there so
few disciplined practitioners of their advice? I believe the answer lies in
three human traits: aversion to boredom, a tendency for emotions to
overwhelm reason, and greed. Careful research takes time and seldom
results in a clear case for buying a large position. It is tedious to review
company after company, only to find that most are neither really special
nor greatly undervalued. It is equally tedious to hold shares in a good
company for an extended period. Even if the investment does well, most
of the time it feels like the stock is treading water or even going down.
Part of the problem is that the value of the business is quoted 61⁄2 hours
a day, 5 days a week, 52 weeks a year, and market liquidity tempts us to
trade from one stock to another.
The second challenge to rational investing is to maintain one’s logical
convictions in the face of excess gloom or euphoria as reflected in stock
prices. I doubt many owners of private companies are preoccupied with
the value of their business on a short-term basis—how different from the
public markets, where a rising stock price makes us feel smart and a
falling one makes us feel dumb. In my office, when one of our businesses
is floundering and the stock is getting pounded, my partners and I start
to doubt the reasoned basis upon which we made the investment. Our

Glenn H. Greenberg

[405]

self-doubts and fears of failure cause us to glimpse catastrophe where
once we envisioned opportunity. Or if you prefer the Graham and Dodd
condensed version: “Obviously it requires strength of character in order
to think and act in opposite fashion from the crowd and also patience to
wait for opportunities that may be spaced years apart.”
The third factor, greed, has always distorted investors’ behavior, but it
is especially present in markets today given the proliferation of hedge
funds. Investors in these funds keep jumping from fund to fund, trying
to latch on to the latest hot manager. The high fees encourage these
managers to pursue “get-rich-quick” trading strategies. The more money
they make, the more money they attract, and investors have been sold
on the promise of unsustainably high returns. A cycle ensues as hedge
fund investors quickly move their money from fund to fund, and hedge
fund managers try to swing for the fences every month. I once attended
the U.S. Open and sat near two hedge fund managers whom I did not
know. They were talking shop during the match, and much to my surprise, their discussion focused exclusively on assets under management
and fees. I kept waiting for them to mention an investment idea, but it
never happened.
Today the crowd focuses on isolated data points, the latest wiggles in
the business outlook, or the opinion expressed in the most recent
research report. With so much information available, there is a tendency
to act too quickly to buy and sell in haste, and to substitute the views of
others for the hard work necessary to come to one’s own conclusions.
Perhaps this is why so many market participants can be described only as
“traders” and “speculators,” unafraid of using debt to turbocharge returns.
Their method requires frequent profitable trades, after transaction costs,
and incurs far higher taxes than the long-term investor pays. They also
pay a heavy price in terms of emotional wear and tear. It is easy to vacation or enjoy family if one owns great businesses—and it’s impossible if

[406]

Introduction to Part V

one is tracking a flock of trading positions about which one has little conviction. Most importantly, a fast-moving, leveraged approach is likely to
fail spectacularly at some point over a lifetime, which is an unacceptable
risk for those of us who invest our own money alongside our clients’.
Few investors these days seem to take the time to truly understand
the quality and motivation of top management. This book clearly emphasizes the importance of unflinching intellectual honesty on the part of an
investor while preparing an analysis—matched by similar integrity in the
management of the enterprise in which the investor places client capital.
Slick managers, who always have an infallible business plan and dismiss
all past mistakes as nonrecurring anomalies, will do everything they can
to prevent you from peering behind Oz’s curtain to see the true outlook
for the business.
A recurring theme of Security Analysis is the importance of gathering
as much information as possible, but then making judgments, which are
subject to being wildly off the mark. One will not find any claims of a
“surefire” way to pick stocks. There is recognition that even the most
exhaustive analysis can fail to bring investment success. Graham and
Dodd don’t make security analysis seem easy or a guarantee of profits.
During my initial reading of the book many years ago, I wish I had
digested the short preface to the first edition: “We are concerned chiefly
with concepts, methods, standards, principles and, above all, with logical
reasoning.” The authors were not trying to write “Investing for Dummies”
or a chronicle of stock tips. They were trying to help the thoughtful
investor develop a successful approach to long-term wealth creation
“which will stand the test of the ever enigmatic future.” I have come to
believe that it may require a bit of experience on the part of the reader to
fully appreciate the power of this book to remain relevant. Perhaps this
wisdom, like youth, is wasted on the young.
Another fascinating element of Part V is the discussion of optimal
capital structure, because it speaks to the current media frenzy over pri-

Glenn H. Greenberg

[407]

vate equity investors. First prevalent in the 1980s and more dramatically
today, investment groups have applied leverage in order to enhance
equity returns in taking companies private. The book refers to such levered, option-like-equity holders as having a situation in which “heads I
win, tails you lose.” This seems particularly apt for the general partners of
today’s private equity firms. Indeed, high leverage can lead to outsized
returns, but it is another form of speculation, much like buying stock at a
very high P/E ratio.
I will presume a little to imagine how Graham and Dodd would analyze
the likely investment results for those limited partners only now allocating
huge sums to the private equity “megafunds.” Pioneering institutional
investors in private equity funds blazed the alternative investment trail 20
years ago. Now that Yale’s investment approach and success are widely celebrated, endowment and state retirement fund managers want to join a
party that is close to ending. Buyout prices have never been higher, strategic buyers are regularly outbid by ravenous financial buyers, and remaining opportunities for operational improvement are few. Expected returns,
in short, are driven almost solely by maximizing leverage. With many buyouts thus priced and levered for only clear skies and smooth waters, a general rise in interest rates or a business downturn could be disastrous. The
equity in these deals—that is, the limited partners’ capital—could easily be
wiped out. One wonders if the stewards of capital pouring money into private equity today have any concept of the risks they are taking as fiduciaries. Interestingly, the private equity firms themselves are going public at
generous valuations even though they have little permanent capital, the
lifeblood of their businesses. What if their limited partners are not satisfied
with results and don’t re-up? What is the correct P/E for a business model
facing such risk of destruction? Investment in these companies would
seem the very embodiment of the term “speculation.”
Similarly, what would Graham and Dodd make of today’s collateralized debt obligations that have been bought, not based on due

[408]

Introduction to Part V

diligence but on the AAA rubber stamp from a credit rating agency? Or
lenders rushing to scoop up “covenant-light,” “pay-in-kind” loans used in
90%-levered capital structures? Institutional appetite for hedge funds
and “2-and-20” fees? Investment theses built around ever-rising valuations and continued “global liquidity”? There’s no need to wonder—Security Analysis, timely as ever, has much to say on speculative excess.
Yes, we have heard this speech before: The stock market is a voting
machine, not a weighing machine. Future prices fall outside the realm of
sound prediction. Even the best companies can be speculations at the
wrong price. One must understand the nature of a business to assess the
inherent permanence of earning power. While it is easy to say, it is hard
to actually “buy low and sell high” because human nature programs us to
take comfort in the company of others. There is a distinction between
investment and speculation. Never invest with unscrupulous management. Earnings must be understood in the absence of nonrecurring
items. Debt in the capital structure enhances returns, but there are limits.
The market shoots first and finds reasons later.
If it all seems self-evident, like Polonius’s speech, that’s because such
wisdom has stood the test of time and it has become part of our lexicon
as investors. Yet few people endeavor to walk the walk by researching
businesses intensively, sifting through many dozens to find those worthy
of their capital. Few people are willing to concentrate their investments
in a small number of businesses that they know thoroughly and believe
will grow their net worth at an attractive rate over the long term. Many
days this work is just plain boring. Other days (and sometimes months),
the market totally ignores your handful of precious stocks. A portfolio of
predictable, reliable businesses does not make you the most exciting person at the cocktail party, nor does it give you flashy sales promotion
material. I have come to believe the quest for rational investing is appealing only to a handful of us. But at least we sleep well at night and live
well by day—and our clients do as well.

Chapter 31

ANALYSIS OF THE INCOME ACCOUNT

IN OUR HISTORICAL DISCUSSION of the theory of investment in common
stocks we traced the transfer of emphasis from the net worth of an enterprise to its capitalized earning power. Although there are sound and compelling reasons behind this development, it is none the less one that has
removed much of the firm ground that formerly lay—or seemed to lie—
beneath investment analysis and has subjected it to a multiplicity of added
hazards. When an investor was able to take very much the same attitude
in valuing shares of stock as in valuing his own business, he was dealing
with concepts familiar to his individual experience and matured judgment.
Given sufficient information, he was not likely to go far astray, except perhaps in his estimate of future earning power. The interrelations of balance
sheet and income statement gave him a double check on intrinsic values,
which corresponded to the formulas of banks or credit agencies in appraising the eligibility of the enterprise for credit.

Disadvantages of Sole Emphasis on Earning Power. Now that
common-stock values have come to depend exclusively upon the earnings exhibit, a gulf has been created between the concepts of private business and the guiding rules of investment. When the business man lays
down his own statement and picks up the report of a large corporation,
he apparently enters a new and entirely different world of values. For certainly he does not appraise his own business solely on the basis of its
recent operating results without reference to its financial resources. When
in his capacity as investor or speculator the business man elects to pay no
attention whatever to corporate balance sheets, he is placing himself at a
serious disadvantage in several different respects: In the first place, he is
embracing a new set of ideas that are alien to his everyday business experience. In the second place, instead of the twofold test of value afforded

[409]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[410]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

by both earnings and assets, he is relying upon a single and therefore less
dependable criterion. In the third place, these earnings statements on
which he relies exclusively are subject to more rapid and radical changes
than those which occur in balance sheets. Hence an exaggerated degree
of instability is introduced into his concept of stock values. In the fourth
place, the earnings statements are far more subject to misleading presentation and mistaken inferences than is the typical balance sheet when
scrutinized by an investor of experience.

Warning against Sole Reliance upon Earnings Exhibit. In
approaching the analysis of earnings statements we must, therefore, utter
an emphatic warning against exclusive preoccupation with this factor in
dealing with investment values. With due recognition of the greatly
restricted importance of the asset picture, it must nevertheless be
asserted that a company’s resources still have some significance and
require some attention. This is particularly true, as will be seen later on,
because the meaning of any income statement cannot properly be understood except with reference to the balance sheet at the beginning and the
end of the period.

Simplified Statement of Wall Street’s Method of Appraising
Common Stocks. Viewing the subject from another angle, we may say
that the Wall-Street method of appraising common stocks has been simplified to the following standard formula:
1. Find out what the stock is earning. (This usually means the earnings per share as shown in the last report.)
2. Multiply these per-share earnings by some suitable “coefficient of
quality” which will reflect:
a. The dividend rate and record.
b. The standing of the company—its size, reputation, financial position, and
prospects.
c. The type of business (e.g., a cigarette manufacturer will sell at a higher
multiple of earnings than a cigar company).
d. The temper of the general market. (Bull-market multipliers are larger than
those used in bear markets.)

Analysis of the Income Account

[411]

The foregoing may be summarized in the following formula:
Price  current earnings per share  quality coefficient.1

The result of this procedure is that in most cases the “earnings per
share” have attained a weight in determining value that is equivalent to
the weight of all the other factors taken together. The truth of this is evident if it be remembered that the “quality coefficient” is itself largely
determined by the earnings trend, which in turn is taken from the stated
earnings over a period.

Earnings Not Only Fluctuate but Are Subject to Arbitrary
Determination. But these earnings per share, on which the entire edifice of value has come to be built, are not only highly fluctuating but are
subject also in extraordinary degree to arbitrary determination and
manipulation. It will be illuminating if we summarize at this point the
various devices, legitimate and otherwise, by which the per-share earnings may at the choice of those in control be made to appear either larger
or smaller.
1. By allocating items to surplus instead of to income, or vice versa.
2. By over-or understating amortization and other reserve charges.
3. By varying the capital structure, as between senior securities and
common stock. (Such moves are decided upon by managements and
ratified by the stockholders as a matter of course.)
4. By the use made of large capital funds not employed in the conduct
of the business.

Significance of the Foregoing to the Analyst. These intricacies of
corporate accounting and financial policies undoubtedly provide a broad
field for the activities of the securities analyst. There are unbounded
opportunities for shrewd detective work, for critical comparisons, for
discovering and pointing out a state of affairs quite different from that
indicated by the publicized “per-share earnings.”
1 Where there are no earnings or where the amount is recognized as being far below
“normal,” Wall Street is reluctantly compelled to apply what is at bottom a more rational
method of valuation, i.e., one ascribing greater weight to average earning power, working
capital, etc. But this is the exceptional procedure.

[412]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

That this work may be of exceeding value cannot be denied. In a
number of cases it will lead to a convincing conclusion that the market
price is far out of line with intrinsic or comparative worth and hence to
profitable action based upon this sound foundation. But it is necessary
to caution the analyst against overconfidence in the practical utility of his
findings. It is always good to know the truth, but it may not always be
wise to act upon it, particularly in Wall Street. And it must always be
remembered that the truth that the analyst uncovers is first of all not the
whole truth and, secondly, not the immutable truth. The result of his study
is only a more nearly correct version of the past. His information may have
lost its relevance by the time he acquires it, or in any event by the time
the market place is finally ready to respond to it.
With full allowance for these pitfalls, it goes without saying, none the
less, that security analysis must devote thoroughgoing study to corporate
income accounts. It will aid our exposition if we classify this study under
three headings, viz.:
1. The accounting aspect. Leading question: What are the true earnings for the period studied?
2. The business aspect. Leading question: What indications does the
earnings record carry as to the future earning power of the company?
3. The aspect of investment finance. Leading question: What elements
in the earnings exhibit must be taken into account, and what standards
followed, in endeavoring to arrive at a reasonable valuation of the shares?

CRITICISM AND RESTATEMENT OF
THE INCOME ACCOUNT
If an income statement is to be informing in any true sense, it must at
least present a fair and undistorted picture of the year’s operating results.
Direct misstatement of the figures in the case of publicly owned companies is a rare occurrence. The Ivar Kreuger frauds, revealed in 1932, partook of this character, but these were quite unique in the baldness as well
as in the extent of the deception. The statements of most important companies are audited by independent public accountants, and their reports
are reasonably dependable within the rather limited sphere of accounting accuracy.2 But from the standpoint of common-stock analysis these
2 In recent years several instances of gross overstatements of earnings and current assets in
audited statements have come to light—notably the case of McKesson and Robbins

Analysis of the Income Account

[413]

audited statements may require critical interpretation and adjustment,
especially with respect to three important elements:
1. Nonrecurrent profits and losses.
2. Operations of subsidiaries or affiliates.
3. Reserves.

General Observations on the Income Account. Accounting procedure allows considerable leeway to the management in the method of treating nonrecurrent items. It is a standard and proper rule that transactions
applicable to past years should be excluded from current income and
entered as a charge or credit direct to the surplus account. Yet there are
many kinds of entries that may technically be considered part of the current year’s results but that are none the less of a special and nonrecurrent
nature. Accounting rules permit the management to decide whether to
show these operations as part of the income or to report them as adjustments of surplus. Following are a number of examples of entries of this type:
1. Profit or loss on sale of fixed assets.
2. Profit or loss on sale of marketable securities.
3. Discount or premium on retirement of capital obligations.
4. Proceeds of life insurance policies.
5. Tax refunds and interest thereon.
6. Gain or loss as result of litigation.
7. Extraordinary write-downs of inventory.
8. Extraordinary write-downs of receivables.
9. Cost of maintaining nonoperating properties.

Wide variations will be found in corporate practice respecting items
such as the foregoing. Under each heading examples may be given of
either inclusion in or exclusion from the income account. Which is the
better accounting procedure in some of these cases may be a rather controversial question, but, as far as the analyst is concerned, his object
requires that all these items be segregated from the ordinary operating
results of the year. For what the investor chiefly wants to learn from
an annual report is the indicated earning power under the given set of
Company in 1938. (Interstate Hosiery Mills and Illinois Zinc Corporation are other examples
also uncovered in 1938.) Despite the sensational impression caused by the McKesson and
Robbins scandal, it must be recognized that over a long period of years only an infinitesimal
percentage of publicly owned companies have been involved in frauds of this character.

[414]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

conditions, i.e., what the company might be expected to earn year after
year if the business conditions prevailing during the period were to continue unchanged. (On the other hand, as we shall point out later, all these
extraordinary items enter properly into the calculation of earning power
as actually shown over a period of years in the past.)
The analyst must endeavor also to adjust the reported earnings so as
to reflect as accurately as possible the company’s interest in results of controlled or affiliated companies. In most cases consolidated reports are
made, so that such adjustments are unnecessary. But numerous instances
have occurred in which the statements are incomplete or misleading
because either: (1) they fail to reflect any part of the profits or losses of
important subsidiaries or (2) they include as income dividends from subsidiaries that are substantially less or greater than the current earnings of
the controlled enterprises.
The third aspect of the income account to which the analyst must give
critical attention is the matter of reserves for depreciation and other
amortization, and reserves for future losses and other contingencies.
These reserves are subject in good part to arbitrary determination by the
management. Hence they may readily be overstated or understated, in
which case the final figure of reported earnings will be correspondingly
distorted. With respect to amortization charges, another and more subtle element enters which may at times be of considerable importance, and
that is the fact that the deductions from income, as calculated by the management based on the book cost of the property, may not properly reflect
the amortization that the individual investor should charge against his
own commitment in the enterprise.

Nonrecurrent Items: Profits or Losses from Sale of Fixed
Assets. We shall proceed to a more detailed discussion of these three
types of adjustment of the reported income account, beginning with the
subject of nonrecurrent items.3 Profits or losses from the sale of fixed
assets belong quite obviously to this category, and they should be
3 The Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 specifically empower
the Commission to prescribe the methods to be followed in differentiating between recurrent and nonrecurrent items in the reports of registered companies which must be filed with
the S.E.C. and with the exchanges [Sec. 19(a) of the 1933 act and Sec. 13(b) of the 1934 act].
The initial registration forms (A-1, A-2 and 10) and the annual report form (10-K) require
separation of nonrecurrent profit-and-loss items within the income account.

Analysis of the Income Account

[415]

excluded from the year’s result in order to gain an idea of the “indicated
earning power” based on the assumed continuance of the business conditions existing then. Approved accounting practice recommends that
profit on sales of capital assets be shown only as a credit to the surplus
account. In numerous instances, however, such profits are reported by
the company as part of its current net income, creating a distorted picture of the earnings for the period.
Examples: A glaring example of this practice is presented by the report
of the Manhattan Electrical Supply Company for 1926. This showed earnings of $882,000, or $10.25 per share, which was regarded as a very favorable exhibit. But a subsequent application to list additional shares on the
New York Stock Exchange revealed that out of this $882,000 reported as
earned, no less than $586,700 had been realized through the sale of the
company’s battery business. Hence the earnings from ordinary operations
were only $295,300, or about $3.40 per share. The inclusion of this special profit in income was particularly objectionable because in the very
same year the company had charged to surplus extraordinary losses
amounting to $544,000. Obviously the special losses belonged to the same
category as the special profits, and the two items should have been
grouped together. The effect of including the one in income and charging the other to surplus was misleading in the highest degree. Still more
discreditable was the failure to make any clear reference to the profit from
the battery sale either in the income account itself or in the extended
remarks that accompanied it in the annual report.4
During 1931 the United States Steel Corporation reported “special
income” of some $19,300,000, the greater part of which was due to “profit
on sale of fixed property”—understood to be certain public-utility holdings in Gary, Indiana. This item was included in the year’s earnings and
resulted in a final “net income” of $13,000,000. But since this credit was
definitely of a nonrecurring nature, the analyst would be compelled to eliminate it from his consideration of the 1931 operating results, which would
accordingly register a loss of $6,300,000 before preferred dividends. United
States Steel’s accounting method in 1931 is at variance with its previous
4 The president’s remarks contained only the following in respect to this transaction: “After
several years of unprofitable experience in the battery business the directors arranged a sale
of same on satisfactory terms.” In 1930 a scandal developed by reason of the president’s
manipulation of this company’s shares on the New York Stock Exchange.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[416]

policy, as shown by its treatment of the large sums received in the form of
income-tax refunds in the three preceding years. These receipts were not
reported as current income but were credited directly to surplus.

Profits from Sale of Marketable Securities. Profits realized by a business corporation from the sale of marketable securities are also of a special
character and must be separated from the ordinary operating results.
Examples: The report of National Transit Company, a former Standard Oil subsidiary, for the year 1928 illustrates the distorting effect due
to the inclusion in the income account of profits from this source. The
method of presenting the story to the stockholders is also open to serious criticism. The consolidated income account for 1927 and 1928 was
stated in approximately the following terms:
Item

1927

1928

Operating revenues
Dividends, interest, and miscellaneous income
Total revenues
“Operating expenses, including depreciation
and profit and loss direct items” (in 1928
“including profits from sale of securities”)
Net income
(Earned per share)

$3,432,000

$3,419,000

463,000
$3,895,000

370,000
$3,789,000

3,264,000
$631,000
($1.24)

2,599,000
$1,190,000
($2.34)

The increase in the earnings per share appeared quite impressive. But
a study of the detailed figures of the parent company alone, as submitted
to the Interstate Commerce Commission, would have revealed that
$560,000 of the 1928 income was due to its profits from the sale of securities. This happens to be almost exactly equal to the increase in consolidated net earnings over the previous year. Allowing on the one hand for
income tax and other offsets against these special profits but on the other
hand for probable additional profits from the sale of securities by the manufacturing subsidiary, it seems likely that all or nearly all of the apparent
improvement in earnings for 1928 was due to nonoperating items. Such
gains must clearly be eliminated from any comparison or calculation of
earning power. The form of statement resorted to by National Transit, in

Analysis of the Income Account

[417]

which such profits are applied to reduce operating expenses, is bizarre to
say the least.
The sale by the New York, Chicago, and St. Louis Railroad Company,
through a subsidiary, of its holdings of Pere Marquette stock in 1929 gave
rise later to an even more extraordinary form of bookkeeping manipulation. We shall describe these transactions in connection with our treatment
of items involving nonconsolidated subsidiaries. During 1931 F.W. Woolworth Company included in its income a profit of nearly $10,000,000 on
the sale of a part interest in its British subsidiary. The effect of this inclusion was to make the per-share earnings appear larger than any previous
year, when in fact they had experienced a recession. It is somewhat surprising to note that in the same year the company charged against surplus an
additional tax accrual of $2,000,000 which seemed to be closely related to
the special profit included in income.
Reduction in the market value of securities should be considered as a
nonrecurring item in the same way as losses from the sale of such securities. The same would be true of shrinkage in the value of foreign
exchange. In most cases corporations charge such write-downs, when
made, against surplus. The General Motors report for 1931 included both
such adjustments, totaling $20,575,000 as deductions from income, but
was careful to designate them as “extraordinary and nonrecurring losses.”
Methods Used by Investment Trusts in Reporting Sale of Marketable
Securities. Investment-trust statements raise special questions with
respect to the treatment of profits or losses realized from the sale of securities and changes in security values. Prior to 1930 most of these companies reported profits from the sale of securities as part of their regular
income, but they showed the appreciation on unsold securities in the form
of a memorandum or footnote to the balance sheet. But when large losses
were taken in 1930 and subsequently, they were shown in most cases not
in the income account but as charges against capital, surplus, or reserves.
The unrealized depreciation was still recorded by most companies in the
form of an explanatory comment on the balance sheet, which continued
to carry the securities owned at original cost. A minority of investment
trusts reduced the carrying price of their portfolio to the market by means
of charges against capital and surplus.
It may logically be contended that, since dealing in securities is an
integral part of the investment-trust business, the results from sales and

[418]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

even the changes in portfolio values should be regarded as ordinary rather
than extraordinary elements in the year’s report. Certainly a study confined to the interest and dividend receipts less expenses would prove of
negligible value. If any useful results can be expected from an analysis of
investment-trust exhibits, such analysis must clearly be based on the three
items: investment income, profits or losses on the sale of securities and
changes in market values. It is equally obvious that the gain or shrinkage,
so computed, in any one year is no indication whatever of earning power
in the recurrent sense. Nor can an average taken over several years have
any significance for the future unless the results are first compared with
some appropriate measure of general market performance. Assuming
that an investment trust has done substantially better than the relevant
“average,” this is of course a prima facie indication of capable management. But even here it would be difficult to distinguish confidently
between superior ability and luckier guesses on the market.
The gist of this critique is twofold: (1) the over-all change in principal value is the only available measure of investment-trust performance,
but (2) this measure cannot be regarded as an index of “normal earning
power” in any sense analogous to the recorded earnings of a wellentrenched industrial business.5
Similar Problem in the Case of Banks and Insurance Companies. A like
problem is involved in analyzing the results shown by insurance companies and by banks. Public interest in insurance securities is concentrated
largely upon the shares of fire insurance companies. These enterprises
represent a combination of the insurance business and the investmenttrust business. They have available for investment their capital funds plus
substantial amounts received as premiums paid in advance. Generally
speaking, only a small portion of these funds is subject to legal restrictions as regards investment, and the balance is handled in much the same
way as the resources of the investment trusts. The underwriting business
as such has rarely proved highly profitable. Frequently it shows a deficit,
which is offset, however, by interest and dividend income. The profits or
losses shown on security operations, including changes in their market
value, exert a predominant influence upon the public’s attitude toward
5 See Appendix Note 47, p. 782 on accompanying CD, for a summary of the findings of the
S.E.C. in its investigation of management investment-trust performance and for further comment by the authors concerning the record and practices of management investment trusts.

Analysis of the Income Account

[419]

fire-insurance-company stocks. The same has been true of bank stocks
to a smaller, but none the less significant, degree. The tremendous overspeculation in these issues during the late 1920’s was stimulated largely
by the participation of the banks, directly or through affiliates, in the
fabulous profits made in the securities markets.
Since 1933 banks have been required to divorce themselves from their
affiliates, and their operations in securities other than government issues
have been more carefully supervised and restricted. But in view of the
large portion of their resources invested in bonds, substantial changes in
bond prices are still likely to exert a pronounced effect upon their
reported earnings.
The fact that the operations of financial institutions generally—such as
investment trusts, banks and insurance companies—must necessarily
reflect changes in security values makes their shares a dangerous medium
for widespread public dealings. Since in these enterprises an increase in
security values may be held to be part of the year’s profits, there is an
inevitable tendency to regard the gains made in good times as part of the
“earning power” and to value the shares accordingly. This results of course
in an absurd overvaluation, to be followed by collapse and a correspondingly excessive depreciation. Such violent fluctuations are particularly
harmful in the case of financial institutions because they may affect public
confidence. It is true also that rampant speculation (called “investment”)
in bank and insurance-company stocks leads to the ill-advised launching
of new enterprises, to the unwise expansion of old ones and to a general
relaxation of established standards of conservatism and even of probity.
The securities analyst, in discharging his function of investment counsellor, should do his best to discourage the purchase of stocks of banking
and insurance institutions by the ordinary small investor. Prior to the
boom of the 1920’s such securities were owned almost exclusively by
those having or commanding large financial experience and matured
judgment. These qualities are needed to avoid the special danger of misjudging values in this field by reason of the dependence of their reported
earnings upon fluctuations in security prices.
Herein lies also a paradoxical difficulty of the investment-trust movement. Given a proper technique of management, these organizations may
well prove a logical vehicle for the placing of small investor’s funds. But
considered as a marketable security dealt in by small investors, the investment-trust stock itself is a dangerously volatile instrument. Apparently

[420]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

this troublesome factor can be held in check only be educating or by effectively cautioning the general public on the interpretation of investmenttrust reports. The prospects of accomplishing this are none too bright.

Profits through Repurchase of Senior Securities at a Discount.
At times a substantial profit is realized by corporations through the repurchase of their own senior securities at less than par value. The inclusion
of such gains in current income is certainly a misleading practice, first,
because they are obviously nonrecurring and, second, because this is at
best a questionable sort of profit, since it is made at the expense of the
company’s own security holders.
Example: A peculiar example of this accounting practice was furnished as long ago as 1915 by Utah Securities Corporation, a holding
company controlling Utah Power and Light Company. The following
income account illustrates this point:
YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1915

Earnings of Utah Securities Corporation
including surplus of subsidiaries accruing to it . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Expenses and taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Net earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Profit on redemption of 6% notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Income from all sources accruing to Utah
Securities Corporation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deduct interest charges on 6% notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Combined net income for the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

771,299
30,288
$ 741,011
1,309,657

$ 2,050,668
1,063,009
$ 987,659

The foregoing income account shows that the chief “earnings” of Utah
Securities were derived from the repurchase of its own obligations at a
discount. Had it not been for this extraordinary item the company would
have failed to cover its interest charges.
The widespread repurchases of senior securities at a substantial discount constituted one of the unique features of the 1931–1933 depression
years. It was made possible by the disproportion that existed between the
strong cash positions and the poor earnings of many enterprises. Because
of the latter influence the senior securities sold at low prices, and because
of the former the issuing companies were able to buy them back in large
amounts. This practice was most in evidence among the investment trusts.

Analysis of the Income Account

[421]

Examples: The International Securities Corporation of America, to
use an outstanding example, repurchased in the fiscal year ending
November 30, 1932, no less than $12,684,000 of its 5% bonds, representing nearly half of the issue. The average price paid was about 55, and the
operation showed a profit of about $6,000,000, which served to offset the
shrinkage in the value of the investment portfolio.
In the industrial field we note the report of Armour and Company for
1932. This showed net earnings of $1,633,000 but only after including in
income a profit of $5,520,000 on bonds bought in at a heavy discount.
Similarly, more than all of the 1933 net of Goodrich Rubber, United Drug,
Bush Terminal Building Company and others was ascribable to this nonrecurring source. A like condition was disclosed in the report of United
Cigar-Whelan Stores for the first half of 1938.6 (Observe, on the other
hand, that some companies, e.g., Gulf States Steel Corporation in 1933,
have followed the better practice of crediting this profit direct to surplus.)
A contrary result appears when senior securities are retired at a
cost exceeding the face or stated value. When this premium involves a
large amount, it is always charged against surplus and not against current income.
Examples: As prominent illustrations of this practice, we cite the
charge of $40,600,000 against surplus made by United States Steel Corporation in 1929, in connection with the retirement at 110 of
$307,000,000 of its own and subsidiaries’ bonds, also the charge of
$9,600,000 made against surplus in 1927 by Goodyear Tire and Rubber
Company, growing out of the retirement at a premium of various bond
and preferred-stock issues and their replacement by new securities bearing lower coupon and dividend rates. From the analyst’s standpoint, either
profit or expense in such special transactions involving the company’s
own securities should be regarded as nonrecurring and excluded from
the operating results in studying a single year’s performance.
A Comprehensive Example. American Machine and Metals, Inc.
(successor to Manhattan Electrical Supply Company mentioned earlier
in this chapter), included in its current income for 1932 a profit realized
from the repurchase of its own bonds at a discount. Because the reports
for 1931 and 1932 illustrate to an unusual degree the arbitrary nature of
6 The report for the full year 1938 credited this profit to surplus.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[422]

REPORT OF AMERICAN MACHINE AND METALS, INC., FOR 1931 AND 1932

Item
Income account:
Net before depreciation and interest
Add profit on bonds repurchased
Profit, including bonds repurchased
Depreciation
Bond interest
Final net profit or loss
Charges against capital, capital surplus and
earned surplus:
Deferred moving expense and mine
development
Provision for losses on:
Doubtful notes, interest thereon,
and claims
Inventories
Investments
Liquidation of subsidiary
Depletion of ore reserves
Write-down of fixed assets (net)
Reduction of ore reserves and
mineral rights
Federal tax refund, etc
Total charges not shown in income account
Result shown in income account
Received from sale of additional stock
Combined change in capital and surplus

1932

1931

Loss $ 136,885
174,278
37,393

Profit $101,534
270,701
372,236

87,918
119,273
169,798

184,562
140,658
Profit 47,015

Loss

111,014

600,000
385,000
54,999
39,298
28,406
557,578
681,742
cr.
7,198
$2,450,839
dr.
169,798
cr.
44,000
dr. $2,576,637

32,515

cr.

12,269
$20,246

cr.

47,015

cr.

$26,769

much corporate accounting, we reproduce herewith in full the income
account and the appended capital and surplus adjustments.
We find again in 1932, as in 1926, the highly objectionable practice of
including extraordinary profits in income while charging special losses
to surplus. It does not make much difference that in the later year the

Analysis of the Income Account

[423]

nature of the special profit—gain through repurchase of bonds at less than
par—is disclosed in the report. Stockholders and stock buyers for the
most part pay attention only to the final figure of earnings per share, as
presented by the company; nor are they likely to inquire carefully into the
manner in which it is determined. The significance of some of the charges
made by this company against surplus in 1932 will be taken up later under
the appropriate headings.

Other Nonrecurrent Items. The remaining group of nonrecurrent
profit items is not important enough to merit detailed discussion. In most
cases it is of minor consequence whether they appear as part of the year’s
earnings or are credited to surplus where they properly belong.
Examples: Gimbel Brothers included the sum of $167,660, proceeds
of life insurance policies, in income for 1938, designating it as a “nontrading item.” On the other hand, United Merchants and Manufacturers,
receiving a similar payment of $1,579,000 in its 1938 fiscal year, more
soundly credited it to surplus—although it had sustained a large loss from
operations.
Bendix Aviation Corporation reported as income for the year 1929
the sum of $901,282 received in settlement of a patent suit, and again in
1931 it included in current earnings an amount $242,656 paid to it as back
royalties collected through litigation. The 1932 earnings of Gulf Oil Corporation included the sum of $5,512,000 representing the value of oil previously in litigation. By means of this item, designated as nonrecurrent,
it was able to turn a loss of $2,768,000 into a profit of $2,743,000.
Although tax refunds are regularly shown as credits to surplus only, the
accumulated interest received thereon sometimes appears as part of the
income account, e.g., $2,000,000 reported by E. I. du Pont de Nemours
and Company in 1926 and an unstated but apparently much larger sum
included in the earnings of United States Steel for 1930.

Chapter 32

EXTRAORDINARY LOSSES AND
OTHER SPECIAL ITEMS IN THE
INCOME ACCOUNT

THE QUESTION OF NONRECURRENT LOSSES is likely to create peculiar difficulties in the analysis of income accounts. To what extent should writedowns of inventories and receivables be regarded as extraordinary
deductions not fairly chargeable against the year’s operating results? In
the disastrous year 1932 such charge-offs were made by nearly every business. The accounting methods used showed wide divergences, but the
majority of companies spared their income accounts as much as possible
and subtracted these losses from surplus. On the other hand the milder
inventory losses of the 1937–1938 recession were almost universally
charged into the earnings statement.
Inventory losses are directly related to the conduct of the business and
are, therefore, by no means extraordinary in their general character. The
collapse of inventory values in 1931–1932 might be considered extraordinary in its extent, in the same way as the business results as a whole were
exceptional. It follows from this reasoning that if the 1931–1932 results
are taken into account at all, e.g., in computing a long-term average, all
losses on inventories and receivables must be considered part of the operating deficit of those years even though charged to surplus. In Chap. 37
we shall consider the role of extraordinary years in determining the
average earning power.

Manufactured Earnings. An examination of the wholesale charges
made against surplus in 1932 by American Machine and Metals, detailed
on page 422, suggests the possibility that excessive provision for losses
may have been made in that year with the intention of benefiting future
income accounts. If the receivables and inventories were written down to
[424]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

Analysis of the Income Account

[425]

an unduly low figure on December 31, 1932, this artificially low “cost
price” would give rise to a correspondingly inflated profit in the following years. This point may be made clear by the use of hypothetical
figures as follows:
Assume fair value of inventory and receivables on
Dec. 31, 1932 to be . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Assume profit for 1933 based on such fair value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
But assume that, by special and excessive charges to surplus,
the inventory and receivables had been written down to . . . . . . . . . . . .
Then the amounts realized therefrom will show a
correspondingly greater profit for 1933, which might
mean reported earnings for 1933 of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
This would be three times the proper figure.

$2,000,000
200,000
1,600,000

600,000

The foregoing example illustrates a whole set of practices that constitute perhaps the most vicious type of accounting manipulation. They consist, in brief, of taking sums out of surplus (or even capital) and then
reporting these same sums as income. The charge to surplus goes unnoticed; the credit to income may have a determining influence upon the
market price of the securities of the company.1 We shall later point out
that the “conservative” writing down of the property account has precisely
this result, in that it permits a decreased depreciation charge and hence
an increase in the apparent earnings. The dangers inherent in accounting methods of this sort are the more serious because they are so little
realized by the public, so difficult to detect even by the expert analyst and
so impervious to legislative or stock-exchange correction.
The basing of common-stock values on reported per-share earnings
has made it much easier for managements to exercise an arbitrary and
1 The United States Industrial Alcohol Company reports for 1932 and subsequent years

reflect a situation somewhat similar to that here suggested. This company departed from its
usual practice in 1932 by setting up a reserve for $1,500,000 out of surplus to reduce
molasses inventory to estimated current market value. (Previously this item had regularly
been carried at cost.) Later reports state that earnings for 1933, 1934 and 1935 had benefited
by this reserve to the extent of $772,000, $677,000 and $51,000 respectively. Significantly,
income tax for 1934 was based on $677,000 less than the reported profit. (See pp. 626–627
for a broad summary of the effect of this company’s accounting methods on its reported pershare earnings for the years 1929–1938.)

[426]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

unwholesome control over the price level of their shares. Whereas it
should be emphasized that the overwhelming majority of managements
are honest, it must be emphasized also that loose or “purposive” accounting is a highly contagious disease.

Reserves for Inventory Losses. The accounting for inventory losses
is frequently complicated by the use of reserves set up before the loss is
actually realized. These reserves are usually created by a charge to surplus, on the theory that it is a function of the surplus account to act as
a sort of contingency reserve to absorb unusual future losses. If later the
inventory shrinkage actually takes place, it is naturally charged against
the reserve already created to meet it. The result is that in no year does
the income account reflect the inventory loss, although it is just as much
a hazard of operations as a decline in selling prices. When a company
charges inventory losses to surplus—whether directly or through the
intermediary of a reserve device—the analyst must take this practice
carefully into account, especially in comparing the published results
with those of other companies. A good illustration of this rule is
afforded by a comparison of the reports submitted by United States
Rubber Company and by Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company for the
years 1925–1927, during which time rubber prices were subject to wide
fluctuations.
In these three years Goodyear charged against earnings a total of
$11,500,000 as reserves against decline of raw-material prices. Of this
amount one-half was used to absorb actual losses sustained and the other
half was carried forward into 1928 (and eventually used up in 1930).
United States Rubber during this period charged a total of $20,446,000
for inventory reserves and write-downs, all of which was absorbed by
actual losses taken. But the form of annual statement, as submitted to the
stockholders, excluded these deductions from income and made them
appear as special adjustments of surplus. (In 1927, moreover, the inventory loss of $8,910,000 was apparently offset by a special credit of
$8,000,000 from the transfer of past earnings of the crude-rubber producing subsidiary.)
The result of these divergent bases of reporting annual income was
that the per-share earnings of the two companies, as compiled by the statistical manuals, made an entirely misleading comparative exhibit. The
following per-share earnings are taken from Poor’s Manual for 1928:

[427]

Analysis of the Income Account

Year

U.S. Rubber

Goodyear

1925
1926
1927

$14.92
10.54
1.26

$9.45
3.79
9.02

3-year average

$ 8.91

$7.42

For proper comparative purposes the statements must manifestly be
considered on an identical basis, or as close thereto as possible. Such a
comparison might be made by three possible methods, viz.:
1. As reported by United States Rubber, i.e., excluding inventory
reserves and losses from the current income account.
2. As reported by Goodyear, i.e., reducing the earnings of the period
of high prices for crude rubber by a reserve for future losses and using
this reserve to absorb the later shrinkage.
3. Eliminating such reserves, as an arbitrary effort of the management
to level out the earnings. On this basis the inventory losses would be
deducted from the results of the year in which they were actually sustained. (The Standard Statistics Company’s analysis of Goodyear includes
a revision of the reported earnings in conformity with this approach.)
We have then, for comparative purposes, three statements of the
per-share earnings for the period:

Year

1. Omitting adjustments of inventory
U.S. Rubber Goodyear

2. Allowing for inventory adjustments, as
made by the
companies

3. Excluding reserves and
charging losses to
the year in which
decline occurred

U.S. Rubber Goodyear U.S. Rubber Goodyear

1925
1926
1927

$14.92
10.54
1.26*

$18.48
3.79
13.24

$11.21
0.00
9.73(d)*

$9.45
3.79
9.02

$14.92
14.71(d)
1.26*

$18.48
2.53(d)
13.24

3-year
average

$8.91

$12.17

$0.49

$7.42

$0.49

$9.73

* Excluding credit for profits made prior to 1926 by United States Rubber Plantations, Inc.

The range of market prices for the two common issues during this
period suggests that the accounting methods followed by United States

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[428]

Rubber served rather effectively to obscure the unsatisfactory nature of
its results for these years.
U.S. Rubber common

Goodyear common

Year

High

Low

High

Low

1925
1926
1927
Average of highs and lows

97
88
67

33
50
37

50
40
69

25
27
29

62

40

More recently United States Rubber has followed the Goodyear practice of taking out of the earnings of prosperous years a reserve for future
inventory shrinkage. As a result of this policy, the company somewhat
understated its earnings for 1935 and 1936 but overstated them for 1937.
A More Recent Contrast. The packing industry supplies us with a
more extreme divergence in the method used by two companies to handle the matter of probable future inventory losses.
Wilson and Company set up a reserve of $750,000 prior to the beginning of its 1934 fiscal year, for “Fluctuation in Inventory Valuation.” This
was taken partly from surplus and partly from income. In 1934 it reduced
its opening inventory by this reserve, thus increasing the year’s reported
profit by $750,000. The S.E.C., however, required it to amend its registration statement so as to credit this amount to surplus and not to income.
On the other hand, Swift and Company reduced its reported earnings
in the fiscal years 1933–1935 by $16,767,000, which was set up as a reserve
for future inventory decline. In 1938 the expected decline occurred; but
instead of drawing on this reserve to spare the income account, the company charged the full loss against the year’s operations and then transferred
$11,000,000 of the reserve directly to surplus. In this exceptional case the
net income for the six-year period 1933–1938 was understated, since
amounts were actually taken out of income and turned over to surplus.2

Other Elements in Inventory Accounting. The student of corporate reports must familiarize himself with two permissible variations from
2 Standard Statistics has restated the Swift annual reports by listing the 1933–1935 deductions for inventory declines as charges to surplus.

Analysis of the Income Account

[429]

the usual accounting practice in handling inventories. As is well known,
the standard procedure consists of taking inventory at the close of the
year at the lower of cost or market. The “cost of goods sold” is then found
by adding purchases to the opening inventory and subtracting the
closing inventory, valued as described.
Last-In, First-Out. The first variation from this method consists of
taking as the cost of goods sold the actual amount paid for the most
recently acquired lots. The theory behind this method is that a merchant’s
selling price is related mainly to the current replacement price or the
recent cost of the article sold. The point is of importance only when there
are substantial changes in unit values from year to year; it cannot affect
the aggregate reported profits over a long period but only the division of
results from one year to another; it may be useful in reducing income tax
by avoiding alternations of loss and profit due to inventory fluctuations.3
The Normal-stock or Basic-stock Inventory Method. A more radical
method of minimizing fluctuations due to inventory values has been followed by a considerable number of companies for some years past. This
method is based on the theory that the company must regularly carry a
certain physical stock of materials and that there is no more reason to vary
the value of this “normal stock” from year to year—because of market
changes—than there would be to vary the value of the manufacturing plant
as the price index rises or falls and to reflect this change in the year’s operations. In order to permit the base inventory to be carried at an unchanging figure, the practice is to mark it down to a very low unit price level—so
low that it should never be necessary to reduce it further to get it down to
current market.
As long ago as 1913 National Lead Company applied this method to
the three principal constituents of its inventory, viz., lead, tin and antimony. The method was subsequently adopted also by American Smelting and Refining Company and American Metals Company. Some of the
New England cotton mills had followed a like policy, prior to the collapse
in the cotton market in 1930, by carrying their raw cotton and work in
process at very low base prices. In 1936 the Plymouth Cordage Company
3 Corporations were first permitted to use this so-called “last-in, first-out” method by the
terms of the Revenue Acts of 1938 and 1939, applying to 1939 and subsequent years. A
hypothetical example to illustrate the difference between the two inventory methods is given
in Appendix Note 48, p. 784 on accompanying CD.

[430]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

adopted the normal-stock inventory method, after following a somewhat
similar policy in 1933–1935; and for purpose of concrete illustration we
supply the relevant data for this company, covering the years 1930–1939,
in Appendix Note 49, page 785 on accompanying CD.

Idle-plant Expense. The cost of carrying nonoperating properties is
almost always charged against income. Many statements for 1932 earmarked substantial deductions under this heading.
Examples: Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company reported a charge of
$2,759,000 for “Maintenance Expense, Insurance and Taxes of Plants,
Mines, and Other Properties that were Idle.” Stewart Warner Corporation
followed the exceptional policy of charging against surplus in 1932, instead
of income, the sum of $309,000 for “Depreciation of Plant Facilities not
used in current year’s production.” The 1938 report of Botany Worsted
Mills contained a charge against income of $166,732, picturesquely termed
“cost of idleness.”
The analyst may properly consider idle-plant expense as belonging to
a somewhat different category from ordinary charges against income. In
theory, at least, these expenses should be of a temporary and therefore nonrecurring type. Presumably the management can terminate these losses at
any time by disposing of or abandoning the property. If, for the time being,
the company elects to spend money to carry these assets along in the expectation that future value will justify the outlay, it does not seem logical to
consider these assets as equivalent to a permanent liability, i.e., as a permanent drag upon the company’s earning power, which makes the stock worth
considerably less than it would be if these “assets” did not exist.
Example: The practical implications of this point are illustrated by the
case of New York Transit Company, a carrier of oil by pipe line. In 1926,
owing to new competitive conditions, it lost all the business formerly carried by its principal line, which thereupon became “idle plant.” The depreciation, taxes and other expenses of this property were so heavy as to
absorb the earnings of the company’s other profitable assets (consisting
of a smaller pipe line and high-grade-bond investments). This created an
apparent net loss and caused the dividend to be passed. The price of the
stock accordingly declined to a figure far less than the company’s holdings of cash and marketable securities alone. In this uncritical appraisal
by the stock market, the idle asset was considered equivalent to a serious
and permanent liability.

Analysis of the Income Account

[431]

In 1928, however, the directors determined to put an end to these
heavy carrying charges and succeeded in selling the unused pipe line for
a substantial sum of money. Thereafter, the stockholders received special
cash distributions aggregating $72 per share (nearly twice the average
market price for 1926 and 1927), and they still retained ownership of a
profitable business which resumed regular dividends. Even if no money
had been realized from the idle property, its mere abandonment would
have led to a considerable increase in the value of the shares.
This is an impressive, if somewhat extreme, example of the practical
utility of security analysis in detecting discrepancies between intrinsic
value and market price. It is customary to refer with great respect to the
“bloodless verdict of the market place,” as though it represented invariably the composite judgment of countless shrewd, informed and calculating minds. Very frequently, however, these appraisals are based on mob
psychology, on faulty reasoning, and on the most superficial examination
of inadequate information. The analyst, on his side, is usually unable to
apply his technique effectively to correcting or taking advantage of these
popular errors, for the reason that surrounding conditions change so rapidly that his own conclusions may become inapplicable before he can
profit by them. But in the exceptional case, as illustrated by our last example, the facts and the logic of the case may be sharply enough defined to
warrant a high degree of confidence in the practical value of his analysis.

Deferred Charges. A business sometimes incurs expenses that may
fairly be considered as applicable to a number of years following rather
than to the single 12-month period in which the outlay was made. Under
this heading might be included the following:
Organization expense (legal fees, etc.).
Moving expenses.
Development expenses (for new products or processes, also for opening
up a mine, etc.).
Discount on obligations sold.

Under approved accounting methods such costs are spread over an
appropriate period of years. The amount involved is entered upon the balance sheet as a Deferred Charge, which is written off by annual charges
against earnings. In the case of bond-discount the period is fixed by the
life of the issue; mine development expenses are similarly prorated on the

[432]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

basis of the tonnage mined. For most other items the number of years
must be arbitrarily taken, five years being a customary figure.
In order to relieve the reported earnings of these annual deductions it
has become common practice to write off such expense applicable to future
years by a single charge against surplus. In theory this practice is improper,
because it results in the understatement of operating expenses for a succeeding period of years and hence in the exaggeration of the net income.
If, to take a simple example, the president’s salary were paid for ten years
in advance and the entire outlay charged against surplus as a “special
expense,” it is clear that the profits of the ensuing period would thereby be
overstated.4 There is the danger also that expenses of a character frequently
repeated, e.g., advertising campaigns, or cost of developing new automobile models, might be omitted from the income account by designating
them as deferred charges and then writing them off against surplus.5
Ordinarily the amounts involved in such accounting transactions are
not large enough to warrant the analyst’s making an issue of them. Security analysis is a severely practical activity, and it must not linger over matters that are not likely to affect the ultimate judgment. At times however,
these items may assume appreciable importance.
Examples: The Kraft Cheese Company for example, during some years
prior to 1927 carried a substantial part of its advertising outlays as a
deferred charge to be absorbed in the operations of subsequent years. In
1926 it spent about $1,000,000 for advertising and charged only one-half
of this amount against current income. But in the same year the balance
of this expenditure was deducted from surplus, and furthermore an additional $480,000 was similarly written off against surplus to cancel the balance carried forward from prior years as a deferred charge. By this means
the company was able to report to its stockholders the sum of $1,071,000
as earned for 1926. But when in the following year it applied to list additional shares, it found it necessary to adopt a less questionable basis of
4 See Appendix Note 50, p. 786 on accompanying CD, for details of accounting methods fol-

lowed by Interstate Department Stores in 1934–1936, which resembled somewhat the hypothetical case given above.
5 A similar objection lies against the practice of charging against surplus the loss incurred in
closing chain-store units. Example: The charge of $326,000 made by F. G. Shattuck Company
for this purpose in 1935. This would seem to be a recurrent expense of chain-store enterprises, which frequently add and close down units.

Analysis of the Income Account

[433]

reporting its income to the New York Stock Exchange, so that its profit
for 1926 was restated to read $461,296, instead of $1,071,000.
The 1932 report of International Telephone and Telegraph Company
showed various charges against surplus aggregating $35,817,000, which
included the following: “Write-off of certain deferred charges that have
today no tangible value although originally set up to be amortized over a
period of years in accordance with accepted accounting principles,
$4,655,696.”
Hudson Motor Car Company charged against surplus instead of
income the following items (among others) during 1930–1931.
1930
1931

Special adjustment of tools and materials due to
development of new models . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reserve for special tools . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rearrangement of plant equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Special advertising . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$2,266,000
2,000,000
633,000
1,400,000

In 1933 Hecker Products (then called Gold Dust Corporation) appropriated out of surplus the sum of $2,000,000 as a reserve for the “net cost
of introduction and exploitation of new products.” About three-quarters
of this amount was expended in years 1933–1936, and the balance then
transferred to “General and Contingency Reserves.”
The effect of these accounting practices is to relieve the reported earnings of expenditures that most companies charge currently thereagainst,
and that in any event should be charged against earnings in installments
over a short period of years.

Amortization of Bond Discount. Bonds are usually floated by corporations at a price to net the treasury less than par. The discount suffered is part of the cost of borrowing the money, i.e., part of the interest
burden, and it should be amortized over the life of the bond issue by an
annual charge against earnings, included with the statement of interest
paid. It was formerly considered “conservative” to write off such bond
discounts by a single charge against surplus, in order not to show so
intangible an item among the assets on the balance sheet. More recently
these write-offs against surplus have become popular for the opposite reason, viz., to eliminate future annual deductions from earnings and in that
way to make the shares more “valuable.”

[434]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Example: Associated Gas and Electric Company charged against
surplus in 1932 the sum of $5,892,000 for “debt discount and expense”
written off.
This practice has aroused considerable criticism in recent years both
from the New York Stock Exchange and from the S.E.C. As a result of
these objections a number of companies have reversed their previous
charge to surplus and are again charging amortization of bond discounts
annually against earnings.6

6 See the changed accounting practice of Northern States Power Company (Minnesota) following a controversy over this point in connection with the registration of a bond issue in
1984. (The total amount involved here was over $8,000,000.) It is noteworthy, also, that even
on called bonds companies have been required to carry forward the unamortized discount to
be written off by an annual charge against earnings during the life of the refunding issue.
(See the report of Columbia Gas and Electric Company for 1936, p. 17.)
Some of the bond refundings in recent years seem to have involved a surprisingly small
net saving of interest when the premium paid to retire the old issue is taken into account.
Perhaps an explanation of some of these operations lies in the fact that (1) the company has
been able to charge both the premium paid and the balance of the original discount against
surplus, thus relieving future earnings of this very real burden; and (2) both these items have
been chargeable to profits subject to income tax, thus reducing this tax substantially and
increasing the apparent profits for the year.

Chapter 33

MISLEADING ARTIFICES IN THE INCOME
ACCOUNT. EARNINGS OF SUBSIDIARIES

Flagrant Example of Padded Income Account. On comparatively
rare occasions, managements resort to padding their income account by
including items in earnings that have no real existence. Perhaps the most
flagrant instance of this kind that has come to our knowledge occurred
in the 1929–1930 reports of Park and Tilford, Inc., an enterprise with
shares listed on the New York Stock Exchange. For these years the company reported net income as follows:
1929—$1,001,130  $4.72 per share.
1930— 124,563  0.57 per share.

An examination of the balance sheets discloses that during these two
years the item of Good-will and Trade-marks was written up successively
from $1,000,000 to $1,600,000 and then to $2,000,000, and these increases
deducted from the expenses for the period. The extraordinary character
of the bookkeeping employed will be apparent from a study of the condensed balance sheets as of three dates, shown on page 436.
These figures show a reduction of $1,600,000 in net current assets in
15 months, or $1,000,000 more than the cash dividends paid. This shrinkage was concealed by a $1,000,000 write-up of Good-will and Trademarks. No statement relating to these amazing entries was vouchsafed to
the stockholders in the annual reports or to the New York Stock Exchange
in subsequent listing applications. In answer to an individual inquiry,
however, the company stated that these additions to Good-will and
Trade-marks represented expenditures for advertising and other sales
efforts to develop the business of Tintex Company, Inc., a subsidiary.1
1 In the 1930 report the wording in the balance sheet was changed from “Good-will and
Trade-marks” to “Tintex Good-will and Trade-marks.” In 1939 the Good-will item was written off, and the $1,000,000 write-up of 1929–1930 deducted from earned surplus.

[435]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

PARK AND TILFORD, INC.

Balance sheet

[436]

Assets:
Fixed assets
Deferred charges
Good-will and Trade-marks
Net current assets
Liabilities:
Bonds and mortgages
Capital and surplus
Total of assets and liabilities

Adjusted earnings
Earnings for stock as reported
Cash dividends paid
Charges against surplus
Added to capital and surplus
Earnings for stock as corrected (excluding increase in
intangibles and deducting charges to surplus)

Sept. 30, 1929

Dec. 31, 1929

Dec. 31, 1930

$1,250,000
132,000
1,000,000
4,797,000

$1,250,000
163,000
1,600,000
4,080,000

$1,250,000
32,000
2,000,000
3,154,000

2,195,000
4,984,000
$7,179,000

2,195,000
4,898,000
$7,093,000

2,095,000
4,341,000
$6,436,000

First 9 months,
1929

Last 3 months,
1929

Year, 1929

Year, 1930

$929,000
463,000

$ 72,000
158,000

$1,001,000
621,000

466,000

decrease 86,000

380,000

$125,000
453,000
229,000
decrease 557,000

929,000

528,000(d)

401,000

504,000(d)

Analysis of the Income Account

[437]

The charging of current advertising expense to the good-will account
is inadmissible under all canons of sound accounting. To do so without
any disclosure to the stockholders is still more discreditable. It is difficult
to believe, moreover, that the sum of $600,000 could have been expended
for this purpose by Park and Tilford in the three months between September 30 and December 31, 1929. The entry appears therefore to have
included a recrediting to current income of expenditures made in a previous period, and to that extent the results for the fourth quarter of 1929
may have been flagrantly distorted. Needless to say, no accountants’ certificate accompanied the annual statements of this enterprise.

Balance-sheet and Income-tax Checks upon the Published
Earnings Statements. The Park and Tilford case illustrates the necessity of relating an analysis of income accounts to an examination of the
appurtenant balance sheets. This is a point that cannot be stressed too
strongly, in view of Wall Street’s naïve acceptance of reported income and
reported earnings per share. Our example suggests also a further check
upon the reliability of the published earnings statements, viz., by the
amount of the federal income tax accrued. The taxable profit can be calculated fairly readily from the income-tax accrual, and this profit compared in turn with the earnings reported to stockholders. The two figures
should not necessarily be the same, since the intricacies of the tax laws
may give rise to a number of divergences.2 We do not suggest that any
effort be made to reconcile the amounts absolutely but only that very wide
differences be noted and made the subject of further inquiry.
The Park and Tilford figures analyzed from this viewpoint supply the
suggestive results as shown in the table on page 438.
The close correspondence of the tax accrual with the reported income
during the earlier period makes the later discrepancy appear the more
striking. These figures eloquently cast suspicion upon the truthfulness of
the reports made to the stockholders during 1927–1929, at which time
considerable manipulation was apparently going on in the shares.
This and other examples discussed herein point strongly to the need
for independent audits of corporate statements by certified public accountants. It may be suggested also that annual reports should include a detailed
reconcilement of the net earnings reported to the shareholders with the
2 See Appendix Note 51, p. 787 on accompanying CD, for a brief résumé of these divergences.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[438]

net income upon which the federal tax is paid. In our opinion a good deal
of the information relative to minor matters that appears in registration
statements and prospectuses might be dispensed with to general advantage; but if, in lieu thereof, the S.E.C. were to require such a reconcilement,
the cause of security analysis would be greatly advanced.
Net income before
federal tax

Period

Federal
income tax
accrued

Rate of tax,
per cent

A. As indicated by the
tax accrued

B. As reported to the
stockholders

5 mo. to Dec. 1925
1926
1927
1928
1929

$36,881
66,624
51,319
79,852
81,623*

13
131/2
131/2
12
11

$283,000
493,000
380,000
665,000
744,000

$ 297,000
533,000
792,000
1,315,000
1,076,000

* Including $6,623 additional paid in 1931.

Another Extraordinary Case of Manipulated Accounting. An
accounting vagary fully as extraordinary as that of Park and Tilford, though
exercising a smaller influence on the reported earnings, was indulged
in by United Cigar Stores Company of America, from 1924–1927. The “theory” behind the entries was explained by the company for the first time in
May 1927 in a listing application that contained the following paragraphs:3
The Company owns several hundred long-term leaseholds on business buildings in the principal cities of the United States, which up until May, 1924, were
not set up on the books. Accordingly, at that time they were appraised by the
Company and Messrs. F. W. Lafrentz and Company, certified public accountants of New York City, in excess of $20,000,000.
The Board of Directors have, since that time, authorized every three months
the setting up among the assets of the Company a portion of this valuation
and the capitalization thereof, in the form of dividends, payable in Common
Stock at par on the Common Stock on the quarterly basis of 11/4% on the
Common Stock issued and outstanding.
3 See application to list 6% Cumulative Preferred Stock of United Cigar Stores Company of

America on the New York Stock Exchange, dated May 18, 1927 (Application #A-7552).

[439]

Analysis of the Income Account

The entire capital surplus created in this manner has been absorbed by the
issuance of Common Stock at par for an equal amount and accordingly is
not a part of the existing surplus of the Company. No cash dividends have
been declared out of such capital surplus so created.
The present estimated value of such leaseholds, using the same basis of
appraisal as in 1924, is more than twice the present value shown on the books
of the Company.

The effect of the inclusion of “Appreciation of Leaseholds” in earnings
is shown herewith:

Year

Amount of
Earned per
“Leasehold
share of
Appreciation”
Net earnings
common
Market range included in
as reported ($25-par basis) ($25-par basis)
earnings

1924

$6,697,000

$4.69

64–43

1925

8,813,000

5.95

116–60

1,295,000*

5.05

1926

9,855,000

5.02

110–83

2,302,000

3.81

1927

9,952,000†

4.63

100–81

2,437,000

3.43

$1,248,000

Earned per
share of
common excluding lease
appreciation
$3.77

* The 5% stock dividend paid in 1925 amounted to $1,737,770. There is an unexplained difference between the two figures,
which in the other years are identical.
† Excluding refund of federal taxes of $229,017 applicable to prior years.

In passing judgment on the inclusion of leasehold appreciation in the
current earnings of United Cigar Stores, a number of considerations
might well be borne in mind.
1. Leaseholds are essentially as much a liability as they are an asset.
They are an obligation to pay rent for premises occupied. Ironically
enough, these very leaseholds of United Cigar Stores eventually plunged
it into bankruptcy.
2. Assuming leaseholds may acquire a capital value to the occupant,
such value is highly intangible, and it is contrary to accounting principles
to mark up above actual cost the value of such intangibles in a balance
sheet.
3. If the value of any capital asset is to be marked up, such enhancement must be credited to Capital Surplus. By no stretch of the imagination can it be considered as income.

[440]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

4. The $20,000,000 appreciation of the United Cigar Stores leases took
place prior to May 1924, but it was treated as income in subsequent years.
There was thus no connection between the $2,437,000 appreciation
included in the profits of 1927 and the operations or developments of
that year.
5. If the leaseholds had really increased in value, the effect should be
visible in larger earnings realized from these favorable locations. Any
other recognition given this enhancement would mean counting the same
value twice. In fact, however, allowing for extensions of the business
financed by additional capitalization, the per-share earnings of United
Cigar Stores showed no advancing trend.
6. Whatever value is given to leaseholds must be amortized over the
life of the lease. If the United Cigar Stores investors were paying a high
price for the shares because of earnings produced by these valuable leases,
then they should deduct from earnings an allowance to write off this capital value by the time it disappears through the expiration of the leases.4
The United Cigar Stores Company continued to amortize its leaseholds
on the basis of original cost, which apparently was practically nothing.
The surprising truth of the matter, therefore, is that the effect of the
appreciation of leasehold values—if it had occurred—should have been to
reduce the subsequent operating profits by an increased amortization charge.
7. The padding of the United Cigar Stores income for 1924–1927 was
made the more reprehensible by the failure to reveal the facts clearly in
the annual reports to shareholders.5 Disclosure of the essential facts to
the New York Stock Exchange was made nearly three years after the practice was initiated. It may have been compelled by legal considerations
growing out of the sale to the public at that time of a new issue of preferred stock, underwritten by large financial institutions. The following
year the policy of including leasehold appreciation in earnings was discontinued.
These accounting maneuvers of United Cigar Stores may be fairly
described, therefore, as the unexplained inclusion in current earnings of an
4 This subject is treated fully in a succeeding chapter.
5 The reports stated the “Net Profit for the year, including Enhancement of Leasehold
Values” (giving amount of the latter), but no indication was afforded that this enhancement
was arbitrarily computed and had taken place in previous years.

[441]

Analysis of the Income Account

imaginary appreciation of an intangible asset—the asset being in reality a
liability, the enhancement being related to a previous period and the proper
effect of the appreciation, if it had occurred, being to reduce the subsequent
realized earnings by virtue of higher amortization charges.
The federal-income-tax check, described in the Park and Tilford
example, will also give interesting results if applied to United Cigar Stores
as shown in the table below.

Moral Drawn from Foregoing Examples. A moral of considerable
practical utility may be drawn from the United Cigar Stores example.
When an enterprise pursues questionable accounting policies, all its securities must be shunned by the investor, no matter how safe or attractive
some of them may appear. This is well illustrated by United Cigar Stores
Preferred, which made an exceedingly impressive statistical showing for
many successive years but later narrowly escaped complete extinction.
Investors confronted with the strange bookkeeping detailed above might
have reasoned that the issue was still perfectly sound, because, when the
overstatement of earnings was corrected, the margin of safety remained
more than ample. Such reasoning is fallacious. You cannot make a quantitative deduction to allow for an unscrupulous management; the only
way to deal with such situations is to avoid them.

Income before tax

Year

Federal tax
reserve

A. Indicated
by tax reserve

B. Reported to
stockholders

C. Reported to
stockholders
less leasehold
appreciation

1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929
1930

$700,000
825,000
900,000
900,000
700,000
13,000
none

$5,600,000
6,346,000
6,667,000
6,667,000
5,833,000
118,000
none

$7,397,000
9,638,000
10,755,000
10,852,000*
9,053,000
3,132,000†
1,552,000

$6,149,000
8,343,000
8,453,000
8,415,000*
9,053,000
3,132,000†
1,552,000

* Eliminating tax refund of $229,000 evidently applicable to prior years.
† This is also reported as $2,947,000, after an adjustment.

[442]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Fictitious Value Placed on Stock Dividends Received. From
1922 on most of the United Cigar Stores common shares were held by
Tobacco Products Corporation, an enterprise controlled by the same
interests. This was an important company, the market value of its shares
averaging more than $100,000,000 in 1926 and 1927. The accounting
practice of Tobacco Products introduced still another way of padding the
income account, viz., by placing a fictitious valuation upon stock dividends received.
For the year 1926 the company’s earnings statement read as follows:
Net income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Income tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Class A dividend . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Balance for common stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Earned per share . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Market range for common . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$10,790,000
400,000
3,136,000
7,254,000
11
117–95

Detailed information regarding the company’s affairs during that
period has never been published (the New York Stock Exchange having
been unaccountably willing to list new shares on submission of an
extremely sketchy exhibit). Sufficient information is available, however,
to indicate that the net income was made up substantially as follows:
Rental received from lease of assets to American Tobacco Co. . . . . . . . . . . $ 2,500,000
Cash dividends on United Cigar Stores common (80% of total paid) . . . . . 2,950,000
Stock dividends on United Cigar Stores common
(par value $1,840,000), less expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,340,000
$10,790,000

It is to be noted that Tobacco Products must have valued the stock
dividends received from United Cigar Stores at about three times their
face value, i.e., at three times the value at which United Cigar charged
them against surplus. Presumably the basis of this valuation by Tobacco
Products was the market price of United Cigar Stores shares, which price
was easily manipulated due to the small amount of stock not owned by
Tobacco Products.
When a holding company takes into its income account stock dividends received at a higher value than that assigned them by the subsidiary

Analysis of the Income Account

[443]

that pays them, we have a particularly dangerous form of pyramiding of
earnings. The New York Stock Exchange, beginning in 1929, has made
stringent regulations forbidding this practice. (The point was discussed
in Chap. 30, which is on accompanying CD.) In the case of Tobacco Products the device was especially objectionable because the stock dividend
was issued in the first instance to represent a fictitious element of earnings, i.e., the appreciation of leasehold values. By unscrupulous exploitation of the holding-company mechanism these imaginary profits were
effectively multiplied by three.
On a consolidated earnings basis, the report of Tobacco Products for
1926 would read as follows:
American Tobacco Co. lease income, less income tax, etc. . . . . . . . . . .
80% of earnings on United Cigar Stores common . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Class A dividend . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Balance for common . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Earned per share . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$2,100,000
6,828,000*
$7,928,000
3,136,000
$4,792,000
$7.27

* Excluding leasehold appreciation.

The reported earnings for Tobacco Products common given as $11
per share are seen to have been overstated by about 50%.
It may be stated as a Wall-Street maxim that where manipulation of
accounts is found, stock juggling will be found also in some form or other.
Familiarity with the methods of questionable finance should assist the
analyst and perhaps even the public, in detecting such practices when
they are perpetrated.6

SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES AND
CONSOLIDATED REPORTS
This title introduces our second general type of adjustment of reported
earnings. When an enterprise controls one or more important subsidiaries, a consolidated income account is necessary to supply a true
picture of the year’s operations. Figures showing the parent company’s
6 To avoid an implication of inconsistency, because of our favorable comments on Tobacco
Products Corporation 61/2 s, due 2022, in a previous chapter, we must point out that a complete change of management took place in this situation during 1930. There have also been
two complete changes in the management of United Cigar Stores and its successor.

[444]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

results only are incomplete and may be quite misleading. As previously
remarked, they may either understate the earnings by not showing all the
current profits made by the subsidiaries, or they may overstate the earnings by failure to deduct subsidiaries’ losses or by including dividends
from subsidiaries in excess of their actual income for the year.

Former and Current Practices. In earlier years disclosure of subsidiaries’ results was a matter of arbitrary election by management, and
in many cases important data of this kind were kept secret.7 For some
time prior to 1933 the New York Stock Exchange had insisted in connection with new listings that the results of subsidiaries be presented either
in a consolidated statement or separately. But since passage of the 1934
act, all registered companies are required to supply this information in
their annual reports to the Commission, and therefore practically all follow the same procedure in their statements to stockholders.

Degree of Consolidation. Even in so-called “consolidated statements” the degree of consolidation varies considerably. Woolworth consolidates its domestic and Canadian subsidiaries but not its foreign
affiliates. American Tobacco consolidates only its wholly owned domestic subsidiaries. Most utilities now issue consolidated reports including
all companies controlled by them (by ownership of a majority of the voting stock) and deduct the portion of the earnings applicable to others
under the heading of “minority interest.”8 In the railroad field results are
rarely consolidated unless the subsidiary is both 100% owned and also
operated as an integral part of the system. Hence, Atlantic Coast Line
does not reflect its share of the results after dividends of Louisville and
Nashville, which is 51% owned but separately operated. The same is
true with respect to the 53% voting control of Wheeling and Lake Erie
held by the Nickel Plate (New York, Chicago, and St. Louis Railroad
Company).
7 For a discussion of the misleading effect of such policies in former years, see references to
Reading Company, Consolidated Gas Company (now Consolidated Edison Company), and
Warren Brothers Company, on pp. 380–381 of the first edition of this work. Prior to the
S.E.C. legislation, most railroad companies failed to supply any information regarding the
earnings of their nontransportation subsidiaries, some of which were of substantial importance. Examples: Northern Pacific, Atchison.
8 North American Company has been somewhat exceptional in that it consolidates only

subsidiaries at least 75% owned and thus excludes two important companies in which its
interest in 1939 was 73.5 and 51%, respectively.

[445]

Analysis of the Income Account

Allowance for Nonconsolidated Profits and Losses. It is now frequent procedure for industrial companies to indicate either in the income
account or in a footnote thereto their equity in the profits or losses of
nonconsolidated subsidiaries after allowance for dividends.
Examples: The 1938 report of American Tobacco Company showed by
way of footnote that dividends received from nonconsolidated subsidiaries
exceeded their earnings by $427,000. Hercules Powder reported a similar
figure of $257,514 for that year, in footnote form, whereas prior to 1937 it
had included its share of the undistributed earnings of such affiliates under
the heading “Other Income.” Railroad companies handle this matter differently. The Atchison, for example, now supplies full balance sheet and
income account data of affiliates in an Appendix to its own report, which
continues to reflect only the dividends received from these companies.
The analyst should adjust the reported earnings for the results of nonconsolidated affiliates, if this has not already been done in the income
account and if the amounts involved are significant. The criterion here is
not the technical question of control but the importance of the holdings.
Examples: On the one hand it is not customary, nor does it seem worth
while, to make such calculations with respect to the holdings of Union
Pacific in Illinois Central and other railroads. These holdings, although
substantial, do not bulk large enough to affect the Union Pacific common
stock materially. On the other hand, the adjustment is clearly indicated
in the case of the ownership of Chicago, Burlington, and Quincy stock by
Northern Pacific and Great Northern, each holding less than a controlling interest (48.6%).

Year

Du Pont earnings
per share

Adjustments to reflect
Du Pont’s interest in
operating results of
General Motors

1929
1930
1931
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938

$6.99
4.52
4.30
1.81
2.93
3.63
5.02
7.53
7.25
3.74

$2.07
 0.04
 0.51
 1.35
 0.43
 0.44
 1.30
 0.77
 0.57
 0.61

Earnings per share of
Du Pont as adjusted
$9.06
4.56
3.79
0.46
3.36
4.07
6.32
8.30
7.82
4.35

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[446]

Similarly, the interest of Du Pont in General Motors, representing
about 23% of the total issue, is undoubtedly significant enough in its effect
on the owning company to warrant adjustment of its earnings to reflect
the results of General Motors. This is actually done by Du Pont each year
in the form of an adjustment of surplus to reflect the previous year’s change
in the book value of its General Motors holdings. The analyst would prefer, however, to make the adjustment concurrently and to include it in the
calculated earnings of Du Pont. The effect of such adjustments on the
earnings of Du Pont for 1929–1938 is shown in the table on p. 445.
The report of General Motors Corporation for 1931 is worthy of
appreciative attention because it includes a supplementary calculation of
the kind suggested in this and the previous chapter i.e., exclusive of special and nonrecurring profits or losses and inclusive of General Motors’
interest in the results of nonconsolidated subsidiaries. The report contains the following statement of per-share earnings for 1931 and 1930:
EARNINGS PER SHARE, INCLUDING THE EQUITY IN UNDIVIDED PROFITS OR
LOSSES OF NONCONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES

Year

Including
nonrecurrent items

Excluding
nonrecurrent items

1931
1930

$2.01
3.25

$2.43
3.04

Suggested Procedure for Statistical Agencies. Although this procedure may seem to complicate a report, it is in fact a salutary antidote
against the oversimplification of common-stock analysis which resulted
from exclusive preoccupation with the single figure of per-share earnings.
The statistical manuals and agencies have naturally come to feature the
per-share earnings in their analyses of corporations. They might, however, perform a more useful service if they omitted a calculation of the
per-share earnings in all cases where the company’s reports appear to contain irregularities or complications in any of the following directions and
where a satisfactory correction is not practicable:
1. By reason of nonrecurrent items included in income or because of
charges to surplus that might properly belong in the income account.
2. Because current results of subsidiaries are not accurately reflected
in the parent company’s statements.

Analysis of the Income Account

[447]

3. Because the depreciation and other amortization charges are irregularly computed.9

Special Dividends Paid by Subsidiaries. When earnings of nonconsolidated subsidiaries are allowed to accumulate in their surplus
accounts, they may be used later to bolster up the results of a poor year
by means of a large special dividend paid over to the parent company.
Examples: Such dividends, amounting to $11,000,000, were taken by the
Erie Railroad Company in 1922 from the Pennsylvania Coal Company and
Hillside Coal and Iron Company. The Northern Pacific Railway Company
similarly eked out its depleted earnings in 1930 and 1931 by means of large
sums taken as special dividends from the Chicago, Burlington, and Quincy
Railroad Company, the Northern Express Company, and the Northwestern
Improvement Company, the last being a real-estate, coal and iron-ore subsidiary. The 1931 earnings of the New York, Chicago, and St. Louis Railroad
Company included a back dividend of some $1,600,000 on its holdings of
Wheeling and Lake Erie Railway Company Prior Preferred Stock, only a
part of which was earned in that year by the Wheeling road.
This device of concealing a subsidiary’s profits in good years and
drawing upon them in bad ones may seem quite praise-worthy as a
method of stabilizing the reported earning power. But such benevolent
deceptions are frowned upon by enlightened opinion, as illustrated by the
more recent regulations of the New York Stock Exchange which insist
upon full disclosure of subsidiaries’ earnings. It is the duty of management to disclose the truth and the whole truth about the results of each
period; it is the function of the stockholders to deduce the “normal earning power” of their company by averaging out the earnings of prosperity
and depression. Manipulation of the reported earnings by the management even for the desirable purpose of maintaining them on an even keel
is objectionable none the less because it may too readily lead to manipulation for more sinister reasons.

Distorted Earnings through Parent-subsidiary Relationships.
Examples are available of the use of the parent-subsidiary relationship to
produce astonishing distortions in the reported income. We shall give two
illustrations taken from the railroad field. These instances are the more
impressive because the stringent accounting regulations of the Interstate
9 Standard Statistics does not calculate per-share earnings if depreciation has not been deducted.

[448]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Commerce Commission might be expected to prevent any misrepresentation of earnings.
Examples: In 1925 Western Pacific Railroad Corporation paid dividends of $7.56 upon its preferred stock and $5 upon its common stock.
Its income account showed earnings slightly exceeding the dividends
paid. These earnings consisted almost entirely of dividends aggregating
$4,450,000 received from its operating subsidiary, the Western Pacific
Railroad Company. The year’s earnings of the railroad, itself, however,
were only $2,450,000. Furthermore its accumulated surplus was insufficient to permit the larger dividend that the parent company desired to
report as its income for the year. To achieve this end, the parent company
went to the extraordinary lengths of donating the sum of $1,500,000 to
the operating company, and it immediately took the same money back as
a dividend from its subsidiary. The donation it charged against its surplus;
the receipt of the same money as dividends it reported as earnings. In this
devious fashion it was able to report $5 “earned” upon its common stock,
when in fact the applicable earnings were only about $2 per share.
In support of our previous statement that bad accounting practices
are contagious, we may point out that the Western Pacific example of
1925 was followed by the New York, Chicago, and St. Louis Railroad
Company (“Nickel Plate”) in 1930 and 1931. The details are briefly as
follows:
In 1929 Nickel Plate sold, through a subsidiary, its holdings of Pere
Marquette stock to Chesapeake and Ohio, which was under the same control. A profit of $10,665,000 was realized on this sale, which gain was
properly credited to surplus. In 1930 Nickel Plate needed to increase its
income; whereupon it took the $10,665,000 profit out of its surplus,
returned it to the subsidiary’s treasury and then took $3,000,000 thereof
in the form of a “dividend” from this subsidiary, which it included in its
1930 income. A similar dividend of $2,100,000 was included in the
income account for 1931.
These extraordinary devices may have been resorted to for what was
considered the necessary purpose of establishing a net income large
enough to keep the company’s bonds legal for trust-fund investments.10
10 For an extreme example of this kind see the annual reports of Wabash Railway Company
and Ann Arbor Railroad Company for 1930 and the comment thereon at p. 1022 of Moody’s

Analysis of the Income Account

[449]

The result, however, was the same as that from all other misleading
accounting practices, viz., to lead the public astray and to give those “on
the inside” an unfair advantage.

Broader Significance of Subsidiaries’ Losses. We have suggested
in this chapter that security analysis must make full allowance for the
results of subsidiaries, whether they be profits or losses. But the question
may well be raised: Is the loss of a subsidiary necessarily a direct offset
against the parent company’s earnings? Why should a company be worth
less because it owns something—in this case, an unprofitable interest?
Could it not at any time put an end to the loss by selling, liquidating or
even abandoning the subsidiary? Hence, if good management is assumed,
must we not also assume that the subsidiary losses are at most temporary
and therefore to be regarded as nonrecurring items rather than as deductions from normal earnings?
This point is similar to that discussed in the previous chapter relative
to idle-plant expense and similar also to the matter of unprofitable divisions of a business, to be touched upon later. There is no one, simple
answer to the questions that we have raised. Actually, if the subsidiary
could be wound up without an adverse effect upon the rest of the business,
it would be logical to view such losses as temporary—since good sense
would dictate that in a short time the subsidiary must either become profitable or be disposed of. But if there are important business relations
between the parent company and the subsidiary, e.g., if the latter affords
an outlet for goods or supplies cheap materials or absorbs an important
share of the overhead, then the termination of its losses is not so simple
a matter. It may turn out, upon further analysis, that all or a good part of
the subsidiary’s loss is a necessary factor in the parent company’s profit.
It is not an easy task to determine just what business relationships are
Manual of Investments (Steam Railroads), 1931. The Wabash owned 99% of both the preferred and the common stock of the Ann Arbor. In December 1930 the Ann Arbor directors
declared a $5 dividend per share on the preferred and a $27 dividend per share on the common. This action was taken in the face of a working-capital deficit and net earnings available
of little over 10% of the dividends thus declared. Neither dividend was ever paid. This
maneuver, however, enabled the Wabash to credit its share of the dividends declared to its
income account as “dividend income” to the extent of $1,073,455, which was sufficient to
raise the fixed-charge coverage of the Wabash from about 1.3 times to a figure slightly in
excess of 1.5 times.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[450]

involved in each instance. Like so many other elements in analysis, this
point usually requires an investigation going well beyond the reported
figures. The following examples will illustrate the type of situation and
analysis with which we have been dealing.
Example A: Purity Bakeries Corporation. This large maker of bread
and cake operates through a number of subsidiaries, of which one of the
largest is Cushman’s Sons, Inc., of New York. Cushman’s has outstanding
$7 and $8 cumulative preferred stock, not guaranteed by Purity. The
annual reports of Purity are on a consolidated basis and show earnings
after deduction of full dividends on those Cushman’s preferred shares not
owned by Purity, whether earned or paid. The separate reports of Cushman’s reveal that between 1934 and 1937 its operations resulted in a
considerable loss to Purity, on its accounting basis, viz.:
(000 OMITTED)

Year
1937
1936
1935
1934
Average 4 years
Per share of Purity

Purity net income
as reported

Loss of Cushman’s
after full preferred
dividends

Purity earnings
excluding Cushman’s operations

$463
690
225 (d.)
209
278
0.36

$426
620
930
173
537
0.71

$889
1,310
678
382
815
1.06

The earnings are thus seen to be three times as large excluding Cushman’s as they were including Cushman’s. Could the analyst have reasoned
that the former provides the truer measure of Purity’s earning power, since
the company can be expected either again to earn money from that subsidiary (as it had earned it in the past up to 1934) or to drop it? The question of inter-corporate relationships would have to be considered. A note
in the 1937 report of Cushman’s indicated that Purity was making a fairly
large service charge in connection with its subsidiaries’ operations, which
suggests that Cushman’s might be of some extra value in absorbing overhead. This matter would call for a careful inquiry.

Analysis of the Income Account

[451]

But the report for the next year, 1938, showed, first, that Cushman’s
had earned the preferred dividend deduction, and secondly, that two
unprofitable retail plants (in Philadelphia and Chicago) had been closed.
Subject to further investigation, therefore, the analyst might well infer
that the subsidiary’s losses were nonpermanent in nature and that the
reported results for 1934–1937 are to be viewed with this point in mind.
Example B: Lehigh Coal and Navigation Company. This enterprise has
derived its income from various sources, chief of which has been the lease
of its railroad property to the Central Railroad of New Jersey for an
annual rental of $2,268,000. Its next largest holding consists of anthracite
coal mines, which since 1930 have been operated at a loss. In 1937 this
loss was equivalent to about 90 cents per share of Lehigh stock. As a result
the company reported a consolidated net loss of $306,000 for the year, as
contrasted with a profit on a parent-company basis only of $1,125,000,
or 64 cents per share.
But in this case the analyst could not safely make the assumption that
the Lehigh stock was not worth less by reason of its ownership of the mining properties than it would be worth without them. Operation of the
mines supplied an important tonnage to the railroad division. If the mines
were shut down, the ability of the Jersey Central to pay the annual rental
might have been critically impaired, especially since the lessee road had
been doing poorly for some years past. (In fact the claim was later made
by the Jersey Central that the Lehigh Coal and Navigation was obligated
in connection with the lease to supply a certain tonnage from its coal
properties). Hence, in this rather complicated set-up the investor could
not safely go behind the consolidated results, including the losses of the
anthracite subsidiary.
Example C: Barnsdall Oil Company. We have here a situation opposite from the other two. Barnsdall Oil owned both refining and producing properties, the latter profitable, the former unprofitable. In 1935 it
segregated the refineries (and marketing units) in a separate company, of
which it distributed the common stock to its own stockholders, retaining, however, the preferred stock and substantial claims against the new
company. In 1936–1938 the refineries and stations continued to lose;
Barnsdall Oil advanced considerable sums to cover these losses and wrote
them off by charges first against capital surplus and then against earned
surplus. On the other hand, its income account, freed from the burden of

[452]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

these refining losses, showed profits from producing operations at a
steady rate from June 1, 1933, to the end of 1938.
In 1939, however, the New York Stock Exchange called upon the company to correct its statements to stockholders by advising them of the
effect upon the reported profits of charging there-against the write-downs
of the investment in the refining company. These losses would have
reduced the indicated profits by more than one-third.
It is clear, from the standpoint of proper accounting, that as long as a
company continues to control an unprofitable division, its losses must be
shown as deductions from its other earnings. The analyst must decide
what the chances are of terminating the losses in the future, and view the
current price of the stock accordingly. The method followed by the Barnsdall Oil Company appears therefore clearly open to criticism, since it
served merely to terminate the reporting of its refining losses without
really terminating the losses themselves. (At the end of 1939 the company
set steps into motion for an apparent complete divorcement and sale of
the refining and marketing divisions.)
Summary. To avoid leaving this point in confusion, we shall summarize our treatment by suggesting:
1. In the first instance, subsidiary losses are to be deducted in every
analysis.
2. If the amount involved is significant, the analyst should investigate
whether or not the losses may be subject to early termination.
3. If the result of this examination is favorable, the analyst may consider
all or part of the subsidiary’s loss as the equivalent of a nonrecurring item.

Chapter 34

THE RELATION OF DEPRECIATION AND
SIMILAR CHARGES TO EARNING POWER

A CRITICAL analysis of an income account must pay particular attention
to the amounts deducted for depreciation and kindred charges. These
items differ from ordinary operating expenses in that they do not signify
a current and corresponding outlay of cash. They represent the estimated
shrinkage in the value of the fixed or capital assets, due to wearing out,
to using up or to their approaching extinction for whatever cause. The
important charges of this character may be classified as follows:
1. Depreciation (and obsolescence), replacements, renewals or retirements.
2. Depletion or exhaustion.
3. Amortization of leaseholds, leasehold improvements, licenses, etc.
4. Amortization of patents.

All these items may properly be embraced under the title “amortization,”
but we shall sometimes refer to them generically as “depreciation items,” or
simply as “depreciation,” because the latter is a more familiar term.

Leading Questions Relative to Depreciation. The accounting theory that governs depreciation charges is simple enough. If a capital asset
has a limited life, provision must be made to write off the cost of that asset
by charges against earnings distributed over the period of its life. But
behind this innocent statement lie complications of a threefold character.
First we find that accounting rules themselves may permit a value other
than cost as the base for the amortization charge. Second, we find many
ways in which companies fail to follow accepted accounting practice in
stating their depreciation deduction in the income account. Third, there
are occasions when an allowance that may be justified from an accounting standpoint will fail to meet the situation properly from an investment
standpoint. These problems will engage our attention in this and the next
[453]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[454]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

two chapters. Our discussion will be directed first towards industrial companies generally, following which we shall consider special aspects having
to do with oil companies, mining companies and public utilities.1

THE DEPRECIATION BASE
Depreciation Base Other than Cost. There is support in accounting circles for the theory that the function of the depreciation allowance
is to provide for the replacement of the asset at the end of its life rather
than merely to write off its cost. If this idea were actually followed, the
current or expected future replacement cost would be the basis for the
depreciation charge, and it would vary not only with the value of the identical asset but also with changes in the character of the item that is
expected to replace the one worn out.
Whatever may be said for or against this theory,2 it is virtually never
followed in the form stated. But we do meet in practice with a variant of
the idea, viz., the substitution of the replacement value of all the fixed
assets as of a given date in place of cost on the balance sheet, followed
usually by annual depreciation charges based on the new value.
Since 1914 there have been two waves of such revaluations. The first,
taking place in the 1920’s, marked up prewar costs to the higher values currently prevailing. The second, appearing in 1931–1933, marked down property accounts to the much lower valuations associated with the depression.3
Examples: In 1926 American Ice Company wrote up its fixed assets
by $7,868,000, and in 1935 it wrote them down correspondingly to restore
the valuations to a cost basis. The 1926 write-up resulted in larger depreciation charges thereafter against income, and the 1935 reduction resulted
in lower depreciation charges. In 1933 American Locomotive Company

1 With a very few exceptions the railroads charge depreciation only on their equipment
(including this item in the maintenance charges). For the year 1937 Class I railroads charged
a total of $191,798,000 for depreciation of equipment and only $5,236,000 for depreciation
of way and structures.
2 In our view it is at once simpler and more logical to base depreciation on original cost.
Replacement cost should affect the accounts after replacement takes place (which may never
happen) rather than before.
3 See Fabricant, Solomon, “Revaluations of Fixed Assets, 1925–1934” (National Bureau of
Economic Research Bulletin 62, 1936), and Capital Consumption and Adjustment, National
Bureau of Economic Research, Chap. XII, 1938.

Analysis of the Income Account

[455]

reduced the stated value of its stock from $50 to $5 a share and utilized
most of the capital surplus thus created to write down fixed properties by
nearly $26,000,000 and its investment in General Steel Castings Corporation by about $6,200,000. The net effect on the income account was to
reduce depreciation charges to about 40% of their former level.
There is some criticism in accounting circles of the propriety of such
sporadic changes in the depreciation base from original cost. In our opinion they are not objectionable provided:
1. The new values are set up in the bona fide conviction that they
represent existing realities more fairly than the old values.
2. Proper depreciation against these new values is charged in the income
account.

In many cases, however, we find that companies revaluing their fixed
assets fail to observe one or the other of these conditions.

Mark-downs to Reduce Depreciation Charges. Perhaps the most
striking phenomenon in the field of depreciation accounting is the recent
marking down of the fixed assets, not in the interests of conservatism but
with the precisely opposite intent of making a better earnings exhibit and
thereby increasing the apparent value of the shares.
We believe that it will be more convenient for the reader if we defer consideration of the significance to security analysis of these devices until our
chapter devoted to “Amortization Charges from the Investor’s Standpoint.”
At this time, since we are dealing with accounting methods, we shall merely
remark that in our opinion excessive write-downs of fixed assets, for the
avowed or obvious purpose of decreasing depreciation and increasing
reported earnings, constitute an inexcusable subterfuge and should not be
condoned by the accounting profession. Registration statements submitted to the S.E.C. include a statement of how much lower the earnings would
have been if the former plant values had been retained. We think that such
information should also appear as a footnote to the income account in the
annual reports to stockholders, but it would be better practice still if
accountants refused to certify a report containing such mark-downs and
insisted on restoration of the proper figures to the company’s accounts.

Balance Sheet–Income Account Discrepancies. Many corporations that have marked up their fixed assets fail to increase correspondingly their depreciation charges against the income account. They are in

[456]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

effect attempting to get the benefit of the higher valuation in their balance
sheet without accepting the burden of consequently higher depreciation
charges against earnings. This practice has been especially prevalent in the
case of mining and oil companies. Two examples drawn from the general
industrial field are given here:
Examples: Hall Printing Company wrote up its property account by
$6,222,000 in 1926 and 1931, crediting this “appraisal increment” to capital surplus. Depreciation on this appreciated value was then charged to
capital surplus, instead of to income; e.g., typically, in the year ended
March 1938 the company charged $406,000 for such depreciation against
surplus and $864,000 for “regular” depreciation against income. In April
1938 the balance of the appraisal increment was eliminated by writing
down both property account and capital surplus; and the special depreciation charge was then discontinued.
Borg Warner has been charging about $102,000 per annum since 1935
(and various amounts in prior years) to “Appreciation Surplus,” instead
of to income, to amortize a write-up of fixed assets made in 1927.
It should be obvious that no company should use one set of values for
its balance sheet and another for its income account. The more recent
tendency is to correct these disparities by eliminating the previous writeup from the balance sheet, thus returning to original cost.

THE RATE OF DEPRECIATION. STANDARD
AND NONSTANDARD PRACTICE
1. As Shown by Listing Statements. The vast majority of industrial
companies follow the standard policy of charging an appropriate depreciation rate against each class of depreciable asset. The analyst can readily check this fact by reference to New York Stock Exchange listing
applications or to a prospectus or registration statement.
Examples: If standard methods are followed, they are likely to be
announced in somewhat the following manner:
(From listing application of Electric Storage Battery Company, dated
December 17, 1928.)
The policy of this Company in regard to depreciation … is as follows: On
buildings the term of life is twenty to thirty-three years, depending upon the
character of construction. Machinery, tools and fixtures are written off at the
rate of one to ten years, depending upon the character of the equipment.

Analysis of the Income Account

[457]

Office furniture and fixtures are written off in ten years. On all depreciable
properties rates are determined by actual experience and engineers’ estimates
as to the productive life of the equipment. In respect to depreciation of current assets, a reserve is set aside to cover probable loss from bad debts.

(From the listing application of Midland Steel Products Company,
dated February 11, 1930.)
The following are the rates of depreciation used:
Rate of depreciation
per year, %
Buildings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Grounds, driveways and walks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Machinery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Furniture and fixtures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Railroad sidings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Automobiles and trucks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
Tools and dies—amortized over life of job when number of units required can be
determined, otherwise written off at close of each fiscal year.
These rates have been used by the Company for several years, being standard
practice in the industry.
The rates are based upon the estimated life of the respective property involved.
Thus, with respect to buildings, the cost is depreciated, over 50 years; grounds,
driveways, and walks, over 50 years; machinery over 14 years; furniture and
fixtures, over 10 years; railroad sidings, over 50 years. No residual value at the
expiration of said periods is considered in determining the rates used.

In contrast with this standard policy, now all but universally followed,
we may point to the questionable practice on this important point formerly resorted to by such important companies as American Car and
Foundry, American Sugar Refining and Baldwin Locomotive Works.
The American Sugar Refining Company’s listing application, dated
December 6, 1923, contained the following statement:
The Company maintains a very liberal policy as to depreciation as shown by
the annual profit and loss statement of past years. The value of its properties
is at all times fully maintained by the making of all needful and proper repairs
thereto and renewals and replacements thereof.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[458]

This declaration sounds reassuring, but it is far too indefinite to satisfy the analyst. The actual depreciation charges, as shown in the following record, disclose an unusually arbitrary and erratic policy.
ANNUAL CHARGES BY AMERICAN SUGAR REFINING COMPANY FOR DEPRECIATION

Year

Charged to income

Charged to surplus

1916–1920
1921
1922–1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929
1930
1931
1932

$2,000,000
None
1,000,000
None
1,000,000
1,000,000
1,000,000
1,250,000
1,000,000
1,000,000
1,000,000
1,000,000

None
None
None
None
None
$2,000,000
1,000,000
500,000
500,000
542,631
None
None

The additional charges to surplus made in the years 1926–1930, inclusive, appear to strengthen our contention that American Sugar’s depreciation allowances have been both arbitrary and inadequate.
The American Car and Foundry’s application, dated April 2, 1925,
contains the following:
The Company has no depreciation account as such. However, its equivalent
is found in the policy and the practice of the Company to maintain at all
times its plants and properties in first class physical condition and in a high
state of efficiency by repairing, renewing and replacing equipment and buildings as their physical conditions may require, and by replacing facilities with
those of more modern type, when such action results in more economical
production. This procedure amply covers depreciation and obsolescence and
the cost is charged to Operating Expenses.

Here again a sceptical attitude on the part of the analyst is “amply” warranted. The same is true in respect of American Can which managed—
inexplicably—to avoid all reference to its depreciation policy in its listing

[459]

Analysis of the Income Account

application dated February 26, 1926, although it did mention that the company had spent approximately $50,000,000 on extensions and improvement of properties since February 1907 and that “during this period
properties have been depreciated by at least $20,000,000.”
Baldwin Locomotive Works, in its listing application dated October 3,
1929, makes the following rather astonishing statement on depreciation:
The amount of the depreciation upon plant and equipment as determined
by the Federal Government for the five years 1924 to 1928 inclusive has
totaled $5,112,258.09 which has been deducted either from income or surplus as follows:

Year

From income

From surplus

Total depreciation

1924
1925
1926
1927
1928

$600,000
None
None
1,000,000
600,000
$2,200,000

None
None
None
$2,637,881.01
274,377.08
$2,912,258.09

$600,000.00
None
None
3,637,881.01
874,377.08
$5,112,258.09

It is expected that in future years the amount of depreciation based upon the
estimated useful life of depreciable properties as determined by the Federal
Government, allowed by the Commissioner of Taxes as a proper deduction
from income and agreed to by our engineers, will govern the amount to be
used by the Works in its calculation of depreciation.

Evidently the income statements of Baldwin for this period were anything but accurate. The average annual earnings per share of common
stock for 1924–1928, as reported to the stockholders, were strikingly
higher than the correct figure, as shown at the top of page 460.

2. As Shown by Comparisons of Two Companies. When the analyst knows that a company’s depreciation policy differs from the standard,
there is special reason to check the adequacy of the allowance. Comparison
with a single company in the same field may yield significant results, as is
shown by the table in the middle of page 460 respecting American Sugar
and American Car and Foundry.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[460]

EARNINGS PER SHARE OF COMMON

Year

As reported

As corrected for annual
depreciation charge of
$1,022,000

1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
5-year average

$0.40(d)
6.02(d)
22.42
5.21
5.34(d)
$3.33

$2.51(d)
11.13(d)
17.31
5.10
7.45(d)
$0.06

Company
American Sugar Refining
National Sugar Refining
American Car and Foundry
American Steel Foundries

Average property Average depreciation % of depreciation
account
charge
charge to
(net) 1928–1932
1928–1932
property account
$60,665,000
19,250,000‡
72,000,000
31,000,000

$1,050,000*
922,000‡
1,186,000§
1,136,000

1.73†
4.79‡
1.65
3.66

* Exclusive of depreciation charged to surplus. Including the latter, this figure would be $1,358,500.
† Including depreciation charged to surplus this figure would be 2.24%.
‡ Based on the four years 1929–1932, inclusive. Figure for 1928 unavailable.
§ Estimated at one-half of the expenditures for renewals and repairs. In the case of United States Steel for the period
1901–1933, the charge for depreciation averaged about 40% of the total allowances for both maintenance and depreciation.

Both comparatively and absolutely the depreciation allowances made
by American Sugar and American Car and Foundry appear to have been
inadequate.4
4 For examples of insufficient charges and charges less than income tax deductions by

industrial companies see: Harbison-Walker Refractories Company charge of $296,000
in 1936, termed “grossly inadequate” by new management and revised to $472,000;
McKeesport Tin Plate Corporation report for 1937 stating that the charge on the income
tax return was $803,000 vs. $425,000 in statement to stockholders. Similarly, National
Enameling and Stamping Company for each year 1935–1937 charged about $185,000 in its
income account as contrasted with about $280,000 on its tax return. In 1938 insufficient
depreciation for 1933–1937 was cured by a charge of $443,000 to surplus. The auditors for
the Cudahy Packing Company stated in the certificate accompanying the 1939 report that
in their opinion the reserves for depreciation set up by the company in years prior to Oct.
29, 1938, were inadequate.

Analysis of the Income Account

[461]

Depreciation Charges Often an Issue in Mergers. Comparative
depreciation charges at times become quite an issue in determining the
fairness of proposed terms of consolidation.
Example: In 1924 a merger plan was announced embracing the Chesapeake and Ohio, Hocking Valley, Pere Marquette, “Nickel Plate,” and Erie
railroads. Some Chesapeake and Ohio stockholders dissented, and they
convinced the Interstate Commerce Commission that the terms of the
consolidation were highly unfair to their road. Among other matters they
pointed out that the earnings of Chesapeake and Ohio in the preceding
three years had in reality been much higher than stated, due to the unusually heavy charges made against them for depreciation and retirement of
equipment.5 A similar objection was made in connection with the projected merger of Bethlehem Steel and Youngstown Sheet and Tube in
1929, which plan was also defeated. Some figures on these two steel producers are given as shown in the table on p. 462.
Concealed Depreciation. That nothing can be taken for granted in
security analysis is shown by the strange case of American Can, which
until 1937 had failed to reveal details of its depreciation policy to its
shareholders. During the years 1922–1936 it deducted anually a flat
$2,000,000 for this purpose. A comparison with Continental Can—
which charged about the same amount against a much smaller plant
investment—would have suggested that American Can’s earning power
had been overstated. But the annual report for 1934 disclosed to stockholders for the first time that the company had also been charging sums
to operating expenses for “replacements,” without giving the amount.
The fact (but not the amounts) that such charges had been made in 1935
and 1936 was also revealed in those years. Meanwhile Form 10-K for
1935, filed with the S.E.C., revealed that the amount of these extra
Conversely, for cases of excessive depreciation, note: Depreciation charges of Acme Steel
for 1932–1935 were found by the federal government to have been $555,000 too high. This
amount, less income tax thereon of $104,000, was credited to surplus in 1936. (This is
almost the exact opposite of the National Enameling case.) Chicago Yellow Cab Company in
1938 credited to surplus $483,000 for excess depreciation in former years.
5 Large expenditures made by Chesapeake and Ohio upon its equipment in 1926–1928 and
charged to operating expense were later claimed by the Interstate Commerce Commission
to represent capital outlays. In 1933 this controversy was taken into the courts, and the
Interstate Commerce Commission was sustained.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[462]

charges was about $2,400,000. Finally the annual report for 1937 advised
the stockholders that the corresponding extra charge-off amounted to
approximately $3,275,000 for the year 1936. Beginning with 1937 the
company made “regular” depreciation charges, amounting to $5,702,000
in that year and to $6,085,000 in 1938. Thus, by easy stages, the owners
of the business were told the facts of life bearing on their property.

1928
Property account, Dec. 31, 1927
Sales
Depreciation, depletion, and obsolescence
Ratio: depreciation to property account
Ratio: depreciation to sales

Bethlehem Steel

Youngstown
Sheet & Tube

$673,000,000
295,000,000
13,658,000
2.03%
4.63%

$204,000,000
141,000,00
8,321,000
4.08%
5.90%

In the light of this later disclosure, the earlier inference6 that American Can had understated its depreciation charges must give way to the
remark that the company had failed to reveal the facts.

A Case of Excessive Depreciation Charges Concealed by
Accounting Methods. The American Can example suggests comparison with the earlier practice of National Biscuit Company, an enterprise
controlled largely by the same interests. For many years prior to 1922 the
company was constantly adding to the number of its factories, but its
property account failed to show any appreciable increase, except in the
single year 1920. The reports to stockholders were supremely ambiguous
on the matter of depreciation charges,7 but according to the financial
manuals the company’s policy was as follows: “Depreciation is $300,000
per annum, and all items of replacement and building alterations are
charged direct to operating expense.”
It is difficult to avoid the conclusion, however, that the capital investments in additional plants were actually being charged against the profits

6 Drawn in the 1934 edition of this book.
7 Prior to 1919, the company’s balance sheet each year stated its fixed assets “Less Deprecia-

tion Account—$300,000.” Evidently this was the deduction for the current year and not the
amount accumulated.

[463]

Analysis of the Income Account

NATIONAL BISCUIT COMPANY

Year ended

Earnings for
common stock

Net plant account
at end of year

Jan. 31, 1911
1912
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917
Dec. 31, 1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
1924
1925

$2,883,000
2,937,000
2,803,000
3,432,000
2,784,000
2,393,000
2,843,000
2,886,000 (11 mo.)
3,400,000
3,614,000
3,807,000
3,941,000
9,289,000
10,357,000
11,145,000
11,845,000

$53,159,000
53,464,000
53,740,000
54,777,000
54,886,000
55,207,000
55,484,000
53,231,000
52,678,000
53,955,000
57,788,000
57,925,000
61,700,000
64,400,000
67,292,000
69,745,000

and that the real earnings were in all probability much larger than those
reported to the public. Coincident with the issuance of seven shares of
stock for one and the tripling of the cash-dividend rate in 1922, this
policy of understating earnings was terminated. The result was a sudden
doubling of the apparent earning power, accompanied by an equally
sudden expansion in the plant account. The contrast between the two
periods is shown forcibly in the table on this page.

Failure to State Depreciation Charges. Prior to the S.E.C. regulation some of the important companies reported earnings after depreciation but failed to state the amount deducted for this purpose. Fortunately,
this information must now be supplied in the case of every registered
company.8
8 Allied Chemical and Dye Corporation endeavored to have this and other data held confidential, but after considerable delay it was made public (in 1938). This company, like a few
others, still excludes its sales and depreciation figures from its reports to stockholders, but
this important information is available in the annual reports to the S.E.C. (Form 10-K).

[464]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

AMORTIZATION CHARGES OF OIL
AND MINING COMPANIES
These important sectors of the industrial field are subject to special factors bearing on amortization. In addition to depreciation in the ordinary
sense—which they usually calculate in the same way as do other companies9 they must allow for depletion of their ore or oil reserves. In the case
of mining concerns there is also the factor of development expense. Oil
producers, on the other hand, have additional charges for intangible
drilling costs and for unproductive leases. These items are important in
their bearing on the true profits, and they are troublesome because of the
varying methods that are followed by different enterprises.

Depletion Charges of Mining Companies. Depletion represents
the using up of capital assets by turning them into products for sale. It
applies to companies producing metals, oil and gas, sulphur, timber, etc.
As the holdings, or reserves, of these products are exhausted, their value
must gradually be written off through charges against earnings. In the case
of the older mining companies (including particularly the copper and sulphur producers) the depletion charges are determined by certain technical requirements of the federal income tax law, which rest upon the
amount and value of the reserves as they were supposed to exist on March
1, 1913, or by applying certain percentages to the value of the product.
Because of the artificial base used in these computations, many companies have omitted the depletion charge from their reports to stockholders.
Independent Calculation by Investor Necessary. As we shall show
later, the investor in a mining concern must ordinarily compute his own
depletion allowance, based upon the amount that he has paid for his share
of the mining property. Consequently a depletion charge based either on
the company’s original book cost or on the special figure set up for
income-tax purposes would be confusing rather than helpful. The omission of the depletion charge of mining companies is not to be criticized,
therefore; but the stockholder in such enterprises must be well aware
of the fact in studying their reports. Furthermore, in any comparison of
9 However, the cost of equipment and materials on oil-producing properties is often written

off through the depletion charge (which is based on the barrels produced) instead of the
depreciation account (which is based on the time elapsing).

Analysis of the Income Account

[465]

mining companies a proper distinction must be drawn between those
which do and those which do not deduct their depletion charges in
reporting their earnings. Following are some examples of companies that
pursue one or the other policy:
Companies That Report Earnings
without Deduction for Depletion:
Alaska Juneau Gold Mining Co.
Anaconda Copper Mining Co.
Dome Mines, Ltd. (gold)
Kennecott Copper Corp.
Noranda Mines, Ltd. (copper and gold)
Texas Gulf Sulphur Co.

Companies That Report Earnings
after Deduction for Depletion:
Cerro de Pasco Copper Corp.
Granby Consolidated Mining, etc., Co. (copper)
Homestake Mining Co. (gold)
International Nickel Co. of Canada, Ltd.
Patino Mines, etc. (tin)
Phelps Dodge Corp. (copper)
St. Joseph Lead Co.

Depletion and Similar Charges in the Oil Industry. In the oil
industry depletion charges are more closely related to the actual cost of
doing business than in the case of mining enterprises. The latter ordinarily invest in a single property or group of properties, the cost of which is
then written off over a fairly long period of years. But the typical large oil
producer normally spends substantial sums each year on new leases and
new wells. These additional holdings are needed to make up for the
shrinkage of reserves through production. The depletion charge corresponds in some measure, therefore, to a current cash outlay for the purpose of maintaining reserves and production. New wells may yield as high
as 80% of their total output during the first year. Hence nearly all the cost
of such “flush production” must be written off in a single fiscal period,
and most of the “earnings” from this source are in reality a return of the
capital expended thereon. If the investment is not written off rapidly
through depletion and other charges, the profit and the value of the property account will both be grossly overstated. In the case of an oil company
actively engaged in development work, the various headings under which
write-offs must be made include the following:
1. Depreciation of tangible assets.
2. Depletion of oil and gas reserves, based upon the cost of the leases.
3. Unprofitable leases written off. Part of the acquisitions and exploration will always prove totally valueless and must be charged against the
revenue from the productive leases.

[466]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

4. Intangible drilling costs. These are either written off at one time, as
equivalent to an operating expense, or amortized over the life of the well.
Example: The case of Marland Oil in 1926 illustrates the extent to
which reported earnings of oil companies are dependent upon the
accounting policies with respect to amortization. This company spent
large sums annually on new leases and wells to maintain its rate of production. Prior to 1926 it charged the so-called “intangible drilling costs”
to capital account and then wrote them off against earnings through an
annual amortization charge. In 1926 Marland adopted the more conservative policy of charging off all these “intangible costs” currently against
earnings. The effect on profits is shown in the following table.
MARLAND OIL COMPANY

Item
Gross earnings and miscellaneous income
Net before reserves
Amortization charges
Balance for stock

1925

1926

1927

$73,231,000
24,495,000
9,696,000
14,799,000

$87,360,000
30,303,000
18,612,000
11,691,000

$58,980,000
9,808,000
17,499,000
7,691,000(d)

In the past ten years significant changes have occurred in the policies
followed by the important oil companies. Prior to the depression the general tendency was towards charging the “intangible drilling costs” to earnings—as shown in the change made by Marland in 1926. But since the
depression many of the large companies have switched over to the less conservative basis of capitalizing these costs, subject to annual amortization.10
This change seems justified in good part by the wide adoption of state proration laws, which effectively spread out the total production of a new well
over many years instead of concentrating it within a relatively few months.
This makes an oil well a fairly long-term capital asset, so that charging off
a good part of its cost (now often running to very high figures) against a
single year’s profits would be unduly severe.
The companies have also aided their earnings by large write-downs
of fixed assets, with corresponding reductions in the annual amortization
10 Companies making this change since 1930 include Standard Oil of Indiana and New Jersey,

Gulf Oil, Tidewater Associated, Consolidated Oil.

Analysis of the Income Account

[467]

charges against them. This practice has perhaps been more widespread
among oil companies than in any other industrial group. Some producers have also switched their charges for property retirements from earnings to the depreciation reserve. Finally, we have examples of a reduction
in amortization charge being brought about by adoption of an “over-all
basis” instead of a lease basis for depletion. By this means, oil produced
from high-cost leases is written off not at its actual cost but at the average cost of all the oil reserves owned.
The significance of these changes in accounting policy is illustrated
by the following:11
Examples: Gulf Oil Corporation increased its 1932 earnings by
$3,621,000, by capitalizing intangible drilling costs instead of charging
them off, as formerly.
Socony-Vacuum increased its 1932 earnings by $6,095,000 (and subsequent earnings correspondingly) as a result of a write-down of fixed
assets with consequent reduction in depreciation charges. In 1935 its profits were increased $1,376,000 by charging this sum—representing losses
on certain retired property—to depreciation reserve instead of to income,
as theretofore. In 1936 it began to capitalize intangible drilling costs,
adding about $8,850,000 to profits in that year through this change. In
1937 the company made a further revision in its depreciation policy
(apparently intended to place it on the standard basis), which added some
$2,500,000 to that year’s profits.
Pure Oil Company reduced its 1934 depletion charges and increased
its earnings by $1,698,000 through adoption of the “over-all” basis.

The Meaning of These Variations to the Analyst and the
Investor. These differences of accounting methods are highly confusing and may arouse some resentment in the investor. We must recognize,
however, that most of them are technically admissible, in that they represent choices between the ordinary and the more conservative basis of
amortizing the fixed assets. What is called for, in consequence, is not so
much censure as sound interpretation.
Suggested Standards. The analyst should seek to apply a uniform and
reasonably conservative rate of amortization to a property base that
11 These examples are drawn largely from Alfred Braunthal, “Are Oil Earnings Reports
Fictitious?” Barron’s, Mar. 8, 1937.

[468]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

reflects the realities of the proposed investment. We suggest the following standards, in so far as it may be feasible to apply them:
1. Depreciation on Tangible Assets. This should always be taken at the
well-established rates, applied to cost—or to a figure substantially less
than cost only if the facts clearly justify the write-down.
2. Intangible Drilling Costs. We believe that capitalizing these costs,
and then writing them off as oil is produced—although less “conservative”—is the preferable basis both for comparative purposes and to supply a fair reflection of current earnings. In comparing companies that use
one and the other method, the analyst must make the best allowance he
can for the understatement of earnings by the companies that charge off
100% the first year.
Example: The difficulty of making this adjustment in practice may
be shown by comparing the 1938 reports of Continental Oil Company
and Ohio Oil Company. These two concerns are roughly similar in
their set-up. Both produced about 20 million barrels in 1938; Continental Oil refined about two-thirds, and Ohio Oil about one-third its
output. Continental charges all its intangible drilling costs direct to
income, while Ohio capitalizes these costs and writes them off over the
life of the wells.
It might be expected that the total amortization charges of Continental, including drilling expense on the 100% basis, would be relatively
higher than those of Ohio. Yet in 1938 Ohio charged off $11,602,000, or
211/2% of its $54 million sales; while Continental charged off $14,038,000,
or 17.6% of its $80 million gross. Apparently no adjustment would be
needed by the analyst to equalize the two accounting methods. The reasons may be found in several circumstances; e.g., (a) after a number of
years the gradual write-off method approximates the 100% method, since
amortization of old drilling expense becomes continuously greater. (b) In
the case of Continental, this concern wrote down its property account in
1932 by some $45,000,000 and thus reduced its normal depreciation and
depletion charges considerably in succeeding years.
3. Property Retirement and Abandoned Leases. We think that loss on
property retired (in excess of depreciation already accrued) should be
charged against the year’s earnings, rather than against surplus as is done
by most companies in other fields. The reason is that property retirements
are likely to be a normal and recurrent factor in the business of a large,

Analysis of the Income Account

[469]

integrated oil company, instead of happening only sporadically as in other
lines. Abandoned leases come under this general heading, and the loss
thereon should be charged to earnings.
4. Depletion of Oil Reserves. The proper theoretical principle here is
that the analyst should allow for depletion on the basis at which the oil
reserves are valued in the market. This point, as applied to amortization
generally, will be discussed in the next chapter. It implies, as we shall see,
that what may be the correct accounting basis for computing depletion
may not be the most suitable basis for the analysis of investment values.
Unfortunately, business practice in the oil industry has been such as to
make the sound application of this principle exceedingly difficult. The oilproducing part of the industry has apparently accounted for most of the
profits; the refining and marketing divisions have earned little, if anything,
on their investment. If earnings were the criterion of value here, most of
the market price of a typical oil stock would be ascribable to the producing division, and on this basis a comparatively high depletion charge
against each barrel taken out would be called for. On the other hand, if the
division were made in proportion to book values, the refining and marketing sections would loom large, the oil reserves would have a much smaller
value, and the depletion charge would be proportionately smaller.
We do not see any really satisfactory answer to the dilemma that we
have posed—for it seems to us that the partition of earning power in the
industry between production and the other branches is an essentially artificial one and cannot be viewed as permanent. We therefore are led to
suggest the following practical compromise with the problem:
1. In the case of integrated oil companies, accept the company’s depletion figure as the best available. (This includes acceptance of the “overall” basis, if used, since this method would seem to reflect the facts fairly.)
However, any charges for depletion made against an “appreciation”
account in the balance sheet should be deducted from income.
2. In the case of companies that are solely oil producers, or virtually
so, the analyst can compute what the market is paying for the total developed oil reserves (if an estimate of these is published). Hence he can make
his own depletion calculation, for the particular purpose of his analysis,
in such an instance in the same manner as in the case of a mining proposition. (For a calculation of this kind applied to Texas Gulf Producing
Company see p. 502 on accompanying CD.)

[470]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

OTHER TYPES OF AMORTIZATION
OF CAPITAL ASSETS
Leaseholds and Leasehold Improvements. The ordinary lease
involves no capital investment by the lessee, who merely undertakes to
pay rent in return for the use of property. But if the rental payments are
considerably less than the use of the property is worth, and if the arrangement has a considerable period to run, the leasehold—as it is called—may
have a substantial value. Oil lands are leased on a standard basis for a royalty amounting usually to one-eighth of the production. Leaseholds on
which a substantial output is developed or assured are worth a large
bonus above the rental payments involved, and they are bought and sold
in the same way as the fee ownership of the property. Similar bonuses are
paid—in boom times usually—for long-term leases on urban real estate.
If a company has paid money for a leasehold, the cost is regarded as
a capital investment that should be written off during the life of the lease.
(In the case of an oil lease the write-off is made against each barrel produced, rather than on a time basis, since the output declines rapidly from
the initial flush figure.) These charges are in reality part of the rent paid for
the property and must obviously be included in current operating expense.
When structures are built on leased property or alterations made or
fixtures installed, they are designated as “leasehold improvements.” Hence
their cost must be written down to nothing during the life of the lease,
since they belong to the landlord when the lease expires. The annual
charge-off for this purpose is called “amortization of leasehold improvements.” It partakes to some extent of the nature of a depreciation charge.
Chain-store enterprises frequently invest considerable sums in such leasehold improvements, and consequently the annual write-offs thereof may
be of appreciable importance in their income accounts.
Example: The December 31, 1938, balance sheet of F.W. Woolworth
Company carried “Buildings Owned and Improvements on Leased
Premises to be amortized over periods of leases” at a net valuation of
$46,717,000. The charge against 1938 earnings for amortization of these
buildings and leasehold improvements amounted to $3,925,283.
Since these items belong to the amortization group, they lend themselves to the same kind of arbitrary treatment as do the others. By making the annual charge against surplus instead of income or by writing

Analysis of the Income Account

[471]

down the entire capital investment to $1 and thus eliminating the annual
charge entirely, a corporation can exclude these items of operating cost
from its reported per-share earnings and thus make the latter appear
deceptively large.

Amortization of Patents. In theory, a patent should be dealt with in
exactly the same way as a mining property; i.e., its cost to the investor
should be written off against earnings during its remaining life. It is obvious, therefore, that charges made against earnings by the company—
which are based on the book value of the patent—have ordinarily little
relevance to the real situation. Consideration of this question belongs
chiefly to a later chapter on amortization from the investor’s standpoint,
and to avoid dividing our treatment we shall postpone to the same place
our brief discussion of the accounting methods relative to patents
encountered in corporate reports.

Amortization of Good-will. This is a matter of very minor importance. A few companies have followed the rather extraordinary policy of
charging off their good-will account against earnings in a number of
annual installments.
Examples: Radio Corporation of America charged $310,000 a year for
this purpose between 1934 and 1937. This was applicable to the goodwill account of its subsidiary National Broadcasting Company and was
discontinued in 1938, although $1,876,000 remained unamortized.
Obviously, this practice has no factual basis, since good-will has no
duration of life apart from that of the business as a whole. Where the item
is of any size, the analyst should adjust the earnings by canceling the charge.

See accompanying CD for Chapter 35, “Public-utility
Depreciation Policies,” and Chapter 36, “Amortization
Charges from the Investor’s Standpoint.”

Chapter 37

SIGNIFICANCE OF THE
EARNINGS RECORD

IN THE LAST SIX CHAPTERS our attention was devoted to a critical examination of the income account for the purpose of arriving at a fair and informing statement of the results for the period covered. The second main
question confronting the analyst is concerned with the utility of this past
record as an indicator of future earnings. This is at once the most important
and the least satisfactory aspect of security analysis. It is the most important
because the sole practical value of our laborious study of the past lies in the
clue it may offer to the future; it is the least satisfactory because this clue is
never thoroughly reliable and it frequently turns out to be quite valueless.
These shortcomings detract seriously from the value of the analyst’s work,
but they do not destroy it. The past exhibit remains a sufficiently dependable guide, in a sufficient proportion of cases, to warrant its continued use
as the chief point of departure in the valuation and selection of securities.

The Concept of Earning Power. The concept of earning power has a
definite and important place in investment theory. It combines a statement
of actual earnings, shown over a period of years, with a reasonable expectation that these will be approximated in the future, unless extraordinary conditions supervene. The record must cover a number of years, first because a
continued or repeated performance is always more impressive than a single
occurrence and secondly because the average of a fairly long period will tend
to absorb and equalize the distorting influences of the business cycle.
A distinction must be drawn, however, between an average that is the
mere arithmetical resultant of an assortment of disconnected figures and
an average that is “normal” or “modal,” in the sense that the annual results
show a definite tendency to approximate the average. The contrast
between one type of earning power and the other may be clearer from
the following examples:
[472]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[473]

Analysis of the Income Account

ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE 1923–1932

Year

S. H. Kress

Hudson Motors

1932
1931
1930
1929
1928
1927
1926
1925
1924
1923

$2.80
4.19
4.49
5.92
5.76
5.26
4.65
4.12
3.06
3.39

$3.54(d)
1.25(d)
0.20
7.26
8.43
9.04
3.37
13.39
5.09
5.56

$4.36

$ 4.75

10-year average

The average earnings of about $4.50 per share shown by S. H. Kress and
Company can truly be called its “indicated earning power,” for the reason
that the figures of each separate year show only moderate variations from
this norm. On the other hand the Hudson Motors average of $4.75 per share
is merely an abstraction from ten widely varying figures, and there was no
convincing reason to believe that the earnings from 1933 onward would bear
a recognizable relationship to this average. A similar conclusion was drawn
from our discussion of the exhibit of J. I. Case Company on page 65.
These conclusions, reached in 1933, are supported by the results of
the six years following:
EARNINGS PER SHARE

Year

S. H. Kress1

Hudson Motors

J. I. Case

1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939

$4.23
4.76
4.63
4.62
4.62
2.76
3.86

$2.87(d)
2.10(d)
0.38
2.14
0.42
2.94(d)
0.86(d)

$14.66(d)
7.38(d)
5.70
12.37
19.20
8.89
1.87(d)

1 Stated on basis of old capitalization, before 2-for-1 split-up in 1936.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[474]

Quantitative Analysis Should Be Supplemented by Qualitative
Considerations. In studying earnings records an important principle
of security analysis must be borne in mind:
Quantitative data are useful only to the extent that they are supported by a
qualitative survey of the enterprise.

In order for a company’s business to be regarded as reasonably stable,
it does not suffice that the past record should show stability. The nature
of the undertaking, considered apart from any figures, must be such as to
indicate an inherent permanence of earning power. The importance of this
additional criterion was well illustrated by the case of the Studebaker Corporation which was used as an example in our discussion of qualitative
factors in analysis on page 87. It is possible, on the other hand, that there
may be considerable variation in yearly earnings, but there is a reasonable
basis nevertheless for taking the average as a rough index at least of future
performance. In 1934 we cited United States Steel Corporation as a leading case in point. The text of our discussion was as follows:
The annual earnings for 1923–1932 are given below.

UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION, 1923–1932

Year

Earnings per
share of
common*

Output of
finished
steel, tons

% of total
output
of country

Net per ton
before
deprec.

1932
1931
1930
1929
1928
1927
1926
1925
1924
1923

$11.08(d)
1.40(d)
9.12
21.19
12.50
8.81
12.85
9.19
8.41
11.73

3,591,000
7,196,000
11,609,000
15,303,000
13,972,000
12,979,000
14,334,000
13,271,000
11,723,000
14,721,000

34.4
37.5
39.3
37.3
37.1
39.5
40.4
39.7
41.7
44.2

$3.54(d)
5.71
13.10
16.90
13.83
12.66
13.89
12.49
13.05
12.20

10-year average

$ 8.13

11,870,000

39.1

11.03

* Adjusted for changes in capitalization.

Analysis of the Income Account

[475]

If compared with those of Studebaker for 1920–1929, the foregoing
earnings show much greater instability. Yet the average of about $8 per
share for the ten-year period has far more significance as a guide to the
future than had Studebaker’s indicated earning power of about $6.75 per
share. This greater dependability arises from the entrenched position of
United States Steel in its industry; and also from the relatively narrow
fluctuations in both the annual output and the profit per ton over most
of this period. These two elements may be used as a basis for calculating
approximate “normal earnings” of U. S. Steel, somewhat as follows:
Normal or usual annual production of finished goods . . . . . . . . . . .
Gross receipts per ton of finished products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Net earnings per ton before depreciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Net earnings on 13,000,000 tons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Depreciation, bond interest, and preferred dividends . . . . . . . . . . . .
Balance for 8,700,000 shares of common . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Normal earnings per share . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

13,000,000 tons
$100.00
$12.50
$160,000,000.00
90,000,000.00
70,000,000.00
$8.00

The average earnings for the 1923–1932 decade are thus seen to
approximate a theoretical figure based upon a fairly well-defined “normal” output and profit margin. (The increase in number of shares outstanding prevents this normal figure from exceeding the ten-year
average.) Although a substantial margin of error must be allowed for in
such a computation, it at least supplies a starting point for an intelligent
estimate of future probabilities.
Examining this analysis six years later, we may draw some conflicting
conclusions as to its value. United States Steel’s earnings did recover
to $7.88 per share in 1937 ($8.31 before the surtax on undistributed
profits). The price advanced from the 1933 average of 451/2 to a high of
126 in March 1937. Hence our implication that the company had a
better earning power than the 1932 results and stock prices reflected
would seem to have been amply justified by the event.
But actually the average earnings for 1934–1939 have been quite disappointing (amounting to no more than 14 cents per share). If these
results have as much validity for the steel industry as they have for most
lines of business, we should have to admit that the analysis based on
1923–1932 was not really useful, because the underlying conditions in
steel have changed for the worse. (The change consists chiefly in much

[476]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

higher unit costs and a lower average output, selling prices on the whole
having been well maintained.1)

Current Earnings Should Not Be the Primary Basis of
Appraisal. The market level of common stocks is governed more by
their current earnings than by their long-term average. This fact accounts
in good part for the wide fluctuations in common-stock prices, which
largely (though by no means invariably) parallel the changes in their earnings between good years and bad. Obviously the stock market is quite
irrational in thus varying its valuation of a company proportionately with
the temporary changes in its reported profits.2 A private business might
easily earn twice as much in a boom year as in poor times, but its owner
would never think of correspondingly marking up or down the value of
his capital investment.
This is one of the most important lines of cleavage between Wall Street
practice and the canons of ordinary business. Because the speculative
public is clearly wrong in its attitude on this point, it would seem that its
errors should afford profitable opportunities to the more logically minded
to buy common stocks at the low prices occasioned by temporarily
reduced earnings and to sell them at inflated levels created by abnormal
prosperity.
The Classical Formula for “Beating the Stock Market.” We have here
the long-accepted and classical formula for “beating the stock market.”
Obviously it requires strength of character in order to think and to act in
opposite fashion from the crowd and also patience to wait for opportunities that may be spaced years apart. But there are still other considerations that greatly complicate this apparently simple rule for successful
1 It may be interesting to note that our 1933 conclusions as to the earning power of United
States Steel are quite similar to those reached by J. B. Williams in his elaborate study of this
company contained in his book The Theory of Investment Value, pp. 409–462. But note also,
as against the foregoing indication of normal earning power, the rather pessimistic implications of the longer range study of United States Steel’s position on pp. 607–611 below. The
company’s failure to reestablish this earning power in 1934–1939 might suggest that the latter analysis deserved the greater weight.
2 The rise of United States Steel to 126 in March 1937, already mentioned, is a striking example of this folly of the stock market. It was based on a single good year, following six bad or
mediocre ones. Within twelve months the price had declined to 42—a loss of two-thirds of its
quotation, and over $730,000,000 in aggregate market value for this single issue. The range of
Youngstown Sheet and Tube and Jones and Laughlin Steel in that period was even wider.

Analysis of the Income Account

[477]

operations in stocks. In actual practice the selection of suitable buying
and selling levels becomes a difficult matter. Taking the long market cycle
of 1921–1933, an investor might well have sold out at the end of 1925 and
remained out of the market in 1926–1930 and bought again in the depression year 1931. The first of these moves would later have seemed a bad
mistake of judgment, and the last would have had most disturbing consequences. In other market cycles of lesser amplitude such serious miscalculations are not so likely to occur, but there is always a good deal of
doubt with regard to the correct time for applying the simple principle of
“buy low and sell high.”
It is true also that underlying values may change substantially from
one market cycle to another, more so, of course, in the case of individual
issues than for the market as a whole. Hence if a common stock is sold at
what seems to be a generous price in relation to the average of past earnings, it may later so improve its position as to justify a still higher quotation even in the next depression. The converse may occur in the purchase
of securities at subnormal prices. If such permanent changes did not frequently develop, it is doubtful if the market would respond so vigorously
to current variations in the business picture. The mistake of the market
lies in its assumption that in every case changes of this sort are likely to
go farther, or at least to persist, whereas experience shows that such developments are exceptional and that the probabilities favor a swing of the
pendulum in the opposite direction.
The analyst cannot follow the stock market in its indiscriminate
tendency to value issues on the basis of current earnings. He may on occasion attach predominant weight to the recent figures rather than to the
average, but only when persuasive evidence is at hand pointing to the
continuance of these current results.

Average vs. Trend of Earnings. In addition to emphasizing strongly
the current showing of a company, the stock market attaches great weight
to the indicated trend of earnings. In Chap. 27 we pointed out the twofold
danger inhering in this magnification of the trend—the first being that the
supposed trend might prove deceptive, and the second being that valuations based upon trend obey no arithmetical rules and therefore may too
easily be exaggerated. There is indeed a fundamental conflict between the
concepts of the average and of the trend, as applied to an earnings record.
This may be illustrated by the following simplified example:

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[478]

Earned per share in successive years
7th
Average
(current) of 7 years Trend

Company

1st

2nd

3d

4th

5th

6th

A

$1

$2

$3

$4

$5

$6

$7

$4

B

7

7

7

7

7

7

7

7

Neutral

C

13

12

11

10

9

8

7

10

Bad

Excellent

On the basis of these figures the better the trend, when compared with
the same current earnings (in this case $7 per share), the poorer the average and the higher the average the poorer the trend. They suggest an
important question respecting the theoretical and practical interpretation
of earnings records: Is not the trend at least as significant for the future as
the average? Concretely, in judging the probable performance of Companies A and C over the next five years, would not there be more reason to
think in terms of a sequence of $8, $9, $10, $11, and $12 for A and a
sequence of $7, $6, $5, $4, and $3 for C rather than in terms of the past
average of $4 for A and $10 for C?
The answer to this problem derives from common sense rather than
from formal or a priori logic. The favorable trend of Company A’s results
must certainly be taken into account, but not by a mere automatic projection of the line of growth into the distant future. On the contrary, it must
be remembered that the automatic or normal economic forces militate
against the indefinite continuance of a given trend.3 Competition, regulation, the law of diminishing returns, etc., are powerful foes to unlimited
expansion, and in smaller degree opposite elements may operate to check
a continued decline. Hence instead of taking the maintenance of a favorable trend for granted—as the stock market is wont to do—the analyst
must approach the matter with caution, seeking to determine the causes
of the superior showing and to weigh the specific elements of strength in
the company’s position against the general obstacles in the way of continued growth.
Attitude of Analyst Where Trend Is Upward. If such a qualitative study
leads to a favorable verdict—as frequently it should—the analyst’s philosophy must still impel him to base his investment valuation on an assumed
earning power no larger than the company has already achieved in a
3 See our discussion of the Schletter and Zander example in Chap. 27.

Analysis of the Income Account

[479]

period of normal business. This is suggested because, in our opinion,
investment values can be related only to demonstrated performance; so
that neither expected increases nor even past results under conditions of
abnormal business activity may be taken as a basis. As we shall point out
in the next chapter, this assumed earning power may properly be capitalized more liberally when the prospects appear excellent than in the ordinary case, but we shall also suggest that the maximum multiplier be held
to a conservative figure (say, 20, under the conditions of 1940) if the valuation reached is to be kept within strictly investment limits. On this basis,
assuming that general business conditions in the current year are not
unusually good, the earning power of Company A might be taken at
$7 per share, and its investment value might be set as high as 140.4 The
divergence in method between the stock market and the analyst—as we
define his viewpoint—would mean in general that the price levels ruling
for the so-called “good stocks” under normal market conditions are likely
to appear overgenerous to the conservative student. This does not mean
that the analyst is convinced that the market valuation is wrong but rather
that he is not convinced that its valuation is right. He would call a substantial part of the price a “speculative component,” in the sense that it
is paid not for demonstrated but for expected results. (This subject is
discussed further in Chap. 39.)
Attitude of Analyst Where Trend Is Downward. Where the trend has
been definitely downward, as that of Company C, the analyst will assign
great weight to this unfavorable factor. He will not assume that the downcurve must presently turn upward, nor can he accept the past average—
which is much higher than the current figure—as a normal index of future
earnings. But he will be equally chary about any hasty conclusions to the
effect that the company’s outlook is hopeless, that its earnings are certain to
disappear entirely and that the stock is therefore without merit or value. Here
again a qualitative study of the company’s situation and prospects is essential to forming an opinion whether at some price, relatively low, of course,
the issue may not be a bargain, despite its declining earnings trend. Once
more we identify the viewpoint of the analyst with that of a sensible business man looking into the pros and cons of some privately owned enterprise.
4 See Appendix Note 53, p. 790 on accompanying CD, for a reference to the more conserva-

tive viewpoint on this matter expressed by us in the 1934 edition of this work and the reasons for the change.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[480]

To illustrate this reasoning, we append the record of net earnings for
1925–1933 of Continental Baking Corporation and American Laundry
Machinery Company.

Year

Continental
Baking

American Laundry
Machinery

1933
1932
1931
1930
1929
1928
1927
1926
1925

$2,788,000
2,759,000
4,243,000
6,114,000
6,671,000
5,273,000
5,570,000
6,547,000
8,794,000

$1,187,000(d)
986,000(d)
772,000
1,849,000
3,542,000
4,128,000
4,221,000
4,807,000
5,101,000

The profits of American Laundry Machinery reveal an uninterrupted
decline, and the trend shown by Continental Baking is almost as bad. It
will be noted that in 1929—the peak of prosperity for most companies—
the profits of these concerns were substantially less than they were four
years earlier.
Wall Street reasoning would be prone to conclude from this exhibit
that both enterprises are definitely on the downward path. But such
extreme pessimism would be far from logical. A study of these two businesses from the qualitative standpoint would indicate first that the respective industries are permanent and reasonably stable and secondly that
each company occupies a leading position in its industry and is well fortified financially. The inference would properly follow that the unfavorable tendency shown during 1925–1932 was probably due to accidental
or nonpermanent conditions and that in gaging the future earning power
more enlightenment will be derived from the substantial average than
from the seemingly disastrous trend.5

Deficits a Qualitative, Not a Quantitative Factor. When a company reports a deficit for the year, it is customary to calculate the amount
in dollars per share or in relation to interest requirements. The statistical
5 The results since 1933 would tend to bear out this earlier conclusion, at least in part.

Analysis of the Income Account

[481]

manuals will state, for example, that in 1932 United States Steel Corporation earned its bond-interest “deficit 12.40 times” and that it showed a
deficit of $11.08 per share on its common stock. It should be recognized
that such figures, when taken by themselves, have no quantitative significance and that their value in forming an average may often be open to
serious question.
Let us assume that Company A lost $5 per share of common in the
last year and Company B lost $7 per share. Both issues sell at 25. Is this
an indication of any sort that Company A stock is preferable to Company
B stock? Obviously not; for assuming it were so, it would mean that the
more shares there were outstanding the more valuable each share would
be. If Company B issues 2 shares for 1, the loss would be reduced to $3.50
per share, and on the assumption just made, each new share would then
be worth more than an old one. The same reasoning applies to bond
interest. Suppose that Company A and Company B each lost $1,000,000
in 1932. Company A has $4,000,000 of 5% bonds and Company B has
$10,000,000 of 5% bonds. Company A would then show interest earned
“deficit 5 times” and Company B would earn its interest “deficit 2 times.”
These figures should not be construed as an indication of any kind that
Company A’s bonds are less secure than Company B’s bonds. For, if so, it
would mean that the smaller the bond issue the poorer its position—a
manifest absurdity.
When an average is taken over a period that includes a number of
deficits, some question must arise as to whether or not the resultant figure
is really indicative of the earning power. For the wide variation in the individual figures must detract from the representative character of the average. This point is of considerable importance in view of the prevalence of
deficits during the depression of the 1930’s. In the case of most companies
the average of the years since 1933 may now be thought more representative of indicated earning power than, say, a ten-year average 1930–1939.6

Intuition Not a Part of the Analyst’s Stock in Trade. In the
absence of indications to the contrary we accept the past record as a basis
for judging the future. But the analyst must be on the lookout for any such
6 It is an open question whether or not either the ten-year period 1930–1939 or the six years

1934–1939 fairly reflect the future earning power of companies in the heavy industries, e.g.,
United States Steel, Bethlehem Steel, American Locomotive.

[482]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

indications to the contrary. Here we must distinguish between vision or
intuition on the one hand, and ordinary sound reasoning on the other.
The ability to see what is coming is of inestimable value, but it cannot be
expected to be part of the analyst’s stock in trade. (If he had it, he could
dispense with analysis.) He can be asked to show only that moderate
degree of foresight which springs from logic and from experience intelligently pondered. It was not to be demanded of the securities statistician,
for example, that he foretell the enormous increase in cigarette consumption since 1915 or the decline in the cigar business or the astonishing stability of the snuff industry; nor could he have predicted—to use another
example—that the two large can companies would be permitted to enjoy
the full benefits from the increasing demand for their product, without
the intrusion of that demoralizing competition which ruined the profits
of even faster growing industries, e.g., radio.
Analysis of the Future Should Be Penetrating Rather than Prophetic.
Analytical reasoning with regard to the future is of a somewhat different
character, being penetrating rather than prophetic.7
Example: Let us take the situation presented by Intertype Corporation
in March-July 1939, when the stock was selling at $8 per share. This old,
established company was one of the leaders in a relatively small industry
(line-casting machines, etc., for the printing trade). Its recent earnings
had not been favorable, nor did there seem to be any particular reason
for optimistic expectations as to the near-term outlook. The analyst, however, could not fail to be impressed by the balance sheet, which showed
net current assets available for the stock amounting to close to $20 per
share. The ten-year earnings, dividend and price record of the common
stock was as shown in the table on p. 483.
Certainly there is nothing attractive in this record, marked as it is by
irregularity and the absence of a favorable trend. But although these facts
would undoubtedly condemn the issue in the eyes of the speculator, the
reasoning of the analyst might conceivably run along different lines.
The essential question for him would be whether or not the company
can be counted on to remain in business and to participate about as before
in good times and bad. On this point consideration of the industry, the

7 See Appendix Note 54, p. 790 on accompanying CD, for an example (Mack Trucks, Inc.)

used in the first edition of this work, together with its sequel.

[483]

Analysis of the Income Account

Year
1938
1937
1936
1935
1934
1933
1932
1931
1930
1929
Average 1934–1938
Average 1929–1938

Earned per share

Dividend paid

Price range

$0.57
1.41
1.42
0.75
0.21
0.77(d)
1.82(d)
0.56
1.46
3.05
0.87
0.68

0.45
0.80
0.75
0.40

123/4–8
261/2–9
223/4–15
16–61/8
10–55/8
1
11 /4–17/8
7–21/2
1
18 /2–45/8
32–12
7
38 /8–17

1.00
2.00
1.75

company’s prominent position in it and the strong financial set-up would
clearly suggest an affirmative answer. If this were granted, the analyst
would then point out that the shares could be bought at 8 with very small
chance of ultimate loss and with every indication that under the next set
of favorable conditions the value of the stock would double. Note that in
3 years out of the past 5 and in 6 out of the past 10, the stock sold between
2 and 4 times the July 1939 price.
This type of reasoning, it will be noted, lays emphasis not upon an accurate prediction of future trends but rather on reaching the general conclusion that the company will continue to do business pretty much as before.
Wall Street is inclined to doubt that any such presumption may be
applied to companies with an irregular trend, and to consider that it is
just as difficult and hazardous to reach a conclusion of this kind as to
determine that a “growing company” will continue to grow. But in our
view the Intertype form of reasoning has two definite advantages over
the customary attitude, e.g., that which would prefer a company such as
Coca-Cola, at 22 times recent earnings and 35 times its asset value,
because of the virtually uninterrupted expansion of its profits for more
than 15 years.
The first advantage is that, after all, private business is conducted and
investments made therein on the same kind of assumptions that we have
made with respect to Intertype. The second is that reasoning of this kind
can be conservative in that it allows for a liberal margin of safety in case

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[484]

of error or disappointment. It runs considerably less risk of confusion
between “confidence in the future” and mere speculative enthusiasm.

Large Profits Frequently Transitory. More frequently we have the
opposite type of situation from that just discussed. Here the analyst finds
reason to question the indefinite continuance of past prosperity.
Examples: Consider a company like J. W. Watson (“Stabilator”) Company, engaged chiefly in the manufacture of a single type of automotive
accessory. The success of such a “gadget” is normally short-lived; competition and changes in the art are an ever present threat to the stability of
earning power. Hence in such a case the student could have pointed out
that the market price, bearing the usual ratio to current and average earnings, reflected a quite unwarranted confidence in the permanence of profits that by their nature were likely to be transitory. Some of the pertinent
data relative to this judgment are given in the table below, with respect to
this company.8
THE J. W. WATSON COMPANY

Year

Net for common

Per share

1932
1931
1930
1929
1928
1927

$214,026(d)
240,149(d)
264,269(d)
323,137(d)
348,930(d)
503,725

$1.07(d)
1.20(d)
1.32(d)
1.61(d)
1.74(d)
2.16

1926

577,450*

2.88*

1925
1924
1923
1922

502,593*
29,285*
173,907*
142,701*

2.51*
0.15*
0.86*
0.71*

Price range
for common
3/8–1/8

2–1/8
6–1
147/8–15/8
20–51/4
253/4–187/8

Dividend
None
None
None
None
50 cents
50 cents

(Issue not quoted
prior to 1927)

* Earnings are for predecessor companies, applied to 1932 capitalization.
8 The common stock of the company was originally offered in September 1927 at $24.50 per
share, a price 17.3 times the average earnings of the predecessor companies during the preceding five years. This relatively high price was accounted for in part by the apparently

[485]

Analysis of the Income Account

A similar consideration would apply to the exhibit of Coty, Inc., in
1928. Here was a company with an excellent earnings record, but the earnings were derived from the popularity of a trade-marked line of cosmetics. This was a field in which the variable tastes of femininity could readily
destroy profits as well as build them up. The inference that rapidly rising
profits in previous years meant much larger profits in the future was thus
especially fallacious in this case, because by the nature of the business a
peak of popularity was likely to be reached at some not distant point, after
which a substantial falling off would be, if not inevitable, at least highly
probable. Some of the data appearing on the Coty exhibit are as follows:

Year

Net income

Earned per share
(adjusted)

1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929

$1,070,000
2,046,000
2,505,000
2,943,000
3,341,000
4,047,000
4,058,000

$0.86
1.66
2.02
2.38
2.70
3.09
2.73

At the high price of 82 in 1929, Coty, Inc., was selling in the market
for about $120,000,000, or thirty times its maximum earnings. The actual
investment in the business (capital and surplus) amounted to about
$14,000,000.
Subsequent earnings were as shown in the table following.
COTY, INC.

Year

Net income

Earned per share

1930
1931
1932

$1,318,000
991,000
521,000

$0.86
0.65
0.34 (low price in 1932–11/2)

favorable “trend” of earnings, in part by the high recent and current earnings and in part by
the reckless standards of appraisal beginning to prevail at the time.
See pp. 438–440 of the 1934 edition of this work for a companion case—The Gabriel
Company.

[486]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

A third variety of this kind of reasoning could be applied to the brewery-stock flotations in 1933. These issues showed substantial current or
prospective earnings based upon capacity operations and the indicated
profit per barrel. Without claiming the gift of second sight, an analyst could
confidently predict that the flood of capital being poured into this new
industry would ultimately result in overcapacity and keen competition.
Hence a continued large return on the actual cash investment was
scarcely probable; it was likely, moreover, that many of the individual
companies would prove financial failures, and most of the others would
be unable to earn enough to justify the optimistic price quotations engendered by their initial success.9

9 See Appendix Note 55, p. 792 on accompanying CD, for brief comments on the subsequent
performance of the brewery issues of 1933.

Chapter 38

SPECIFIC REASONS FOR QUESTIONING
OR REJECTING THE PAST RECORD

IN ANALYZING AN INDIVIDUAL company, each of the governing elements in
the operating results must be scrutinized for signs of possible unfavorable changes in the future. This procedure may be illustrated by various
examples drawn from the mining field. The four governing elements in
such situations would be: (1) life of the mine, (2) annual output, (3) production costs and (4) selling price. The significance of the first factor has
already been discussed in connection with charges against earnings for
depletion. Both the output and the costs may be affected adversely if
the ore to be mined in the future differs from that previously mined in
location, character or grade.1

Rate of Output and Operating Costs. Examples: Calumet and Hecla
Consolidated Copper Company. The reports of this copper producer for
1936 and previous years illustrate various questions with respect to ore
reserves. The income account for 1936 may be summarized as follows:
Copper produced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Copper sold . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Profit before depreciation and depletion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Depreciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Depletion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Earned per share after depreciation but before
depletion on 2,006,000 shares . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

78,500,000 lb.
95,200,000 lb. @ 9.80 cents
$3,855,000
1,276,000
1,726,000
$1.29

1 When ore reserves are stated only as so many tons, or so many years of life, these data may
be misleading in the absence of assurance regarding the quality of ore remaining. Example:
The depletion charges of Alaska Juneau Gold Mining Company suggested a remaining life of
some 85 years from 1934. The registration statement however, claimed only some 25 years of
life from 1934. The implication (confirmed upon inquiry) is that the longer “life” included
much low-grade ore of noncommercial character.

[487]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[488]

Early in 1937 the stock sold at $20 per share, a valuation of
$40,000,000 for the company, or $30,000,000 for the mining properties
plus $10,000,000 for the working capital.
A detailed analysis of the make-up of the 1936 earnings would have
shown them to be derived from four separate sources, approximately
as follows:
Profit before depreciation
and depletion
Source of copper
Copper previously produced
Conglomerate mine
Ahmeek mine
Reclamation plants

Number of
Cents per pound
pounds, millions (approximate)
17.3
36.3
23.0
19.2
95.8

4.5
3.6
3.3
5.3
4.0

Total
(approximate)
$ 775,000
1,305,000
760,000
1,015,000
$3,855,000

Of these four sources of profit, all but the smallest were definitely limited in life. The sale of copper produced in prior years was obviously nonrecurring. The mainstay of the company’s production for 70 years—the
Conglomerate Branch—was facing exhaustion “in the course of 12 or 14
months.” The reclamation-plant copper, recovered by reworking old tailings and providing the cheapest metal, was limited to a life of 5 to 7 years.
There remained as the only more permanent source of future output the
Ahmeek Mine, which was the highest cost operation and which had
therefore been shut down from April 1932 through 1935. (There were
also certain other high-cost properties that were still shut down in 1936.)
Analysis would indicate, therefore, that probably not more than a
total of some 7 to 8 millions in profit could be expected in the future
from the Conglomerate and the reclamation operations. Hence, aside
from new developments of a speculative character, the greater part of the
40 millions of valuation for the company would have to be supported by
earnings from higher cost properties which had contributed only a minor
part of the 1936 results.2
2 In the 1934 edition of this book we discussed a similar situation existing in this company
in 1927, at which time the largest part of the profits were being contributed by the reclamation-plant operations, which were known to have a limited life.

Analysis of the Income Account

[489]

Freeport Sulphur Company. The exhibit of the then Freeport Texas
Company in 1933 supplies the same type of problem for the analyst, and
it also raises the question of the propriety of the use, under such circumstances, of the past earnings record to support the sale of new securities.
An issue of $2,500,000 of 6% cumulative convertible preferred stock was
sold at $100 per share in January 1933 in order to raise funds to equip a
new sulphur property leased from certain other companies.
The offering circular stated among other things:
1. That the sulphur reserves had an estimated life of at least 25 years based
upon the average annual sales for 1928–1932;
2. That the earnings for the period 1928–1932 averaged $2,952,500, or 19.6
times the preferred-dividend requirement.

The implication of these statements would be that, assuming no
change in the price received for sulphur, the company could confidently
be expected to earn over the next 25 years approximately the amounts
earned in the past.
The facts in the case, however, did not warrant any such deduction. The
company’s past earnings were derived from the operation of two properties, at Bryanmound and at Hoskins Mound, respectively. The Bryanmound area was owned by the company and had contributed the bulk of
the profits. But by 1933 its life was “definitely limited” (in the words of the
listing application); in fact the reserves were not likely to last more than about
three years. The Hoskins Mound was leased from the Texas Company. After
paying $1.06 per ton fixed royalty, no less than 70% of the remaining profits were payable to Texas Company as rental.3 One half of Freeport’s sales
were required to be made from sulphur produced at Hoskins. The new
property at Grande Ecaille, La., now to be developed, would require royalty payments amounting to some 40% of the net earnings.
When these facts are studied, it will be seen that the earnings of
Freeport Texas for 1928–1932 had no direct bearing on the results to be
expected from future operations. The sulphur reserves, stated to be good
for 25 years, represented mineral located in an entirely different place and
3 The rate had been 50% until Freeport recouped its capital expenditures on the property.

Illustrative of the general theme of this chapter is the break in Freeport’s price from
1091/4 to 655/8 in January-February 1928 coincident with the change in the royalty rate.
The student may examine a similar development in the case of Texas Gulf Sulphur, occurring in 1934–1935.

[490]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

to be extracted under entirely different conditions from those obtaining
in the past. A large profit-sharing royalty would be payable on the sulphur
produced from the new project, whereas the old Bryanmound was owned
outright by Freeport and hence its profits accrued 100% to the company.
In addition to this known element of higher cost, great stress must be
laid also upon the fact that the major future profits of Freeport were now
expected from a new project. The Grande Ecaille property was not yet
equipped and in operation, and hence it was subject to the many hazards
that attach to enterprises in the development stage. The cost of production
at the new mine might conceivably be much higher, or much lower, than
at Bryanmound. From the standpoint of security analysis the important
point is that, where two quite different properties are involved, you have
two virtually separate enterprises. Hence the 1928–1932 record of Freeport
Texas was hardly more relevant to its future history than were the figures
of some entirely different sulphur company, e.g., Texas Gulf Sulphur.
Returning once more to the business man’s viewpoint on security values, the Freeport Texas exhibit suggests the following interesting line of
reasoning. In June 1933 this enterprise was selling in the market for about
$32,000,000 (25,000 shares of preferred at 125 and 730,000 shares of common at 40). The major portion of its future profits were expected to be
derived from an investment of $3,000,000 to equip a new property leased
from three large oil companies. Presumably these oil companies drove as
good a bargain for themselves as possible in the terms of the lease. The
market was in effect placing a valuation of some $20,000,000, or more,
upon a new enterprise in which only $3,000,000 was to be invested. It was
possible, of course, that this enterprise would prove to be worth much
more than six times the money put into it. But from the standpoint of
ordinary business procedure the payment of such an enormous premium
for anticipated future results would appear imprudent in the extreme.4
Evidently the stock market—like the heart, in the French proverb—has
reasons all its own. In the writers’ view, where these reasons depart
4 Since the Freeport Texas preferred issue was relatively small, representing less than one-tenth

of the total market value of the company, this analysis would not call into question the safety of
the senior issue, but reflects only upon the soundness of the valuation accorded the common
stock—judged by investment standards. After 1933 the company did in fact encounter serious
problems of production, which held down the earnings and depressed the market price, but
these problems were later solved. Yet the maximum earnings attained by 1940—$3.30 per share
in 1937—could scarcely justify the price of 49 paid by speculators in 1933.

Analysis of the Income Account

[491]

violently from sound sense and business experience, common-stock buyers must inevitably lose money in the end, even though large speculative
gains may temporarily accrue, and even though certain fortunate purchases
may turn out to be permanently profitable.

The Future Price of the Product. The three preceding examples
related to the future continuance of the rate of output and the operating
costs upon which the past record of earnings was predicted. We must also
consider such indications as may be available in regard to the future selling price of the product. Here we must ordinarily enter into the field of
surmise or of prophecy. The analyst can truthfully say very little about
future prices, except that they fall outside the realm of sound prediction.
Now and then a more illuminating statement may be justified by the facts.
Adhering to the mining field for our examples, we may mention the enormous profits made by zinc producers during the Great War, because of
the high price of spelter. Butte and Superior Mining Company earned no
less than $64 per share before depreciation and depletion in the two years
1915–1916, as the result of obtaining about 13 cents per pound for its output of zinc, against a prewar average of about 51/4 cents. Obviously the
future earning power of this company was almost certain to shrink far
below the war-time figures, nor could these properly be taken together
with the results of any other years in order to arrive at the average or
supposedly “normal” earnings.5
Change in Status of Low-cost Producers. The copper-mining industry
offers an example of wider significance. An analysis of companies in this
field must take into account the fact that since 1914 a substantial number
of new low-cost producers have been developed and that other companies
have succeeded in reducing extraction costs through metallurgical
improvements. This means that there has been a definite lowering of the
“center of gravity” of production costs for the entire industry. Other things
being equal, this would make for a lower selling price in the future than
obtained in the past. (Such a development is more strikingly illustrated by
the crude-rubber industry.) Differently stated, mines that formerly rated
as low-cost producers, i.e., as having costs well below the average, may have
lost this advantage, unless they have also greatly improved their technique
5 The same type of reasoning clearly applies to the volume of business due to war conditions,
as well illustrated by the exhibits of airplane companies in 1939–1940.

[492]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

of production. The analyst would have to allow for these developments in
his calculations, by taking a cautious view of future copper prices—at least
as compared with the prewar or the predepression average.6

Anomalous Prices and Price Relationships in the History of the
I.R.T. System. The checkered history of the Interborough Rapid Transit System in New York City has presented a great variety of divergences
between market prices and the real or relative values ascertainable by
analysis. Two of these discrepancies turn upon the fact that for specific
reasons the then current and past earnings should not have been accepted
as indicative of future earning power. In abbreviated form the details of
these two situations are as follows:
For a number of years prior to 1918 the Interborough Rapid Transit
Company was very prosperous. In the 12 months ended June 30, 1917, it
earned $26 per share on its capital stock and paid dividends of $20 per
share. Nearly all of this stock was owned by Interborough Consolidated
Corporation, a holding concern (previously called Interborough-Metropolitan Corporation) which in turn had outstanding collateral trust
bonds, 6% preferred stock and common stock. Including its share of the
undistributed earnings of the operating company it earned about $11.50
per share on its preferred stock and about $2.50 on the common. The preferred sold in the market at 60, and the common at 10. These issues were
actively traded in, and they were highly recommended to the public by
various financial agencies which stressed the phenomenal growth of the
subway traffic.
A modicum of analysis would have shown that the real picture was
entirely different from what appeared on the surface. New rapid transit
facilities were being constructed under contract between the City of New
York and the Interborough (as well as others under contract between the
City and the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company). As soon as the new lines
were placed in operation, which was to be the following year, the earnings available for Interborough were to be limited under this contract to
the figure prevailing in 1911–1913, which was far less than the current

6 On the other hand, the rise in the price of gold in 1933 invalidated for statistical purposes
previous earnings of gold producers based on $20.67 gold. Whether or not the future price
of gold will remain at $35 is anyone’s guess, but there seems no reason to make any calculations based on the old value.

[493]

Analysis of the Income Account

profits. The City would then be entitled to receive a high return on its
enormous investment in the new lines. If and after all such payments were
made in full, including back accruals, the City and the Interborough
would then share equally in surplus profits. However, the preferential payments due the City would be so heavy that experts had testified that under
the most favorable conditions it would be more than 30 years before there
could be any surplus income to divide with the company.
The subjoined brief table shows the significance of these facts.
INTERBOROUGH RAPID TRANSIT SYSTEM

Item
Balance for I.R.T. stock
Share applicable to Interborough
Consolidated Corp.
Interest on Inter. Consol. bonds
Balance for Inter. Consol. pfd.
Preferred dividend requirements
Balance for Inter. Consol. common
Earned per share, Inter. Consol. pfd.
Earned per share, Inter. Consol. common

Actual
earnings
1917

Maximum earnings
when contract with
City became
operative

$9,100,000

$5,200,000

8,800,000
3,520,000
5,280,000
2,740,000
2,540,000
$11.50
2.50

5,000,000
3,520,000
1,480,000
2,740,000
1,260,000(d)
$3.25
nil

The underlying facts proved beyond question, therefore, that instead
of a brilliant future being in store for Interborough, it was destined to suffer a severe loss of earning power within a year’s time. It would then be
quite impossible to maintain the $6 dividend on the holding company’s
preferred stock, and no earnings at all would be available for the common for a generation or more. On this showing it was mathematically
certain that both Interborough Consolidated stock issues were worth far
less than their current selling prices.7
7 Indications pointed strongly to manipulative efforts by insiders in 1916–1917 to foist these
shares upon the public at high prices before the period of lower earnings began. The payment
of full dividends on the preferred stock, during an interlude of large earnings known to be
temporary, was inexcusable from the standpoint of corporate policy but understandable as a

[494]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The sequel not only bore out this criticism, which it was bound to
do, but demonstrated also that where an upper limit of earnings or value
is fixed, there is usually danger that the actual figure will be less than the
maximum. The opening of the new subway lines coincided with a large
increase in operating costs, due to war-time inflation; and also, as was
to be expected, it diminished the profits of the older routes. Interborough Rapid Transit Company was promptly compelled to reduce its dividend, and it was omitted entirely in 1919. In consequence the holding
company, Interborough Consolidated, suspended its preferred dividends
in 1918. The next year it defaulted the interest on its bonds, became
bankrupt and disappeared from the scene, with the complete extinction
of both its preferred and common stock. Two years later Interborough
Rapid Transit Company, recently so prosperous, barely escaped an imminent receivership by means of a “voluntary” reorganization which
extended a maturing note issue. When this extended issue matured in
1932, the company was again unable to pay, and this time receivers took
over the property.
During the ten-year period between the two receivership applications
another earnings situation developed, somewhat similar to that of 1917.8
In 1928 the Interborough reported earnings of $3,000,000, or $8.50 per
share for its common stock, and the shares sold as high as 62. But these
earnings included $4,000,000 of “back preferential” from the subway division. The latter represented a limited amount due the Interborough Rapid
Transit out of subway earnings to make good a deficiency in the profits
of the early years of operating the new lines. On June 30, 1928 the amount
of back preferential remaining to be paid the company was only
device to aid in unloading stock. These dividend distributions were not only unfair to the
41/2% bondholders, but, because of certain prior developments, they were probably illegal as
well. (Reference to this aspect of the case was made in Chap. 20 on accompanying CD).
8 See Appendix Note 56, p. 792 on accompanying CD, for a concise discussion of the numerous anomalies in price between various Interborough System securities, viz.:
1. Between Interborough Metropolitan 41/2 s and Interborough Consolidated
Preferred in 1919.
2. Between I.R.T. 5s and I.R.T. 7s in 1920.
3. Between I.R.T. stock and Manhattan “Modified” stock in 1929.
4. Between I.R.T. 5s and I.R.T. 7s in 1933.
5. Between Manhattan “Modified” and Manhattan “Unmodified” stock in 1933.

Analysis of the Income Account

[495]

$1,413,000. Hence all the profits available for Interborough stock were due
to a special source of revenue that could continue for only a few months
longer. Heedless speculators, however, were capitalizing as permanent an
earning power of Interborough stock which analysis would show was of
entirely nonrecurrent and temporary character.

Chapter 39

PRICE-EARNINGS RATIOS FOR COMMON
STOCKS. ADJUSTMENTS FOR CHANGES
IN CAPITALIZATION

IN PREVIOUS CHAPTERS various references have been made to Wall Street’s
ideas on the relation of earnings to values. A given common stock is generally considered to be worth a certain number of times its current earnings. This number of times, or multiplier, depends partly on the prevailing
psychology and partly on the nature and record of the enterprise. Prior to
the 1927–1929 bull market ten times earnings was the accepted standard
of measurement. More accurately speaking, it was the common point of
departure for valuing common stocks, so that an issue would have to be
considered exceptionally desirable to justify a higher ratio, and conversely.
Beginning about 1927 the ten-times-earnings standard was superseded by a rather confusing set of new yardsticks. On the one hand, there
was a tendency to value common stocks in general more liberally than
before. This was summarized in a famous dictum of a financial leader
implying that good stocks were worth fifteen times their earnings.1 There
was also the tendency to make more sweeping distinctions in the valuations of different kinds of common stocks. Companies in especially
favored groups, e.g., public utilities and chain stores, in 1928–1929, sold
at a very high multiple of current earnings, say, twenty-five to forty times.
This was true also of the “blue chip” issues, which comprised leading units
in miscellaneous fields. As pointed out before, these generous valuations

1 The wording of this statement, as quoted in the Wall Street Journal of March 26, 1928, was

as follows: “ ‘General Motors shares, according to the Dow, Jones & Co. averages,’ Mr.
Raskob remarked, ‘should sell at fifteen times earning power, or in the neighborhood of
$225 per share, whereas at the present level of $180 they sell at approximately only twelve
times current earnings.’ ”

[496]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

Analysis of the Income Account

[497]

were based upon the assumed continuance of the upward trend shown
over a longer or shorter period in the past. Subsequent to 1932 there
developed a tendency for prices to rule higher in relation to earnings
because of the sharp drop in long-term interest rates.

Exact Appraisal Impossible. Security analysis cannot presume to lay
down general rules as to the “proper value” of any given common stock.
Practically speaking, there is no such thing. The bases of value are too
shifting to admit of any formulation that could claim to be even reasonably accurate. The whole idea of basing the value upon current earnings
seems inherently absurd, since we know that the current earnings are
constantly changing. And whether the multiplier should be ten or fifteen
or thirty would seem at bottom a matter of purely arbitrary choice.
But the stock market itself has no time for such scientific scruples. It
must make its values first and find its reasons afterwards. Its position is
much like that of a jury in a breach-of-promise suit; there is no sound
way of measuring the values involved, and yet they must be measured
somehow and a verdict rendered. Hence the prices of common stocks are
not carefully thought out computations but the resultants of a welter of
human reactions. The stock market is a voting machine rather than a
weighing machine. It responds to factual data not directly but only as they
affect the decisions of buyers and sellers.

Limited Functions of the Analyst in Field of Appraisal of Stock
Prices. Confronted by this mixture of changing facts and fluctuating
human fancies, the securities analyst is clearly incapable of passing judgment on common-stock prices generally. There are, however, some concrete, if limited, functions that he may carry on in this field, of which the
following are representative:
1. He may set up a basis for conservative or investment valuation of common
stocks, as distinguished from speculative valuations.
2. He may point out the significance of: (a) the capitalization structure; and (b)
the source of income, as bearing upon the valuation of a given stock issue.
3. He may find unusual elements in the balance sheet which affect the
implications of the earnings picture.

A Suggested Basis of Maximum Appraisal for Investment. The
investor in common stocks, equally with the speculator, is dependent on

[498]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

future rather than past earnings. His fundamental basis of appraisal must
be an intelligent and conservative estimate of the future earning power. But
his measure of future earnings can be conservative only if it is limited by
actual performance over a period of time. We have suggested, however, that
the profits of the most recent year, taken singly, might be accepted as the
gage of future earnings, if (1) general business conditions in that year were
not exceptionally good, (2) the company has shown an upward trend of
earnings for some years past and (3) the investor’s study of the industry
gives him confidence in its continued growth. In a very exceptional case,
the investor may be justified in counting on higher earnings in the future
than at any time in the past. This might follow from developments involving a patent or the discovery of new ore in a mine or some similar specific
and significant occurrence. But in most instances he will derive the investment value of a common stock from the average earnings of a period
between five and ten years. This does not mean that all common stocks
with the same average earnings should have the same value. The commonstock investor (i.e., the conservative buyer) will properly accord a more liberal valuation to those issues which have current earnings above the average
or which may reasonably be considered to possess better than average
prospects or an inherently stable earning power. But it is the essence of our
viewpoint that some moderate upper limit must in every case be placed on
the multiplier in order to stay within the bounds of conservative valuation.
We would suggest that about 20 times average earnings is as high a price as
can be paid in an investment purchase of a common stock.
Although this rule is of necessity arbitrary in its nature, it is not
entirely so. Investment presupposes demonstrable value, and the typical
common stock’s value can be demonstrated only by means of an established, i.e., an average, earning power. But it is difficult to see how average earnings of less than 5% upon the market price could ever be
considered as vindicating that price. Clearly such a price-earnings ratio
could not provide that margin of safety which we have associated with the
investor’s position. It might be accepted by a purchaser in the expectation that future earnings will be larger than in the past. But in the original and most useful sense of the term such a basis of valuation is
speculative.2 It falls outside the purview of common-stock investment.
2 See Appendix Note 57, p. 794 on accompanying CD, for a discussion of the relationship
between bond-interest rates and the “multiplier” for common stocks.

Analysis of the Income Account

[499]

Higher Prices May Prevail for Speculative Commitments. The intent of
this distinction must be clearly understood. We do not imply that it is a
mistake to pay more than 20 times average earnings for any common
stock. We do suggest that such a price would be speculative. The purchase
may easily turn out to be highly profitable, but in that case it will have
proved a wise or fortunate speculation. It is proper to remark, moreover,
that very few people are consistently wise or fortunate in their speculative operations. Hence we may submit, as a corollary of no small practical importance, that people who habitually purchase common stocks at
more than about 20 times their average earnings are likely to lose considerable money in the long run. This is the more probable because, in the
absence of such a mechanical check, they are prone to succumb recurrently to the lure of bull markets, which always find some specious argument to justify paying extravagant prices for common stocks.
Other Requisites for Common Stocks of Investment Grade and a Corollary Therefrom. It should be pointed out that if 20 times average earnings is taken as the upper limit of price for an investment purchase, then
ordinarily the price paid should be substantially less than this maximum.
This suggests that about 12 or 121/2 times average earnings may be suitable for the typical case of a company with neutral prospects. We must
emphasize also that a reasonable ratio of market price to average earnings is not the only requisite for a common-stock investment. It is a necessary but not a sufficient condition. The company must be satisfactory
also in its financial set-up and management, and not unsatisfactory in its
prospects.
From this principle there follows another important corollary, viz.: An
attractive common-stock investment is an attractive speculation. This is
true because, if a common stock can meet the demand of a conservative
investor that he get full value for his money plus not unsatisfactory future
prospects, then such an issue must also have a fair chance of appreciating in market value.

Examples of Speculative and Investment Common Stocks. Our
definition of an investment basis for common-stock purchases is at variance with the Wall Street practice in respect to common stocks of high
rating. For such issues a price of considerably more than 20 times average earnings is held to be warranted, and furthermore these stocks are
designated as “investment issues” regardless of the price at which they

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[500]

sell. According to our view, the high prices paid for “the best common
stocks” make these purchases essentially speculative, because they require
future growth to justify them. Hence common-stock investment operations, as we define them, will occupy a middle ground in the market, lying
between low-price issues that are speculative because of doubtful quality
and well-entrenched issues that are speculative, none the less, because of
their high price.

GROUP A: COMMON STOCKS SPECULATIVE IN DECEMBER 1938 BECAUSE OF THEIR HIGH
PRICE (FIGURES ADJUSTED TO REFLECT CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION)
Group A
Item

General Electric

Coca Cola

Johns-Manville

Amount Earned per Share of
Common:
1938
1937
1936
1935
1934
1933
1932
1931
1930
1929

$0.96
2.20
1.52
0.97
0.59
0.38
0.41
1.33
1.90
2.24

$5.95
5.73
4.66
3.48
3.12
2.20
2.17
2.96
2.79
2.56

$1.09
5.80
5.13
2.17
0.22
0.64(d)
4.47(d)
0.45
3.66
8.09

10-yr. average
5-yr. average (1934–1938)
Bonds
Pfd. Stock

$1.25
$1.25
None
None
28,784,000 sh. @ 43 1/2
$1,250,000,000
$1,250,000,000
$335,182,000
$155,023,000

$3.56
$4.59
None
600,000 sh. @ 60
$36,000,000
3,992,000 sh. @ 132 1/4
$529,500,000
$565,500,000
$43,486,000
$25,094,000

$2.15
$2.88
None
75,000 sh. @ 130
$9,750,000
850,000 sh. @ 105
$89,300,000
$99,050,000
$48,001,000
$17,418,000

2.9%

2.7%

2.0%

5.1%

4.5%

7.7%

0.9%

1.6%

(d)

2.9%

3.5%

2.7%

Common Stock
Total capitalization
Net tangible assets, 12/31/38
Net current assets, 12/31/38
Average earnings on common-stock price, 1929–1938
Maximum earnings on common-stock price, 1929–1938
Minimum earnings on common-stock price, 1929–1938
Average earnings on common-stock price, 1934–1938

[501]

Analysis of the Income Account

These distinctions are illustrated by3 the accompanying nine examples, taken as of December 31, 1938.
Comments on the Various Groups. The companies listed in Group A are
representative of the so-called “first-grade” or “blue chip” industrials, which
GROUP B: COMMON STOCKS SPECULATIVE IN DECEMBER 1938 BECAUSE OF
THEIR IRREGULAR RECORD
Group B
Item

Goodyear Tire and
Rubber

Simmons

Youngstown Sheet
and Tube

$1.34
1.95
3.90
0.12
0.66(d)
0.79(d)
4.24(d)
0.04
0.37(d)
10.23

$1.42
2.88
3.53
1.14
0.84(d)
0.04
2.57(d)
0.79(d)
1.05(d)
4.15

$0.89(d)
6.79
7.03
0.64
2.95(d)
7.76(d)
11.75(d)
6.55(d)
5.17
17.28

$1.15
$ 1.35
$50,235,000
650,000 sh. @ 108
70,250,000
2,059,000 sh. @ 375/8
$77,500,000
$197,985,000
$170,322,000
$96,979,000

$0.79
$1.63
$10,000,000
None
1,158,000 sh. @ 32
$37,050,000
$47,050,000
$28,446,000
$14,788,000

$0.70
$2.12
$87,000,000
150,000 sh. @ 81
12,165,000
1,675,000 sh. @ 541/4
$90,900,000
$190,065,000
$224,678,000
$83,375,000

3.1%

2.5%

1.3%

27.2%

13.0%

31.8%

(d)

(d)

(d)

3.6%

5.1%

3.9%

Amount earned per share of
common:
1938
1937
1936
1935
1934
1933
1932
1931
1930
1929
10-yr. average
5-yr. average (1934–1938)
Bonds
Pfd. stock
Common stock
Total capitalization
Net tangible assets, 12/31/38
Net current assets, 12/31/38
Average earnings on common-stock price, 1929–1938
Maximum earnings on common-stock price, 1929–1938
Minimum earnings on common-stock price, 1929–1938
Average earnings on common-stock price, 1934–1938

3 See Appendix Note 58, p. 795 on accompanying CD, for the examples given in the 1934

edition, and their later performance.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[502]

were particularly favored in the great speculation of 1928–1929 and in the
markets of ensuing years. They are characterized by a strong financial position, by presumably excellent prospects and in most cases by relatively stable or growing earnings in the past. The market price of the shares, however,
was higher than would be justified by their average earnings. In fact the
profits of the best year in the 1929–1938 decade were less than 8% of the

GROUP C: COMMON STOCKS MEETING INVESTMENT TESTS IN DECEMBER 1938 FROM THE
QUANTITATIVE STANDPOINT
Group C
Adams-Millis

American Safety
Razor

J. J. Newberry

Amount earned per share of
common:
1938
1937
1936
1935
1934
1933
1932
1931
1930
1929

$3.21
2.77
2.55
2.93
3.41
2.63
1.03
4.72
4.83
4.83

$1.48
2.47
2.70
2.42
2.03
1.40
1.14
1.58
2.50
2.57

$4.05
5.27
6.03
4.94
5.38
3.06
1.07
1.73
2.27
3.15

10-yr. average
5-yr. average (1934–1938)
Bonds
Pfd. stock

$3.29
$2.97
None
None

$2.03
$2.22
None
None

156,000 sh. @ 21
$3,280,000
$3,280,000
$3,320,000
$926,000

524,000 sh. @ 147/8
$7,800,000
$7,800,000
$6,484,000
$3,649,000

$3.70
$5.13
$5,587,000
51,000 sh. @ 106
$5,405,000
380,000 sh. @ 341/2
$13,110,000
$24,102,000
$25,551,000
$8,745,000

15.7%

13.7%

10.7%

23.0%

18.2%

17.5%

4.9%

7.7%

3.1%

14.1%

14.9%

14.9%

Item

Common stock
Total capitalization
Net tangible assets, 12/31/38
Net current assets, 12/31/38
Average earnings on common-stock price, 1929–1938
Maximum earnings on common-stock price, 1929–1938
Minimum earnings on common-stock price, 1929–1938
Average earnings on common-stock price, 1934–1938

Analysis of the Income Account

[503]

December 1938 market price. It is also characteristic of such issues that they
sell for enormous premiums above the actual capital invested.
The companies analyzed in Group B are obviously speculative,
because of the great instability of their earnings records. They show varying relationships of market price to average earnings, maximum earnings,
and asset values.
The common stocks shown in Group C are examples of those which
meet specific and quantitative tests of investment quality. These tests
include the following:
1. The earnings have been reasonably stable, allowing for the tremendous
fluctuations in business conditions during the ten-year period.
2. The average earnings bear a satisfactory ratio to market price.4
3. The financial set-up is sufficiently conservative, and the working-capital
position is strong.

Although we do not suggest that a common stock bought for investment be required to show asset values equal to the price paid, it is none
the less characteristic of issues in Group C that, as a whole, they will not
sell for a huge premium above the companies’ actual resources.
Common-stock investment, as we envisage it, will confine itself to
issues making exhibits of the kind illustrated by Group C. But the actual
purchase of any such issues must require also that the purchaser be
satisfied in his own mind that the prospects of the enterprise are at least
reasonably favorable.

ALLOWANCES FOR CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION
In dealing with the past record of earnings, when given on a per-share
basis, it is elementary that the figures must be adjusted to reflect any
important changes in the capitalization which have taken place during
the period. In the simplest case these will involve a change only in the
number of shares of common stock due to stock dividends, split-ups, etc.
All that is necessary then is to restate the capitalization throughout the
period on the basis of the current number of shares. (Such recalculations
are made by some of the statistical services but not by others.)
4 Note that the average earnings of the three companies in Group C were nearly two and

one-half times as large relative to market price as the maximum earnings of the companies
in Group A.

[504]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

When the change in capitalization has been due to the sale of additional stock at a comparatively low price (usually through the exercise of
subscription rights or warrants) or to the conversion of senior securities,
the adjustment is more difficult. In such cases the earnings available for
the common during the earlier period must be increased by whatever
gain would have followed from the issuance of the additional shares.
When bonds or preferred stocks have been converted into common, the
charges formerly paid thereon are to be added back to the earnings and
the new figure then applied to the larger number of shares. If stock has
been sold at a relatively low price, a proper adjustment would allow earnings of, say, 5 to 8% on the proceeds of the sale. (Such recalculations need
not be made unless the changes indicated thereby are substantial.)
A corresponding adjustment of the per-share earnings must be made
at times to reflect the possible future increase in the number of shares outstanding as a result of conversions or exercise of option warrants. When
other security holders have a choice of any kind, sound analysis must
allow for the possible adverse effect upon the per-share earnings of the
common stock that would follow from the exercise of the option.
Examples: This type of adjustment must be made in analyzing the
reported earnings of American Airlines, Inc., for the 12 months ended
September 30, 1939.
Earnings as reported . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Per share on about 300,000 shares outstanding. . . . . .

$1,128,000
$3.76
(Price December 1939 about 37)

But there were outstanding $2,600,000 of 41/2% debentures, convertible into common stock at $12.50 per share. The analyst must assume conversion of the bonds, giving the following adjusted result:
Earnings, adding back $117,000 interest . . . . . . . . . . .
Per share on 508,000 shares . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$1,245,000
$2.45

More than one-third of the reported earnings per share are lost when
the necessary adjustment is made.
American Water Works and Electric Company can be used to illustrate both types of adjustment. (See page 505.)
Adjustment A reflects the payment of stock dividends in 1928, 1929
and 1930.

[505]

Analysis of the Income Account

Adjustment B assumes conversion of the $15,000,000 of convertible 5s,
issued in 1934, thus increasing the earnings by the amount of the interest
charges but also increasing the common-stock issue by 750,000 shares.
(The foregoing adjustments are independent of any possible modifications
in the reported earnings arising from the questioning of the depreciation
charges, etc., as previously discussed.)
Earnings* for common
as reported
Year
1933
1932
1931
1930
1929
1928
1927
7-year average

Amount
of shares

Number

$2,392
2,491
4,904
5,424
6,621
5,009
3,660

1,751
1,751
1,751
1,751
1,657
1,432
1,361

Adjustment A

Adjustment B

Per
share

Number Earned
of shares per share

Amount

$1.37
1.42
2.80
3.10
4.00
3.49
2.69
$2.70

1,751
1,751
1,751
1,751
1,741
1,739
1,737

$3,140
3,240
5,650
6,170
7,370
5,760
4,410

$1.37
1.42
2.80
3.10
3.80
2.88
2.11
$2.50

Number of Earned
shares per share
2,501
2,501
2,501
2,501
2,491
2,489
2,487

$1.26
1.30
2.26
2.47
2.95
2.30
1.76
$2.04

* Number of shares and earnings in thousands.

Corresponding adjustments in book values or current-asset values per
share of common stock should be made in analyzing the balance sheet.
This technique is followed in our discussion of the Baldwin Locomotive
Works exhibit in Appendix Note 70, page 838 on accompanying CD, in
which outstanding warrants are allowed for.

ALLOWANCES FOR PARTICIPATING INTERESTS
In calculating the earnings available for the common, full recognition
must be given to the rights of holders of participating issues, whether or
not the amounts involved are actually being paid thereon. Similar
allowances must be made for the effect of management contracts providing for a substantial percentage of the profits as compensation, as in the
case of investment trusts. Unusual cases sometimes arise involving
“restricted shares,” dividends on which are contingent upon earnings or
other considerations.
Example: Trico Products Corporation, a large manufacturer of automobile accessories, is capitalized at 675,000 shares of common stock, of
which 450,000 shares (owned by the president) were originally
“restricted” as to dividends. The unrestricted stock is first entitled to

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[506]

dividends of $2.50 per share, after which both classes share equally in
further dividends. In addition, successive blocks of the restricted stock
were to be released from the restriction according as the earnings for 1925
and successive years reached certain stipulated figures. (To the end of
1938, a total of 239,951 shares had been thus released.)
ADJUSTED EARNINGS: TRICO PRODUCTS CORPORATION1

Earned per share on unrestricted stock

Year

Earnings for
common

1929
1930
1931
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938
10-year average

$2,250,000
1,908,000
1,763,000
965,000
1,418,000
1,772,000
3,567,000
4,185,000
3,792,000
2,320,000
$3,394,000

C. Allowing for
B. Maximum
release of
distribution on restricted shares
A. Ignoring
unrestricted
(i.e., on total
restricted shares
shares
capitalization)
$6.67
5.09
4.70
2.57
3.78
4.72
9.84
9.75
8.97
5.56
$6.17

$4.58
3.94
3.72
2.54
3.21
3.74
6.52
7.25
6.82
4.53
$4.69

$3.33
2.83
2.61
1.44
2.10
2.62
5.38
6.39
5.99
3.70
$3.64

1 The calculations for the years 1935–1938 have been affected by repurchases of unrestricted shares by the corporation.

In the above table Column C supplies the soundest measure of the
earning power shown for the unrestricted shares. Column A is irrelevant.
A situation similar to that in Trico Products Corporation obtained in
the case of Montana Power Company stock prior to June 1921.

General Rule. The material in the last few pages may be summarized
in the following general rule:
The intrinsic value of a common stock preceded by convertible securities, or
subject to dilution through the exercise of stock options or through participating privileges enjoyed by other security holders, cannot reasonably be
appraised at a higher figure than would be justified if all such privileges were
exercised in full.

Chapter 40

CAPITALIZATION STRUCTURE

THE DIVISION of a company’s total capitalization between senior securities
and common stock has an important bearing upon the significance of the
earning power per share. A set of hypothetical examples will help make
this point clear. For this purpose we shall postulate three industrial companies, A, B and C, each with an earning power (i.e., with average and
recent earnings) of $1,000,000. They are identical in all respects save capitalization structure. Company A is capitalized solely at 100,000 shares of
common stock. Company B has outstanding $6,000,000 of 4% bonds and
100,000 shares of common stock. Company C has outstanding $12,000,000
of 4% bonds and 100,000 shares of common stock.
We shall assume that the bonds are worth par and that the common
stocks are worth about 12 times their per-share earnings. Then the value
of the three companies will work out as follows:

Company

Earnings for
common stock

Value of
common stock

Value of
bonds

Total value
of company

A
B
C

$1,000,000
760,000
520,000

$12,000,000
9,000,000
6,000,000

$6,000,000
12,000,000

$12,000,000
15,000,000
18,000,000

These results challenge attention. Companies with identical earning
power appear to have widely differing values, due solely to the arrangement of their capitalization. But the capitalization structure is itself a matter of voluntary determination by those in control. Does this mean that
the fair value of an enterprise can be arbitrarily increased or decreased
by changing around the relative proportions of senior securities and
common stock?

[507]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[508]

Can the Value of an Enterprise Be Altered through Arbitrary
Variations in Capital Structure? To answer this question properly
we must scrutinize our examples with greater care. In working out the
value of the three companies we assumed that the bonds would be worth
par and that the stocks would be worth twelve times their earnings. Are
these assumptions tenable? Let us consider first the case of Company B.
If there are no unfavorable elements in the picture, the bonds might well
sell at about 100, since the interest is earned four times. Nor would the
presence of this funded debt ordinarily prevent the common stock from
selling at 12 times its established earning power.
It will be urged however, that, if Company B shares are worth 12 times
their earnings, Company A shares should be worth more than this multiple because they have no debt ahead of them. The risk is therefore
smaller, and they are less vulnerable to the effect of a shrinkage in earnings than is the stock of Company B. This is obviously true, and yet it is
equally true that Company B shares will be more responsive to an increase
in earnings. The following figures bring this point out clearly:

Earned per share

Change in earnings
per share from base

Assumed earnings

Co. A

Co. B

Co. A

Co. B

$1,000,000
750,000
1,250,000

$10.00
7.50
12.50

$ 7.60
5.10
10.10

(Base)
25%
25%

(Base)
33%
33%

Would it not be fair to assume that the greater sensitivity of Company
B to a possible decline in profits is offset by its greater sensitivity to a possible increase? Furthermore, if the investor expects higher earnings in the
future—and presumably he selects his common stocks with this in
mind—would he not be justified in selecting the issue that will benefit
more from a given degree of improvement? We are thus led back to the
original conclusions that Company B may be worth $3,000,000, or 25%
more than Company A due solely to its distribution of capitalization
between bonds and stock.

Principle of Optimum Capitalization Structure. Paradoxical as this
conclusion may seem, it is supported by the actual behavior of common
stocks in the market. If we subject this contradiction to closer analysis, we

Analysis of the Income Account

[509]

shall find that it arises from what may be called an oversimplification of
Company A’s capital structure. Company A’s common stock evidently contains the two elements represented by the bonds and stock of Company B.
Part of Company A’s stock is at bottom equivalent to Company B’s bonds
and should in theory be valued on the same basis, i.e., 4%. The remainder
of Company A’s stock should then be valued at 12 times earnings. This theoretical reasoning would give us a combined value of $15,000,000, i.e., an
average 62/3% basis, for the two components of Company A stock, which,
of course, is the same as that of Company B bonds and stock taken together.
But this $15,000,000 value for Company A stock would not ordinarily be realized in practice. The obvious reason is that the common-stock
buyer will rarely recognize the existence of a “bond component” in a common-stock issue, and in any event, not wanting such a bond component,
he is unwilling to pay extra for it.1 This fact leads us to an important principle, both for the security buyer and for corporate management, viz.:
The optimum capitalization structure for any enterprise includes senior securities to the extent that they may safely be issued and bought for
investment.
Concretely this means that the capitalization arrangement of Company
B is preferable to that of Company A from the stockholder’s standpoint,
assuming that in both cases the $6,000,000 bond issue would constitute a
sound investment. (This might require, among other things, that the companies show a net working capital of not less than $6,000,000 in accordance
with the stringent tests for sound industrial issues recommended in Chap.
13, which is on accompanying CD.) Under such conditions the contribution of the entire capital by the common stockholders may be called an overconservative set-up, as it tends generally to make the stockholder’s dollar
less productive to him than if a reasonable part of the capital were borrowed.
An analogous situation holds true in most private businesses, where it is

1 See our discussion of American Laundry Machinery Company on pp. 505–507 of the 1934
edition of this work for an illustration of the possible effect of a change of capital structure
from an all-stock to a stock-and-bond combination. Actual changes of this kind were made
by American Zinc (through a dividend in preferred stock in 1916) and by Maytag Company
through similar distributions in 1928. The usual method of introducing a speculative capitalization structure into a company with a conservative set-up is through formation of a holding
company that issues its own senior securities and common stock against acquisition of the
operating company’s common. Examples: Chesapeake Corporation in 1927, Kaufmann
Department Stores Securities Corporation in 1925.

[510]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

recognized as profitable and proper policy to use a conservative amount
of banking accommodation for seasonal needs rather than to finance
operations entirely by owners’ capital.

Corporate Practices Resulting in Shortage of Sound Industrial
Bonds. Furthermore, just as it is desirable from the bank’s standpoint
that sound businesses borrow seasonally, it is also desirable from the
standpoint of investors generally that strong industrial corporations raise
an appropriate part of their capital through the sale of bonds. Such a policy would increase the number of high-grade bond issues on the market,
giving the bond investor a wider range of choice and making it deservedly
difficult to sell unsound bonds. Unfortunately the practice of industrial
corporations in recent years has tended to produce a shortage of good
industrial bond issues. Strong enterprises have in general refrained from
floating new bonds and in many cases have retired old ones. But this
avoidance of bonded debt by the strongest industrial companies has in
fact produced results demoralizing to investors and investment policies
in a number of ways. The following observations on this point, written
in 1934, are still applicable in good part:
1. It has tended to restrict new industrial-bond financing to companies of
weaker standing. The relative scarcity of good bonds impelled investment
houses to sell and investors to buy inferior issues, with inevitably disastrous
results.
2. The shortage of good bonds also tended to drive investors into the preferred-stock field. For reasons previously detailed (in Chap. XIV) straight
preferred stocks are unsound in theory, and they are therefore likely to prove
unsatisfactory investment media as a class.
3. The elimination (or virtual elimination) of senior securities in the set-up
of many large corporations has, of course, added somewhat to the investment quality of their common stocks, but it has added even more to the
investor’s demand for these common stocks. This in turn has resulted in a
good deal of common-stock buying by people whose circumstances required
that they purchase sound bonds. Furthermore it has supplied a superficial
justification for the creation of excessive prices for these common stocks; and
finally it contributed powerfully to that confusion between investment
motives and speculative motives which during 1927–1929 served to debauch
so large a proportion of the country’s erstwhile careful investors.

Analysis of the Income Account

[511]

Appraisal of Earnings Where Capital Structure Is Top-heavy. In
order to carry this theory of capitalization structure a step further, let us
examine the case of Company C. We arrived at a valuation of $18,000,000
for this enterprise by assuming that its $12,000,000 bond issue would sell
at par and the stock would sell for 12 times its earnings of $5.20 per share.
But this assumption as to the price of the bonds is clearly fallacious. Earnings of twice interest charges are not sufficient protection for an industrial
bond, and hence investors would be unwise to purchase such an issue at
par. In fact this very example supplies a useful demonstration of our contention that a coverage of two times interest is inadequate. If it were
ample—as some investors seem to believe—the owners of any reasonably
prosperous business, earning 8% on the money invested, could get back
their entire capital by selling a 4% bond issue, and they would still have
control of the business together with one-half of its earnings. Such an
arrangement would be exceedingly attractive for the proprietors but
idiotic from the standpoint of those who buy the bonds.
Our Company C example also sheds some light on the effect of the
rate of interest on the apparent safety of the senior security. If the
$12,000,000 bond issue had carried a 6% coupon, the interest charges of
$720,000 would then be earned less than 11/2 times. Let us assume that
Company D had such a bond issue. An unwary investor, looking at the
two exhibits, might reject Company D’s 6% bonds as unsafe because their
interest coverage was only 1.39 but yet accept the Company C bonds at
par because he was satisfied with earnings of twice fixed charges. Such
discrimination would be scarcely intelligent. Our investor would be
rejecting a bond merely because it pays him a generous coupon rate, and
he would be accepting another bond merely because it pays him a low
interest rate. The real point, however, is that the minimum margin of
safety behind bond issues must be set high enough to avoid the possibility that safety may even appear to be achieved by a mere lowering of the
interest rate. The same reasoning would apply of course to the dividend
rate on preferred stocks.
Since Company C bonds are not safe, because of the excessive size of
the issue, they are likely to sell at a considerable discount from par. We
cannot suggest the proper price level for such an issue, but we have indicated in Chap. 26 that a bond speculative because of inadequate safety
should not ordinarily be purchased above 70. It is also quite possible that
the presence of this excessive bond issue might prevent the stock from

[512]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

selling at 12 times its earnings, because conservative stock buyers would
avoid Company C as subject to too great hazard of financial difficulties
in the event of untoward developments. The result may well be that,
instead of being worth $18,000,000 in the market as originally assumed,
the combined bond and stock issues of Company C will sell for less than
$15,000,000 (the Company B valuation), or even for less than $12,000,000
(the value of Company A).
As a matter of cold fact, it should be recognized that this unfavorable
result may not necessarily follow. If investors are sufficiently careless and
if speculators are sufficiently enthusiastic, the securities of Company C
may conceivably sell in the market for $18,000,000 or even more. But such
a situation would be unwarranted and unsound.2 Our theory of capitalization structure could not admit a Company C arrangement as in any
sense standard or suitable. This indicates that there are definite limits
upon the advantages to be gained by the use of senior securities. We have
already expressed this fact in our principle of the optimum capitalization
structure, for senior securities cease to be an advantage at the point where
their amount becomes larger than can safely be issued or bought for
investment.
We have characterized the Company A type of capitalization arrangement as “overconservative”; the Company C type may be termed “speculative,” whereas that of Company B may well be called “suitable” or
“appropriate.”

The Factor of Leverage in Speculative Capitalization Structure.
Although a speculative capitalization structure throws all the company’s
securities outside the pale of investment, it may give the common stock
a definite speculative advantage. A 25% increase in the earnings of Company C (from $1,000,000 to $1,250,000) will mean about a 50% increase
in the earnings per share of common (from $5.20 to $7.70). Because of
this fact there is some tendency for speculatively capitalized enterprises

2 In 1925 Dodge Brothers (motor) securities were sold to the public on the basis of
$160,000,000 principal value of bonds and preferred stock and about $50,000,000 market
value of common. Net tangible assets were only $80,000,000, and average earnings about
$16,000,000. This obviously top-heavy capitalization structure did not militate against the
security values at first, but a severe decline in earnings in 1927 soon revealed the unsoundness of the financial setup. (In 1928 the company was taken over by Chrysler.)

[513]

Analysis of the Income Account

to sell at relatively high values in the aggregate during good times or good
markets. Conversely, of course, they may be subject to a greater degree of
undervaluation in depression. There is, however, a real advantage in the
fact that such issues, when selling on a deflated basis, can advance much
further than they can decline.
AMERICAN WATER WORKS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY

Item

1921

1923

1924

1929

Ratio of 1929
figures to
1921 figures

Gross earnings*
Net for charges*
Fixed charges and preferred
dividends*
Balance for common*
1921 basis:†
Number of shares of
common
Earned per share
High price of common
% earned on high price
of common
As reported:
Number of shares of
common
Earned per share
High price of common

$20,574
6,692

$36,380
12,684

$38,356
13,770

$54,119
22,776

2.63 :1
3.44 :1

6,353
339

11,315
1,369

12,780
990

16,154
6,622

2.54 :1
19.53 :1

92,000
$3.68
61/2

100,000
$13.69
443/4

100,000
$9.90
209

130,000
$51.00
about 2500

1.41 :1
13.86 :1
385.00 :1

56.6%

30.6%

4.7%

2.04%

0.037 :1

92,000
$3.68
61/2

100,000
$13.69
443/4

500,000
$1.98
417/8

1,657,000
$4.00
199

* In thousands.
† Number of shares and price adjusted to eliminate effect of stock dividends and split-ups.

The record of American Water Works and Electric Company common stock between 1921 and 1929 presents an almost fabulous picture
of enhancement in value, a great part of which was due to the influence
of a highly speculative capitalization structure. Four annual exhibits during this period are summarized in the table above.
The purchaser of 1 share of American Water Works common stock at
the high price of 61/2 in 1921, if he retained the distributions made in

[514]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

stock, would have owned about 121/2 shares when the common sold at its
high price of 199 in 1929. His $6.50 would have grown to about $2,500.
While the market value of the common shares was thus increasing some
400-fold, the gross earnings had expanded to only 2.6 times the earlier
figure. The tremendously disproportionate rise in the common-stock
value was due to the following elements, in order of importance:
1. A much higher valuation placed upon the per-share earnings of this
issue. In 1921 the company’s capitalization was recognized as top-heavy;
its bonds sold at a low price, and the earnings per share of common were
not taken seriously, especially since no dividends were being paid on the
second preferred. In 1929 the general enthusiasm for public-utility shares
resulted in a price for the common issue of nearly 50 times its highest
recorded earnings.
2. The speculative capitalization structure allowed the common
stock to gain an enormous advantage from the expansion of the company’s properties and earnings. Nearly all the additional funds needed
were raised by the sale of senior securities. It will be observed that
whereas the gross revenues increased about 160% from 1921 to 1929,
the balance per share of old common stock grew 14-fold during the
same period.
3. The margin of profit improved during these years, as shown by the
higher ratio of net to gross. The speculative capital structure greatly
accentuated the benefit to the common stock from the additional net
profits so derived.3
Other Examples: The behavior of speculatively capitalized enterprises
under varying business conditions is well illustrated by the appended
analysis of A. E. Staley Manufacturing Company, manufacturers of corn
products. For comparison there is given also a corresponding analysis of
American Maize Products Company, a conservatively capitalized enterprise in the same field.
The most striking aspect of the Staley exhibit is the extraordinary fluctuation in the yearly earnings per share of common stock. The business
itself is evidently subject to wide variations in net profit, and the effect of
3 See Appendix Note 59, p. 799 on accompanying CD, for data illustrating the reverse

process applied to American Water Works from 1929 through 1938; also for a similar speculative opportunity in United Light and Power Company Preferred Stock in 1935.

[515]

Analysis of the Income Account

these variations on the common stock is immensely magnified by reason
of the small amount of common stock in comparison with the senior
securities.4 The large depreciation allowance acts also as the equivalent
of a heavy fixed charge. Hence a decline in net before depreciation from
$3,266,000 in 1929 to $1,540,000 the next year, somewhat over 50%,
resulted in a drop in earnings per share of common from $84 to only $3.74.
The net profits of American Maize Products were fully as variable, but
the small amount of prior charges made the fluctuations in commonstock earnings far less spectacular.
A. E. STALEY

Year

Net before
depreciation*

1933
1932
1931
1930
1929
1928
1927
1926
1925
1924

$2,563
1,546
892
1,540
3,266
1,491
1,303
2,433
792
1,339

Depreciation*

Fixed charges
and pfd.
dividends*

Balance for
common*

Earned
per share

$743
753
696
753
743
641
531
495
452
419

$652
678
692
708
757
696
541
430
358
439

$1,168
114
496(d)
79
1,766
154
231
1,507
18(d)
481

$55.63
5.43
23.60(d)
3.74
84.09
7.35
11.01
71.77
0.87(d)
22.89

* 000 omitted.

4 In 1934 the company declared a 100% stock dividend, thus doubling the number of shares
of common, and in 1937 split the stock 10 for 1 and changed the par value from $100 to $10.
These two developments multiplied the outstanding shares by 20. Persistence of the variable
factor in the earnings for the common stock is shown by the following per-share figures,
based on the 1933 capitalization:

1934
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939

$28.46
2.76(d)
52.88
18.40(d)
38.80
68.00

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[516]

AMERICAN MAIZE PRODUCTS

Year

Net before
depreciation*

Depreciation*

1933
1932
1931
1930
1929
1928
1927

$1,022
687
460
1,246
1,835
906
400

$301
299
299
306
312
317
318

Fixed charges
and pfd.
dividends*

Balance for
common*

Earned
per share

22
80
105
105

$721
388
161
918
1,443
484
23(d)

$2.40
1.29
0.54
3.06
4.81
1.61
0.08(d)

* 000 omitted.

CAPITALIZATION (AS OF JANUARY 1933)

Item

A. E. Staley

American Maize Products

6% bonds
($4,000,000* @ 75) $3,000,000
$7 pfd. stock
(50,000 sh. @ 44) 2,200,000
Common stock
(21,000 sh. @ 45) 950,000
(300,000 sh. @ 20) $6,000,000
Total capitalization
$6,150,000
$6,000,000
Average earnings, 1927–1932,
about
900,000
615,000
% of these earning on 1933
capitalization
14.6%
10.3%†
Average earnings per sh. of
common
$14.76
$1.87
% earned on price of common
32.8%
9.4%†
Working capital, Dec. 31, 1932
$3,664,000
$2,843,000
Net assets, Dec. 31, 1932
$15,000,000
$4,827,000
* Deducting estimated amount of bonds in treasury.
† The difference between these two figures is due to the varying treatment of the preferred stock outstanding during
1927–1930. A very small amount of preferred stock remaining in 1931–1933 is ignored in the above calculations.

Speculative Capitalization May Cause Valuation of Total Enterprise at an Unduly Low Figure. The market situation of the Staley securities in January 1933 presents a practical confirmation of our theoretical
analysis of Company C above. The top-heavy capitalization structure

Analysis of the Income Account

[517]

resulted in a low price for the bonds and the preferred stock, the latter being
affected particularly by the temporary suspension of its dividend in 1931.
The result was that, instead of showing an increased total value by reason of
the presence of senior securities, the company sold in the market at a much
lower relative price than the conservatively capitalized American Maize
Products. (The latter company showed a normal relationship between average earnings and market value. It should not properly be termed overconservatively capitalized because the variations in its annual earnings would
constitute a good reason for avoiding any substantial amount of senior securities. A bond or preferred stock issue of very small size, on the other hand,
would be of no particular advantage or disadvantage.)
The indication that the A. E. Staley Company was undervalued in
January 1933 in comparison with American Maize Products is strengthened by reference to the relative current-asset positions and total
resources. Per dollar of net asset values the Staley company was selling
only one-third as high as American Maize.
The overdeflation of a speculative issue like Staley common in unfavorable markets creates the possibility of an amazing price advance when
conditions improve, because the earnings per share then show so violent
an increase. Note that at the beginning of 1927 Staley common was
quoted at about 75, and a year later it sold close to 300. Similarly the
shares advanced from a low of 33 in 1932 to the equivalent of 320 in 1939.
A Corresponding Example. A more spectacular instance of tremendous price changes for the same reason is supplied by Mohawk Rubber.
In 1927 the common sold at 15, representing a valuation of only $300,000
for the junior issue, which followed $1,960,000 of preferred. The company had lost $610,000 in 1926 on $6,400,000 of sales. In 1927 sales
dropped to $5,700,000, but there was a net profit of $630,000. This
amounted to over $23 per share on the small amount of common stock.
The price consequently advanced from its low of 15 in 1927 to a high of
251 in 1928. In 1930 the company again lost $669,000, and the next year
the price declined to the equivalent of only $4.
In a speculatively capitalized enterprise, the common stockholders
benefit—or have the possibility of benefiting—at the expense of the senior security holders. The common stockholder is operating with a little
of his own money and with a great deal of the senior security holder’s
money; as between him and them it is a case of “Heads I win, tails you

[518]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

lose.” This strategic position of the common stockholder with relatively
small commitment is an extreme form of what is called “trading on the
equity.” Using another expression, he may be said to have a “cheap call”
on the future profits of the enterprise.

Speculative Attractiveness of “Shoe-string” Common Stocks
Considered. Our discussion of fixed-value investment has emphasized
as strongly as possible the disadvantage (amounting to unfairness) that
attaches to the senior security holder’s position where the junior capital
is proportionately slight. The question would logically arise if there are
not corresponding advantages to the common stock in such an arrangement, from which it gains a very high degree of speculative attractiveness. This inquiry would obviously take us entirely outside the field of
common-stock investment but would represent an expedition into the
realm of intelligent or even scientific speculation.
We have already seen from our A. E. Staley example that in bad times
a speculative capitalization structure may react adversely on the market
price of both the senior securities and the common stock. During such a
period, then, the common stockholders do not derive a present benefit
at the expense of the bondholder. This fact clearly detracts from the speculative advantage inherent in such common stocks. It is easy to suggest
that these issues be purchased only when they are selling at abnormally
low levels due to temporarily unfavorable conditions. But this is really
begging the question, because it assumes that the intelligent speculator
can consistently detect and wait for these abnormal and temporary conditions. If this were so, he could make a great deal of money regardless of
what type of common stock he buys, and under such conditions he might
be better advised to select high-grade common stocks at bargain prices
rather than these more speculative issues.
Practical Aspects of the Foregoing. To view the matter in a practical
light, the purchase of speculatively capitalized common stocks must be
considered under general or market conditions that are supposedly normal, i.e., under those which are not obviously inflated or deflated. Assuming (1) diversification, and (2) reasonably good judgment in selecting
companies with satisfactory prospects, it would seem that the speculator
should be able to profit rather substantially in the long run from commitments of this kind. In making such purchases, partiality should evidently
be shown to those companies in which most of the senior capital is in the

Analysis of the Income Account

[519]

form of preferred stock rather than bonds. Such an arrangement removes
or minimizes the danger of extinction of the junior equity through default
in bad times and thus permits the shoe-string common stockholder to
maintain his position until prosperity returns. (But just because the preferred-stock contract benefits the common shareholder in this way, it is
clearly disadvantageous to the preferred stockholder himself.)
We must not forget, however, the peculiar practical difficulty in the
way of realizing the full amount of prospective gain in any one of the purchases. As we pointed out in the analogous case of convertible bonds, as
soon as a substantial profit appears the holder is in a dilemma, because
he can hold for a further gain only by risking that already accrued. Just
as a convertible bond loses its distinctive advantages when the price rises
to a point that carries it clearly outside of the straight investment class,
so a shoe-string common-stock commitment is transformed into a more
and more substantial commitment as the price continues to rise. In our
Mohawk Rubber example the intelligent purchaser at 15 could not
have expected to hold it beyond 100—even though its quotation did
reach 250—because at 100, or before, the shares had lost the distinctive
characteristics of a speculatively capitalized junior issue.

Chapter 41

LOW-PRICED COMMON STOCKS.
ANALYSIS OF THE SOURCE OF INCOME

LOW-PRICED STOCKS
The characteristics discussed in the preceding chapter are generally
thought of by the public in connection with low-priced stocks. The majority of issues of the speculatively capitalized type do sell within the lowpriced range. The definition of “low-priced” must, of course, be
somewhat arbitary. Prices below $10 per share belong to this category
beyond question; those above $20 are ordinarily excluded; so that the
dividing line would be set somewhere between $10 and $20.

Arithmetical Advantage of Low-priced Issues. Low-priced common stocks appear to possess an inherent arithmetical advantage arising
from the fact they can advance so much more than they can decline. It is
a commonplace of the securities market that an issue will rise more readily from 10 to 40 than from 100 to 400. This fact is due in part to the preferences of the speculative public, which generally is much more partial
to issues in the 10-to-40 range than to those selling above 100. But it is
also true that in many cases low-price common stocks give the owner the
advantage of an interest in, or “call” upon, a relatively large enterprise at
relatively small expense.
A statistical study of the relative price behavior of industrial stocks in
various price groups was presented in the April 1936 issue of The Journal
of Business of the University of Chicago.1 The study was devoted to the
period 1926–19352 and revealed a continuous superiority of diversified,
1 Fritzemeier, Louis H., “Relative Price Fluctuations of Industrial Stocks in Different Price
Groups,” loc. cit., pp. 133–154.
2 See pp. 473–474 of the 1934 edition of this work for reference to an earlier study devoted to
the relative behavior of low-priced and high-priced issues when purchased at or near the

[520]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

Analysis of the Income Account

[521]

low-priced issues over diversified, high-priced issues as speculative
media. The following quotation from the study summarizes the results
and conclusions reached by the author:
Unless there are serious uncompensated errors in the statistical work here
presented, this investigation would seem to establish the existence of certain
relationships between price level and price fluctuations which have hitherto
gone unreported by students of stock-market phenomena. These relationships may be briefly stated as follows:
1. Low-price stocks tend to fluctuate relatively more than high-price stocks.
2. In a “bull” market the low-price stocks tend to go up relatively more than
high-price stocks, and they do not lose these superior gains in the recessions
which follow. In other words, the downward movement of low-price stocks
is less than proportional to their upward movement, when compared with
the upward and downward movement of high-price stocks.
*********
Assuming (1) that the future behavior of the various price groups will be
similar to their past behavior and (2) that the selection of stocks on the basis
of the activity for the current year does not account completely, if at all, for
the superior performance of the stocks in the low-price groups, it seems
logical to conclude the following:
1. Low-price industrial stocks offer greater opportunities for speculative profits than high-price industrial stocks.
2. In case two or more issues of industrial stocks seem to offer equal prospective profits, the speculator should purchase the shares selling at the lowest price.

Some Reasons Why Most Buyers of Low-priced Issues Lose
Money. The pronounced liking of the public for “cheap stocks” would
therefore seem to have a sound basis in logic. Yet it is undoubtedly true
that most people who buy low-priced stocks lose money on their purchases. Why is this so? The underlying reason is that the public buys
issues that are sold to it, and the sales effort is put forward to benefit the
seller and not the buyer. In consequence the bulk of the low-priced purchases made by the public are of the wrong kind; i.e., they do not provide
bottoms of depressions in 1897, 1907, 1914 and 1921. Within its more limited scope this
study, published in 1931 by J. H. Holmes and Company, led to conclusions similar to those
of Fritzemeier.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[522]

the real advantages of this security type. The reason may be either because
the companies are in bad financial condition or because the common
stock is low-priced in appearance only and actually represents a full or
excessive commitment in relation to the size of the enterprise. The latter
is preponderantly true of new security offerings in the low-priced range.
In such cases, a pseudo-low price is accomplished by the simple artifice
of creating so large a number of shares that even at a few dollars per share
the total value of the common issue is excessive. This has been true of
mining-stock flotations from of old and was encountered again in the
liquor-stock offerings of 1933 and in the airplane issues in 1938–1939.
A genuinely low-priced common stock will show an aggregate value
for the issue which is small in relation to the company’s assets, sales and
past or prospective profits. The examples shown herewith will illustrate
the difference between a “genuine” and “pseudo-low” price.

Item
July 1933:
Price of common stock
Number of shares outstanding
Total value of common
Preferred stock at par
Preferred stock at market
Year 1932:
Sales
Net earnings
Period 1924–1932:
Maximum sales
Maximum net earnings
Maximum earnings per share of common
Working capital, Dec. 1932
Net tangible assets, Dec. 1932

Wright-Hargreaves
Mines, Ltd.
(gold mining)

Barker Bros.
Corp. (retail store)

7
5,500,000
$38,500,000

5
148,500
$ 743,000
2,815,000
500,000

$ 3,983,000
2,001,000*

$ 8,154,000
703,000(d)

$ 3,983,000
2,001,000*
$0.36*
$ 1,930,000
4,544,000

$16,261,000
1,100,000
$7.59
$ 5,010,000
7,200,000

* Before depletion.

The Wright-Hargreaves issue was low-priced in appearance only, for
in fact the price registered a very high valuation for the company as

Analysis of the Income Account

[523]

compared with all parts of its financial exhibit. The opposite was true of
Barker Brothers because here the $743,000 valuation represented by the
common stock was exceedingly small in relation to the size of the enterprise. (Note also that the same statement could be applied to Barker
Brothers Preferred, which at its quotation of 18 partook of the qualities
of a low-priced common stock.)3
Observation of the stock market will show that the stocks of companies facing receivership are likely to be more active than those which are
very low in price merely because of poor current earnings. This phenomenon is caused by the desire of insiders to dispose of their holdings before
the receivership wipes them out, thus accounting for a large supply of
these shares at a low level and also sometimes for unscrupulous efforts to
persuade the unwary public to buy them. But where a low-priced stock
fulfills our conditions of speculative attractiveness, there is apt to be no
pressure to sell and no effort to create buying. Hence the issue is inactive
and attracts little public attention. This analysis may explain why the public almost always buys the wrong low-priced issues and ignores the really
promising opportunities in this field.

Low Price Coupled with Speculative Capitalization. Speculatively
capitalized enterprises, according to our definition, are marked by a relatively large amount of senior securities and a comparatively small issue of
common stock. Although in most cases the common stock will sell at a
low price per share, it need not necessarily do so if the number of shares
is small. In the Staley case, for example (referred to on pp. 515–516) even
at $50 per share for the common in 1933 the capitalization structure would
still have been speculative, since the bonds and preferred at par would represent over 90% of the total. It is also true that even where there are no
senior securities the common stock may have possibilities equivalent to
those in a speculatively capitalized enterprise. These possibilities will occur
wherever the market value of the common issue-represents a small
3 See Appendix Note 60, p. 800 on accompanying CD, for the sequel to these examples. For a
more recent contrast along the same lines the student is invited to compare the showing of
Continental Motors Corporation and Gilchrist Company when both were selling at $5 near
the close of 1939. Beyond our basic distinction, founded on the relationship between the valuation of the company and its assets and sales, there is here a striking contrast in the earnings record and working-capital position.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[524]

amount of money in relation to the size of the business, regardless of how
it is capitalized.
To illustrate this point we append a condensed analysis of Mandel
Brothers, Inc., and Gimbel Brothers, Inc., two department-store enterprises, as of September 1939.
Item
September 1939:
Bonds at par
Preferred stock
Common stock
Total capitalization
Results for 12 months to July 31, 1939:
Sales
Net before interest
Balance for common
Earned per share
Period 1934–1938*:
Maximum sales (1937)
Maximum net earnings (1937) for common
Maximum earnings per share of common (1937)
High price of common
Average earnings per share of common
Jan. 31, 1939:
Net current assets
Net tangible assets
Rents paid 1937

Gimbel Bros.

Mandel Bros.

$26,753,000
197,000 sh. @ 50
$9,850,000
977,000 sh. @ 8
$7,816,000
$44,419,000

297,000 sh. @ 5
$1,485,000
$1,485,000

$87,963,000
1,073
1,105(d)
1.13(d)

$17,883,000
155,000
155,000
0.52

$100,081,000
2,032,000
2.08
3
29 /8 (1937)
0.23

$19,378,000
414,000
1.33
18 (1936)
0.46

$22,916,000
75,614,000
1,401,000

$ 4,043,000
6,001,000
867,000

* Based on report for succeeding Jan. 31.

Gimbel Brothers presents a typical picture of a speculatively capitalized enterprise. On the other hand Mandel Brothers has no senior securities ahead of the common, but despite this fact the relatively small
market value of the entire issue imparts to the shares the same sort of
speculative possibilities (though in somewhat lesser degree) as are found
in the Gimbel Brothers set-up. Note, however, that the rental payments

[525]

Analysis of the Income Account

of Mandel Brothers are proportionately much higher than those of Gimbel Brothers and that these rental charges are equivalent in good part to
senior securities.

Large Volume and High Production Cost Equivalent to Speculative Capital Structure. This example should lead us to widen our conception of a speculatively situated common stock. The speculative or
marginal position may arise from any cause that reduces the percentage of
gross available for the common to a subnormal figure and that therefore
serves to create a subnormal value for the common stock in relation to the
volume of business. Unusually high operating or production costs have the
identical effect as excessive senior charges in cutting down the percentage
of gross available for common. The following hypothetical examples of three
copper producers will make this point more intelligible and also lead to
some conclusions on the subject of large output versus low operating costs.
Item
Capitalization:
6% Bonds
Common stock
Output
Cost of production (before interest)
Interest charge per pound
Total cost per pound
A
Assumed price of copper
Profit per pound
Output per share
Profit per share
Value of stock at 10 times earnings
Output per $1 of market value of stock
B
Assumed price of copper
Profit per pound
Profit per share
Value per share at ten times earnings
Output per $1 of market price of stock

Company A

Company B

Company C

7¢

$50,000,000
1,000,000 sh. 1,000,000 sh.
150,000,000 lb. 150,000,000 lb.
7¢
9¢
2¢
9¢
9¢

10¢
3¢
100 lb.
$3
$30
31/3 lb.

10¢
1¢
150 lb.
$1.50
$15
10 lb.

13¢
6¢
$6
$60
12/3 lb.

13¢
4¢
$6
$60
21/2 lb.

1,000,000 sh.
100,000,000 lb.
7¢

[526]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

It is scarcely necessary to point out that the higher production cost of
Company C will have exactly the same effect as the bond-interest requirement of Company B (assuming output and production costs to continue
as stated).
General Principle Derived. The foregoing table is perhaps more useful in showing concretely the inverse relationship that usually exists
between profit per unit and output per dollar of stock value.
The general principle may be stated that the lower the unit cost the
lower the production per dollar of market value of stock and vice versa.
Since Company A has a 7-cent cost, its stock naturally sells at a higher
price per pound of output than Company C with its 9-cent cost. Conversely, Company C produces more pounds per dollar of stock value than
Company A. This fact is not without significance from the standpoint of
speculative technique. When a rise in the price of the commodity occurs,
there will ordinarily be a larger advance, percentagewise, in the shares
of high-cost producers than in the shares of low-cost producers. The
foregoing table indicates that a rise in the price of copper from 10 to 13
cents would increase the value of Company A shares by 100% and the
value of Company B and C shares by 300%. Contrary to the general
impression in Wall Street, the stocks of high-cost producers are more
logical commitments than those of the low-cost producers when the
buyer is convinced that a rise in the price of the product is imminent and
he wishes to exploit this conviction to the utmost.4 Exactly the same
advantage attaches to the purchase of speculatively capitalized common
stocks when a pronounced improvement in sales and profits is confidently anticipated.

THE SOURCES OF INCOME
The “source of income” will ordinarily be thought of as meaning the same
thing as the “type of business.” This consideration enters very largely into the
basis on which the public will value the earnings per share shown by a given
common stock. Different “multipliers” are used for different sorts of enterprise, but we must point out that these distinctions are themselves subject to
4 The action of the market in advancing Company B shares from 15 to 60 because copper rises

from 10 to 13 cents is in itself extremely illogical, for there is ordinarily no warrant for supposing that the higher metal price will be permanent. However, since the market does in fact
behave in this irrational fashion, the speculator must recognize this behavior in his calculation.

Analysis of the Income Account

[527]

change with the changing times.5 Prior to the World War the railroad stocks
were valued most generously of all, because of their supposed stability. In
1927–1929 the public-utility group sold at the highest ratio to earnings,
because of their record of steady growth. Between 1933 and 1939 adverse
legislation and, in particular, the fear of government competition greatly
reduced the relative popularity of the utility stocks. The most liberal valuations have recently been accorded to the large and well-entrenched industrial enterprises which were able to maintain substantial earnings during the
depression and are considered to possess favorable long-term prospects.
Because of these repeated variations in relative behavior and popularity, security analysis must hesitate to prescribe any definitive rules for valuing one
type of business as against another. It is a truism to say that the more impressive the record and the more promising the prospects of stability and growth
the more liberally the per-share earnings should be valued, subject always to
our principle that a multiplier higher than about 20 (i.e., an “earnings basis”
of less than 5%) will carry the issue out of the investment price range.

A Special Phase: Three Examples. A more fruitful field for the technique of analysis is found in those cases where the source of income must
be studied in relation to specific assets owned by the company, instead of
in relation merely to the general nature of the business. This point may
be quite important when a substantial portion of the income accrues from
investment holdings or from some other fixed and dependable source.
Three examples will be used to illuminate this rather subtle aspect of
common-stock analysis.
1. Northern Pipe Line Company. For the years 1923–1925 the Northern Pipe Line Company reported earnings and dividends as follows:
Year

Net earnings

Earned per share*

Dividend paid

1923
1924
1925

$308,000
214,000
311,000

$7.70
5.35
7.77

$10, plus $15 extra
8
6

* Capitalization, 40,000 shares of common stock.
5 See Cowles, Alfred, 3d, and associates (Common Stock Indexes, 1871–1937), pp. 43–46, 404–418,

Bloomington, Ind., 1938, for a study of earnings-price ratios for different industrial groups in successive years from 1871 through 1937. Ratios for 1934–1938 and for 1936–1938 are supplied in
our analysis of the New York Stock Exchange industrial list in Appendix Note 61, p. 800 on
accompanying CD.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[528]

In 1924 the shares sold as low as 72, in 1925 as low as 671/2 and in 1926
as low as 64. These prices were on the whole somewhat less then ten times
the reported earnings and reflected a lack of enthusiasm for the shares,
due to a pronounced decline in profits from the figures of preceding years
and also to the reductions in the dividend.
Analysis of the income account however, would have revealed the following division of the sources of income:6
1923
Income

Total

Earned from:
Pipe-line operations $179,000
Interest and rents
164,000
Nonrecurrent items dr. 35,000
$308,000

1924

1925

Per share

Total

Per share

Total

Per share

$4.48
4.10
dr. 0.88
$7.70

$ 69,000
159,000
dr. 14,000
$214,000

$1.71
3.99
0.35
$5.35

$103,000
170,000
cr. 38,000
$311,000

$2.57
4.25
cr. 0.95
$7.77

This income account is exceptional in that the greater part of the profits were derived from sources other than the pipe-line business itself.
About $4 per share were regularly received in interest on investments and
rentals. The balance sheet showed holdings of nearly $3,200,000 (or $80
per share) in Liberty Bonds and other gilt-edged marketable securities,
on which the interest income was about 4%.
This fact meant that a special basis of valuation must be applied to the
per-share earnings, inasmuch as the usual “ten-times-earnings” basis
would result in a nonsensical conclusion. Gilt-edged investments of $80
per share would yield an income of $3.20 per share, and at ten times earnings this $80 would be “worth” only $32 per share, a reductio ad absurdum. Obviously, that part of the Northern Pipe Line income that was
derived from its bond holdings should logically be valued at a higher basis
than the portion derived from the fluctuating pipe-line business. A sound
valuation of Northern Pipe Line stock would therefore have to proceed
along the lines suggested below. The pipe-line earnings would have to be
valued at a low basis because of their unsatisfactory trend. The interest
6 Although the company’s reports to its stockholders contained very little information, com-

plete financial and operating data were on file with the Interstate Commerce Commission
and open to public inspection.

Analysis of the Income Account

[529]

and rental income must presumably be valued on a basis corresponding
with the actual value of the assets producing the income. This analysis
indicated clearly that, at the price of 64 in 1926, Northern Pipe Line stock
was selling considerably below its intrinsic value.7

Average 1923–1925*
Earned per share from pipe line.
$2.92
Earned per share from interest and rentals 4.10
Total
$7.02

Valuation
basis

Value
per share

15% (62/3 times earnings)
5% (20 times earnings)

$ 20
80
$100

* The nonrecurrent profits and losses are not taken into account.

2. Lackawanna Securities Company. This company was organized to
hold a large block of Glen Alden Coal Company 4% bonds formerly
owned by the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad Company,
and its shares were distributed pro rata to the Delaware, Lackawanna and
Western stockholders. The Securities Company had outstanding 844,000
shares of common stock. On December 31, 1931 its sole asset—other than
about $1 per share in cash—consisted of $51,000,000 face value of Glen
Alden 4% first mortgage bonds. For the year 1931, the income account
was as follows:
Interest received on Glen Alden bonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$2,084,000
Less:
Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17,000
Federal taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .250,000
Balance for stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1,817,000
Earned per share . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$2.15

Superficially, the price of 23 in 1932 for a stock earning $2.15 did not
appear out of line. But these earnings were derived, not from ordinary
commercial or manufacturing operations, but from the holding of a bond
7 A parallel situation existed in the case of Davis Coal and Coke Company prior to the distribution of $50 per share to stockholders out of its large holdings of government bonds in
1937–1938. Shortly prior to this action the stock had sold at 35. The student can see from
the annual reports that the average earnings of $2.06 per share and average dividends of
$2.56 in 1934–1937 came entirely from sources other than the coal business.

[530]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

issue which presumably constituted a high-grade investment. (In 1931
the Glen Alden Coal Company earned $9,550,000 available for interest
charges of $2,151,000, thus covering the bond requirements 41/2 times.)
By valuing this interest income on about a 10% basis the market was in
fact valuing the Glen Alden bonds at only 37 cents on the dollar. (The
price of 23 for a share of Lackawanna Securities was equivalent to $60
face value of Glen Alden bonds at 37, plus $1 in cash)
Here again, as in the Northern Pipe Line example, analysis would
show convincingly that the customary ten-times-earnings basis resulted
in a glaring undervaluation of this specially situated issue.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS CORPORATION

Item
Capitalization
2,240,000 shares of 7% Class A (par $20)
3,300,000 shares common
Total
Net income for the year 1931
Earned per share of Class A
Earned for common after Class A dividends
Dividend paid on Class A

Price:
December 1931

$6
21/4

Market value

$13,440,000
7,425,000
$20,825,000
about $2,200,000
about $1
nil
$0.80

3. Tobacco Products Corporation of Virginia. In this example, as in the
other two, the company was selling in the market for about ten times the
latest reported earnings. But the 1931 earnings of Tobacco Products were
derived entirely from a lease of certain of its assets to American Tobacco
Company, which provided for an annual rental of $2,500,000 for 99 years
from 1923. Since the American Tobacco Company was able to meet its
obligation without question, this annual rental income was equivalent to
interest on a high-grade investment. Its value was therefore much more
than ten times the income therefrom. This meant that the market valuation of the Tobacco Products stock issues in December 1931 was far less
than was justified by the actual position of the company. (The value of
the lease was in fact calculated to be about $35,600,000 on an amortized
basis. The company also owned a large amount of United Cigar Stores’

Analysis of the Income Account

[531]

stock, which later proved to be practically worthless, but these additional
holdings did not, of course, detract from the value of its American
Tobacco lease.)

Relative Importance of Situations of This Kind. The field of study
represented by the foregoing examples is not important quantitatively,
because, after all, only a very small percentage of the companies examined
will fall within this group. Situations of this kind arise with sufficient frequency, however, to give this discussion practical value. It should be useful also in illustrating again the wide technical difference between the
critical approach of security analysis and the highly superficial reactions
and valuations of the stock market.
Two Lines of Conduct Suggested. When it can be shown that certain conditions, such as those last discussed, tend to give rise to undervaluations in the market, two different lines of conduct are thereby
suggested. We have first an opportunity for the securities analyst to detect
these undervaluations and eventually to profit from them. But there is
also the indication that the financial set-up that causes this undervaluation is erroneous and that the stockholders’ interests require the correction of this error. The very fact that a company constituted like Northern
Pipe Line or Lackawanna Securities tends to sell in the market far below
its true value proves as strongly as possible that the whole arrangement
is wrong from the stand-point of the owners of the business.
At the bottom of these cases there is a basic principle of consistency
involved. It is inconsistent for most of the capital of a pipe-line enterprise
actually to be employed in the ownership of gilt-edged bonds. The whole
set-up of Lackawanna Securities was also inconsistent, because it replaced
a presumably high-grade bond issue, which investors might be willing to
buy at a fair price, by a nondescript stock issue which no one would purchase except at an exceptionally low price. (In addition a heavy and needless burden of corporate income tax was involved, as was true in the
Tobacco Products case.)
Illogical arrangements of this kind should be recognized by the real
parties in interest, i.e., the stockholders, and they should insist that the
anomaly be rectified. This was finally done in the three examples just
given. In the case of Northern Pipe Line the capital not needed in the
pipe-line business was returned to the stockholders by means of special

[532]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

distributions aggregating $70 per share. The Lackawanna Securities Company was entirely dissolved and the Glen Alden bonds in its treasury distributed pro rata to the stockholders in lieu of their stock. Finally, the
Tobacco Products Corporation was recapitalized on a basis by which
61/2% bonds were issued against the American Tobacco lease, so that this
asset of fixed value was represented by a fixed-value security (which later
were redeemed at par) instead of by shares of stock in a corporation subject to highly speculative influences. By means of these corporate
rearrangements the real values were speedily established in the market
price.8
The situations that we have just analyzed required a transfer of attention from the income account figures to certain related features revealed
in the balance sheet. Hence the foregoing topic—Sources of Income—
carries us over into our next field of inquiry: The Balance Sheet.

8 The student is invited to consider two further examples illustrating this point in 1939, viz.

1. Westmoreland Coal Company, selling at 8 although the company held some $18 per
share in cash assets alone. This case is broadly similar to our Davis Coal and Coke example,
although there were some differences. See discussion of this company on pp. 588–589.
2. American Cigarette and Cigar. In this case there is also a long-term lease to American
Tobacco Company (as in the Tobacco Products example), but the situation is complicated by
the company’s own operations, which have produced losses, and by ownership of other assets.
Attention is drawn also to our discussion of Lehigh Coal and Navigation Company on
p. 451, in which we suggested that the mining losses were perhaps inseparable from the
large income from lease of the railroad.

PART VI

BALANCE-SHEET
ANALYSIS.
IMPLICATIONS OF
ASSET VALUES

Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

This page intentionally left blank

Introduc tion to Par t VI

DECONSTRUC TING THE BALANCE SHEE T
B Y B R U C E G R E E N WA L D

T

he enduring value of Security Analysis rests on certain critical ideas
developed by Graham and Dodd that were then, and remain, fundamental to any well-conceived investment strategy. The first of

these is the distinction between “investment” and “speculation” as
defined by Graham and Dodd:
An investment operation is one which, upon thorough analysis, promises
safety of principal and a satisfactory return. Operations not meeting
these requirements are speculative. (p. 106)

The critical parts of this definition are “thorough analysis” and “safety
of principal and a satisfactory return.” Nothing about these requirements
has changed since 1934.
A second related idea is that of focusing on the intrinsic value of a
security. It is, according to Graham and Dodd,
that value which is justified by the facts, e.g., the assets, earnings, dividends, [and] definite prospects, as distinct, let us say, from market quotations established by market manipulation or distorted by psychological
excesses. (p. 64)

In an ideal world, intrinsic value would be the true value of a security;
in today’s language it would be the present discounted value of the

[535]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[536]

Introduction to Part VI

expected future cash flows it generates. If these expected cash flows and
an appropriate discount rate could be calculated perfectly from the available facts, then the intrinsic and true values would be the same. However, Graham and Dodd recognized that this was never possible.
“Inadequate or incorrect data and [the] uncertainties of the future”
meant that intrinsic value would always be “an elusive concept.”
Nevertheless, thorough investigation of intrinsic value was, in this
view, central to any investment process worthy of the name. It served
first of all to organize examination and use of the available information,
ensuring that the relevant facts would be brought to bear and irrelevant
noise ignored. Second, it would produce an appreciation of the range of
uncertainty associated with any particular intrinsic value calculation.
Graham and Dodd recognized that even a very imperfect intrinsic value
would be useful in making investment decisions. In their words,
It needs only to establish that the value is adequate—e.g., to protect a
bond or justify a stock purchase—or else that the value is considerably
higher or considerably lower than the market price . . . [and] the degree
of indistinctness may be expressed by a very hypothetical “range of
approximate value,” which would grow wider as the uncertainty of the
picture increased. (pp. 66–67)

The purchase of securities should then be made only at prices far
enough below the intrinsic value to provide a margin of safety that
would offer appropriate protection against this “indistinctness” in the calculated intrinsic value. In essence, what Graham and Dodd required was
that an investor, as opposed to a speculator, should know as far as possible the value of any security purchased and also the degree of uncertainty attached to that value. An investment would be made only at a
price that provided a sufficient margin of safety to compensate for the
uncertainty involved. As a prescription for obtaining “protection of principal and a satisfactory return,” this approach has obvious advantages
over almost any conceivable alternative.

Bruce Greenwald

[537]

The compelling logic of these foundations is one source of the continuing relevance of Security Analysis. But the book also provides a
detailed roadmap of what a “thorough analysis” looks like that is exemplary in its completeness.
With regard to common stock investments, Graham and Dodd examine the roles of both present and future prospects (with an appropriately
skeptical view of the latter). They consider the implications of the quantitative analyses of financial statements and qualitative appreciations of
less easily quantifiable factors, like management. In the key area of quantitative analysis, they look comprehensively at all financial statements,
including most notably a firm’s balance sheet.
In this they were at odds with their contemporaries. In describing
those practices, Graham and Dodd noted,
We find little beyond the rather indefinite concept that “a good stock is a
good investment.” “Good” stocks are those of either (1) leading companies with satisfactory records, . . . or (2) any well-financed enterprise
believed to have especially attractive prospects of increased future earnings. . . . Balance-sheet values are considered to be entirely out of the
picture. Average [historical] earnings have little significance when there
is a marked trend. The so-called “price-earnings ratio” is applied variously,
sometimes to the past, sometimes to the present, and sometimes to the
near future. (p. 29)

This description might have been written today. So-called priceearnings ratios continue to dominate valuation discussions. They are
applied even more “variously” than in the past; now they include the
ratio of a stock’s price to its earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT)
and/or more perniciously the ratio of a stock’s price to its earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). Balance
sheets are once again almost “entirely out of the picture.” Today, as in
1934, a “thorough” analysis of intrinsic value encompassing all the relevant information remains the exception rather than the rule.

[538]

Introduction to Part VI

With respect to the balance sheet, Graham and Dodd describe four
fundamental areas of usefulness. First, the balance sheet identifies the
quantity and nature of resources tied up in a business. For an economically
viable enterprise, these resources are the basis of its returns. In a competitive environment, a firm without resources cannot generally expect to earn
any significant profits. If an enterprise is not economically viable, then the
balance sheet can be used to identify the resources that can be recovered
in liquidation and how much cash the resources might return.
Second, the resources on a balance sheet provide a basis for analyzing the nature and stability of sources of income. As Graham and Dodd
note,
There are indeed certain presumptions in favor of purchases far below
asset value and against those made at a high premium above it. . . . A
business that sells at a premium does so because it earns a large return
upon its capital; this large return attracts competition, and, generally
speaking, it is not likely to continue indefinitely. Conversely, in the case
of a business selling at a large discount because of abnormally low earnings. The absence of new competition, the withdrawal of old competition
from the field and other natural economic forces may tend eventually to
improve the situation and restore a normal rate of profit on the investment. (pp. 557–558)

Here, they recognize that earnings on assets that are well in excess of
a company’s cost of capital will be sustainable only under special circumstances. Thus, earnings estimates will be more realistic and accurate if
they are supported by appropriate asset values. Earnings without such
support are likely to be of short duration and, thus, of less value than
earnings protected by the necessary returns on assets in place.
Third, the liabilities side of the balance sheet, which identifies sources
of funding, describes the financial condition of the firm. A high level of
short-term debt (or long-term debt that expires in the near future) indi-

Bruce Greenwald

[539]

cates a possibility of debilitating financial distress. Under these circumstances, even a slight impairment in profits may lead to significant permanent loss in the value of a business.
Fourth, the evolution of the balance sheet over time provides a check
on the quality of earnings. Today, this is covered, in principle, by the
statement of cash flows, which should reconcile revenue and cost flows
with changes in overall financial position. However, it remains true, as
Graham and Dodd noted, that
the form of the balance sheet is better standardized than the income
statement [or the statement of cash flows] and it does not offer such frequent grounds for criticism. (p. 93)

A balance sheet is a snapshot of a company’s assets and liabilities at
a particular time. It can be checked for accuracy and value at that
moment. This places significant constraints on the degree to which the
assets and liabilities can be manipulated. In contrast, flow variables such
as revenue and earnings measure changes over time that by their nature
are evanescent. If they are to be monitored, they must be monitored
over an extended period. In 1934, and today, this fundamental difference
accounts for the superior reliability (in theory) of balance sheet figures.
Indeed, as we will discuss later, while the stock market was celebrating
WorldCom’s earnings growth in the late 1990s, signs of financial stress
were already showing up in the balance sheet, stresses that would eventually lead to one of the largest bankruptcies in history as measured by
the face value of the company’s debts.

Thorough Analysis
The special importance that Graham and Dodd placed on balance sheet
valuations remains one of their most important contributions to the idea
of what constitutes a “thorough” analysis of intrinsic value. It is also,

[540]

Introduction to Part VI

unfortunately, one of their most frequently overlooked contributions
outside the relatively small community of value investors.
The reason that the balance sheet is often ignored goes back to the
times that produced Security Analysis. Back then, the economy and businesses were operating under severely depressed conditions. As a result,
Graham and Dodd went to balance sheets to determine liquidation values
or, as a proxy for these, current assets minus all liabilities. The logic behind
this predisposition was compelling and conservative. If a company could be
bought at a price well below its liquidation value, then it seemed unambiguously to be a bargain. Earnings could pick up because of either an
improvement in a firm’s industry environment (competition eases or
demand recovers) or better management. If the earnings improvement produced a market value above liquidation value, all well and good. On the
other hand, if such positive earnings developments failed to materialize and
if this happened before the liquidation value of the firm was significantly
damaged, then the company could be liquidated and the proceeds distributed to its shareholders. In either case, the shareholders who bought below
liquidation value would earn a “satisfactory return” on their investment.
The only risk, of which Graham and Dodd were well aware, was that
management would continue to operate the firm unprofitably and, in
the process, dissipate the value of the assets. Thus, they advocated their
own version of shareholder activism as a necessary complement to this
kind of investing. As they wrote,
The choice of a common stock is a single act; its ownership is a continuing process. Certainly there is just as much reason to exercise care and
judgment in being a stockholder as in becoming a stockholder. It is a
notorious fact, however, that the typical American stockholder is the
most docile and apathetic animal in captivity. (p. 575)

Taken as a whole, this approach was unimpeachable and, in its time,
successful in practice.

Bruce Greenwald

[541]

Since then the practice of buying below liquidation value has been
undermined by two factors. First, the rapid rise in tax rates post-1940 has
meant that strategies like this one, which have often involved realizing
short-term gains over relatively short periods, have incurred high tax
costs. Second, and more importantly, opportunities to buy stocks at
prices below liquidation value, which were abundant in the 1930s, have
effectively disappeared in the long-term prosperity that has followed.
Relatively few industries in recent times have become economically nonviable and hence candidates for liquidation. This reality has been embodied in the general level of stock prices, with the result that Graham and
Dodd’s much beloved “net nets”—that is, companies selling below the
value of their current assets less all liabilities—are rare. And, when net
nets are available, their second requirement—namely, that management
not be dissipating those assets at a rapid rate—is seldom met.
However, the broader lessons that led Graham and Dodd to focus on
the balance sheets of firms continue to apply, with extensions that are
much within the spirit of their original approach. First, it is now recognized that for economically viable firms, assets wear out or become
obsolete and have to be replaced. Thus, replacement value—the lowest
possible cost of reproducing a firm’s net assets by the competitors who
are best positioned to do it—continues to serve the role that Graham
and Dodd recognized. If projected profit levels for a firm imply a return
on assets well above the cost of capital, then competitors will be drawn
in. That, in turn, will drive down profits and with them the value of the
firm. Thus, earnings power unsupported by asset values—measured as
reproduction values—will, absent special circumstances, always be at risk
from erosion due to competition. Both “safety of principal” and the
promise of “a satisfactory return,” therefore, require that “thorough”
investors support their earnings projections with a careful assessment of
the replacement values of a firm’s assets. Investors who do this will have

[542]

Introduction to Part VI

an advantage over those who do not, and they should outperform these
less thorough investors in the long run.
What appears to have deterred Graham and Dodd from considering
the replacement value of assets was the potential difficulty of calculating
them. They chose to focus on the wealth of new financial information
made available through the establishment of the Securities and
Exchange Commission. With today’s computers, that information can be
obtained and digested almost instantaneously. Moreover, industry
reports and trade publications, many of them available online, provide a
wealth of information on asset values that was inconceivable to Graham
and Dodd.
For example, the cost estimates of adding to existing reserves of oil
and gas are widely available, at least for U.S. companies. So are estimates
of recoverable deposits. As a result, investors today can calculate the values of resource companies’ holdings with a precision that was unattainable in the authors’ time. Physical property and equipment can also be
valued with a higher degree of accuracy. For real estate, assessors with
access to extensive transactions data can quickly and cheaply estimate
the cost of purchasing comparable properties.
For other plant and equipment, consulting engineers and industry
experts can provide this information. Using these sources, the cost of
adding aluminum fabricating capacity to existing plants could be estimated at about $1,000 per ton per year. Existing capacity was available
to handle any foreseeable demand. The then current earnings of aluminum fabricators lead to market valuations which implied that their
existing capacity was worth well in excess of $1,000 per ton per year. The
result: a race to build new capacity to take advantage of the potential
earnings to be had in the fabricating business. This overexpansion
resulted in falling earnings and lower stock prices. Such companies
proved to be unsatisfactory investments. You could have anticipated this
development only through a thorough analysis of the balance sheet.

Bruce Greenwald

[543]

Another area of difficulty that Graham and Dodd recognized was the
valuation of intangible assets—product portfolios, customer relationships, trained workers, brand recognition—many of which do not even
appear on a firm’s balance sheet. But today available information sometimes allows these balance sheet items to be usefully estimated. Some of
this information comes from financial statements. For example, the cost
of replicating product portfolios, assuming these are not protected by
patents, can be estimated using historical research and development
data both from a company itself or other companies in its industry.
This analysis can be supplemented by expert information. Investment
initiatives—whether new products, new store openings, or brand
launches—are almost always based on detailed business plans. These
plans identify the costs of such initiatives with reasonable accuracy and
the benefits more fancifully. Investors can use these data to estimate the
cost of producing intangible assets. Industry managers with substantial
experience will be able to estimate such costs.
More importantly, many intangible assets trade just like real property.
Cable franchises, clothing brands, new drug discoveries, store chains,
and even music labels are bought by sophisticated buyers (usually larger
companies) from sophisticated sellers (usually smaller companies). The
prices paid in these private market transactions are presumably made
with the alternative cost of internal development in mind. Thus, if a company like Liz Claiborne buys a brand that is similar to its own in-house
brands for 50 cents per dollar of sales, then presumably this is reasonably close—but lower than—the cost of reproducing its own brands.
These private market values are often used by sophisticated investors to
price intangible assets.
Once a thorough analysis of asset and earnings power value is complete, there are three possible situations. The first is one in which the asset
value of a company exceeds the value of its foreseeable earnings. That tells
you the assets are not being used to full advantage by management. Here,

[544]

Introduction to Part VI

the critical factor for value investors is the prospect of some catalyst that
will alter either the behavior or identity of current management. Graham
and Dodd were aware of this although they were not cognizant of the
range of interventions available to activist investors today.
A second possibility is that earnings power may exceed the asset
value of a company. To maintain those superior profits, there needs to be
some economic factors to protect the firm from competition. Today,
these factors are referred to as “moats,” franchises, barriers to entry, or
competitive advantages. What they look like and how they can be
assessed is an essential part of modern income statement analysis.
However, even in this case where asset values are least relevant, they do
provide useful information about the value a firm will retain if the factors
erode in the future.
The third case is one in which the earnings power and asset value of
a firm are approximately equal. This is the circumstance that should hold
with reasonable management and no special protections from competition. If qualitative judgments support such conclusions, then the asset
value provides a critical check on the validity of earnings projections. A
thorough asset valuation then helps to provide a complete picture of
what an investor is getting for a security and helps that investor settle
with confidence on an appropriate margin of safety.
Beyond these specific uses of asset valuations in current practice,
there is one final inescapable area in which asset values must be used.
Firms often have some assets—most notably cash—that are superfluous
to the operation of their basic businesses. Such assets do not usually
contribute to operating earnings, but they may represent an important
part of the intrinsic value of a purchased security. The value of these
assets must be added to any earnings-based value estimate (after appropriate subtraction of their interest income so as not to double count).
Performing a comprehensive asset valuation ensures that they are not
forgotten.

Bruce Greenwald

[545]

WorldCom: A Case Study
The financial statements of WorldCom, the telecom giant whose
bankruptcy filing in the summer of 2002 was at its time the largest ever,
illustrate the usefulness of a balance sheet analysis for tracking the
financial condition of companies. Indeed, anyone who had been studying
the balance sheet in the few years ahead of the bankruptcy would have
suspected the company would come to no good end. For instance, in the
middle of 1999, WorldCom had an equity market value of $125 billion.
This compared to a year-end 1999 book value of $51.2 billion, which had
been created almost entirely by issuing shares for acquisitions, notably
$12 billion for MFS Communications in 1996 and $30 billion for MCI in
1997. Retained earnings over the company’s 15-year history were negligible, so over 85% of the book value was goodwill and other intangibles.
The ratio of market value to tangible net equity was in excess of 15. Such
ratios will vary by industry, but in this case, 15 is ridiculously high.
How valuable were those intangibles? Not worth as much as the
company said because they included neither significant patents nor
developed process technologies. Even more important, WorldCom’s business was characterized by high rates of customer churn and vigorous
price competition for its telecommunications and data transmission services. Nor did there appear to be large barriers to entry that might have
supported a market value significantly in excess of reproduction value,
or what it would cost to reproduce the network. WorldCom’s markets
were characterized by many new entrants (including those companies
acquired by WorldCom) and vigorous expansion by powerful existing
competitors like AT&T. If anything, to the extent that economies of scale
were relevant, WorldCom would have been operating at a significant
competitive disadvantage to its larger competitor, AT&T.
However, what is more remarkable than the improbable market value
placed on WorldCom’s assets is the detailed story told by the evolution

[546]

Introduction to Part VI

of its balance sheet. From year-end 1999 to year-end 2000, net property,
plant, and equipment increased by 27%, or about $8 billion. In contrast,
revenues increased by only 8%. That raised the question, why was such
an aggressive investment program underway at the company? In fact,
the investment figures turned out to have been fraudulently inflated by
booking operating expenses as investments. However, even if they had
not been fraudulent, the aggressive acceleration in property, plant, and
equipment growth (up from about $5 billion in 1999) in the face of
decelerating revenue growth should have raised questions about the
management’s judgment. The likelihood of a bad outcome from this
insouciant attitude toward overexpansion should have been apparent.
Over the course of 2001, these consequences became clearly evident.
During 2001, WorldCom’s short-term debt almost entirely disappeared as
current debt liabilities fell from $7.2 billion to $172 million. In marked
contrast, long-term debt rose by about $12.5 billion. In fact, it actually
increased by about $14 billion since an examination of the balance sheet
footnotes indicated that more than $1 billion of additional long-term
debt had disappeared by the accounting expedient of deconsolidating
the subsidiary responsible for that debt. The fact that, in the face of nowdeclining revenues, WorldCom felt that it needed an additional $7 billion
in debt financing—all of it long term—should have set off an alarm with
any investor who bothered to look at the balance sheet.
What happened? In 2000, WorldCom’s management lost control of its
finances, making at best a highly risky bet on future revenue growth and
at worst a calculated effort to disguise deteriorating operating margins
by capitalizing expenses. In 2001, WorldCom scrambled for long-term
financing, by which the company hoped to give management many
years to solve problems. There was really no choice since attempting to
sell equity in the face of a falling stock price would have sent a disastrous
signal to the market. The primary vehicle WorldCom used was an

Bruce Greenwald

[547]

$11.9 billion debt sale to the public in May 2001, underwritten by financial institutions that justified the issue in terms of future earnings and
cash flow.
If these institutions and their customers had followed Graham’s advice
to look carefully at the WorldCom balance sheet, they would have known
better. They might not have fully anticipated the fraud and subsequent
bankruptcy of WorldCom, but they would have seen enough to avoid
both its stock and bonds as investments unlikely to provide either protection of principal or promise of a satisfactory return.

Chapter 42

BALANCE-SHEET ANALYSIS.
SIGNIFICANCE OF BOOK VALUE

ON NUMEROUS OCCASIONS prior to this point we have expressed our
conviction that the balance sheet deserves more attention than Wall Street
has been willing to accord it for many years past. By way of introduction
to this section of our work, let us list five types of information and guidance that the investor may derive from a study of the balance sheet:
1. It shows how much capital is invested in the business.
2. It reveals the ease or stringency of the company’s financial condition, i.e.,
the working-capital position.
3. It contains the details of the capitalization structure.
4. It provides an important check upon the validity of the reported earnings.
5. It supplies the basis for analyzing the sources of income.

In dealing with the first of these functions of the balance sheet, we
shall begin by presenting certain definitions. The book value of a stock is
the value of the assets applicable thereto as shown in the balance sheet. It
is customary to restrict this value to the tangible assets, i.e., to eliminate
from the calculation such items as good-will, trade names, patents, franchises, leaseholds. The book value is also referred to as the “asset value,”
and sometimes as the “tangible-asset value,” to make clear that intangibles are not included. In the case of common stocks, it is also frequently
termed the “equity.”

Computation of Book Value. The book value per share of a common
stock is found by adding up all the tangible assets, subtracting all liabilities
and stock issues ahead of the common and then dividing by the number
of shares.

[548]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[549]

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

In many cases the following formula will be found to furnish a short
cut to the answer:
Book Value per share of common
Common Stock  Surplus Items  Intangibles
 ___________________________________
Number of shares outstanding

By Surplus Items are meant not only items clearly marked as surplus but
also premiums on capital stock and such reserves as are really part of the
surplus. This would include, for example, reserves for preferred-stock
retirement, for plant improvement, and for contingencies (unless known
to be actually needed). Reserves of this character may be termed “Voluntary Reserves.”
CALCULATION OF BOOK VALUE OF UNITED STATES STEEL COMMON ON DECEMBER 31, 1938
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET DECEMBER 31, 1938 (IN MILLIONS)

Assets
1. Property Investment Account
(less depreciation) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Mining Royalties . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Deferred Charges* . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4. Miscellaneous Investments . . . . .
5. Miscellaneous Other Assets . . . .
6. Current Assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Liabilities

$1,166
9
4
19
3
510

7. Common Stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8. Preferred Stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9. Subsidiary Stocks Publicly Held
10. Bonded Debt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
11. Mining Royalty Notes . . . . . . .
12. Current Liabilities . . . . . . . . . . .
13. Contingency and Other Reserves
14. Insurance Reserves . . . . . . . . . .
15. Capital Surplus . . . . . . . . . . . . .
16. Earned Surplus . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$1,711
Tangible assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Less: All liabilities ahead of common (Sum of items 8–12) . . . . . . . .
Net assets for common stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Book value per share (on 8,700,000 shares). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$653
360
5
232
12
79
39
46
38
247
$1,711

$1,711,000,000
688,000,000
$1,023,000,000
$117.59

* Considerable argument could be staged over the question whether Deferred Charges are intangible or tangible assets, but

as the amount involved is almost always small, the matter has no practical importance. It is more convenient, of course, to
include the Deferred Charges with the other assets.

The alternative method of computation, which is usually shorter than
the foregoing, is as follows:

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[550]

Common stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Surplus and voluntary reserves (Sum of items 13–16) . . . . . . . . . .
Net assets for common stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$653,000,000
370,000,000
$1,023,000,000

Treatment of Preferred Stock When Calculating Book Value of
Common. In calculating the assets available for the common stock, care
must be taken to subtract preferred stock at its proper valuation. Ordinarily, this will be the par or stated value of the preferred stock as it
appears in the balance sheet. But there is a growing number of cases in
which preferred stock is carried in the balance sheet at arbitrary values
far lower than the real liability attaching thereto.
Island Creek Coal Company has a preferred stock of $1 par, which is
entitled to annual dividends of $6 and to $120 per share in the event of
dissolution. In 1939 the price of this issue ruled about 120. In the calculation of the asset value of Island Creek Coal Common the preferred stock
should be deducted not at $1 per share but at $100 per share, its “true” or
“effective” par, or else at 120. Capital Administration Company, Ltd., an
investment trust, has outstanding preferred stock entitled to $3 cumulative dividends and to $50 or $55 in liquidation, but its par value is $10. It
has also a Class A stock entitled to $20 in liquidation plus 70% of the assets
remaining and to 70% of the earnings paid out after preferred dividends,
but the par value of this issue is $1. Finally it has Class B stock, par 1 cent,
entitled to the residue of earnings and assets. Obviously a balance sheet
set up on the basis of par value is worse than meaningless in this case, and
it must be corrected by the analyst somewhat as follows:
BALANCE SHEET DECEMBER 31, 1938

As published
Total assets (at cost)
Payables and accruals
Preferred stock (at par $10)
Class A stock (at par $1)
Common stock (at par 1 cent)
Surplus and reserves
Total liabilities

As revised
$5,335,300
1,661,200
434,000
143,400
2,400
3,094,300
$5,335,300

* These approximate the effective par values of the issues.

(at mkt.)
(at 55*)
(at 20*)

$5,862,500
1,661,200
2,387,000
2,868,000
1,043,600(d)
$5,862,600

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[551]

Coca-Cola Company has outstanding a no-par Class A stock entitled
to preferential dividends of $3 per share, cumulative, and redeemable at 55.
The company carries this issue as a liability at its “stated value” of $5 per
share. But the true par value is clearly $50.1
In all instances such as the above an “effective par value” must be set up
for the preferred stock that will correspond properly to its dividend rate.
A strong argument may be advanced in favor of valuing all preferred stocks
on a uniform dividend basis, say 5%, unless callable at a lower figure.
This would mean that a $1,000,000 five per cent issue would be valued at
$1,000,000, a $1,000,000 four per cent issue would be given an effective
value of $800,000 and a $1,000,000 seven per cent noncallable issue would
be given an effective value of $1,400,000. But it is more convenient, of
course, to use the par value, and in most cases the result will be sufficiently
accurate.2 A simpler method, which would work well for most practical
purposes, is to value preferred issues at par (plus back dividends) or market, whichever is higher.

Calculation of Book Value of Preferred Stocks. In calculating the
book value of a preferred stock issue it is treated as a common stock and
the issues junior to it are left out of consideration. The following computations from the December 31, 1932, balance sheet of Tubize Chatillon
Corporation will illustrate the principles involved.

1 Amusingly enough, in 1929 the company carried as an asset 194,000 repurchased shares of
Class A stock at their cost of $9,434,000, although the entire issue of 1,000,000 shares
appeared as a liability of only $5,000,000. For a similar accounting absurdity applied to common stocks, see the June 1939 balance sheet of Hecker Products—on which its net stated liability for its capital stock works out as a minus figure.
2 Standard Statistics Company, Inc., follows the practice of deducting preferred stock at its

value in case of involuntary liquidation, when computing the book value of the common.
This is scarcely logical, because dissolution or liquidation is almost always a remote contingency and would take place under conditions quite different from those obtaining at the
time of analysis. The Standard Statistics Company method results in placing a “value” of
$115 per share on Procter and Gamble Company $5 Second Preferred and a value of only
$100 per share on the same company’s $8 First Preferred. The real or practical value of the
preferred stockholder’s claims in this case would be much nearer in the proportion of 160
for the First Preferred against 100 for the Second Preferred, a 5% dividend yield basis for
both. In the case of investment-trust issues, liquidation values of preferred issues are more
relevant and should generally be used.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[552]

TUBIZE CHATILLON CORPORATION BALANCE SHEET, DECEMBER 31, 1932

Assets

Liabilities

Property and
Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $19,009,000
Patents, Processes, etc. . . . . . . .
802,000
Miscellaneous Assets . . . . . . . .
478,000
Current Assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4,258,000

7% First Preferred Stock
(par $100) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 2,500,000
$7 Second Preferred Stock
(par $1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
136,000
Common Stock (par $1) . . . . .
294,000
Bonded Debt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2,000,000
Current Liabilities . . . . . . . . . . .
613,000
Reserve for Depreciation, etc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11,456,000
Surplus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7,548,000
Total Liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . $24,547,000

Total Assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $24,547,000

The book value of the First Preferred is computed as follows:
Total Assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Less: Intangible Assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reserve for Depreciation, etc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Current Liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Net assets for First Preferred . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Book value per share . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$24,547,000
802,000
11,456,000
2,000,000
613,000

14,871,000
$ 9,676,000
$387

Alternative method:
Capital Stock at par . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Surplus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Less Intangible Assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Net assets for First Preferred . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$2,930,000
7,548,000
$10,478,000
802,000
$9,676,000

The Reserve for Depreciation and Miscellaneous Purposes was very
large and might have included arbitrary allowances belonging in Surplus.
But in the absence of details a reserve of this kind must be deducted from
the assets. (It later transpired that a substantial part of the reserve was
needed to absorb a write-off of plant abandoned owing to obsolescence.)
The book value of the Second Preferred stock is readily computed
from the foregoing, as follows:

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[553]

Net assets for First Preferred . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $9,676,000
Less: First Preferred at par . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,500,000
Net assets for Second Preferred . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $7,176,000
Book value per share . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
$52.75

In computing the book value of the common it would be an obvious
error to deduct the Second Preferred at its nonrepresentative par value of
$1. The “effective par” should be taken at not less than $100 per share, in
view of the $7 dividend. Hence there are no assets available for the common stock, and its book value is nil.

Current-asset Value and Cash-asset Value. In addition to the wellknown concept of book value, we wish to suggest two others of similar
character, viz., current-asset value and cash-asset value.
The current-asset value of a stock consists of the current assets alone,
minus all liabilities and claims ahead of the issue. It excludes not only the
intangible assets but the fixed and miscellaneous assets as well.
The cash-asset value of a stock consists of the cash assets alone, minus
all liabilities and claims ahead of the issue.3 Cash assets, other than cash
itself, are defined as those directly equivalent to and held in place of cash.
They include certificates of deposit, call loans, marketable securities at
market value and cash-surrender value of insurance policies.
The following is an example of the computation of the three categories
of asset value:
OTIS COMPANY (COTTON GOODS) BALANCE SHEET, JUNE 29, 1929

Assets
1. Cash . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Call Loans . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Accounts Receivable
(less reserve) . . . . . . . . . . .
4. Inventory (less reserve of
$425,000)* . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5. Prepaid Items . . . . . . . . . .
6. Investments . . . . . . . . . . . .
7. Plant (less Depreciation) .

Liabilities
$532,000
1,200,000
1,090,000
1,648,000
108,000
15,000
3,564,000
$8,157,000

8. Accounts Payable . . . . . . .
9. Accrued Items, etc. . . . . . .
10. Reserve for
Equipment, etc . . . . . . . . .
11. Preferred Stock . . . . . . . . .
12. Common Stock . . . . . . . . .
13. Earned Surplus . . . . . . . . .
14. Paid-in Surplus . . . . . . . . .

$79,000
291,000
210,000
400,000
4,079,000
1,944,000
1,154,000
$8,157,000

* Inventories before reserves are valued at cost or market, whichever is lower.
3 Cash assets per share of common are sometimes calculated without deduction of any liabilities. In our opinion this is a useful concept only when the other current assets exceed all
liabilities ahead of the common.

[554]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

A. Calculation of book value of common stock:
Total assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Less: Payables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accrued items . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Preferred stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Add voluntary reserve of $425,000
subtracted from inventory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Net assets for common stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Book value per share (on 40,790 shares) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
B. Calculation of current-asset value of the common stock:
Total current assets (items 1,2,3, and 4). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Add voluntary reserve against inventory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$8,157,000
$ 79,000
291,000
400,000

770,000
$7,387,000
425,000
$7,812,000
$191

Less liabilities ahead of common (items 8, 9, and 11) . . . . . .
Current assets available for common . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Current-asset value per share . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$4,470,000
425,000
$4,895,000
770,000
$4,125,000
$101

C. Calculation of cash-asset value of the common stock:
Total cash assets (items 1 and 2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Less liabilities ahead of common (items 8, 9, and 11) . . . . . .
Cash assets available for common. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cash-asset value per share . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$1,732,000
770,000
$ 962,000
$23.50

In these calculations it will be noted, first, that the inventory is
increased by restoring the reserve of $425,000 subtracted therefrom in
the balance sheet. This is done because the deduction taken by the company is clearly a reserve for contingent decline in value that has not yet
taken place. As such it is entirely arbitrary or voluntary, and consistency
of method would require the analyst to regard it as a surplus item. The
same is true of the $210,000 “Reserve for Equipment and Other
Expenses,” which, as far as can be seen, represents neither an actual liability nor a necessary deduction from the value of any specific asset.
In June 1929 Otis Company common stock was selling at 35. The
reader will observe an extraordinary divergence between this market
price and the current-asset value of the shares. Its significance will engage
our attention later.

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[555]

Practical Significance of Book Value. The book value of a common
stock was originally the most important element in its financial exhibit. It
was supposed to show “the value” of the shares in the same way as a merchant’s balance sheet shows him the value of his business. This idea has
almost completely disappeared from the financial horizon. The value of a
company’s assets as carried in its balance sheet has lost practically all its
significance. This change arose from the fact, first, that the value of the
fixed assets, as stated, frequently bore no relationship to the actual cost
and, secondly, that in an even larger proportion of cases these values bore
no relationship to the figure at which they would be sold or the figure
which would be justified by the earnings. The practice of inflating the book
value of the fixed property is giving way to the opposite artifice of cutting
it down to nothing in order to avoid depreciation charges, but both have
the same consequence of depriving the book-value figures of any real significance. It is a bit strange, like a quaint survival from the past, that the
leading statistical services still maintain the old procedure of calculating
the book value per share of common stock from many, perhaps most, balance sheets that they publish.
Before we discard completely this time-honored conception of book
value, let us ask if it may ever have practical significance for the analyst. In
the ordinary case, probably not. But what of the extraordinary or extreme
case? Let us consider the four exhibits shown on p. 556, as representative
of extreme relationships between book value and market price.
No thoughtful observer could fail to be impressed by the disparities
revealed in the examples given. In the case of General Electric and Commercial Solvents the figures proclaim more than the bare fact that the market was valuing the shares at many times their book value. The stock ticker
seems here to register an aggregate valuation for these enterprises that is
totally unrelated to their standing as ordinary business enterprises. In
other words, these are in no sense business valuations; they are products
of Wall Street’s legerdemain, or possibly of its clairvoyance.
Financial Reasoning vs. Business Reasoning. We have here the point
that brings home more strikingly perhaps than any other the widened rift
between financial thought and ordinary business thought. It is an almost
unbelievable fact that Wall Street never asks, “How much is the business
selling for?” Yet this should be the first question in considering a stock
purchase. If a business man were offered a 5% interest in some concern
for $10,000, his first mental process would be to multiply the asked price

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[556]

by 20 and thus establish a proposed value of $200,000 for the entire
undertaking. The rest of his calculation would turn about the question
whether or not the business was a “good buy” at $200,000.
Item

General
Electric

Pepperell
Manufacturing

Price
Number of shares
Market value of common
Balance sheet
Fixed assets (less depreciation)
Miscellaneous assets
Net current assets
Total net assets
Less bonds and preferred
Book value of common
Book value per share

(1930) 95
28,850,000
$2,740,000,000
(Dec. 1929)
$ 52,000,000
183,000,000
206,000,000
$ 441,000,000
45,000,000
$ 396,000,000
$13.75

(1932) 18
97,600
$ 1,760,000
(June 1932)
$ 7,830,000
230,000
9,120,000
$17,180,000

Item

Commercial
Solvents

Pennsylvania
Coal and Coke

(July 1933) 57
2,493,000
$142,000,000
(Dec. 1932)

(July 1933) 3
165,000
$ 495,000
(Dec. 1932)
6,500,000
990,000
740,000
$8,230,000
$50

Price
Number of shares
Market value of common
Balance sheet
Fixed assets (less depreciation)
Miscellaneous assets
Net current assets
Total assets for common
Book value per share

2,600,000
6,000,000
$ 8,600,000
$3.50

$17,180,000
$176

This elementary and indispensable approach has been practically abandoned by those who purchase stocks. Of the thousands who “invested” in
General Electric in 1929–1930 probably only an infinitesimal number had
any idea that they were paying on the basis of about 21/2 billions of dollars
for the company, of which over two billions represented a premium above
the money actually invested in the business. The price of 57 established for
Commercial Solvents in July 1933 was more of a gambling phenomenon,

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[557]

induced by the expected repeal of prohibition. But the gamblers in this
instance were acting no differently from those who call themselves investors,
in their blithe disregard of the fact that they were paying 140 millions for
an enterprise with about 10 millions of resources. (The fixed assets of
Commercial Solvents, written down to nothing in the balance sheet, had
real value, of course, but not in excess of a few millions.)
The contrast in the other direction shown by our examples is almost
as impressive. A going but unsuccessful concern like Pennsylvania Coal
and Coke can be valued in the market at about one-sixteenth of its stated
resources almost on the same day as a speculatively attractive issue is bid
for at sixteen times its net worth. The Pepperell example is perhaps more
striking still, because of the unquestioned reality of the figures of book
value and also because of the high reputation, large earnings, and liberal
dividends of the enterprise covering a long stretch of years. Yet part owners of this business—under the stress of depression, it is true—were willing to sell out their interest at one-tenth of the value that a single private
owner would have unhesitatingly placed upon it.
Recommendation. These examples, extreme as they are, suggest rather
forcibly that the book value deserves at least a fleeting glance by the public before it buys or sells shares in a business undertaking. In any particular case the message that the book value conveys may well prove to be
inconsequential and unworthy of attention. But this testimony should be
examined before it is rejected. Let the stock buyer, if he lays any claim to
intelligence, at least be able to tell himself, first, what value he is actually
setting on the business and, second, what he is actually getting for his
money in terms of tangible resources.
There are indeed certain presumptions in favor of purchases made far
below asset value and against those made at a high premium above it. (It
is assumed that in the ordinary case the book figures may be accepted as
roughly indicative of the actual cash invested in the enterprise.) A business that sells at a premium does so because it earns a large return upon
its capital; this large return attracts competition, and, generally speaking,
it is not likely to continue indefinitely. Conversely in the case of a business selling at a large discount because of abnormally low earnings. The
absence of new competition, the withdrawal of old competition from the
field, and other natural economic forces may tend eventually to improve
the situation and restore a normal rate of profit on the investment.

[558]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Although this is orthodox economic theory, and undoubtedly valid in
a broad sense, we doubt if it applies with sufficient certainty and celerity
to make it useful as a governing factor in common-stock selection. It may
be pointed out that under modern conditions the so-called “intangibles,”
e.g., good-will or even a highly efficient organization, are every whit as real
from a dollars-and-cents standpoint as are buildings and machinery.4
Earnings based on these intangibles may be even less vulnerable to competition than those which require only a cash investment in productive
facilities. Furthermore, when conditions are favorable the enterprise with
the relatively small capital investment is likely to show a more rapid rate
of growth. Ordinarily it can expand its sales and profits at slight expense
and therefore more rapidly and profitably for its stockholders than a business requiring a large plant investment per dollar of sales.
We do not think, therefore, that any rules may reasonably be laid down
on the subject of book value in relation to market price, except the strong
recommendation already made that the purchaser know what he is doing
on this score and be satisfied in his own mind that he is acting sensibly.

4 Judicial valuations of intangible assets (in the case of close corporations) still seem to
adhere to the old concept that they are less “real” than tangible assets and thus need larger
earnings, relatively, to support them. The divergence between the stock market’s bases of valuation and those of business men and the courts, as applied to private enterprises, would
provide excellent material for a critical study.
For a quantitative study leading to the conclusion that “good-will” has, on the whole,
proved more profitable than tangible assets, see Lawrence N. Bloomberg, The Investment
Value of Goodwill, Baltimore, 1938.

Chapter 43

SIGNIFICANCE OF THE
CURRENT-ASSET VALUE

THE CURRENT-ASSET VALUE of a common stock is more likely to be an
important figure than the book value, which includes the fixed assets.
Our discussion of this point will develop the following theses:
1. The current-asset value is generally a rough index of the liquidating value.
2. A large number of common stocks sell for less than their currentasset value and therefore sell below the amount realizable in liquidation.
3. The phenomenon of many stocks selling persistently below their
liquidating value is fundamentally illogical. It means that a serious error
is being committed, either: (a) in the judgment of the stock market, (b)
in the policies of the company’s management, or (c) in the attitude of the
stockholders toward their property.

Liquidating Value. By the liquidating value of an enterprise we mean
the money that the owners could get out of it if they wanted to give it
up. They might sell all or part of it to some one else, on a going-concern
basis. Or else they might turn the various kinds of assets into cash, in
piecemeal fashion, taking whatever time is needed to obtain the best
realization from each. Such liquidations are of everyday occurrence in
the field of private business. By contrast, however, they are very rare
indeed in the field of publicly owned corporations. It is true that one
company often sells out to another, usually at a price well above liquidating value, also that insolvency will at times result in the piecemeal
sale of the assets; but the voluntary withdrawal from an unprofitable
business, accompanied by the careful liquidation of the assets, is an infinitely more frequent happening among private than among publicly
owned concerns. This divergence is not without its cause and meaning,
as we shall show later.
[559]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[560]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Realizable Value of Assets Varies with Their Character. A company’s balance sheet does not convey exact information as to its value in
liquidation, but it does supply clues or hints which may prove useful. The
first rule in calculating liquidating value is that the liabilities are real but
the value of the assets must be questioned. This means that all true
liabilities shown on the books must be deducted at their face amount. The
value to be ascribed to the assets, however, will vary according to their
character. The following schedule indicates fairly well the relative dependability of various types of assets in liquidation.
% of liquidating value to book value
Type of asset
Current assets:
Cash assets (including securities at market)
Receivables (less usual reserves)*
Inventories (at lower of cost or market)
Fixed and miscellaneous assets:
(Real estate, buildings, machinery, equipment,
nonmarketable investments, intangibles, etc.)

Normal range

Rough average

100
75–90
50–75

100
80
662/3

1–50

15 (approx.)

* Note: Retail installment accounts must be valued for liquidation at a lower rate. Range about 30 to 60%. Average about 50%.

Calculation Illustrated. The calculation of approximate liquidating
value in a specific case is illustrated as follows:
Example: White Motor Company. (See next page.)
Object of This Calculation. In studying this computation it must be
borne in mind that our object is not to determine the exact liquidating value
of White Motor but merely to form a rough idea of this liquidating value in
order to ascertain whether or not the shares are selling for less than the stockholders could actually take out of the business. The latter question is answered
very definitely in the affirmative. With full allowance for possible error, there
was no doubt at all (in 1931) that White Motor would liquidate for a great
deal more than $8 per share, or $5,200,000 for the company. The striking
fact that the cash assets alone considerably exceed this figure, after deducting all liabilities, completely clinched the argument on this score.
Current-asset Value a Rough Measure of Liquidating Value. The estimated values in liquidation as given for White Motor are somewhat lower

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[561]

in respect of inventories and somewhat higher as regards the fixed and miscellaneous assets than one might be inclined to adopt in other examples. We
are allowing for the fact that motor-truck inventories are likely to be less salable than the average. On the other hand some of the assets listed as noncurrent, in particular the investment in White Motor Securities Corporation,
WHITE MOTOR COMPANY

Capitalization: 650,000 shares of common stock.
Price in December 1931: $8 per share.
Total market value of the company: $5,200,000.
BALANCE SHEET, DECEMBER 31, 1931 (000 OMITTED)

Estimated liquidating value
% of book
value

Item

Book value

Cash
U.S. Govt. and New York City bonds
Receivables (less reserves)
Inventory (lower of cost or market)

$ 4,057
4,573
5,611
9,219

Total current assets
Less current liabilities

$23,460
1,353

$17,700
1,400

Net current assets
Plant account
Less depreciation

$22,107
16,036
7,491

$16,300

Plant account, net
Investments in subsidiaries, etc.
Deferred charges
Good-will

$ 8,545
4,996
388
5,389

Total net assets for common stock

$41,425

Estimated liquidating value per share
Book value per share
Current-asset value per share
Cash-asset value per share
Market price per share

100
80
50

20

Amount

$ 8,600
4,500
4,600

4,000

$20,300
$31
55
34
$11
8

[562]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

would be likely to yield a larger proportion of their book values than the
ordinary property account. It will be seen that White Motor’s estimated
liquidating value (about $31 per share) was not far from the current-asset
value ($34 per share). In the typical case it may be said that the noncurrent
assets are likely to realize enough to make up most of the shrinkage suffered
in the liquidation of the current assets. Hence our first thesis, viz., that the
current-asset value affords a rough measure of the liquidating value.

Prevalence of Stocks Selling below Liquidating Value. Our second point is that for some years past a considerable number of common
stocks have been selling in the market well below their liquidating value.
Naturally the percentage was largest during the depression. But even in
the bull market of 1926–1929 instances of this kind were by no means
rare. It will be noted that the striking case of Otis Company, presented in
the last chapter, occurred during June 1929, at the very height of the
boom. The Northern Pipe Line example, given in Chap. 41, dates from
1926. On the other hand, our Pepperell and White Motor illustrations
were phenomena of the 1931–1933 collapse.
It seems to us that the most distinctive feature of the stock market of
those three years was the large proportion of issues which sold below their
liquidating value. Our computations indicate that over 40% of all the industrial companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange were quoted at
some time in 1932 at less than their net current assets. A considerable number actually sold for less than their cash-asset value, as in the case of White
Motor.1 On reflection this must appear to be an extraordinary state of
affairs. The typical American corporation was apparently worth more dead
than alive. The owners of these great businesses could get more for their
interest by shutting up shop than by selling out on a going-concern basis.
In the recession of 1937–1938 this situation was repeated on a smaller
scale. Available data indicate that 20.5% of the industrial companies listed
on the New York Stock Exchange sold in early 1938 at less than their
net-current-asset value. (At the close of 1938, when the general price level
was by no means abnormally low, a total of 54 companies out of 648
industrials studied sold for less than their net current assets.2)
1 See Appendix Note 62, p. 814 on accompanying CD, for a representative list of issues selling for less than liquidating value in 1932.
2 See Appendix Note 61, p. 800 on accompanying CD, for other details on this point.

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[563]

It is important to observe that these widespread discrepancies between
price and current-asset value are a comparatively recent development. In
the severe market depression of 1921 the proportion of industrial stocks
in this class was quite small. Evidently the phenomena of 1932 (and 1938)
were the direct out-growth of the new-era doctrine which transferred all
the tests of value to the income account and completely ignored the balance-sheet picture. In consequence, a company without current earnings
was regarded as having very little real value, and it was likely to sell in the
market for the merest fraction of its realizable resources. Most of the sellers were not aware that they were disposing of their interest at far less than
its scrap value. Many, however, who might have known the fact would have
justified the low price on the ground that the liquidating value was of no
practical importance, since the company had no intention of liquidating.

Logical Significance of This Phenomenon. This brings us to the
third point, viz., the logical significance of this “subliquidating-value”
phenomenon from the standpoint of the market, of the managements and
of the stockholders. The whole issue may be summarized in the form of
a basic principle, viz.:
When a common stock sells persistently below its liquidating value, then
either the price is too low or the company should be liquidated.
Two corollaries may be deduced from this principle:
Corollary I. Such a price should impel the stockholders to raise the
question whether or not it is in their interest to continue the business.
Corollary II. Such a price should impel the management to take all
proper steps to correct the obvious disparity between market quotation and
intrinsic value, including a reconsideration of its own policies and a frank
justification to the stockholders of its decision to continue the business.
The truth of the principle above stated should be self-evident. There
can be no sound economic reason for a stock’s selling continuously below
its liquidation value. If the company is not worth more as a going concern
than in liquidation, it should be liquidated. If it is worth more as a going
concern, then the stock should sell for more than its liquidating value.
Hence, on either premise, a price below liquidating value is unjustifiable.
Twofold Application of Foregoing Principle. Stated in the form of a logical alternative, our principle invites a twofold application. Stocks selling
below liquidation value are in many cases too cheap and so offer an
attractive medium for purchase. We have thus a profitable field here for

[564]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

the technique of security analysis. But in many cases also the fact that an
issue sells below liquidating value is a signal that mistaken policies are
being followed and that therefore the management should take corrective action—if not voluntarily, then under pressure from the stockholders. Let us consider these two lines of inquiry in order.

ATTRACTIVENESS OF SUCH ISSUES
AS COMMITMENTS
Common stocks in this category practically always have an unsatisfactory trend of earnings. If the profits had been increasing steadily, it is
obvious that the shares would not sell at so low a price. The objection to
buying these issues lies in the probability, or at least the possibility, that
earnings will decline or losses continue and that the resources will be dissipated and the intrinsic value ultimately become less than the price paid.
It may not be denied that this does actually happen in individual cases.
On the other hand, there is a much wider range of potential developments
which may result in establishing a higher market price. These include the
following:
1. The creation of an earning power commensurate with the company’s
assets. This may result from:
a. General improvement in the industry.
b. Favorable change in the company’s operating policies, with or without a
change in management. These changes include more efficient methods,
new products, abandonment of unprofitable lines, etc.
2. A sale or merger, because some other concern is able to utilize the
resources to better advantage and hence can pay at least liquidating value
for the assets.
3. Complete or partial liquidation.

Examples of Effect of Favorable Developments on Such Issues.
General Improvement in the Industry. Examples already given, and certain others, will illustrate the operation of these various kinds of favorable developments. In the case of Pepperell the low price of 171/2
coincided with a large loss for the year ended June 30, 1932. In the following year conditions in the textile industry improved; Pepperell earned
over $9 per share and resumed dividends; consequently the price of the
stock advanced to 100 in January 1934 and to 1493/4 in 1936.

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[565]

Changes in Operating Policies. Hamilton Woolen Company, another
example in the textile field, is a case of individual rather than of general
improvement. For several years prior to 1928 the company had operated
at substantial losses, which amounted to nearly $20 and $12 per share in
1926 and 1927, respectively. Late in 1927 the common stock sold at $13
per share, although the company had net current assets of $38.50 per
share at that time. In 1928 and 1929 changes in management and in managerial policies were made, new lines of product and direct sales methods were introduced, and certain phases of production were reorganized.
This resulted in greatly improved earnings which averaged about $5.50
per share during the succeeding four years, and within a single year the
stock had risen to a price of about $40.3
Sale or Merger. The White Motor instance is typical of the genesis and
immediate effect of a sale or merger, as applied to an issue selling for less
than liquidating value. (The later developments, however, were quite
unusual.) The heavy losses of White Motor in 1930–1932 impelled the
management to seek a new alignment. Studebaker Corporation believed
it could combine its own operations with those of White to mutual advantage, and it was greatly attracted by White’s large holdings of cash. Hence
in September 1932 Studebaker offered to purchase all White Motor’s
stock, paying for each share as follows:
$5 in cash.
$25 in 10-year 6% notes of Studebaker Corporation.
1 share of Studebaker common, selling for about $10.

It will be seen that these terms of purchase were based not on the
recent market price of White—below $7 per share—but primarily upon
the current-asset value. White Motor shares promptly advanced to 27 and
later sold at the equivalent of 311/2.4
An interesting example of the same kind, but of more recent date, is
afforded by Standard Oil Company of Nebraska. The facts may be outlined as follows:
3 For the later history of Hamilton Woolen Company, see pp. 584–585.
4 An extraordinary sequel of this transaction was the receivership of Studebaker Corporation in
April 1933, ostensibly caused by the opposition of minority stockholders of White Motor to a
merger of the two companies. But this development is quite unrelated to our point of discussion, which turns upon the fact that in a sale or merger full recognition should always be, and is
ordinarily, given to liquidating value, even though the current market price may be much lower.

[566]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Early in 1939 the stock was selling at about $6, representing a total
valuation of $1,000,000 for 161,000 shares comprising the entire capitalization. The December 31, 1938, balance sheet is summarized in the
appended table.
Assets
Fixed and miscellaneous assets (net) . . $2,794,000
Cash assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,155,000
Other current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961,000
$4,910,000
(Net) Cash assets per share . . . . . . . . . $6.07
Net current assets per share . . . . . . . . 12.05
Net tangible assets per share . . . . . . . 29.33

Liabilities
Current liabilities . . . . . . . . $176,000
Capital stock and surplus . . 4,734,000
$4,910,000

The company was engaged in the distribution of petroleum products
in Nebraska. It was carrying on an annual business of some $5,000,000
without appreciable profit. For the years 1935–1938 the reported earnings
before depreciation averaged $0.69 per share; after “expended depreciation” there was an average profit of $0.39 per share; and after depreciation
as taken by the company there was an average loss of $0.39 per share.
Here was a company clearly selling for much less than liquidating
value, the reason being its unsatisfactory earnings record. There was good
reason to believe, however, that the company was really worth more than
bare liquidating value, because the outlet it provided for gasoline, etc.,
would make its numerous retail and bulk stations a desirable acquisition
for some large refining company.
In April 1939 private interests offered to pay $12 per share for 662/3%
of the outstanding stock. This bid failed of acceptance by a sufficient
majority, but it was followed immediately by an offer to pay $17.50 per
share, made by Standard Oil Company of Indiana, the refiner that had
been supplying Standard Oil Company of Nebraska with its gasoline and
that evidently was loath to lose this important outlet. The deal was
promptly ratified; hence the stock of Standard Oil Company of Nebraska
nearly tripled in value during a four-month’s period in which the general
market had suffered a decline.5
5 See I. Benesch and Sons, and United Shipyards “A” in the table on p. 585 for other examples
of a rise in price due to sale of properties.

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[567]

Complete Liquidation. Mohawk Mining Company supplies an excellent example of a cash profit equivalent to a large advance in market value
caused by the actual liquidation of the enterprise.
In December 1931 the stock sold at $11 per share, representing a total
valuation of $1,230,000 for the 112,000 shares outstanding. The balance
sheet at the end of 1931 showed the following:
Cash and marketable securities at market . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$1,381,000
Receivables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9,000
Copper at market value, about . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1,800,000
Supplies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .71,000
$3,261,000
Less current liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .68,000
Net current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$3,193,000
Fixed assets, less depreciation and depletion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2,460,000
Miscellaneous assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .168,000
Total assets for common stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$5,821,000
Book value per share* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$52
Current-asset value per share* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28.50
Cash-asset value per share* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11.75
Market price per share . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
* After reducing securities and copper inventory to market value.

Shortly thereafter the management decided to liquidate the property.
Within the years 1932–1934 regular and liquidating dividends were paid,
aggregating $28.50 per share. It will be noted that the amount actually
received in liquidation proved identical with the current-asset value just
before the liquidation began, and it was 21/2 times the ruling market price
at that time.
Partial Liquidation. Northern Pipe Line Company and Otis Company, already discussed, are examples of the establishment of a higher
market value through partial liquidation. The two companies made the
exhibits as shown in the table following.
In September 1929 Otis Company paid a special dividend of $4 per
share, and in 1930 it made a distribution of $20 in partial liquidation,
reducing the par value from $100 to $80. In April 1931 the shares sold at
45 and in April 1932 at 41. These prices were higher than the quotation
in June 1929, despite the distributions of $24 per share made in the

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[568]

interim, and despite the fact also that the general market level had
changed from fantastic inflation to equally fantastic deflation. Later the
company went out of business altogether and paid its stockholders an
additional $74 per share in liquidation—making the total received by
them $102 per share since June 1929 (inclusive of other dividends in
1929–1934 amounting to $4 per share).6
Item

Northern Pipe Line

Otis Company

Date
Market price
Cash-asset value per share
Current-asset value per share
Book value per share

1926
$64
79
82
116

June 1929
$35
231/2
101
191

Northern Pipe Line Company distributed $50 per share to its stockholders in 1928, as a return of capital, i.e., partial liquidation. This development
resulted in an approximate doubling of the market price between 1926 and
1928. Later a second distribution of $20 per share was made, so that the
stockholders received more in cash than in the low market price of 1925
and 1926, and they also retained their full interest in the pipe-line business.
Similar liberal distributions were made by most of the pipe-line companies
of the so-called Standard Oil group. (Note also the partial liquidation of
Davis Coal and Coke Company, described in the footnote on p. 529.)

Discrimination Required in Selecting Such Issues. There is
scarcely any doubt that common stocks selling well below liquidating
value represent on the whole a class of undervalued securities. They have
declined in price more severely than the actual conditions justify. This
must mean that on the whole these stocks afford profitable opportunities
for purchase. Nevertheless, the securities analyst should exercise as much
discrimination as possible in the choice of issues falling within this category. He will lean toward those for which he sees a fairly imminent
prospect of some one of the favorable developments listed above. Or else
he will be partial to such as reveal other attractive statistical features
6 For other examples of liquidation bringing stockholders more than the previous market

price see the table on p. 585.

[569]

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

besides their liquid-asset position, e.g., satisfactory current earnings and
dividends or a high average earning power in the past. The analyst will
avoid issues that have been losing their current assets at a rapid rate and
show no definite signs of ceasing to do so.
Examples: This latter point will be illustrated by the following comparison of two companies, the shares of which sold well below liquidating value early in 1933.

Item
Price, January 1933
Total market value of Company
Balance sheet
Preferred stock at par
Number of shares of common
Cash assets
Receivables
Inventories
Total current assets
Current liabilities
Net current assets
Other tangible assets
Total assets for common
(and preferred)
Cash-asset value per share
Current-asset value per share

Manhattan Shirt Company

Hupp Motor
Car Corporation

6
$1,476,000

21/2
$3,323,000

Nov. 30, 1932 Nov. 30, 1929 Dec. 31, 1932 Dec. 31, 1929

246,000
$1,961,000
771,000
1,289,000
$4,021,000
100,000
$3,921,000
1,124,000

$ 300,000
281,000
$ 885,000
2,621,000
4,330,000
$7,836,000
2,574,000
$5,262,000
2,066,000

1,329,000
$ 4,615,000
226,000
2,115,000
$ 6,956,000
1,181,000
$ 5,775,000
9,757,000

1,475,000
$10,156,000
1,246,000
8,481,000
$19,883,000
2,541,000
$17,342,000
17,870,000

$5,045,000
$ 7.50
16.00

$7,328,000
Nil
$17.50

$15,532,000
$2.625
4.375

$35,212,000
$ 5.125
11.75

Both of these companies disclose an interesting relationship of current assets to market price at the close of 1932. But a comparison with the
balance-sheet situation of three years previously will yield much more
satisfactory indications for Manhattan Shirt than for Hupp Motors. The
latter concern had lost more than half of its cash assets and more than
60% of its net current assets during the depression period. On the other
hand, the current-asset value of Manhattan Shirt common was reduced
by only 10% during these difficult times, and furthermore, its cash-asset
position was greatly improved. The latter result was obtained through the

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[570]

liquidation of receivables and inventories, the proceeds of which paid off
the 1929 bank loans and largely increased the cash resources.
From the viewpoint of past indications, therefore, the two companies
must be placed in different categories. In the Hupp Motors case, we should
have to take into account the possibility that the remaining excess of current assets over market price might soon be dissipated. This is not true so
far as Manhattan Shirt is concerned, and in fact the achievement of the
company in strengthening its cash position during the depression must be
given favorable consideration. We shall recur later to this phase of security analysis, viz., the comparison of balance sheets over a period in order
to determine the true progress of an enterprise. The former point—that
attention should be paid also to the past earnings record—may be brought
home by a brief comparison of two companies in early 1939.
Item

Ely & Walker Dry Goods Co.

Pacific Mills

Price, January, 1939
Per share:
Net current assets
Net tangible assets
Average earnings, 1933–1938
Average dividend, 1933–1938

17
Dec. 31, 1932 Dec. 31, 1938
$30.00
$39.50
37.73
46.42
1.82
1.25

14
Dec. 31, 1932 Dec. 31, 1938
$26.95
$24.50
90.85
79.50
2.41(d)
0.50

The losses of Pacific Mills did not have a serious effect upon the balance-sheet position because they have come mainly out of the balance
sheet via the depreciation allowance. But unless there were special reasons
to expect a reversal of the operating results, the analyst would obviously
prefer Ely & Walker as an investment purchase.

Bargains of This Type. Common stocks that (1) are selling below
their liquid-asset value, (2) are apparently in no danger of dissipating
these assets, and (3) have formerly shown a large earning power on the
market price, may be said truthfully to constitute a class of investment
bargains. They are indubitably worth considerably more than they are
selling for, and there is a reasonably good chance that this greater worth
will sooner or later reflect itself in the market price. At their low price
these bargain stocks actually enjoy a high degree of safety, meaning by
safety a relatively small risk of loss of principal.

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[571]

It may be pointed out, however, that investment in such bargain issues
needs to be carried on with some regard to general market conditions at the
time. Strangely enough, this is a type of operation that fares best, relatively
speaking, when price levels are neither extremely high nor extremely low.
The purchase of “cheap stocks” when the market as a whole seems much
higher than it should be, e.g., in 1929 or early 1937, will not work out well,
because the ensuing decline is likely to bear almost as severely on these neglected or unappreciated issues as on the general list. On the other hand, when
all stocks are very cheap—as in 1932—there would seem to be fully as much
reason to buy undervalued leading issues as to pick out less popular stocks,
even though these may be selling at even lower prices by comparison.
A Common Stock Representing the Entire Business Cannot Be Less Safe
than a Bond Having a Claim to Only a Part Thereof. In considering these
issues it will be helpful to apply the converse of the proposition developed
earlier in this book with reference to senior securities. We pointed out
(Chap. 26) that a bond or preferred stock could not be worth more than
its value would be if it represented full ownership of the company, i.e., if
it were a common stock without senior claims ahead of it. The converse
is also true. A common stock cannot be less safe than it would be if it were
a bond, i.e., if instead of representing full ownership of the company it
were given a fixed and limited claim, with some new common stock created to own what was left. This idea, which may appear somewhat
abstract at first, may be clarified by a concrete comparison between a
common stock and a bond issue of the types just described. Two companies in the investment-trust field are particularly well suited to illustrate
our point, because they were both organized by the same banking interests, and they have identical officers.
Our table (p. 572) should make clear that Shawmut Association stock
cannot be less safe intrinsically than the Investment Trust senior debentures at 85. For, with the same management behind them, the stock investment has behind it 180% in assets, whereas the bonds are protected by
only 122% (of their market price) in assets. In addition to having this
greater protection the Association stock represents the entire ownership
of the company’s assets, whereas the interest of the Investment Trust
bonds is limited to their principal amount, the balance of the equity
belonging to the junior holders. (In fact this junior equity can be fairly
substantial, as measured by market price, even when the bonds are selling at a considerable discount.)

[572]

As of December 1939
Bonds

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Shawmut Association

Shawmut Bank
Investment Trust

None

$3,040,000 Senior Debenture
41/2s and 5s @ 85 (average)
 $2,585,000
$950,000 Junior Debenture
6s @ 50 (est)  $480,000
1
390,000 sh. @ 10 /4 $4,000,000 75,000 sh. @ 31/2 260,000
$4,000,000
$3,325,000

Stock
Total capitalization
Net asset value (September
1939)
7,201,000 (November 1939) 3,153,000
Ratio: Senior bonds at market
to net assets
82%
Ratio: Total capitalization at
market to net assets
55%
107%
*
12 months’ investment income (To September 30) 198,000 (To November 30) 114,000
Per cent earned on capitalization
at market
5.0
3.5
* Excluding gain or loss on security sales.

That the Shawmut Association stock is more attractive than the Investment Trust debentures at the prices quoted is scarcely open to challenge.
Undoubtedly, also, the investor who would consider the bond issue to be
“safer” than the Association shares is being misled by the form into overlooking the essence. Yet something remains to be said of the effect of these
diverse forms upon the experience of the investor and consequently upon
his attitude. The Investment Trust bonds do carry a certain assurance of
continued income, because interest must be paid regularly or else the
company faces insolvency. It is true for the same reason that special efforts
will be made to pay them off at or before maturity in 1942 and 1952.
Therefore we find that the company has a special inducement to buy in
bonds at a discount—since they must ultimately be paid at par—and thus
one-third of the issue has been reacquired. This policy has served to
maintain the market price to an important extent and to improve the
position of the remaining bonds.
None of this is true with respect to the Shawmut Association shares.
They have in fact received continuous dividends since 1929, averaging
65 cents, or 61/2% on the current price. But the rate has been variable, and

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[573]

the average stockholder feels that he is at the mercy of the management’s
decisions. (This is not entirely so in fact, since the penalty clauses in the
Revenue Act virtually compel disbursement of the net income realized
by investment trusts.) Nor has the market price been maintained by company repurchases at a reasonable discount from break-up value, so that
the investor has been unable to look to the management to save him from
the hard necessity of sacrificing his shares at as much as 50% below their
intrinsic worth.
In the 1934 edition we illustrated this same point by considering
American Laundry Machinery stock at its price of 7 in January 1933,
which was equivalent to $4,300,000 for the entire company—as compared
with over $4,000,000 in cash, $21,000,000 in net current assets,
$27,000,000 in net tangible assets and 10-year average earnings of over
$3,000,000 (including, however, a loss of $1,000,000 in 1932). The last
two paragraphs of the chapter were as follows:
Wall Street would have considered American Laundry Machinery stock
“unsafe” at 7, but it would unquestionably have accepted a $4,500,000 bond
issue of the same company. Its “reasoning” would have run that the interest
on the bond was sure to be continued but that the 40-cent dividend then
being paid on the stock was very insecure. In one case the directors had no
choice but to pay interest and therefore would surely do so; in the other case
the directors could pay or not as they saw fit and therefore would very likely
suspend the dividend. But Wall Street is here confusing the temporary continuance of income with the more fundamental question of safety of principal. Dividends paid to common-stock holders do not in themselves make the
stock any safer. The directors are merely turning over to the stockholders
part of their own property; if the money were left in the treasury, it would
still be the stockholder’s property. There must therefore be an underlying fallacy in assuming that if the stockholders were given the power to compel
payment of income—i.e., if they were made bondholders in whole or in
part—their position would thus be made intrinsically sounder. It is little short
of idiocy to assume that the stockholders would be better off if they surrendered their complete ownership of the company in exchange for a limited
claim against the same property at the rate of 5 or 6% on the investment. This
is exactly what the public would do if it were willing to buy a $4,500,000 bond
issue of American Laundry Machinery but would reject as “unsafe” the
present common stock at $7 per share.

[574]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Nevertheless, Wall Street persists in thinking in these irrational terms, and
it does so in part with practical justification. Somehow or other, commonstock ownership does not seem to give the public the same powers and possibilities—the same values, in short—as are vested in the private owners of a
business. This brings us to the second line of reasoning on the subjects of
stocks selling below liquidating value.

Chapter 44

IMPLICATIONS OF LIQUIDATING VALUE.
STOCKHOLDER-MANAGEMENT
RELATIONSHIPS

WALL STREET HOLDS THAT liquidating value is of slight importance because
the typical company has no intention of liquidating. This view is logical, as
far as it goes. When applied to a stock selling below break-up value, the Wall
Street view may be amplified into the following: “Although this stock would
liquidate for more than its market price, it is not worth buying because
(1) the company cannot earn a satisfactory profit, and (2) it is not going to
liquidate. In the previous chapter we suggested that the first assumption is
likely to be wrong in a number of instances, for, although past earnings may
have been disappointing, there is always a chance that through external or
internal changes the concern may again earn a reasonable amount on its
capital. But in a considerable proportion of cases the pessimism of the market will at least appear to be justified. We are led, therefore, to ask the question: “Why is it that no matter how poor a corporation’s prospects may seem,
its owners permit it to remain in business until its resources are exhausted?”
The answer to this question takes us into the heart of one of the
strangest phenomena of American finance—the relations of stockholders to the businesses that they own. The subject transcends in its scope
the narrow field of security analysis, but we shall discuss it here briefly
because there is a distinct relationship between the value of securities
and the intelligence and alertness of those who own them. The choice
of a common stock is a single act; its ownership is a continuing process.
Certainly there is just as much reason to exercise care and judgment in
being as in becoming a stockholder.

Typical Stockholder Apathetic and Docile. It is a notorious fact,
however, that the typical American stockholder is the most docile and
apathetic animal in captivity. He does what the board of directors tell him
[575]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[576]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

to do and rarely thinks of asserting his individual rights as owner of the
business and employer of its paid officers. The result is that the effective
control of many, perhaps most, large American corporations is exercised
not by those who together own a majority of the stock but by a small
group known as “the management.” This situation has been effectively
described by Berle and Means in their significant work The Modern Corporation and Private Property. In Chap. I of Book IV the authors say:
It is traditional that a corporation should be run for the benefit of its owners,
the stockholders, and that to them should go any profits which are distributed. We now know, however, that a controlling group may hold the power
to divert profits into their own pockets. There is no longer any certainty that
a corporation will in fact be run primarily in the interests of the stockholders. The extensive separation of ownership and control, and the strengthening of the powers of control, raise a new situation calling for a decision
whether social and legal pressure should be applied in an effort to insure corporate operation primarily in the interests of the owners or whether such pressure shall be applied in the interests of some other or wider group.

Again (on page 335) the authors restate this view in their concluding
chapter as follows:
… A third possibility exists, however. On the one hand, the owners of passive property, by surrendering control and responsibility over the active property, have surrendered the right that the corporation should be operated in
their sole interest—they have released the community from the obligation to
protect them to the full extent implied in the doctrine of strict property
rights. At the same time, the controlling groups, by means of the extension
of corporate powers, have in their own interest broken the bars of tradition
which require that the corporation be operated solely for the benefit of the
owners of passive property. Eliminating the sole interest of the passive owner,
however, does not necessarily lay a basis for the alternative claim that the
new powers should be used in the interest of the controlling groups. The latter have not presented, in acts or words, any acceptable defense of the proposition that these powers should be so used. No tradition supports that
proposition. The control groups have, rather, cleared the way for the claims
of a group far wider than either the owners or the control. They have placed
the community in a position to demand that the modern corporation serve
not alone the owners or the control but all society.

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[577]

Plausible but Partly Fallacious Assumptions by Stockholders.
Alert stockholders—if there are any such—are not likely to agree fully
with the conclusion of Messrs. Berle and Means that they definitely have
“surrendered the right that the corporation should be operated in their
sole interest.” After all, the American stockholder has abdicated not
intentionally but by default. He can reassert the rights of control that
inhere in ownership. Quite probably he would do so if he were properly
informed and guided. In good part his docility and seeming apathy are
results of certain traditional but unsound viewpoints which he seems to
absorb by inheritance or by contagion. These cherished notions include
the following:
1. The management knows more about the business than the stockholders do, and therefore its judgment on all matters of policy is to be
accepted.
2. The management has no interest in or responsibility for the prices
at which the company’s securities sell.
3. If a stockholder disapproves of any major policy of the management, his proper move is to sell his stock.

Assumed Wisdom and Efficiency of Management Not Always
Justified. These statements sound plausible, but they are in fact only
half truths—the more dangerous because they are not wholly false. It is
nearly always true that the management is in the best position to judge
which policies are most expedient. But it does not follow that it will
always either recognize or adopt the course most beneficial to the shareholders. It may err grievously through incompetence. Stockholders of any
given company appear to take it for granted that their management is
capable. Yet the art of selecting stocks is said to turn largely on choosing
the well-managed enterprise and rejecting others. This must imply that
many companies are poorly directed. Should not this mean also that the
stockholders of any company should be open-minded on the question
whether its management is efficient or the reverse?

Interests of Stockholders and Officers Conflict at Certain
Points. But a second reason for not always accepting implicitly the decisions of the management is that on certain points the interests of the officers and the stockholders may be in conflict. This field includes the
following:

[578]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

1. Compensation to officers—Comprising salaries, bonuses, options
to buy stock.
2. Expansion of the business—Involving the right to larger salaries
and the acquisition of more power and prestige by the officers.
3. Payment of dividends—Should the money earned remain under the
control of the management or pass into the hands of the stockholders?
4. Continuance of the stockholders’ investment in the company—
Should the business continue as before, although unprofitable, or should
part of the capital be withdrawn, or should it be wound up completely?
5. Information to stockholders—Should those in control be able to
benefit through having information not given to stockholders generally?
On all of these questions the decisions of the management are interested decisions, and for that reason they require scrutiny by the stockholders. We do not imply that corporate managements are not to be
trusted. On the contrary, the officers of our large corporations constitute
a group of men above the average in probity as well as in ability. But this
does not mean that they should be given carte blanche in all matters
affecting their own interests. A private employer hires only men he can
trust, but he does not let these men fix their own salaries or decide how
much capital he should place or leave in the business.

Directors Not Always Free from Self-interest in Connection
with These Matters. In publicly owned corporations these matters are
passed on by the board of directors, whom the stockholders elect and to
whom the officials are responsible. Theoretically, the directors will represent the stockholders’ interests, when need be, as against the opposing
interests of the officers. But this cannot be counted upon in practice. In
many companies a majority, and in most companies a substantial part, of
the board is composed of paid officials. The directors who are not officers are frequently joined by many close ties to the chief executives. It
may be said in fact that the officers choose the directors more often than
the directors choose the officers. Hence the necessity remains for the
stockholders to exercise critical and independent judgments on all matters where the personal advantage of the officers may conceivably be
opposed to their own. In other words, in this field the usual presumption
of superior knowledge and judgment on the part of the management
should not obtain, and any criticism offered in good faith deserves careful consideration by the stockholders.

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[579]

Abuse of Managerial Compensation. Numerous cases have come to
light in which the actions of the management in the matter of its own
compensation have been open to serious question. Most of these relate
to the years before 1933. In the case of Bethlehem Steel Corporation, cash
bonuses clearly excessive in amount were paid. In the case of American
Tobacco Company, rights to buy stock below the market price, of an enormous aggregate value, were allotted to the officers. These privileges to
buy stock are readily subject to abuse. In the case of Electric Bond and
Share Company, the management permitted itself to buy many shares of
stock at far below market price. When later the price of the stock collapsed to a figure less than the subscription price, the obligation to pay
for the shares was cancelled, and the sums already paid were returned to
the officers. A similar procedure was followed in the case of White Motor
Company, which will be more fully discussed later in this chapter.
Some of these transactions are explained, and partly justified, by the
extraordinary conditions of 1928–1932. Others are inexcusable from any
point of view. Nevertheless, human nature being what it is, such developments are not in the least surprising. They do not really reflect upon
the character of corporate managements but rather on the patent unwisdom of leaving such matters within the virtually uncontrolled discretion
of those who are to benefit by their own decisions.
The new regulations have done much to dispel the mist of secrecy that
formerly shrouded the emoluments and stockholdings of corporate officials. Information on salaries, bonuses and stock options must be filed in
connection with new security offerings, with the registration of issues on a
national exchange, with the subsequent annual reports to the Commission
and with the solicitation of proxies.1 Although these data are not complete,
they are sufficient for the practical purpose of advising the stockholders as
to the cost of their management. Similarly, stockholdings of officers, directors and those owning 10% of a stock issue must be revealed monthly.
Since this information is not too readily accessible to the individual
stockholder, the statistical agencies could further improve their already
excellent service by subjoining the salary and stockholding data to their
annual lists of officers and directors.
1 Also, under provisions of the Revenue Act of 1936 the Treasury published the names and

compensation of all corporate officers receiving over $15,000 in that year. The Revenue Act
of 1938 requires these data for salaries of $75,000 or more, beginning with 1938.

[580]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

In recent years the question of excessive compensation to management has excited considerable attention, and the public understands
fairly well that here is a field where the officers’ views do not necessarily
represent the highest wisdom. It is not so clearly realized that to a considerable extent the same limitations apply in matters affecting the use
of the stockholders’ capital and surplus. We have alluded to certain
aspects of this subject in our discussion of dividend policies (Chap. 29).
It should be evident also that the matter of raising new capital for expansion is affected by the same reasoning as applies to the withholding of
dividends for this purpose.

Wisdom of Continuing the Business Should Be Considered. A
third question, viz., that of retaining the stockholder’s capital in the business, involves considerations that are basically identical. Managements
are naturally loath to return any part of the capital to its owners, even
though this capital may be far more useful—and therefore valuable—outside of the business than in it. Returning a portion of the capital (e.g.,
excess cash holdings) means curtailing the resources of the enterprise,
perhaps creating financial problems later on and certainly reducing somewhat the prestige of the officers. Complete liquidation means the loss of
the job itself. It is scarcely to be expected, therefore, that the paid officers
will consider the question of continuing or winding up the business from
the standpoint solely of what is in the best interests of the owners. We
must emphasize again that the directors are often so closely allied with
the officers—who are themselves members of the board—that they too
cannot be counted upon to consider such problems purely from the
stockholders’ point of view.
Thus it appears that the question whether or not a business should
be continued is one that at times may deserve independent thought by
its proprietors, the stockholders. (It should be pointed out also that this
is, by its formal or legal nature, an ownership problem and not a management problem.) And a logical reason for devoting thought to this question would arise precisely from the fact that the stock has long been
selling considerably below its liquidating value. After all, this situation
must mean that either the market is wrong in its valuation or the management is wrong in keeping the enterprise alive. It is altogether proper
that the stockholders should seek to determine which of these is wrong.
In this determination the views and explanations of the management

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[581]

deserve the most appreciative attention, but the whole proceeding would
be stultified if the management’s opinion on this subject were to be
accepted as final per se.
It is an unhappy fact that in many cases where a management’s policies are attacked the critic has some personal axe to grind. This too is perhaps inevitable. There is very little altruism in finance. Wars against
corporate managements take time, energy and money. It is hardly to be
expected that individuals will expend all these merely to see the right
thing done. In such matters the most impressive and creditable moves are
those made by a group of substantial stockholders, having an important
stake of their own to protect and impelled thereby to act in the interests
of the shareholders generally. Representations from such a source, in any
matter where the interest of the officers and the owners may conceivably be
opposed, should gain a more respectful hearing from the rank and file of
stockholders than has hitherto been accorded them in most cases.2
Broadcast criticisms initiated by stockholders, proxy battles, and various kinds of legal proceedings are exceedingly vexatious to managements, and in many cases they are unwisely or improperly motivated. Yet
these should be regarded as one of the drawbacks of being a corporate
official and as part of the price of a vigilant stock ownership. The public
must learn to judge such controversies on their merits, as developed by
statements of fact and by reasoned argument. It must not allow itself to
be swayed by mere accusation or by irrelevant personalities.
The subject of liquidation must not be left without some reference to
the employees’ vital interest therein. It seems heartless in the extreme
to discuss such a decision solely from the standpoint of what will be best
for the stockholder’s pocketbook. Yet nothing is to be gained by confusing the issue. If the reason for continuing the business is primarily to keep
the workers employed, and if this means a real sacrifice by the owners,
they are entitled to know and to face the fact. They should not be told that
it would be unwise for them to liquidate, when in truth it would be profitable but inhumane. It is fair to point out that under our present economic
system the owners of a business are not expected to dissipate their capital
for the sake of continuing employment. In privately owned enterprises
2 The proxy regulations of the S.E.C. seek to facilitate the presentation of viewpoints
opposed to the management by requiring the company to send out requests for proxies (and
covering letters) supplied by individual stockholders, postage to be paid by the latter.

[582]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

such philanthropy is rare. Whether or not a sacrifice of capital for this purpose is conducive to the economic welfare of the country as a whole is a
moot point also, but it is not within our province to discuss it here. Our
object has been to clarify the issue and to stress the fact that a market price
below liquidating value has special significance to the stockholders and
should lead them to ask their management some searching questions.

Management May Properly Take Some Interest in Market Price
for Shares. Managements have succeeded very well in avoiding these
questions with the aid of the time-honored principle that market prices
are no concern or responsibility of theirs. It is true, of course, that a company’s officers are not responsible for fluctuations in the price of its securities. But this is very far from saying that market prices should never be
a matter of concern to the management. This idea is not only basically
wrong, but it has the added vice of being thoroughly hypocritical. It is
wrong because the marketability of securities is one of the chief qualities
considered in their purchase. But marketability must presuppose not only
a place where they can be sold but also an opportunity to sell them at a
fair price. It is at least as important to the stockholders that they be able
to obtain a fair price for their shares as it is that the dividends, earnings
and assets be conserved and increased. It follows that the responsibility
of managements to act in the interest of their shareholders includes the
obligation to prevent—in so far as they are able—the establishment of
either absurdly high or unduly low prices for their securities.
It is difficult not to lose patience with the sanctimonious attitude of
many corporate executives who profess not even to know the market
price of their securities. In many cases they have a vital personal interest
in these very market prices, and at times they use their inside knowledge
to take advantage in the market of the outside public and of their own
stockholders.3 Not as a startling innovation but as a common-sense
3 This reached such scandalous proportions “in the good old days” that the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 made “insiders” accountable to the corporation for profits realized on
purchases and sales, or vice versa, completed within a six months’ period. Enforcement must
be through a stockholder’s suit. This provision has been bitterly criticized in Wall Street as preventing legitimate activities of officers and directors, including support of the market price at
critical times. Our own view is that, on balance, both logic and practicality are against the provision as it now stands. Publicity of operations—perhaps immediate rather than monthly—
should supply a sufficient safeguard against fraud and a check upon questionable conduct.

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[583]

recognition of things as they are, we recommend that directors be held
to the duty of observing the market price of their securities and of using
all proper efforts to correct patent discrepancies, in the same way as they
would endeavor to remedy any other corporate condition inimical to the
stockholders’ interest.

Various Possible Moves for Correcting Market Prices for
Shares. The forms that these proper efforts might take are various. In
the first place the stockholders’ attention may be called officially to the
fact that the liquidating, and therefore the minimum, value of the shares
is substantially higher than the market price. If, as will usually be the case,
the directors are convinced that continuance is preferable to liquidation,
the reasons leading to this conclusion should at the same time be supplied. A second line of action is in the direction of dividends. A special
endeavor should be made to establish a dividend rate proportionate at
least to the liquidating value, in order that the stockholders should not
suffer a loss of income through keeping the business alive. This may be
done even if current earnings are insufficient, provided there are accumulated profits and provided also the cash position is strong enough to
permit such payments.
A third procedure consists of returning to the stockholders such
cash capital as is not needed for the conduct of the business. This may
be done through a pro rata distribution, accompanied usually by a
reduction in par value or through an offer to purchase a certain number of shares pro rata at a fair price. Finally, a careful consideration by
the directors of the discrepancy between earning power and liquidating value may lead them to conclude that a sale or winding up of the
enterprise is the most sensible corrective step—in which case they
should act accordingly.
Examples: Otis Company, 1929–1939. The course of action followed
by the Otis Company management in 1929–1930 combined a number of
these remedial moves. In July 1929 the president circularized the shareholders, presenting an intermediate balance sheet as of June 30 and
emphasizing the disparity between the current bid price and the liquidating value. In September of that year—although earnings were no larger
than before—dividend payments were resumed, a step permitted by the
company’s large cash holdings and substantial surplus. In 1930 a good
part of the cash, apparently not needed in the business, was returned to

[584]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

the stockholders through the redemption of the small preferred issue and
the repayment of $20 per share of common stock on account of capital.4
Subsequently the company embarked on a policy of piecemeal liquidation which resulted in a series of payments on capital account. From
September 1929 to the final distribution in 1940 there was paid a total of
$94 per share as return of capital, as well as $8 in the form of dividends. As
we pointed out in our last chapter, these steps were highly effective in
improving the status of the Otis stockholders during a period when most
other issues were suffering a shrinkage in value, and ultimately gave them
a far larger return than they were likely to receive through the continuance
of the business.
Hamilton Woolen Company. The history of this enterprise since 1926
is even more interesting in this connection because it suggests a model
technique for the handling by directors of problems affecting the stockholders’ investment. In 1927 continued operating losses had resulted in
a market price well below liquidating value. There was danger that the
losses might continue and wipe out the capital. On the other hand, there
was a possibility of much better results in the future, especially if new
policies were adopted. A statement of the arguments for and against liquidation was forwarded to the stockholders, and they were asked to vote
on the question. They voted to continue the business, with a new operating head; and the decision proved a wise one, since good earnings were
realized, and the price advanced above liquidating value.
In 1934, however, the company again showed a large loss, occasioned
in good part by serious labor difficulties. The management again submitted the question of liquidation to the stockholders, and this time a winding up of the business was voted. A sale of the business was promptly
arranged, and the stockholders received somewhat more than the November 1934 current-asset value.
Particularly noteworthy were the details of the 1927 proceedings. The
ultimate decision—to continue or to quit—was put up to the stockholders in whose province it lay; the management supplied information,
4 Other examples of partial return of capital by companies continuing in business include:
Cuban Atlantic Sugar Company (1938–1939), Great Southern Lumber Company
(1927–1937), Keystone Watch Case Corporation (1932–1933) as well as Davis Coal and
Coke Company and the several Standard Oil pipe line companies previously referred to
(pp. 529, 568).

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[585]

expressed its own opinion and permitted an adequate statement of the
other side of the case.
Other Examples of Voluntary Liquidation. The subjoined partial list
will demonstrate an obvious but fundamental fact, viz., that the liquidation (or sale) of an unprofitable company holding substantial assets
(particularly current) is almost certain to realize for the stockholders considerably more than the previously existing market price. The reason is,
of course, that the market price is governed chiefly by the earnings,
whereas the proceeds of liquidation depend upon the assets.

Company

Year liquidation
or sale voted

Price shortly
before vote to
liquidate or sell

Amount realized
for stock

American Glue
I. Benesch & Sons
Federal Knitting Mills
Lyman Mills
Mohawk Mining
Signature Hosiery Pfd
Standard Oil of Nebraska
United Shipyards A

1930
1939
1937
1927
1933
1931
1939
1938

$53
21/4
20
112
11
31/8
6
21/4

$139.00
6.63
34.20
220.25
28.50
17.00
17.50
11.10*

* To Dec. 31, 1939.

Repurchase of Shares Pro Rata from Shareholders. The Hamilton
Woolen management is also to be commended for its action during 1932
and 1933 in employing excess cash capital to repurchase pro rata a substantial number of shares at a reasonable price. This reversed the procedure followed in 1929 when additional shares were offered for
subscription to the stockholders. The contraction in business that accompanied the depression made this additional capital no longer necessary,
and it was therefore a logical move to give most of it back to the stockholders, to whom it was of greater benefit when in their own pockets than
in the treasury of the corporation.5
5 Hamilton Woolen sold 13,000 shares pro rata to stockholders at $50 per share in 1929. It
repurchased, pro rata, 6,500 shares at $65 in 1932 and 1,200 shares at $50 in 1933. Faultless
Rubber Company followed a similar procedure in 1934. Simms Petroleum Company reacquired stock both directly from the shareholders on a pro rata basis and in the open market.
Its repurchases by both means between 1930 and 1933 aggregated nearly 45% of the shares
outstanding at the end of 1929. Julian and Kokenge (Shoe) Company made pro rata repurchases of common stock in 1932, 1934 and 1939.

[586]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Abuse of Shareholders through Open-market Purchase of
Shares. During the 1930–1933 depression repurchases of their own
shares were made by many industrial companies out of their surplus cash
assets,6 but the procedure generally followed was open to grave objection. The stock was bought in the open market without notice to the
shareholders. This method introduced a number of unwholesome elements into the situation. It was thought to be “in the interest of the
corporation” to acquire the stock at the lowest possible price. The consequence of this idea is that those stockholders who sell their shares back
to the company are made to suffer as large a loss as possible, for the
presumable benefit of those who hold on. Although this is a proper viewpoint to follow in purchasing other kinds of assets for the business, there
is no warrant in logic or in ethics for applying it to the acquisition of
shares of stock from the company’s own stockholders. The management
is the more obligated to act fairly toward the sellers because the company
is itself on the buying side.
But, in fact, the desire to buy back shares cheaply may lead to a determination to reduce or pass the dividend, especially in times of general
uncertainty. Such conduct would be injurious to nearly all the stockholders, whether they sell or not, and it is for that reason that we spoke of the
repurchase of shares at an unconscionably low price as only presumably
to the advantage of those who retained their interest.
Example: White Motor Company. In the previous chapter attention
was called to the extraordinary discrepancy between the market level of
White Motor’s stock in 1931–1932 and the minimum liquidating value
of the shares. It will be instructive to see how the policies followed by the
management contributed mightily to the creation of a state of affairs so
unfortunate for the stockholders.
White Motor Company paid dividends of $4 per share (8%) practically
from its incorporation in 1916 through 1926. This period included the
depression year 1921, in which the company reported a loss of nearly
$5,000,000. It drew, however, upon its accumulated surplus
to maintain the full dividend, a policy that prevented the price of
the shares from declining below 29. With the return of prosperity the
6 Figures published by the New York Stock Exchange in February 1934 revealed that 259
corporations with shares listed thereon had reacquired portions of their own stock.

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[587]

quotation advanced to 721/2 in 1924 and 1041/2 in 1925. In 1926 the stockholders were offered 200,000 shares at par ($50), increasing the company’s
capital by $10,000,000. A stock dividend of 20% was paid at the same time.
Hardly had the owners of the business paid in this additional cash,
when the earnings began to shrink, and the dividend was reduced. In
1928 about $3 were earned (consolidated basis), but only $1 was disbursed. In the 12 months ending June 30, 1931 the company lost about
$2,500,000. The next dividend payment was omitted entirely, and the
price of the stock collapsed to 71/2.
The contrast between 1931 and 1921 is striking. In the earlier year the
losses were larger, the profit-and-loss surplus was smaller and the cash
holdings far lower than in 1931. But in 1921 the dividend was maintained,
and the price thereby supported. A decade later, despite redundant holdings of cash and the presence of substantial undistributed profits, a single year’s operating losses sufficed to persuade the management to
suspend the dividend and permit the establishment of a grotesquely low
market price for the shares.
During the period before and after the omission of the dividend the
company was active in buying its own shares in the open market. These
purchases began in 1929 under a plan adopted for the benefit of “those
filling certain managerial positions.” By June 1931 about 100,000 shares
had been bought in at a cost of $2,800,000. With the passing of the dividend, the officers and employees were relieved of whatever obligations
they had assumed to pay for these shares, and the plan was dropped. In
the next six months, aided by the collapse in the market price, the company acquired 50,000 additional shares in the market at an average cost
of about $11 per share. The total holdings of 150,000 shares were then
retired and cancelled.
These facts, thus briefly stated, illustrate the vicious possibilities inherent in permitting managements to exercise discretionary powers to purchase shares with the company’s funds. We note first the painful contrast
between the treatment accorded to the White Motor managerial employees and to its stockholders. An extraordinarily large amount of stock was
bought for the benefit of these employees at what seemed to be an attractive price. All the money to carry these shares was supplied by the stockholders. If the business had improved, the value of the stock would have
advanced greatly, and all the benefits would have gone to the employees.

[588]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

When things became worse, “those in managerial positions” were relieved
of any loss, and the entire burden fell upon the stockholders.7
In its transactions directly with its stockholders, we see White Motor
soliciting $10,000,000 in new capital in 1926. We see some of this additional capital (not needed to finance sales) employed to buy back many
of these very shares at one-fifth of the subscription price. The passing of
the dividend was a major factor in making possible these repurchases at
such low quotations. The facts just related without further evidence might
well raise a suspicion in the mind of a stockholder that the omission of
the dividend was in some way related to a desire to depress the price of
the shares. If the reason for the passing of the dividend was a desire to
preserve cash, then it is not easy to see why, since there was money available to buy in stock, there was not money available to continue a dividend previously paid without interruption for 15 years.
The spectacle of a company overrich in cash passing its dividend, in
order to impel desperate stockholders to sell out at a ruinous price, is not
pleasant to contemplate.
Westmoreland Coal Company: Another Example. A more recent illustration of the dubious advantage accruing to stockholders from a policy
of open-market repurchases of common stock is supplied by the case of
Westmoreland Coal. In the ten years 1929–1938 this company reported a
net loss in the aggregate amounting to $309,000, or $1.70 per share. However, these losses resulted after deduction of depreciation and depletion
allowances totaling $2,658,000, which was largely in excess of new capital
expenditures. Thus the company’s cash position actually improved considerably during this period, despite payment of very irregular dividends
aggregating $4.10 per share.
In 1935, according to its annual reports, the company began to repurchase its own stock in the open market. By the end of 1938 it had thus
acquired 44,634 shares, which were more than 22% of the entire issue.
The average price paid for this stock was $8.67 per share. Note here the
extraordinary fact that this average price paid was less than one-half the
cash-asset holdings alone per share, without counting the very large other
7 In the sale to Studebaker in 1933 the directors set aside 15,000 shares of treasury stock as a
donation to key men in the organization. Some White stockholders brought suit to set aside
this donation, and the suit was settled by payment of 31 cents per share on White stock not
acquired by Studebaker.

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[589]

tangible assets. Note also that at no time between 1930 and 1939 did the
stock sell so high as its cash assets alone. (At the end of 1938 the company reported cash and marketable securities totaling $2,772,000, while
the entire stock issue was selling for $1,400,000.)
If this situation is analyzed, the following facts appear clear:
1. The low market price of the stock was due to the absence of earnings and the irregular dividend. Under such conditions the quoted price
would not reflect the very large cash holding theoretically available for
the shares. Stocks sell on earnings and dividends and not on cash-asset
values—unless distribution of these cash assets is in prospect.
2. The true obligation of managements is to recognize the realities of
such a situation and to do all in their power to protect every stockholder
against unwarranted depreciation of his investment, and particularly
against unnecessary sacrifice of a large part of the true value of his shares.
Such sacrifices are likely to be widespread under conditions of this kind,
because many stockholders will be moved by necessity or the desire for
steady income or by a discouraged view of the coal industry to sell their
shares for what they can get.
3. The anomaly presented by exceptionally large cash holdings and an
absurdly low market price was obviously preventable. That the company
had more cash than it needed is confessed by the fact that it had money
available to buy in cheap stock—even if it were not evident from a study of
the unusual relationship between cash holdings and annual business done.
4. All cash that could possibly be spared should have been returned
to the stockholders on a pro rata basis. The use of some of it to buy in
shares as cheaply as possible is unjust to the many stockholders induced
by need or ignorance to sell. It favors those strong enough to hold their
shares indefinitely. It particularly advantages those in control of the
company, for in their case the company’s cash applicable to their stock
is readily available to them if they should need it (since they could then
bring about a distribution). Just because this situation is distinctly not
true of the rank and file of the stockholders, the market discounts so
cruelly the value of their cash when held by the company instead of
themselves.8
8 Two additional factors in this situation deserve brief mention. The company had a rental
obligation of 10 cents per ton, but not less than $189,000 annually, for mining coal from leased
lands. This liability was an additional consideration, besides the ordinary ones, which argued

[590]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Summary and Conclusion. The relationship between stockholders
and their managements, after undergoing many unsound developments
during the hectic years from 1928 to 1933, have since been subjected to
salutary controls—emanating both from S.E.C. regulation and from a
more critical viewpoint generally. Certain elementary facts, once wellnigh forgotten, might well be emphasized here: Corporations are in law
the mere creatures and property of the stockholders who own them; the
officers are only the paid employees of the stockholders; the directors,
however chosen, are virtually trustees, whose legal duty it is to act solely
in behalf of the owners of the business.9
To make these general truths more effective in practice, it is necessary
that the stock-owning public be educated to a clearer idea of what are the
true interests of the stockholders in such matters as dividend policies,
expansion policies, the use of corporate cash to repurchase shares, the
various methods of compensating management, and the fundamental
question of whether the owners’ capital shall remain in the business or be
taken out by them in whole or in part.

for maintenance of a comfortable cash position, but it could not justify the immobilizing of far
more cash than the whole company appeared to be worth at any time between 1930 and 1939.
In October 1939 the company made application to the S.E.C. to terminate trading in its
shares on the Philadelphia Stock Exchange and the New York Curb Exchange, intimating that
the infrequency of transactions might be responsible for their unduly low price. The reader
may judge whether or not, in the circumstances, the plight of the stockholders would be
relieved in any wise by destroying the established market for their shares. (The application
was later withdrawn.)
9 The management of American Telephone and Telegraph Company has repeatedly asserted
that it considers itself a trustee for the interests of stockholders, employees and the public, in
equal measure. A policy of this kind, if frankly announced and sincerely followed, can
scarcely be criticized in the case of a quasi-civic enterprise. But given the ordinary business
company, the issue is more likely to be whether the management is acting as trustees for the
stockholders or as trustees for the management.

Chapter 45

BALANCE-SHEET ANALYSIS (Concluded)

OUR DISCUSSION IN THE preceding chapters has related chiefly to situations in which the balance-sheet exhibit apparently justified a higher
price than prevailed in the market. But the more usual purpose of
balance-sheet analysis is to detect the opposite state of affairs, viz., the
presence of financial weaknesses that may detract from the investment
or speculative merits of an issue. Careful buyers of securities scrutinize
the balance sheet to see if the cash is adequate, if the current assets bear
a suitable ratio to the current liabilities, and if there is any indebtedness of near maturity that may threaten to develop into a refinancing
problem.

WORKING-CAPITAL POSITION AND
DEBT MATURITIES
Basic Rules Concerning Working Capital. Nothing useful may be
said here on the subject of how much cash a corporation should hold.
The investor must form his own opinion as to what is needed in any particular case and also as to how seriously an apparent deficiency of cash
should be regarded. On the subject of the working-capital ratio, a minimum of $2 of current assets for $1 of current liabilities was formerly
regarded as a standard for industrial companies.
But since the late 1920’s a tendency towards a stronger current position developed in most industries, and we find that the great majority of
industrial corporations show a ratio well in excess of 2 to 1.1 There is some
tendency now to hold that a company falling below the average of its group

1 See Appendix Note 61, p. 800 on accompanying CD, for comprehensive data with reference
to industrial corporations listed on the New York Stock Exchanges at the end of 1938. See
also the annual compilations in Moody’s Manual of Industrials.

[591]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[592]

should be viewed with suspicion.2 This idea seems to us to contain
something of a logical fallacy, since it necessarily penalizes the lower half
of any group, regardless of how satisfactory the showing may be, considered by itself. We are unable to suggest a better figure than the old 2-to-1
criterion to use as a definite quantitative test of a sufficiently comfortable
financial position. Naturally the investor would favor companies that well
exceed this minimum requirement, but the problem is whether or not a
higher ratio must be exacted as a condition for purchase, so that an issue
otherwise satisfactory would necessarily be rejected if the current assets
are only twice current liabilities. We hesitate to suggest such a rule, nor do
we know what new figure to prescribe.
A second measure of financial strength is the so-called “acid test,”
which requires that current assets exclusive of inventories be at least equal
to current liabilities. Ordinarily the investor might well expect of a company that it meet both the 2-to-1 test and the acid test. If neither of these
criteria is met it would in most cases reflect strongly upon the investment
standing of a common-stock issue—as it would in the case of a bond or
preferred stock—and it would supply an argument against the security
from the speculative standpoint as well.
ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND COMPANY

Item
Cash assets
Receivables
Inventories
Total current assets
Current liabilities
Working capital
Working capital excluding inventories

June 30, 1933

June 30, 1932

$ 1,392,000
4,391,000
12,184,000
$17,967,000
8,387,000
$ 9,580,000
2,604,000

$3,230,000
2,279,000
4,081,000
$9,590,000
778,000
$8,812,000
4,731,000

Exceptions and Examples. As in all arbitrary rules of this kind, exceptions must be allowed if justified by special circumstances. Consider, for
example, the current position of Archer-Daniels-Midland Company on
June 30, 1933, as compared with the previous year’s figures.
2 See Roy A. Foulke, Signs of the Times, pp. 17–19, 25 et seq., New York 1938; and Alexander

Wall, How to Evaluate Financial Statements, pp. 82–97, New York, 1936. Note, however,
Wall’s criticism of mere arithmetical averages as bases for comparison.

[593]

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

The position of this company on June 30, 1933, was evidently much
less comfortable than a year before, and, judged by the usual standards,
it might appear somewhat overextended. But in this case the increase in
payables represented a return to the normal practice in the vegetable-oil
industry, under which fairly large seasonal borrowings are regularly
incurred to carry grain and flaxseed supplies. Upon investigation, therefore, the analyst would not consider the financial condition shown in the
1933 balance sheet as in any sense disturbing.
Contrasting examples on this point are supplied by Douglas Aircraft
Company and Stokely Brothers and Company in 1936–1938.
A WORKING-CAPITAL COMPARISON (000 OMITTED)

Item

Current assets:
Cash and receivables
Inventories
Total
Current liabilities:
Notes payable
Other
Total
Bank loans due 1–3 years
Total current liabilities
plus 1–3 year notes
Net earnings for year

Stokely Brothers
and Company

Douglas Aircraft
Company

May 31,
1936

May 31,
1937

May 31,
1938

Nov. 30,
1936

Nov. 30,
1937

Nov. 30,
1938

$2,274
5,282
$7,556

$2,176
7,323
$9,499

$1,827
6,034
$8,861

$2,885
6,392
$9,277

$ 2,559
12,240
$14,749

$4,673
4,084
$8,757

$2,000
1,527
$3,527

$2,000
1,286
$3,286
3,000

$2,500
1,320
$3,820
3,000

$1,390
1,179
$2,569

$ 5,230
3,183
$ 8,413

2,129
$2,129

3,527
1,382

6,286
353(d)

6,820
713(d)

2,569
976

8,413
1,082

2,129
2,147

The situation in Douglas Aircraft in 1937 was not a seasonal matter, as
in the case of Archer-Daniels-Midland, but grew out of the receipt of certain types of orders requiring considerable working capital. Upon inquiry
the investor could have satisfied himself that the need for bank accommodation was likely to be temporary and that, in any event, the new business
was sufficiently profitable to make any necessary financing an easy affair.
The Stokely picture was quite different, since the large current debt had

[594]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

developed out of expanding inventories in an unprofitable market. Hence
the May 1937 balance sheet of Stokely carried a serious warning for the
preferred and common stockholder, as the table shows.
A year later Douglas Aircraft had paid off its bank loans and showed a
current ratio of 4 to 1. Stokely suspended preferred dividends in October
1938, and in that year the price of the issue fell from 21 (par $25) to 10.
As we pointed out in our discussion of bond selection (Chap. 13 on
accompanying CD), no standard requirements such as we have been discussing are recognized as applicable to railroads and public utilities. It must
not be inferred therefrom that the working-capital exhibit of these companies is entirely unimportant—the contrary will soon be shown to be
true—but only that it is not to be tested by any cut-and-dried formulas.

Large Bank Debt Frequently a Sign of Weakness. Financial difficulties are almost always heralded by the presence of bank loans or of
other debt due in a short time. In other words, it is rare for a weak financial position to be created solely by ordinary trade accounts payable. This
does not mean that bank debt is a bad sign in itself; the use of a reasonable amount of bank credit—particularly for seasonal needs—is not only
legitimate but even desirable. But, whenever the statement shows Notes
or Bills Payable, the analyst will subject the financial picture to a somewhat closer scrutiny than in cases where there is a “clean” balance sheet.
The postwar boom in 1919 was marked by an enormous expansion
of industrial inventories carried at high prices and financed largely by
bank loans. The 1920–1921 collapse of commodity prices made these
industrial bank loans a major problem. But the depression of the 1930’s
had different characteristics. Industrial borrowings in 1929 had been
remarkably small, due first to the absence of commodity or inventory
speculation and secondly to the huge sales of stock to provide additional
working capital. (Naturally there were exceptions, such as, notably, Anaconda Copper Mining Company which owed $35,000,000 to banks at
the end of 1929, increased to $70,500,000 three years later.) The large
bank borrowings were shown more frequently by the railroads and public utilities. These were contracted to pay for property additions or to
meet maturing debt or—in the case of some railways—to carry unearned
fixed charges. The expectation in all these cases was that the bank loans
would be refunded by permanent financing; but in many instances such
refinancing proved impossible, and receivership resulted. The collapse

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[595]

of the Insull system of public-utility holding companies was precipitated
in this way.
Examples: It is difficult to say exactly how apprehensively the investor
or speculator should have viewed the presence of $68,000,000 of bank
loans in the New York Central balance sheet at the end of 1932 or the bills
payable of $69,000,000 owned by Cities Service Company on December
31, 1931. But certainly this adverse sign should not have been ignored.
The more conservatively minded would have taken it as a strong argument against any and all securities of companies in such a position, except
possibly issues selling at so low a price as to constitute an admitted but
attractive gamble. An improvement in conditions will, of course, permit
such bank loans to be refunded, but logic requires us to recognize that
the improvement is prospective whereas the bank loans themselves are
very real and very menacing.3
When a company’s earnings are substantial, it rarely becomes insolvent
because of bank loans. But if refinancing is impracticable—as frequently it
was in the 1931–1933 period—the lenders may require suspension of dividends in order to make all the profits available to reduce the debt. It is for
this reason that the dividend on Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit Corporation
common was passed in 1932 and the preferred dividend of New York Water
Service Corporation was passed in 1931, although both companies were
reporting earnings about as large as in previous years.
The 1937–1938 recession did not create corporate financial problems
comparable with those arising out of the two previous depressions. In this
respect there is a significant contrast between the stock markets of
1919–1921 and 1937–1938. For the decline in stock prices was actually
greater—both in dollars and percentagewise—in the recent period than
in the postwar collapse, although intrinsically the 1937–1938 downturn
was of much smaller importance, since it had relatively slight effect upon
the position of American corporations generally.4 This may be taken as
a rather disquieting sign that stock prices have been growing more irrationally sensitive to temporary fluctuations in business—a fact that we
3 Improvement in general business, plus easy money rates (plus in the case of railroads a
misguided optimism on the part of investors) enabled many companies to fund bank loans
that looked dangerous in 1931–1933.
4 The Stokely case is an exception to this statement, but there were surprisingly few of the kind.

[596]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

are inclined to ascribe to the disappearance of the old-line distinctions
between stock investors and stock speculators.

Intercorporate Indebtedness. Current debt to a parent or to an
affiliated company is theoretically as serious as any other short-term liability, but in practice it is rarely made the basis of an embarrassing claim
for payment.
Example: United Gas Corporation has owed $26,000,000 on open
account to its parent Electric Bond and Share Company since 1930—so
that it constantly reports a large excess of current liabilities over current
assets. Yet this debt has not prevented it from paying first preferred dividends in 1936–1939. In 1932, however, with somewhat larger earnings
than in 1939, it had been compelled to suspend the senior dividend
because it had large bank loans in addition to its intercompany debt. The
conservative buyer would naturally prefer to see the obligations to affiliates in some form other than a current liability.

The Danger of Early Maturing Funded Debt. A large bond issue
coming due in a short time constitutes a critical financial problem when
operating results are unfavorable. Investors and speculators should both
give serious thought to such a situation when revealed by a balance sheet.
Maturing funded debt is a frequent cause of insolvency.
Examples: Fisk Rubber Company was thrown into receivership by its
inability to pay off an $8,000,000 note issue at the end of 1930. The insolvency of Colorado Fuel and Iron Company and of the Chicago, Rock
Island and Pacific Railway Company in 1933 were both closely related to
the fact that large bond issues fell due in 1934. The heedlessness of speculators is well shown by the price of $54 established for Colorado Fuel
and Iron Preferred in June 1933, when its short-term bond issue (Colorado Industrial Company 5s, due 1934, guaranteed by the parent company) was selling at 45, an indicated yield of well over 100% per annum.
This price for the bonds was an almost certain sign of trouble ahead. Failure to meet the maturity would in all likelihood mean insolvency (for a
voluntary extension could by no means be counted upon) and the danger of complete extinction of the stock issues. It was typical of the speculator to ignore so obvious a hazard and typical also that he suffered a
large loss for his carelessness. (Two months later, on announcement of
the receivership, the price of the preferred stock dropped to 171/4.)

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[597]

New York, Chicago, and St. Louis Railroad Company has been faced
with a continuous financial problem growing out of the sale of a threeyear note issue in 1929. Since the first maturity in 1932 it was repeatedly
extended under threat of receivership as an alternative. Typical of speculative disregard of financial problems was the advance of this company’s
preferred stock from 181/2 to 453/4 in 1939, against a low price that year
of only 50 for the notes due in 1941.
Even when the maturing debt can probably be taken care of in some
way, the possible cost of the refinancing must be taken into account.
Examples: This point is well illustrated by the $14,000,000 issue of
American Rolling Mill Company 41/2% Notes, due November 1, 1933. In
June 1933 the notes were selling at 80, which meant an annual yield basis
of about 75%. At the same time the common stock had advanced from 3
to 24 and then represented a total valuation for the common stock of over
$40,000,000. Speculators buying the stock because of improvement in the
steel industry failed to consider the fact that, in order to refund the notes
in the poor market than existing for new capital issues, a very attractive
conversion privilege would have to be offered. This would necessarily
react against the profit possibilities of the common stock. As it happened,
a new 5% note issue, convertible into stock at 25, was offered in exchange
for the 41/2% notes. The result was the establishment of a price of 101 for
the notes in August 1933 against a coincident price of 21 for the common
stock; and a price of 15 for the stock on November 1, 1933, when the
notes were taken care of at par.
The impending maturity of a bond issue is of importance to the holders of all the company’s securities, including mortgage debt ranking ahead
of the maturing issue. For even the prior bonds will in all likelihood be
seriously affected if the company is unable to take care of the junior issue.
This point is illustrated in striking fashion by the Fisk Rubber Company
First Mortgage 8s, due 1941. Although they were deemed to be superior
in their position to the 51/2% unsecured notes, their holders suffered
grievously from the receivership occasioned by the maturity of the 51/2s.
The price of the 8s declined from 115 in 1929 to 16 in 1932.5

Bank Loans of Intermediate Maturity. The combination of very
low interest rates and the drying up of ordinary commercial bank loans has
5 See other references to the two Fisk bond issues in Chaps. 6, 18, and 50.

[598]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

produced a new phenomenon in recent years—the loaning of money to corporations by banks, repayable over a period of several years. Most of this
money has been borrowed for the purpose of retiring bond issues (e.g., Commercial Investment Trust Corporation in November 1939) and even preferred stock (e.g., Archer-Daniels-Midland Company in 1939). In some cases
such loans have been made for additional working capital (e.g., Western Auto
Supply Company in 1937) or to replace ordinary short-term bank credit (e.g.,
American Commercial Alcohol, Stokely Brothers). In most cases it is stipulated or expected that the loans will be retired in annual installments.
From the standpoint of security analysis this bank credit resembles
the short-term notes that used to be sold to the public as a familiar part
of corporate financing. It must be considered partly equivalent to current
liabilities and partly to early maturing debt. It is not dangerous if either
the current-asset position is so strong that the loans could readily be
taken care of as current liabilities or the earning power is so large and
dependable as to make refinancing a simple problem. But if neither of
these conditions is present (as in the Stokely example on page 593), the
analyst must view the presence of a substantial amount of intermediate
bank debt as a potential threat to dividends or even to solvency.
It should not be necessary to dilate further upon the prime necessity
of examining the balance sheet for any possible adverse features in the
nature of bank loans or other short-term debt.

COMPARISON OF BALANCE SHEETS OVER
A PERIOD OF TIME
This important part of security analysis may be considered under three
aspects, viz.:
1. As a check-up on the reported earnings per share.
2. To determine the effect of losses (or profits) on the financial position of
the company.
3. To trace the relationship between the company’s resources and its earning power over a long period.

Check-up on Reported Earnings per Share, Via the Balance
Sheet. Some of this technique has already been used in connection with
related phases of security analysis. In Chap. 36 (on accompanying CD), for
instance, we gave an example of the first aspect, in checking the reported

[599]

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

earnings of American Commercial Alcohol Corporation for 1931 and 1932.
As an example covering a larger stretch of years we submit the following
contrast between the average earnings of United States Industrial Alcohol
Company for the ten years 1929–1938, as shown by the reported per-share
figures and as indicated by the changes in its net worth in the balance sheet.
U. S. INDUSTRIAL ALCOHOL COMPANY, 1929–1938
1. NET EARNINGS AS REPORTED

1929
1930
1931
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938
Total for 10 years

$4,721,000
1,105,000
1,834,000(d)
176,000
1,393,000
1,580,000
844,000
78,000
456,000(d)
668,000(d)
$6,782,000

*per share: $12.63
2.95
4.90(d)
0.47
3.56
4.03
2.15
0.20
1.17(d)
1.71(d)
$18.21

* As stated in the company’s annual reports.

2. DISCREPANCY BETWEEN EARNINGS AS ABOVE AND CHANGES IN THE SURPLUS ACCOUNT

Net earnings 1929–1938, as reported . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Less dividends paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(A) Indicated balance to surplus. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Earned surplus Dec. 31, 1928 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Less charge @ write-down of plant account to $1 in 1933 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Earned surplus Dec. 31, 1928, as adjusted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Earned surplus and contingency reserve, Dec. 31, 1938 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(B) Decrease in surplus on balance sheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Discrepancy between earnings shown in income accounts
and those indicated by balance sheets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 6,782,000
5,959,000
823,000
14,214,000
455,000
13,759,000
5,736,000
8,023,000
$ 8,846,000

3. EXPLANATION OF DISCREPANCY

Charges made to surplus and not deducted in income account
from which earnings per share were computed by company:
Mark-down of inventory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Charge-off and write-down of various assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miscellaneous adjustments, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$4,500,000
3,969,000
377,000
$8,846,000

[600]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

In addition to the foregoing the company wrote down its fixed assets
to $1 in 1933 by a charge of $19,301,000, of which $18,846,000 was taken
out of capital account and the balance out of surplus. To the extent that
depreciation charges since 1932 may have been insufficient because of
this write-down (see p. 495 on accompanying CD), the reported earnings
for the period were further overstated.
4. RESTATEMENT OF EARNINGS FOR 1929–1938

Earnings per income account . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Less charges made to surplus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Earnings for period as corrected . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$6,782,000
8,846,000
$2,064,000(d)

5. WORKING CAPITAL COMPARISON: 1938 VS. 1928

Net working capital Dec. 31,1928 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Net working capital Dec. 31, 1938 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Decrease for ten years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Add proceeds of sales of capital stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Real shrinkage in working capital for period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$11,336,000
8,144,000
3,192,000
6,582,000
$9,774,000

The foregoing analysis does not require extended discussion, since
most of the points involved were covered in Chaps. 31 to 36 (Chaps. 35–36
on accompanying CD). Virtually all the charges made to surplus between
1929 and 1938 (except for the write-down of the plant account to $1) represented a real diminution of the reported earning power of United States
Industrial Alcohol during this ten-year period. It seems likely, also, that
the surplus would have shrunk considerably farther if the plant account
had been carried at a proper figure and appropriate depreciation charged
against it since 1932. The fact that the company’s working capital
decreased by $3,192,000, despite receipt of $6,582,000 from the sale of
additional stock, is further evidence that, instead of there being a surplus
above dividends as reported, the company actually lost money before dividends during these ten years.6

Checking the Effect of Losses or Profits on the Financial Position of the Company. An example of the second aspect was given in
6 An analysis of the exhibit of Stewart Warner Corporation for 1925–1932, leading to similar

conclusions, appeared at this point in our 1934 edition. Cf. W. A. Hosmer, “The Effect of
Direct Charges to Surplus on the Measurement of Income,” Business and Modern Society, ed.
by M.P. McNair and H. T. Lewis. pp. 113–151, Harvard University Press, 1938.

[601]

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

Chap. 43, in the comparison of the 1929–1932 balance sheets of Manhattan Shirt Company and Hupp Motor Car Corporation respectively.
A similar comparison is shown below, covering the exhibit of Plymouth
Cordage Company and H. R. Mallinson and Company during the same
period, 1929–1932.
Examples:
Item

Plymouth Cordage Co.

H. R. Mallinson & Co.

$ 288,000
25,000
233,000(d)
$ 80,000

$1,457,000(d)
561,000(d)
200,000(d)
$2,218,000(d)

1,348,000

66,000

2,733,000

116,000

$4,001,000

$2,400,000

Earnings reported:
1930
1931
1932
Total (3 years) profit
Dividends
Charges to surplus and
reserves
Decrease in surplus and
reserve for 3 years

COMPARATIVE BALANCE SHEETS (000 OMITTED)
Plymouth Cordage

H. R. Mallinson

Sept. 30,
1929

Sept. 30,
1932

Dec. 31,
1929

Dec. 31,
1932

Fixed and miscellaneous
assets (net)
Cash assets
Receivables
Inventories

$ 7,211
1,721
1,156
8,059

$ 5,157
3,784
668
3,150

$2,539
526
1,177
3,060

$2,224
20
170
621

Total assets

$18,147

$12,759

$7,302

$3,035

Current liabilities
Preferred stock
Common stock
Surplus and miscellaneous reserves
Total liabilities

$ 982

$ 309

8,108
9,057
$18,147

7,394
5,056
$12,759

$2,292
1,342
500
3,168
$7,302

$ 486*
1,281
500
768
$3,035

$ 9,954

$ 7,298

$2,471

$ 357

1,895

4,143

Item

Net current assets
Net current assets excluding
inventory
* Including $32,000 of “deferred liabilities.”

589(d)

264(d)

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[602]

Despite the large reduction in the surplus of Plymouth Cordage during
these years, its financial position was even stronger at the end of the period
than at the beginning, and the liquidating value per share (as distinct from
book value) was probably somewhat higher. On the other hand, the losses
of Mallinson almost denuded it of working capital and thereby created an
extremely serious obstacle to a restoration of its former earning power.
Taking Losses on Inventories May Strengthen Financial Position. It is
obvious that losses that are represented solely by a decline in the inventory account are not so serious as those which must be financed by an
increase in current liabilities. If the shrinkage in the inventory exceeds the
losses, so that there is an actual increase in cash or reduction in payables,
it may then be proper to say—somewhat paradoxically—that the company’s financial position has been strengthened even though it has been
suffering losses. This reasoning has a concrete application in analyzing
issues selling at less than liquidating value. It will be recalled that, in estimating break-up value, inventories are ordinarily taken at about 50 to 75%
of the balance sheet figure, even though the latter is based on the lower of
MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY (000 OMITTED)

Balance sheet, Nov. 30, 1929

Balance sheet, Nov. 30, 1932

Book value

Estimated
liquidating
value

$1,961
771
1,289
1,124
$5,145
100

$1,961
620
850
300
$3,731
100

$5,045
246,000
$20.50

$3,631
246,000
$14.75

Item

Book value

Estimated
liquidating
value

Cash and bonds
at market
Receivables
Inventories
Fixed and other assets
Total assets
Current liabilities
Preferred stock
Balance for common
Number of shares
Value per share

$ 885
2,621
4,330
2,065*
$9,901
2,574
299
$7,028
281,000
$25.00

$ 885
2,100
2,900
500
$6,385
2,574
299
$3,513
281,000
$12.50

* Excluding good-will.

(Continues)

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[603]

INCOME ACCOUNT 1930–1932

Balance after preferred dividends:
1930 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1931 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1932 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3 years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Charges to surplus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Common dividends paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

318,000(d)
93,000
139,000(d)
364,000(d)
505,000*
723,000
$1,592,000
Less discount on common stock bought . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
481,000
Decrease in surplus for period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1,111,000*
* Eliminating transfer of $100,000 to Contingency Reserve.

cost or market. The result is that what appears as an operating loss in the
company’s statement may have the actual effect of a profit from the standpoint of the investor who has valued the inventory in his own mind at considerably less than the book figure. This idea is concretely illustrated in
the Manhattan Shirt Company example beginning on p. 602.
If we consider only the company’s figures there was evidently a loss for
the period, with a consequent shrinkage in the value of the common stock.
But if an investor had bought the stock, say, at $8 per share in 1930 (the low
price in that year was 61/8), he would more logically have appraised the
stock in his own mind on the basis of its liquidating value rather than its
book value. From his point of view, therefore, the intrinsic value of his holdings would have increased during the depression period from $12.50 to
$14.75 per share, even after deducting the substantial dividends paid. What
really happened was that Manhattan Shirt turned the larger portion of its
assets into cash during these three years and sustained a much smaller loss
in so doing than a conservative buyer of the stock would have anticipated.
This accomplishment can be summarized in the table on p. 604.
We have here a direct contrast between the superficial indications of the
income account and the truer story told by the successive balance sheets.
Situations of this kind justify our repeated assertion that income-account
analysis must be supplemented and confirmed by balance-sheet analysis.7

7 The student will note a similar development in Manhattan Shirt, though on a smaller scale,
between December 1937 and December 1938.

[604]

Assets turned into cash and
application of proceeds
Reduction in inventory
Reduction in receivables
Reduction in plant, etc.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Amount

Actual loss sustained
Net amount realized

$3,000,000
1,800,000
1,000,000
$5,800,000
800,000
$5,000,000

Applied as follows:
To common dividends
To payment of liabilities

$ 700,000
2,500,000

To redemption of preferred
To retirement of common
To increase in cash assets

“Expected loss” thereon and
application of difference
$1,000,000
350,000
750,000
$2,100,000
800,000
“Gain” on basis of
liquidation values
$1,300,000
Applied as follows:
To common dividends $700,000
To increase liquidating
value
$600,000

300,000
500,000
1,000,000
$5,000,000

Is Shrinkage in Value of Normal Inventory an Operating Loss? A
further question may be raised with respect to changes in the inventory
account, i.e., whether or not a mere reduction in the carrying price should
be regarded as creating an operating loss. In the case of Plymouth
Cordage we note the following comparative figures:
Inventory Sept. 30, 1929 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Inventory Sept. 30, 1932 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Decrease . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$8,059,000
3,150,000
60%

In the meantime the price of fibers had declined more than 50%, and
there was good reason to believe that the actual number of pounds of
fiber, rope and twine contained in the company’s inventory was not very
much smaller in 1932 than in 1929. At least half of the decline in the
inventory account was therefore due solely to the fall in unit prices. Did
this portion of the shrinkage in inventory values constitute an operating
loss? Could it not be argued that its fixed assets had suffered a similar
reduction in their appraisal value and that there was as much reason to
charge this shrinkage against earnings as to charge the shrinkage in the
carrying price of a certain physical amount of inventory?

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[605]

We have already discussed this point in our exposition of the “normal-stock” basis of inventory valuation (in Chap. 32), a method adopted
by Plymouth Cordage itself after 1932. In theory the analyst might
attempt to put all companies on a normal-stock basis for the purpose of
calculating their earning power exclusive of inventory fluctuations and
for uniform comparisons. Actually, he has not the data necessary for such
calculations. Hence he is reduced—here, as in many fields of analysis—
to the necessity of making general rather than exact allowance for the distorting effect of inventory price changes.
Profits from Inventory Inflation. That the importance of inventory
price changes is not confined to a depression period is emphatically
shown by the events of 1919 and 1920. In 1919 the profits of industrial
companies were very large; in 1920 the reported earnings were irregular
but in the aggregate quite substantial. Yet the gains shown in these two
years were in many cases the result of an inventory inflation, i.e., a huge
and speculative advance in commodity prices. Not only was the authenticity of these profits thereby made open to question, but the situation
was replete with danger because of the large bank loans contracted to
finance these overvalued inventories.
Examples: The following tabulation, which covers a number of the
leading industrial companies, will bring out the significant contrast
between the apparently satisfactory earnings developments and the

TWELVE INDUSTRIAL COMPANIES (AGGREGATE FIGURES)

Year 1919
Earned for common stock
Dividends paid
Charges to surplus
Added to surplus
Inventories increased
Change in other net
current assets
Plant, etc. increased
Capitalization increased
Reserve increased

Year 1920

Years 1919–1920

$100,000,000
35,000,000
5,000,000
60,000,000
57,000,000

$ 48,000,000
$148,000,000
68,000,000
103,000,000
10,000,000
15,000,000
30,000,000 (decr.)
30,000,000
84,000,000
141,000,000

30,000,000
33,000,000
69,000,000

131,000,000 (decr.)
169,000,000
141,000,000
12,000,000

101,000,000 (decr.)
202,000,000
210,000,000
12,000,000

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[606]

undoubtedly disquieting balance-sheet developments between the end of
1918 and the end of 1920.
The companies included in the foregoing computation were American
Can, American Smelting and Refining, American Woolen, Baldwin Locomotive Works, Central Leather, Corn Products Refining, General Electric,
B. F. Goodrich, Lackawanna Steel, Republic Iron and Steel, Studebaker,
United States Rubber.
We append also the individual figures for United States Rubber, in
order to add concreteness to our illustration:
U. S. RUBBER (1919–1920)

Earned for common stock:
1919 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1920 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cash dividends paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stock dividend paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transferred to contingency reserve . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Adjustments of surplus and reserves . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Net increase in surplus and miscellaneous reserves

$12,670,000
16,002,000
$28,672,000
8,580,000
9,000,000
6,000,000
cr. 2,210,000
$7,300,000

Per share: $17.60
19.76
$37.36

BALANCE SHEET (000 OMITTED)

Item

Dec. 31, 1918

Dec. 31, 1920

Increase

Plant and miscellaneous assets (net)
Inventories
Cash and receivables

$131,000
70,700
49,500

$185,500
123,500
63,600

$54,500
52,800
14,100

$251,200

$372,600

$121,400

$ 26,500
68,600
98,400
57,700

$ 74,300
87,000
146,300
65,000

$ 47,800
18,400
49,900
7,300

$251,200

$372,600

$121,400

Total assets
Current liabilities
Bonds
Preferred and common stock
Surplus and miscellaneous reserves
Total liabilities
Working capital
Working capital excluding inventory

93,700
23,000

112,800
10,700(d)

19,100
33,700(d)

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[607]

The United States Rubber figures for 1919–1920 present the complete
reverse of Manhattan Shirt’s exhibit for 1930–1932. In the Rubber
example we have large earnings but a coincident deterioration of the financial position due to heavy expenditures on plant and a dangerous expansion of inventory. The stock buyer would have been led astray completely
had he confined his attention solely to United States Rubber’s reported
earnings of nearly $20 per share in 1920; and, conversely, the securities
markets were equally mistaken in considering only the losses reported
during 1930–1932, without reference to the favorable changes occurring
at the same time in the balance-sheet position of many companies.
It will be noted from our discussion here and in Chap. 32 that the matter of inventory profits or losses belongs almost equally in the field of
income account and of balance-sheet analysis.

Long-range Study of Earning Power and Resources. The third
aspect of the comparison of successive balance sheets is of restricted interest because it comes into play only in an exhaustive study of a company’s
record and inherent characteristics. The purpose of this kind of analysis
may best be conveyed by means of the following applications to the longterm exhibits of United States Steel Corporation and Corn Products
Refining Company.
I. UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION: ANALYSIS OF OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL
CHANGES BY DECADES, 1903–1932
(ANALYSIS WAS MADE IN 1933)

The balance sheets are adjusted to exclude an intangible item (“water”),
amounting to $508,000,000, originally added to the Fixed Property
Account. This was subsequently written off between 1902 and 1929
by means of an annual sinking-fund charge (aggregating $182,000,000)
and by special appropriations from surplus. The sinking-fund charges in
question are also eliminated from the income account.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[608]

A. OPERATING RESULTS (IN MILLIONS)
First decade
1903–1912

Second decade
1913–1922

Third decade
1923–1932

Total for
30 years

93.4 tons

123.3 tons

118.7 tons

335.4 tons

$4,583

$9,200

$9,185

$22,968

Net earnings*

979

1,674

1,096

3,749

Bond interest

303

301

184

788

Preferred dividends

257

252

252

761

Common dividends

140

356

609†

1,105†

279

765

51

1,095

Item
Finished goods produced
Gross sales (excluding intercompany items)

Balance to surplus and
“voluntary reserves”

* After depreciation, but eliminating parent company sinking-fund charges.
† Including $204,000,000 paid in stock.

B. RELATION OF EARNINGS TO AVERAGE CAPITAL (ALL DOLLAR FIGURES IN MILLIONS)

Item
Capital at beginning
Capital at end
Average capital about
% earned on average capital, per year
% paid per year in interest and
dividends on average capital
Average common stock equity (common
stock, surplus, and reserves)
% earned on common stock equity
% paid on common stock equity
Depreciation per year
Average fixed property account
Ratio of depreciation to fixed property
* Excluding stock dividend.

First
decade

Second
decade

Third
decade

Total for
30 years

$ 987
1,416
1,200
8.1%

$1,416
2,072
1,750
9.6%

$2,072
2,112
2,100
5.2%

$ 987
2,112
1,700
7.4%

5.8%

5.2%

4.0%*

5.2%*

$237
17.7%
5.9%
$24
1,000
2.4%

$620
18.3%
5.7%
$34
1,320
2.6%

$1,389
4.8%
2.9%*
$46
1,600
2.9%

$816
9.0%
3.7%*
$35
1,300
2.7%

C. BALANCE-SHEET CHANGES (ALL FIGURES IN MILLIONS)

Item

Dec. 31,
1902

Dec. 31,
1912

Changes in
first decade

Dec. 31,
1922

Changes in
second decade

Dec. 31,
1932

Changes in Changes in
third decade
30 years

Assets:
Fixed (less deprec.) and misc.*
Net current assets

$820
167

$1,160
256

$340
 89

$1,466
606

$306
 350

$1,741
371

$275
 235

 $921
 204

$987

$1,416

$429

$2,072

$656

$2,112

$40

$1,125

$380
510

$680
360

$300
 150

$571
360

$109

$455

508
411(d)

508
132(d)

 279

508
633

 765

$116
360
5
952†
679

 5
 444
 46

 $264
 150

5
 444
 1,090

$429

$2,072

$656

$2,112

 $40

$1,125

Total
[609]

Liabilities:
Bonds
Preferred stock
Preferred dividends accrued
Common stock
Surplus and “voluntary” reserves*
Total

$987

$1,416

* Eliminating initial mark-up of $508,000,000, later written off.
† Including premiums of $81,000,000 and stock dividend of $204,000,000.

[610]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The Significance of the Foregoing Figures. The three decades had,
superficially at least, a somewhat equal distribution of good years and
bad. In the first decade 1904 and 1908 were depression years, while 1911
and 1912 were subnormal. The second period had three bad years, viz.,
1914, 1921 and 1922—the last due to high costs rather than to small volume. The third decade was made up of eight years of prosperity followed
by two of unprecedented depression.
The figures show that the war period, which occurred in the middle
decade, was a windfall for United States Steel and added more than 300 millions to profits, as compared with the rate established in the first ten years.
On the other hand, the last ten years were marked by a drastic falling off in
the rate of earnings on the invested capital. The difference between the 5.2%
actually earned and the 8% that might be regarded as a satisfactory annual
average amounted to close to 600 million dollars for the ten-year period.
Viewing the picture from another angle, we note that in the thirty years
the actual investment in United States Steel Corporation was more than
doubled and its productive capacity was increased threefold. Yet the average annual production was only 27% higher, and the average annual earnings before interest charges were only 12% higher, in 1923–1932 than in
1903–1912. This analysis would serve to raise the question: (1) if, since the
end of the war, steel production has been transformed from a reasonably
prosperous into a relatively unprofitable industry and (2) if this transformation is due in good part to excessive reinvestment of earnings in additional plant, thus creating a condition of overcapacity with resultant
reduction in the margin of profit.
Postscript. The soundness of the foregoing analysis, made in 1933,
may be judged by developments since then. It should be pointed out that
both the plant account figures and the annual earnings should be adjusted
downward in the light of the later disclosures, viz.: (1) segregation from
plant account in 1937 of $269,000,000 (and write-off of this amount in
1938), representing intangible assets at organization in addition to the
$508,000,000 written off to 1929; (2) a charge to surplus of $270,000,000
in 1935 for additional amortization of fixed assets, presumably applicable to the entire preceding period. These later revisions, however, do not
affect in any essential degree the conclusions drawn above.
The showing of United States Steel in the years since 1932 would
appear to bear out the pessimistic implications of the 1933 study. During
the six years 1934–1939, which is most instances supply a fair test period

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[611]

for judging normal earning power, “Steel” common earned an average
of but 14¢ per share. New developments in products, processes or other
factors—including war profits—may change the picture for the better, but
this has become a matter for speculative anticipation of future improvement rather than a reasonable expectation based on past performance.
II. SIMILAR ANALYSIS OF CORN PRODUCTS REFINING COMPANY
FEBRUARY 28, 1906 TO DEC. 31, 1935
A. AVERAGE ANNUAL INCOME ACCOUNT
(000 OMITTED FROM DOLLAR FIGURES)

Earned before depreciation
Depreciation
Balance for interest and dividends
Bond interest
Preferred dividends (paid or accrued)
Balance for common
Common dividends
Balance to surplus
Balance to surplus for period
Adjustment of common stock, surplus
and reserves
Increase in common stock, surplus
and reserves

1906–1915

1916–1925

1926–1935

$3,798
811
2,987
516
2,042
429
429
4,290

$12,770
2,538
10,232
264
1,879
8,089
2,751
5,338
53,384

$14,220
2,557
11,663
88
1,738
9,837
8,421
1,416
14,159

cr. 1,282

cr. 6,026

dr. 5,986

5,572

59,410

7,173

B. BALANCE SHEETS

Plant (less depreciation) and
miscellaneous assets
Investment in affiliates
Net current assets
Total
Bonds
Preferred stock
Common stock, surplus and
miscellaneous reserves
Preferred dividend accrued
Total

Feb. 28,
1906

Dec. 31,
1915

Dec. 31,
1925

Dec. 31,
1935

$49,000
2,000
1,000
$52,000
9,571
28,293

$51,840
4,706
11,091
$67,637
12,763
29,873

$ 47,865
16,203
42,528
$106,596
2,474
25,004

$ 34,532
33,141
43,192
$110,865

14,136

19,708
5,293
$67,637

79,118

86,291

$106,596

$110,865

$52,000

24,574

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[612]

C. PERCENTAGE EARNED1 AND PAID ON TOTAL CAPITALIZATION
AND ON COMMON-STOCK EQUITY

Item
Average capitalization
Earned thereon
Paid thereon
Average common equity
Earned thereon
Paid thereon

1906–1915

1916–1925

1926–1935

295/6 years

$59,818
5.0%
4.2%
$16,922
2.5%
nil

$87,116
11.8%
5.6%
$49,413
16.4%
5.6%

$108,730
10.7%
9.4%
$82,704
11.9%
10.2%

$81,432
10.2%
7.3%
$50,213
12.2%
7.8%

1 Adjustments to Surplus and Reserves are excluded from earnings.

NOTES ON FOREGOING COMPUTATION

1. The plant account and common-stock equity are corrected throughout to reflect a writedown of $36,000,000 made in 1922 and 1923.
2. Bonds outstanding are increased in 1906 and 1912 to reflect liability for issues of subsidiaries.
Plant, etc., is increased in the same amounts.
3. Estimates considered to be sufficiently accurate are used in the initial balance sheet.
4. Deductions for bond interest are partly estimated for the first two periods.
5. The adjustments of Common Stock, Surplus, and Reserves represent chiefly changes in Miscellaneous Reserves and shrinkage of marketable securities.

Comment on the Corn Products Refining Company Exhibit. The early
period was one of subnormal earnings, which would have been still
poorer if more nearly adequate depreciation charges had been made. As
in the case of United States Steel, the war period brought enormous earnings to Corn Products. The decade 1916–1925 was marked as a whole by
a great increase in working capital and a substantial reduction in funded
debt and preferred stock. Depreciation charges exceeded expenditures on
new plant.
In the 1926–1935 period we note a striking divergence from the
exhibit of United States Steel for 1923–1932. Despite inclusion of the
depression years Corn Products was almost able to increase its earning
power proportionately with its enlarged capital investment. Its annual
profits (both before and after depreciation) were about four times as large
in this decade as in the period ending in 1915. (If we use the same years
for comparison, we shall find that United States Steel actually earned less
in 1926–1935 than in 1906–1915.) The balance-sheet changes were

Balance-sheet Analysis. Implications of Asset Values

[613]

marked by a further substantial shrinkage in the property account (due
to the liberal depreciation charged) but by a larger increase in the investment in affiliated companies—indicating a broad expansion of the company’s activities.
It is clear that the record of Corn Products Refining Company does
not suggest the same questions or doubts as arise from an examination
of the United States Steel Corporation’s exhibit.

This page intentionally left blank

PART VII

ADDITIONAL
ASPECTS OF
SECURITY ANALYSIS.
DISCREPANCIES
BETWEEN PRICE
AND VALUE

Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

This page intentionally left blank

Introduc tion to Par t VII

T HE G REAT I LLUSION OF THE S TOCK M ARKET
AND THE F UTURE OF VALUE I NVESTING
B Y D AV I D A B R A M S

I

n value-investing circles, you meet many people who claim to have
been inspired by what Benjamin Graham and David Dodd wrote in
Security Analysis. Most are, at the very least, stretching the truth. A fair

number of aspiring and practicing value investors may indeed have
devoured The Intelligent Investor. But I would wager that few have actually
dug deeply into Security Analysis and fewer still have read the classic
cover to cover. I have to confess that although I had delved into various
parts of Security Analysis, I had never read it from first page to last. So
when I was asked to write an introduction to Part VII, which comprises the
last hundred pages of the book, it was time to do my homework. After
more than 20 years as an investment professional, I finally read the value
investors’ equivalent of Deuteronomy. Entitled “Additional Aspects of
Security Analysis. Discrepancies between Price and Value,” Part VII covers
a lot of ground: the valuation of warrants; the potential decrease in the
value of a company’s common stock when it issues options to management; the shortcomings of relative value analysis; and the greed of investment bankers. In the 75 years since the original edition was published,
both the world at large and the financial markets have undergone cataclysmic change. Yet, as Graham and Dodd understood, how markets
work, how companies are run, and how people—both investors and corporate managers—tend to act in certain situations never change.

[617]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[618]

Introduction to Part VII

The world likes to categorize things, including investing styles, in
neat little boxes. So it is that the financial media frequently label market
participants as “value,” “growth,” or “momentum” investors. That’s all fine,
but I can tell you that I’ve observed a great many investors over the
years, and I’ve never seen a consistently successful one whose strategy
was not based on a value approach—paying less for something than it is
worth, either today or in the future. True, some people like to buy things
that will grow and others are drawn to assets that beckon from the bargain counter, while still others like to engage in arbitrage activities, buying one thing and selling another to profit on the price differential, or
spread. But every successful investor I’ve ever known makes a calculation
that compares an asset’s purchase price to its present or future value.
Whatever their approach, countless investors have used the principles laid out in Security Analysis to uncover bargains. Scads of people
have become wealthy doing so, including many of the contributors to
this revised edition, not to mention all the people who were smart
enough to buy Berkshire Hathaway years ago. Their success is a testament to value investing’s glorious past. But what about its future? Is the
road ahead bright and prosperous? Or is it bleak and beggarly? Are there
more people practicing Ben Graham’s underlying principles than there
are bargains for them to find? Is there just too much money chasing a
finite supply of bargains? Or might a serious security analyst still be able
to prosper over time?
I am optimistic about the future of value investing. To be sure, there
are many bright and savvy people in the financial markets employing
Graham and Dodd’s techniques, but the markets themselves have grown
exponentially. The chunk of capital being invested by the value-investing
crowd is a small percentage of the overall capitalization of global financial markets. Having observed the markets for more than two decades,
my sense is that, rather than a glut of Graham and Dodd acolytes picking
through scarce opportunities to find a place for their cash, money is ever

David Abrams

[619]

more prone to sloshing around in giant waves, flowing from one fad to
the next. If anything, it seems that the people controlling these megasums have become less intelligent and less sophisticated over time. The
last decade alone has brought incredible extremes in valuation, starting
in 1999 and 2000 with the high-altitude Internet bubble that was followed in short order by the utter collapse of the tech market. In the summer of 2002, we witnessed a tremendous corporate debt meltdown. But
soon, these excessively low valuations were pushed off the front pages
by the most generous and lax lending standards of all time. Now, as I
write this introduction, the mortgage market is imploding, creating perhaps yet another new set of opportunities. That we’ve seen the last of
these extreme swings seems doubtful.
What is driving this manic phenomenon? The explanation is something I call the “Great Illusion of the Stock Market.” Investing looks easy,
particularly in a world of inexpensive software and online trading. Buying a stock is no more difficult than buying a book on Amazon.com. And
because a great many people have gotten wealthy in the stock market,
lots of others have come to believe that anyone can get rich with very
little effort. They are wrong. All the people I know who’ve built wealth in
the stock market have worked very hard at it. Graham and Dodd understood the effort it took to be successful in the market. They wrote:
Since we have emphasized that analysis will lead to a positive conclusion
only in the exceptional case, it follows that many securities must be
examined before one is found that has real possibilities for the analyst.
By what practical means does he proceed to make his discoveries?
Mainly by hard and systematic work. (p. 669)

So, yes, you can get rich buying and selling stocks, but, as the authors
well knew, it takes hard work and patience. Nevertheless, the Great Illusion persists, maybe because, like Woody Allen’s film character Zelig, the
market is a chameleon that changes its appearance to suit the times.
Sometimes, it shows up as a tech stock bubble. Other times, it manifests

[620]

Introduction to Part VII

itself as a ludicrously overvalued stock market as seen in the late 1980s
in Japan. In a current incarnation, a raft of financial institutions across
America are trying to emulate the success of David Swensen and his colleagues who manage Yale University’s endowment by allocating large
percentages of the capital to “alternative investment managers.”
But the Great Illusion is just that—an illusion. If you want to get
wealthy in the financial markets, you’ll need to engage in “hard and systematic work.” And for that, many sections of Part VII of Security Analysis
are still essential. Given the drastic changes in the world since the book
first appeared, it should come as no surprise that some of the material is
no longer relevant for today’s investor, and these shortcomings bear
mentioning. So as we take a quick tour through this part, I’ll point out
some deficiencies along with the authors’ nuggets of wisdom that still
ring true.
One of the shortcomings shows up early in the first chapter of Part
VII, in Chapter 46, “Stock-option Warrants,” which is on the accompanying CD. This chapter may well be the most dated. When the book was
first published, the derivatives market was still in its infancy. Fischer Black
and Myron Scholes had not yet developed their famous formula for valuing stock options, and the products that now pervade the financial markets—options, interest rate futures, swaps, swaptions, and so on—were
not fixtures in the financial markets. Chapter 46 homes in on stock warrants, one of the few derivative securities available at that time. The
authors make some good points with their few specific examples, but
their analysis is not sophisticated enough for today’s world.
Take their example of Barnsdall Oil warrants. Graham and Dodd correctly conclude that these warrants were undervalued because the market priced them at their intrinsic value. It’s not terribly relevant in today’s
world because such mispricing wouldn’t last long. Besides pointing out
the obvious—it’s better to own a warrant trading at its intrinsic value

David Abrams

[621]

than to own the underlying stock—Graham and Dodd note the leverage
inherent in warrants and options. This analysis is good as far as it goes,
but it just doesn’t go far enough. The authors were able to identify that
the Barnsdall Oil warrants were mispriced relative to the common stock,
but they weren’t able to provide the reader with an intellectual framework or the tools needed to value the warrants properly.
I should make it clear that just because an asset is overvalued or
undervalued, it’s not necessarily a good idea to try to capitalize on that
mispricing. If the derivatives market fully understands the misvaluation
of the underlying security, there is no particular edge to owning the
derivative. However, if the market undervalues the derivatives on a mispriced security or group of securities, the odds to the derivative investor
can be very favorable. In effect, the investor benefits from the double
leverage of two mispriced securities—the underlying and the derivative.
Although such a situation doesn’t arise often, it can be particularly profitable. The ability to capture the compound mispricings can lead to
extraordinary profits.
Perhaps the most famous example of this phenomenon occurred in
the late 1980s, when the Japanese stock market rose to greater and
greater heights, ultimately reaching an absurd level of overvaluation.
While some believed that this was a “new era” in which Japan would economically dominate the world, value investors took a different view,
believing instead that it was simply a case of a financial bubble that
would ultimately correct itself. On Wall Street, there was a growing and
widespread understanding that the Japanese stock market would eventually decline to more reasonable and rational levels, which spelled
opportunity for those able to capitalize on what promised to be a dramatic price movement.
Against this backdrop, options sellers were, amazingly, willing to offer
puts on the Nikkei Index at a remarkably cheap price. I remember asking

[622]

Introduction to Part VII

the brokers who sold these options, “Who is taking the other side of
these trades?” “European institutions,” they said, which is the standard
reply of Wall Street brokers who don’t want to tell you what’s really
going on. In the end, it turned out that much of the exposure was held
by Japanese financial institutions that were so confident their market
would never go down that they wrote these multiyear contracts and
took the entire premium into income immediately. Ultimately, the
Japanese market collapsed, and my then employer, along with many
other U.S. investors, profited handsomely as the puts soared in value.
More recently, the derivatives market in asset-backed securities of
subprime mortgages offered a similarly distorted risk-reward equation in
the form of credit default swaps (CDSs). These securities are a series of
puts on bonds backed by subprime mortgages on residential property.
When the bonds were issued, they were viewed by both investors and
the rating agencies as safe (that is, investment grade) because of the
assumptions about how these mortgages would perform. However,
some astute investors realized that the underlying collateral was much
riskier and subject to far more downside than the buyers originally
assumed when they purchased CDSs on subprime bonds and indexes.
When the subprime market collapsed in 2007, some of these securities
increased in value more than 50 or 60 times the amount at risk. Every
trade always has two sides, so it helps if you can figure out the thought
process of the person on the opposite side of the trade. Warren Buffett
once wrote: “If you’ve been in the poker game for 30 minutes and you
don’t know who the patsy is, you’re the patsy.”

“Work It Out”
Like Graham and Dodd, my own initial approach to the derivatives market was rather simplistic, and I well remember the day my young eyes
were opened to the perils and pitfalls of my naiveté.

David Abrams

[623]

It was the early 1980s and I was just starting out on Wall Street. Derivatives were still a mostly nascent market, and stock options were among
the first of these instruments to attract much attention. Like Graham and
Dodd and many others on the Street, I grasped the leveraged nature of
stock options and how they could be used to magnify the gains (or
losses) of an individual stock position. But my knowledge beyond the
basics was scant. I was working in the risk arbitrage department of a firm
that did a lot of options arbitrage. And although I didn’t yet understand
what that meant, I did understand that the guys sitting next to me were
making a lot of money doing it. What is more, they seemed to come in
just before the market opened, left promptly right after the market
closed, and never even glanced at the Wall Street Journal, preferring
instead to read the gossipy New York Post. My curiosity was aroused. So
one day I asked Ira, the head of the firm, to explain to me what he did.
The two-minute conversation that followed forever changed the way I
looked at derivatives and profoundly affected the way I’ve approached
unfamiliar areas in finance and business ever since.
Ira pointed to a stock (I can’t remember which one, although it could
easily have been IBM since, in those days, the sun on Wall Street literally
rose and set on whatever IBM was doing) and asked me this question:
“What if you buy the $35 calls, sell the $40 calls, buy the $40 puts, and
sell the $35 puts all at the same time?” My first thought was, “You’ve got
a mess,” but I didn’t say that. I simply looked baffled. Seeing my confusion, he said, “Work it out. What’s it worth at expiration?” After a few minutes with pencil and paper, I looked up, still a bit confused, and said, “It’s
always worth $5.” “Right,” he said. But still the light did not flicker in my
brain until Ira asked, “What if you could buy it for $4.50?” Bingo! I finally
got it. Even though I was new to Wall Street, I had done enough arbitrage to understand what Ira was saying. Typically, the most liquid
option contracts are those with expiration dates relatively close by;

[624]

Introduction to Part VII

which means that if you could buy this “box,” as it is called, consisting of
two pairs of options for $4.50, you would make a guaranteed 11% on
your money in less than six months.
It was my turn to pose a question. “Can you really buy them for
$4.50?” I asked. “Sometimes,” he said. And then I realized who had been
the proverbial patsy in the poker game. It was me. By relying on Graham
and Dodd’s overly simplistic approach to the options market and not
fully understanding the mathematics of the instruments in which I was
investing, I didn’t appreciate how the trade might look to the person on
the other side. I was ripe for the picking, as they say. Perhaps my trades
had been the other side of someone’s buying a box for $4.50. I realized
that, in all likelihood, the guy on the other side was probably smarter
than I was. Embarrassed by my own ignorance, I vowed to wade into
new situations with a greater respect for those on the other side of the
trade and with more humility about the limits of my own knowledge.
Never again would I be the patsy. That approach has served me well
throughout my career.
Unlike the world in which Graham and Dodd lived and worked,
today’s security analyst is at a disadvantage without a good understanding of how option pricing models work and what their limitations are.
Not only are derivatives pervasive in the financial markets but many corporations and investment entities use them for purposes both prudent
and reckless.
As I continued to acquire experience and learned more about options
and the models used to value them, I became aware of a major weakness in options theory. By and large, the academic work underpinning
derivatives analysis, work that so many on Wall Street rely on, is predicated on the assumption that the markets are “efficient.” The authors of
Security Analysis would have had a good time arguing with these academics. They understood that the underlying premise of efficiency is not
always true, writing:

David Abrams

[625]

Evidently the processes by which the securities market arrives at its
appraisals are frequently illogical and erroneous. These processes, as we
pointed out in our first chapter, are not automatic or mechanical but
psychological, for they go on in the minds of people who buy and sell.
(p. 669)

Ahead of their time when it came to the question of market efficiency, Graham and Dodd weren’t able to foresee a need for the more
complex mathematical relationships pointed out by my boss. They
looked only at the relationship between the derivative security and the
underlying instrument, which made for a somewhat primitive method
of warrant analysis. Nevertheless, they did possess a keen understanding of how option and warrant issuance can affect the future value of
the issuing company’s common stock. In fact, they understood it better
than many of today’s accountants and Wall Street analysts. In a subsection entitled “A Dangerous Device for Diluting Stock Values,” the
authors write,
The public’s failure to comprehend that all the value of option warrants is
derived at the expense of the common stock has led to a practice that
would be ridiculous if it were not so mischievous. (p. 653 on accompanying CD)

Those words could just as easily have been penned any time in the
last decade, as some of the compensation schemes recently adopted at
certain corporations have been shortchanging shareholders by masking
the dilutive impact and inflating the income statement.
Until recently, companies recorded no expense on their income statements for the cost of options issued to management and directors. A
couple of years ago, the rules were changed, and Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (GAAP) began requiring companies to use one of
several methods to value the cost of their stock options. It’s a big
improvement over the prior practice of recording no expense, but the

[626]

Introduction to Part VII

methods mandated by GAAP are the same as those used by analysts to
value derivatives not issued by the company. Clearly, something is amiss.
There is a huge difference between derivative contracts with third parties that do not result in more shares being issued and company-issued
options that increase the number of its shares outstanding in the future,
thereby diluting the interests of the current stockholders. Long-term
shareholders need to fully appreciate the impact of these options issued
by corporations to management; otherwise they’ll find themselves shortchanged in the years to come.

Beware of the Investment Bankers!
Moving on to Chapter 47, “Cost of Financing and Management,” Graham and Dodd might more aptly have named it, “Beware of the Investment Bankers!” As the saying goes, “The more things change, the more
they stay the same.” Or, as a friend once told me with regard to conflicts
of interest on Wall Street, “Where there’s no conflict, there’s no interest.”
The reader will find it interesting to learn about ancient abuses at the
hands of investment bankers, while the folks at Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley may shed a few tears of nostalgia when they read about the
good old days of 20% underwriting spreads on the likes of American
Bantam Car Corporation Convertible Preference Stock. But the last page
of the chapter really stands out for its enduring relevance. Graham and
Dodd wrote,
The relaxation of investment bankers’ standards in the late 1920s, and
their use of ingenious means to enlarge their compensation, had
unwholesome repercussions in the field of corporate management.
Operating officials felt themselves entitled not only to handsome salaries
but also to a substantial participation in the profits of the enterprise. . . .
But it may not be denied that devious and questionable means were frequently employed to secure these large bonuses to the management
without full disclosure of their extent to the stockholders. . . . With pub-

David Abrams

[627]

licity given to this compensation, we believe that the self-interest of
stockholders may be relied on fairly well to prevent it from passing all
reasonable limits. (p. 642)

So many of the recent excesses—from the Internet bubble to the
leveraged buyout craze to the subprime mortgage fiasco—bear more
than a passing resemblance to the shenanigans Graham and Dodd
described years ago. And while the pair probably would not have been
surprised at some of the excessive compensation at the corporate level,
they likely would have been shocked that these excesses reached into
the management of the New York Stock Exchange itself. Today’s investors
would do well to view Wall Street with at least the same degree of
reproach and skepticism our authors exhibited in their writings.
Jumping ahead, Chapter 50, “Discrepancies between Price and
Value,” and Chapter 51, “Discrepancies between Price and Value (Continued),” are among the gems of Part VII, and anyone interested in investing should read them. They provide the reader with a useful list of dos
and don’ts, places to look for value, and traps to avoid, illustrated by
examples from the 1930s. Many of us have a tendency to romanticize
the past, and when investors engage in such fond reminiscence, they
often speak wistfully of Graham’s era. Oh, for a return to the days when
stocks sold at seven times earnings and less than working capital! And I
must admit that when I read the Group A list in Chapter 50, I, too, felt a
twinge of envy. How easy it must have been to be an investor in the
late 1930s!
But wait a minute, I thought. I’ve encountered numerous opportunities in my own lifetime that would have made Graham green with envy.
The truth is that, from time to time, financial markets present opportunities to buy assets that have remarkable risk-reward characteristics. It can
be described only as the best of all worlds when an investor has the
chance to make a decent amount of money in the worst case and oodles

[628]

Introduction to Part VII

in the best case. My personal list begins with the Management Assistance
Liquidating Trust—perhaps my first true value investment—and includes
Public Service of New Hampshire 18% second mortgage bonds trading at
par; Executive Life Muni GICs trading at 25 cents on the dollar in the
wake of a trial court judge’s decision later declared on appeal to have “no
basis in law or reason”; and Gentiva common stock, a spin-off resulting
from a merger that was trading at about a third of its working capital.
Around the same time Ira was enlightening me about the options
market, my friend Chris Stavrou introduced me to Management Assistance Liquidating Trust when he faxed me the 10-Q, adorned with his
handwritten notes. As he walked me through, I could see exactly what
he saw: a stock trading at $2 that was worth $4. What’s more, the company was now obligated to pay out to shareholders all the proceeds
from the sale of its assets. Knowing that this was a certain double, I
promptly sold all my other holdings and put 100% of my assets (all
$10,000 worth) into this one stock. My only regret is that I didn’t buy any
for my company because I was afraid my boss, who was on vacation at
the time, would disapprove of the investment.
One of the most recent and spectacular sets of opportunities
occurred in mid-2002, amid the epic meltdown in the corporate bond
market. Bargains were there for the taking—left, right, and center. Corporate bond market investors that year had stories galore. Mine was the
AES 10.25% Senior Subordinated Notes, which traded as low as 15 cents
on the dollar. At that price, the current yield was close to 66%. AES was a
complex company with assets all over the world. Furthermore, it was
financed in a nontraditional way with a combination of project-specific
debt as well as corporate debt of different levels of seniority. The high
degree of leverage combined with the complexity of the asset base
caused the market to be concerned that the company would be forced
into bankruptcy. Our analysis led us to the conclusion that there was
more than sufficient value and cash flow to cover the debt. As it turned

David Abrams

[629]

out, we were correct. These bonds never missed a payment and were
called at par within a year of hitting their lows. Talk about a windfall!
Surely, Ben Graham would have marveled at the bond market’s temporary insanity in the summer of 2002.
As I continued reading through Part VII, I was particularly and
delightedly struck by the authors’ use of the English language. Their ability to express ideas cogently and clearly has seldom been matched in
the field of finance, with the exception of perhaps their best and most
famous student, Warren Buffett. After all, it was Graham and Dodd who
created the parable of a manic Mr. Market, the gentleman who may be
your friend or your enemy but who is someone whose advice you should
never accept. A great example of their effective use of language is found
in the discussion of the shortcomings of “market analysis.”
It was also Graham and Dodd who coined the term “margin of safety,”
which has special relevance for the investment professionals who contributed to this edition of the book. All of us are fundamental analysts
who examine securities one at a time, weighing the risk and reward
characteristics of each investment at a particular price. While we may,
from time to time, have views on where the stock market is headed, we
generally do not make bets on its direction. Our reasons are many, but I
think Graham and Dodd said it best when they wrote in Chapter 52:
In market analysis there are no margins of safety; you are either right or
wrong, and if you are wrong, you lose money. (p. 703)

That really sums it up nicely, doesn’t it? Yet, all these years later, many
investors are still consumed with formulating their own market view.
Wall Street’s finest firms employ market strategists, and many investors,
professional and otherwise, are eager to hear those views. This, I submit,
is simply more evidence that the Great Illusion persists.
In the very last chapter, Graham and Dodd offer advice to different
groups of market participants, among them the small investor, the

[630]

Introduction to Part VII

well-heeled investor, and the institutional investor. How has their advice
held up?
For the small investor interested in income, the authors felt that the
only suitable investment was U.S. government savings bonds. The securities performed as promised, of course, but there were a couple of developments that Graham and Dodd did not and could not foresee. First and
foremost were the ravaging effects of inflation in the late 1970s and
early 1980s. The inflationary spiral ultimately led to higher interest rates
and large losses for bond investors. Second was the expansion of the
fixed income markets and the proliferation of innumerable fixed income
securities that created opportunities for value investing in the bond market for those willing to sift through vast numbers of similar instruments
in search of anomalous pricing.
Graham and Dodd advised profit-seeking investors, both large and
small, to purchase securities trading below their intrinsic value, and they
suggested that investors submit their analytical work for critique by others. In essence, they were recommending that investors should all
become part-time security analysts. Writing in the aftermath of the 1929
crash and ensuing Great Depression, the prospect of the kind of financial
market profitability we’ve seen in recent years was unimaginable. In
today’s hypercompetitive world, it may be possible to succeed as a parttime investor, but it’s not something I’d recommend. And if you don’t
want to devote yourself full-time to researching investments, you’re
probably better off engaging some professional assistance.
The prolific pair also advised institutions to invest solely in fixed
income investments, if doing so would fulfill their needs. Fortunately, for
universities such as Harvard, Yale, and Princeton, men such as Jack
Meyer, David Swensen, and Andy Golden didn’t follow that advice. And
because of it, those institutions have far more resources at their disposal
today than they would have otherwise. Thanks to the insight and inde-

David Abrams

[631]

pendent thinking of these individuals, their respective institutions all
have endowments measured in the tens of billions that give them a
huge and perhaps permanent competitive advantage over many of their
less wealthy peers. Beyond any specific advice that Graham and Dodd
offered, the most important point investors should take away from Security Analysis is this: look at the numbers and think for yourself. All the
great investors do, and that’s what makes them great.
Interestingly enough, one group of investors was left out when Graham and Dodd were dispensing advice in the last chapter of Security
Analysis. They had nary a word for all the young people starting out in
financial careers that they undoubtedly hoped would bring them fortune
and happiness, if not fame. To rectify that oversight, I offer a few last
words of advice to this group. Many of my collaborators on this project
are, like me, investment professionals who were once in your shoes—
young, new to Wall Street, with little if any money in our bank accounts,
but armed with energy, hope, and a good work ethic. We feel a particularly strong kinship with you. I think all of us would agree that we made
a great career choice. And although we may initially have been motivated by the money, it’s been a long time since the accumulation of
wealth was the force that sends us into the office each day. We do what
we do because we enjoy it. We relish the challenge, the stimulation, and
the satisfaction that comes with finding the next bargain the market has
to offer.
A number of years ago some professors at the University of Chicago
concluded that Graham and Dodd had it all wrong. The market, they
said, was efficient. In effect, they told aspiring analysts such as you:
“Don’t bother. Don’t waste your time. The market is too efficient for you
to be rewarded by your effort. Find something else to do with your life.”
For a long time, it was fashionable for people in financial circles to
debate this topic, with the professors marshaling arguments in favor of

[632]

Introduction to Part VII

their position and the practitioners insisting they were wrong, often
pointing to the many aberrations that could not be explained by the
academic theories.
Recently, the debate has died down, or perhaps it’s just that the practitioners are too busy making money, too busy unearthing the next mispriced security, to find the time to argue anymore. As rewarding as our
careers have been, I think all of us would tell you that it’s been a constant intellectual challenge to understand an ever-changing and increasingly global financial world in a competition that draws many
exceptionally talented, bright, and hardworking entrants. But it is just
such rigorous competition among colleagues and friends that brings out
the best in us. I, for one, feel fortunate to have met so many intellectually
curious, hardworking, and motivated people during my time on Wall
Street.
And so, to the aspiring young analyst, I can tell you that the answer
to the question of the market’s efficiency or lack thereof is clear: The
market is inefficient enough. “Enough for what?” you ask. Inefficient
enough for me—and you—to find some great opportunities from time
to time. Not every day or every week, but often enough. The Great Illusion persists, leaving plenty of opportunities for those who wish to do
the hard, sometimes boring, and often tedious work of value investing.
Happy hunting!

See accompanying CD for Chapter 46, “Stock-option Warrants.”

Chapter 47

COST OF FINANCING
AND MANAGEMENT

LET US CONSIDER IN MORE DETAIL the organization and financing of Petroleum Corporation of America, mentioned in the last chapter. This was a
large investment company formed for the purpose of specializing in securities of enterprises in the oil industry. The public was offered 3,250,000
shares of capital stock at $34 per share. The company received therefore
a net amount of $31 per share, or $100,750,000 in cash. It issued to
unnamed recipients—presumably promoters, investment bankers and the
management—warrants, good for five years, to buy 1,625,000 shares of
additional stock, also at $34 per share.
This example is representative of the investment trust financing of the
period. Moreover, as we shall see, the technique on this score that developed in boom years was carried over through the ensuing depression, and
it threatened to be accepted as the standard practice for stock financing of
all kinds of enterprises. But there is good reason to ask the real meaning
of a set-up of this kind, first, with respect to what the buyer of the stock
gets for his money, and second, with respect to the position occupied by
the investment banking houses floating these issues.

Cost of Management; Three Items. A new investment trust—such
as Petroleum Corporation in January 1929—starts with two assets: cash
and management. Buyers of the stock at $34 per share were asked to pay
for the management in three ways, viz.:
1. By the difference between what the stock cost them and the amount
received by the corporation.
It is true that this difference of $3 per share was paid not to the management but to those underwriting and selling the shares. But from the
standpoint of the stock buyer the only justification for paying more for

[633]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[634]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

the stock than the initial cash behind it would lie in his belief that the
management was worth the difference.
2. By the value of the option warrants issued to the organizing interests.
These warrants in essence entitled the owners to receive one-third of
whatever appreciation might take place in the value of the enterprise over
the next five years. (From the 1929 view-point a five-year period gave
ample opportunity to participate in the future success of the business.)
This block of warrants had a real value, and that value in turn was taken
out of the initial value of the common stock.
The price relationships usually obtaining between stock and warrants
suggest that the 1,625,000 warrants would take about one-sixth of the
value away from the common stock. On this basis, one-sixth of the
$100,750,000 cash originally received by the company would be applicable to the warrants, and five-sixths to the stock.
3. By the salaries that the officers were to receive, and also by the extra
taxes incurred through the use of the corporate form.
Summarizing the foregoing analysis, we find that buyers of Petroleum
Corporation shares were paying the following price for the managerial
skill to be applied to the investment of their money:
1. Cost of financing ($3 per share) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
$9,750,000
2. Value of warrants (1/6th of remaining cash) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . about 16,790,000
3. Future deductions for managerial salaries, etc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
?
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
$26,540,000

The three items together may be said to absorb between 25 and 30%
of the amount contributed by the public to the enterprise. By this we
mean not merely a deduction of that percentage of future profits but an
actual sacrifice of invested principal in return for management.
What Was Received for the Price Paid? Carrying the study a step farther, let us ask what kind of managerial skill this enterprise was to enjoy?
The board of directors consisted of many men prominent in finance, and
their judgment on investments was considered well worth having. But
two serious limitations on the value of this judgment must here be noted.
The first is that the directors were not obligated to devote themselves
exclusively or even preponderantly to this enterprise. They were permitted, and seemingly intended, to multiply these activities indefinitely.
Common sense would suggest that the value of their expert judgment to

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[635]

Petroleum Corporation would be greatly diminished by the fact that so
many other claims were being made upon it at the same time.
A more obvious limitation appears from the Corporation’s projected
activities. It proposed to devote itself to investments in a single field—
petroleum. The scope for judgment and analysis was thereby greatly circumscribed. As it turned out, the funds were largely concentrated, first in
two related companies—Prairie Pipe Line Company and Prairie Oil and
Gas Company—and then in a single successor enterprise (Consolidated
Oil Corporation). Thus Petroleum Corporation took on the complexion
of a holding company, in which the exercise of managerial skill appears
to be reduced to a minimum once the original acquisitions are made.1
We are forced to conclude that financial schemes of the kind illustrated by Petroleum Corporation of America are unsatisfactory from the
standpoint of the stock buyer. This is true not only because the total cost
to him for management is excessive in relation to the value of the services rendered but also because the cost is not clearly disclosed, being concealed in good measure by the use of the warrant artifice.2 (The foregoing
reasoning does not rest in any way upon the fact that Petroleum Corporation’s investments proved unprofitable.3)

Position of Investment Banking Firms in This Connection. The
second line of inquiry suggested by this example is also of major importance. What is the position occupied by the investment banking firms
floating an issue such as Petroleum Corporation of America, and how
1 The same logical objection to the payment of a large “managerial bonus,” in the form of
option warrants to those organizing a holding company, may be urged against the set-up of
Alleghany Corporation and United Corporation.
2 In a series of “Notes” on the history of United Corporation financing by Sanford L.
Schamus, in Columbia Law Review of May, June and November, 1937, the proposal was
advanced that prospectuses issued under S.E.C. legislation should carry a tabulation showing the effect of the exercise of warrants on earnings and asset values. See November 1937
issue, pp. 1173–1174.
3 A review of the operations of Petroleum Corporation, published by the S.E.C. in May 1939,
criticizes severely a number of deals in which the management was interested on the other
side. After 1933 a unique turn was given to the status of Petroleum Corporation through
acquisition of a large interest (39.8%) therein by Consolidated Oil. The two companies thus
became the largest stockholders of each other, an extraordinary and highly objectionable
situation. See Part 3, Chap. II (2d sec.), of the Report of the S.E.C. on Investment Trusts and
Investment Companies.

[636]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

does this compare with the practice of former years? Prior to the late
1920’s, the sale of stock to the public by reputable houses of issue was
governed by the following three important principles:
1. The enterprise must be well established and offer a record and financial exhibit adequate to justify the purchase of the shares at the issue price.
2. The investment banker must act primarily as the representative of
the buyers of the stock, and he must deal at arm’s-length with the company’s management. His duty includes protecting his clients against the
payment of excessive compensation to the officers or any other policies
inimical to the stockholders’ interest.
3. The compensation taken by the investment banker must be reasonable. It represents a fee paid by the corporation for the service of raising
capital.
These rules of conduct afforded a clear line of demarcation between
responsible and disreputable stock financing. It was an established Wall
Street maxim that capital for a new enterprise must be raised from private sources.4 These private interests would be in a position to make their
own investigation, work out their own deal and keep in close touch with
the enterprise, all of which safeguards (in addition to the chance to make
a large profit) were considered necessary to justify a commitment in any
new venture. Hence the public sale of securities in a new enterprise was
confined almost exclusively to “blue sky” promoters and small houses of
questionable standing. The great majority of such flotations were either
downright swindles or closely equivalent thereto by reason of the unconscionable financing charges taken out of the price paid by the public.
Investment-trust financing, by its very nature, was compelled to contravene these three established criteria of reputable stock flotations. The
investment trusts were new enterprises; their management and their
bankers were generally identical; the compensation for financing and management had to be determined solely by the recipients, without accepted
standards of reasonableness to control them. In the absence of such standards, and in the absence also of the invaluable arm’s-length bargaining
4 An apparent exception might be made sometimes in a case such as Chile Copper Company
where the demonstrated presence of huge bodies of ore was regarded as justifying public
financing to bring the mine into production. The sale of stock of the Lincoln Motor Company
in 1920 was one of the few real exceptions to the rule as here stated. In this instance an unusually high personal reputation was behind the enterprise, but it resulted in disastrous failure.

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[637]

between corporation and banker, it was scarcely to be hoped that the interests of the security buyer would be adequately protected. Allowance must
be made besides for the generally distorted and egotistical views prevalent
in the financial world during 1928 and 1929.
Developments since 1929. For a time it appeared that the demoralizing influence of investment-trust financing was likely to spread to the
entire field of common-stock flotations and that even the leading banking houses were prepared to sell shares of new or virtually new commercial enterprises, without past records and on the basis entirely of their
expected future earnings. (There were definite signs of this tendency in
the beer-and liquor-stock flotations of 1933.) Fortunately, a reversal of
sentiment has since taken place, and we find that the relatively few common-stock issues sponsored by the first-line houses are now similar in
character and arrangements to those of former days.5
However, there has been a fair amount of activity in the common-stock
flotation field since 1933, carried on by houses of secondary size or standing. Most of these issues represent shares of new enterprises, which in turn
tend to fall in whatever industrial group is easiest to exploit at the time.
Thus in 1933 we had many gold-, liquor- and beer-stock flotations, and in
1938–1939 there was a deluge of airplane issues. The formation of new
investment companies, on the other hand, appears to be a perennial industry. In surveying such common-stock flotations, the starting point must
be the realization that the investment banker behind them is not acting
primarily in behalf of his clients who buy the issue. For on the one side the
new corporation is not an independent entity, which can negotiate at
arm’s-length with various bankers representing clients with money to
invest, and on the other side, the banker is himself in part a promoter, in
part a proprietor of the new business. In an important sense, he is raising
funds from the public for himself.

New Role of Such Investment Bankers. More exactly stated, the
investment banker who floats such issues is operating in a double guise.
He makes a deal on his own behalf with the originators of the enterprise,
and then he makes a separate deal with the public to raise from them
the funds he has promised the business. He demands—and no doubt is
5 See, for example, the offerings of New Idea Company common in 1937, General Shoe
Company common in 1938, Julius Garfinckel and Company in 1939.

[638]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

entitled to—a liberal reward for his pains. But the very size of his compensation introduces a significant change in his relationship to the public. For it makes a very real difference whether a stock buyer can consider
the investment banker as essentially his agent and representative or must
view the issuing house as a promoter-proprietor-manager of a business,
endeavoring to raise funds to carry it on.
When investment banking becomes identified with the latter approach,
the interests of the general public are certain to suffer. The Securities Act
of 1933 aims to safeguard the security buyer by requiring full disclosure
of the pertinent facts and by extending the previously existing liability for
concealment or misrepresentation. Although full disclosure is undoubtedly desirable, it may not be of much practical help except to the skilled
and shrewd investor or to the trained analyst. It is to be feared that the typical stock buyer will neither read the long prospectus carefully nor understand the implications of all it contains. Modern financing methods are
not far different from a magician’s bag of tricks; they can be executed in
full view of the public without its being very much the wiser. The use of
stock options as part of the underwriter-promoter’s compensation is one
of the newer and more deceptive tricks of the trade.
Two examples of new enterprise financing, in 1936 and 1939, will be
discussed in some detail, with the object of illustrating both the character
of these flotations and the technique of analysis required to appraise them.6
Example A: American Bantam Car Corporation, July 1936. This offering consisted of 100,000 shares of 6% Cumulative Convertible Preference
stock, sold to the public at $10 per share, its par value. Each share was
convertible into 3 shares of common stock. The “underwriters” received
a gross commission of $2 per share, or 20% of the selling price; however,
this compensation was for selling effort only, without any guarantee to
take or place the shares.
The new company had acquired the plant of the American Austin
Car Company, which had started out in 1929 with $3,692,000 in cash
capital and had ended in bankruptcy. The organizers of the Bantam
6 In the 1934 edition we analyzed, at this point, the offering of stock in Mouquin, Inc. (liquor
importers) made in September 1933 at $6.75 per share. The facts showed that the public was
asked to place a valuation of $1,670,000 on an enterprise with physical assets of $424,000
and no earnings record. The company passed out of existence in 1937, and the public’s
investment was wiped out.

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[639]

enterprise bought in the Austin assets, subject to various liabilities, for
only $5,000. They then turned over their purchase, plus $500 in cash, to
the new company for 300,000 shares of its common stock. In other
words, the entire common issue cost the promoters $5,500 cash plus
their time and effort.
The prospectus stated—what was an obvious fact—that the preference
stock was “offered as a speculation.” That speculation could work out successfully only if the conversion privilege proved valuable, since the mere
6% return on a preferred stock was scarcely an adequate reward for the
risk involved. (The character of the risk was shown clearly enough in
the enormous losses of the predecessor company.) But note that before
the conversion privilege could be worth anything, the common stock
would have to sell for more than $31/3 per share—and in that case the
$5,500 investment of the organizers would be worth over $1,000,000. In
other words, before the public could make any profit, the organizers
would have to multiply their stake 180 times.
Sequel. By June 30, 1939, the company had accumulated a deficit of
$750,000; it was compelled to borrow money from the R.F.C., and the preferred-stock holder no longer had any equity in current assets. The price
of the preference stock declined to 3, but at the same time the common
was quoted at 3/4 bid. This meant (if the quoted price could be trusted)
that, although the public had lost 70% of its investment, the organizers’
$5,500 contribution had still a nominal market value of $225,000.
Example B: Aeronautical Corporation of America, December 1939.
This company offered to the public 60,000 shares of new common stock
at $6.25 per share. The “underwriters,” who made no firm commitment
to take any shares, received on the sale of each share the following three
kinds of compensation: (1) 90 cents in cash; (2) 1/20 of a share of stock,
ostensibly worth 31 cents, donated by the principal stockholders; (3) a
warrant to buy 1/2 share of stock at prices varying between $6.25 and $8.00
per share. If the common stock was fairly worth the $6.25 offering price,
these warrants were undoubtedly worth at least $1 per share called for.
This would mean an aggregate commission for selling effort of $2.34 per
share, or more than one-third the amount paid over by the public.
The company had been in business since 1928 and had been manufacturing its light Aeronca planes since 1931. Its business had grown
steadily from $124,000 sales in 1934 to about $850,000 sales in 1939.

[640]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

However, the enterprise had been definitely unprofitable to the end of
1938, showing an aggregate deficit at that time of over $500,000 (including development expense written off). In 91/2 months to October 15,
1939, it had earned $50,000. Prior to this offering of new shares to the
public there were outstanding 66,000 shares of stock, which had a net
asset value of only $1.28 per share. In addition to the warrants for 30,000
shares to be given the underwriters, there were like warrants for 15,000
shares in the hands of the officers.
There seemed strong reason to believe that the company occupied a
favorable position in a growing industry. But analysis would show that
the participation of the public in any future increase in earnings was seriously diluted in three different ways: by the cash selling expense subtracted from the price to be paid for the new stock, by the small tangible
assets contributed by the original owners for their stock interest and by
the warrants which would siphon off part of any increased value. To show
the effect of this dilution, let us assume that the company proves so successful that its fair value is twice its tangible assets after completion of this
financing—say, about $1,000,000 as compared with $484,000 of tangible
assets. What could then be the value of the stock for which the public paid
$6.25? If there were no warrants outstanding, this value would be about
$8 per share on 126,000 shares. But allowing for a value of say $2.00 per
share for the warrants, the stock itself would be worth only $7.25 per
share. Hence even a very substantial degree of success on the part of this
enterprise would add a mere 16% to the value of the public’s purchase.
Should things go the other way, a very large part of the investment would
soon be dissipated.

Should the Public Finance New Ventures? Fairly complete observation of new-enterprise financing registered with the S.E.C. since 1933
has given us a pessimistic opinion as to its soundness and its economic
value to the nation. The venturing of capital into new businesses is essential to American progress, but no substantial contribution to the upbuilding of the country has ever been made by new ventures publicly financed.
Wall Street has always realized that the capital for such undertakings
should properly be supplied on a private and personal basis—by the
organizers themselves or people close to them. Hence the sale of shares
in new businesses has never been a truly reputable pursuit, and the leading banking houses will not engage in it. The less fastidious channels

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[641]

through which such financing is done exact so high an over-all selling
cost—to the public—that the chance of success of the new enterprise,
small enough at best, is thereby greatly diminished.
It is our considered view that the nation’s interest would be served by
amending the Securities Act so as to prohibit the public offering of securities of new and definitely unseasoned ventures. It would not be easy to
define precisely the criteria of “seasoning,”—e.g., size, number of years’
operation without loss—and it may be necessary to vest some discretion
on this score with the S.E.C. We think, however, that borderline and difficult cases will be relatively few in number (although our second example above belongs, perhaps, in this category). We should be glad to see
the powers and duties of the S.E.C. diminished in many details of minor
significance; but on this point of protecting a public incapable of protecting itself, our view leans strongly towards more drastic legislation.

Blue-sky Promotions. In the “good old days” fraudulent stock promoters relied so largely upon high pressure salesmanship that they rarely
bothered to give their proposition any semblance of serious merit. They
could sell shares in a mine that was not even a “hole in the ground” or in
an invention the chief recommendation for which was the enormous
profit made by Henry Ford’s early partners. The victim was in fact buying “blue sky” and nothing else. Any one with the slightest business sense
could have detected the complete worthlessness of these ventures almost
at a glance; in fact, the glossy paper used for the prospectus was in itself
sufficient to identify the proposition as fraudulent.
The tightening of federal and state regulations against these swindles
has led to a different type of security promotion. Instead of offering something entirely worthless, the promoter selects a real enterprise that he can
sell at much more than its fair value. By this means the law can be obeyed
and the public exploited just the same. Oil and mining ventures lend themselves best to such stock flotations, because it is easy to instill in the uninitiated an exaggerated notion of their true worth. The S.E.C. has been
concerning itself more and more seriously with endeavors to defeat this
type of semifraud. In theory a promoter may offer something worth $1 per
share at $5, provided he discloses all the facts and adds no false representations. The Commission is not authorized to pass upon the soundness of
new securities or the fairness of their price (except in the case of publicutility issues which come under the terms of the Public Utility Holding

[642]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Company Act of 1935). Actually, it appears to be doing its best, by various
pressures, to discourage and even prevent the more grossly inequitable
offerings. But it is essential that the public recognize that the Commission’s
powers in this respect are severely limited and that only a sceptical analysis by the intending buyer can assure him against exploitation.
Promotional activities are attracted especially to any new industry that
is in the public eye. Profits made by those first in the field, or even currently by the enterprise floated, can be given a fictitious guise of permanence and of future enhancement. Hence gross overvaluations can be
made plausible enough to sell. In the liquor flotations of 1933 the degree
of overvaluation depended entirely upon the conscience of the sponsors.
Accordingly, the list of stock offerings showed all gradations from the
thoroughly legitimate down to the almost completely fraudulent.7 A
somewhat similar picture is presented by the aircraft flotations of
1938–1939. The public would do well to remember that whenever it
becomes easy to raise capital for a particular industry, both the chances
of unfair deals are magnified and the danger of overdevelopment of the
industry itself becomes very real.

Repercussions of Unsound Investment Banking. The relaxation
of investment bankers’ standards in the late 1920’s, and their use of ingenious means to enlarge their compensation, had unwholesome repercussions in the field of corporate management. Operating officials felt
themselves entitled not only to handsome salaries but also to a substantial participation in the profits of the enterprise. In this respect the investment-trust arrangements, devised by the banking houses for their own
benefit, set a stimulating example to the world of “big business.”
Whether or not it is proper for executives of a large and prosperous
concern to receive annual compensation running into hundreds of thousands or even millions of dollars is perhaps an open question. Its answer
will depend upon the extent to which the corporation’s success is due to
their unique or surpassing ability, and this must be very difficult to determine with assurance. But it may not be denied that devious and questionable means were frequently employed to secure these large bonuses to the
management without full disclosure of their extent to the stockholders.
7 See Appendix Note 55, p. 792 on accompanying CD, relative to investors’ experience with

brewery-stock flotations of 1933.

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[643]

Stock-option warrants (or long-term subscription rights) to buy shares
at low prices, proved an excellent instrument for this purpose—as we have
already pointed out in our discussion of stockholder-management relationships. In this field complete and continued publicity is not only theoretically desirable but of practical utility as well. The legislation of
1933–1934 marks an undeniable forward step in this regard, since the
major facts of managerial compensation must now be disclosed in registration statements and in annual supplements thereto (Form 10-K). With
publicity given to this compensation, we believe that the self-interest of
stockholders may be relied on fairly well to prevent it from passing all
reasonable limits.

Chapter 48

SOME ASPECTS OF
CORPORATE PYRAMIDING

PYRAMIDING IN CORPORATE finance is the creation of a speculative capital
structure by means of a holding company or a series of holding companies. Usually the predominating purpose of such an arrangement is to
enable the organizers to control a large business with the investment of
little or no capital and also to secure to themselves the major part of its
surplus profits and increased going-concern value. The device is most
often utilized by dominant interests to “cash in” speculative profits on
their holdings and at the same time to retain control. With the funds so
provided, these successful captains of finance generally endeavor to
extend their control over additional operating enterprises. The technique
of pyramiding is well illustrated by the successive maneuvers of O. P. and
M. J. Van Sweringen, which started with purchase of control of the then
relatively unimportant New York, Chicago, and St. Louis Railroad and
rapidly developed into a far-flung railroad “empire.”1
Example: The Van Sweringen Pyramid. The original transaction of the
Van Sweringens in the railroad field took place in 1916. It consisted of the
1 The complete story of how this pyramiding was effected is told in the Hearings before the
Committee on Banking and Currency, United States Senate, 73d Congress, 1st Session, on
Senate Resolution 84 of the 72d Congress and Senate Resolution 56 of the 73d Congress,
Part 2, pp. 563–777, June 5 to 8, 1933—on “Stock Exchange Practices.” The story is also set
forth in greater detail and with graphic portrayal in Regulation of Stock Ownership in Railroads, Part 2, pp. 820–1173 (House Report No. 2789, 71st Congress, 3d Session), especially
the inserts at p. 878 thereof. For graphic and other presentation of the effects of pyramiding
in the public-utility field see Utility Corporations (Sen. Doc. 92, 70th Congress, 1st Session,
pt. 72-A), pp. 154–166.
The most notorious pyramided structure of recent years was the Insull set-up. An interesting example of a different type is presented by the United States and Foreign Securities
Corporation—United States and International Securities Corporation relationship. These two
situations are briefly described in Note 64 at p. 817 of the Appendix on accompanying CD.

[644]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[645]

purchase from the New York Central Railroad Company, for the sum of
$8,500,000, of common and preferred stock constituting control of the New
York, Chicago, and St. Louis Railroad Company (known as the “Nickel
Plate”). This purchase was financed by giving a note to the seller for
$6,500,000 and by a cash payment of $2,000,000, which in turn was borrowed from a Cleveland bank. Subsequent acquisitions of control of many
other companies were effected by various means, including the following:
1. The formation of a private corporation for the purpose (e.g., Western Corporation to acquire control of Lake Erie and Western Railroad
Company, and Clover Leaf Corporation to acquire control of Toledo, St.
Louis and Western Railroad Company—both in 1922).
2. The use of the resources of one controlled railroad to acquire control of others (e.g., the New York, Chicago and St. Louis Railroad Company purchased large amounts of stock of Chesapeake and Ohio Railway
and Pere Marquette Railway Company during 1923–1925).
3. The formation of a holding company to control an individual road,
with sale of the holding company’s securities to the public (e.g., Chesapeake
Corporation, which took over control of Chesapeake and Ohio Railway
Company and sold its own bonds and stock to the public, in 1927).
4. Formation of a general holding company (e.g., Alleghany Corporation, chartered in 1929. This ambitious project took over control of many
railroad, coal, and miscellaneous enterprises).
The report on the “Van Sweringen Holding Companies” made to the
House of Representatives in 19302 includes an interesting chart showing
the contrast between the control exercised by the Van Sweringens and
their relatively small equity or financial interest in the capital of the enterprises controlled. On page 646 we append a summary of these data. The
figures in Column A show the percentage of voting securities held or controlled by the Van Sweringens; the figures in Column B show the proportion of the “contributed capital” (bonds, stock, and surplus) actually
owned directly or indirectly by them.
It is worth recalling that similar use of the holding company for pyramiding control of railroad properties had been made before the war—
notably in the case of the Rock Island Company. This enterprise was
organized in 1902. Through an intermediate subsidiary it acquired nearly
2 House Report 2789, 71st Congress, 3d Session, Part 2, pp. 820–1173.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[646]

all the common stock of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway
Company and about 60% of the capital stock of the St. Louis and San
Francisco Railway Company. Against these shares the two holding companies issued large amounts of collateral trust bonds, preferred stock and
common stock. In 1909 the stock of the St. Louis and San Francisco was
sold. In 1915 the Rock Island Company and its intermediate subsidiary
both went into bankruptcy; the stock of the operating company was taken
over by the collateral trust bondholders; and the holding company stock
issues were wiped out completely.
Companies
Holding companies:
The Vaness Co.
General Securities Corp.
Geneva Corp.
Alleghany Corp.
The Chesapeake Corp.
The Pere Marquette Corp.
Virginia Transportation Corp.
The Pittston Co.
Railroad Companies:
The New York, Chicago and St. Louis R.R. Co.
The Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Co.
Pere Marquette Railway Co.
Erie Railroad Co.
Missouri Pacific Railroad Co.
The Hocking Valley Railway Co.
The Wheeling and Lake Erie Railway Co.
Kansas City Southern Railway Co.

A. Control, %

B. Equity, %

80.0
90.0
100.0
41.8
71.0
100.0
100.0
81.8

27.7
51.8
27.7
8.6
4.1
0.7
0.8
4.3

49.6
54.4
48.3
30.8
50.5
81.0
53.3
20.8

0.7
1.0
0.6
0.6
1.7
0.2
0.3
0.9

The ignominious collapse of this venture was accepted at the time
as marking the end of “high finance” in the railroad field. Yet some ten
years later the same unsound practices were introduced once again, but
on a larger scale and with correspondingly severer losses to investors.
It remains to add that the Congressional investigation of railroad holding companies instituted in 1930 had its counterpart in a similar inquiry
into the finances of the Rock Island Company made by the Interstate

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[647]

Commerce Commission in 1914. The memory of the financial community is proverbially and distressingly short.

Evils of Corporate Pyramiding. The pyramiding device is harmful
to the security-buying public from several standpoints. It results in the
creation and sale to investors of large amounts of unsound senior securities. It produces common stocks of holding companies which are subject to deceptively rapid increases in earning power in favorable years and
which are invariably made the vehicle of wild and disastrous public speculation. The possession of control by those who have no real capital
investment (or a relatively minor one) is inequitable3 and makes for irresponsible and unsound managerial policies. Finally the holding company
device permits of financial practices that exaggerate the indicated earnings, dividend return, or “book value,” during boom times, and thus
intensify speculative fervor and facilitate market manipulation. Of these
four objections to corporate pyramiding, the first three are plainly evident, but the last one requires a certain amount of analytical treatment in
order to present its various implications.
Overstatement of Earnings. Holding companies can overstate their
apparent earning power by valuing at an unduly high price the stock dividends they receive from subsidiaries or by including in their income
profits made from the sale of stock of subsidiary companies.
Examples: The chief asset of Central States Electric Corporation was
a large block of North American Company common on which regular
stock dividends were paid. Prior to the end of 1929, these stock dividends
were reported as income by Central States at the market value then current. As explained in our chapter on stock dividends, such market prices
averaged far in excess of the value at which North American charged the
stock dividends against its surplus and also far in excess of the distributable earnings on North American common. Hence the income account
of Central States Electric gave a misleading impression of the earnings
accruing to the company.
A transaction of somewhat different character but of similar effect to the
foregoing was disclosed by the report of American Founders Trust for 1927.
In November 1927 American Founders offered its shareholders the privilege of buying about 88,400 shares of International Securities Corporation
3 See Appendix Note 65, p. 820 on accompanying CD, for examples on this point.

[648]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

of America Class B Common at $16 per share. International Securities Corporation was a subsidiary of American Founders, and the latter had acquired
the Class B stock of the former at a cash cost of $3.70 per share in 1926.
American Founders reported net earnings for common stock in 1927
amounting to $1,316,488, most of which was created by its own stockholders through their purchase of shares of the subsidiary as indicated above.4
Distortion of Dividend Return. Just as a holding company’s income
may be exaggerated by reason of stock dividends received, so the dividend return on its shares may be distorted in the public’s mind by payment of periodic stock dividends with a market value exceeding
current earnings. People are readily persuaded also to regard the value
of frequent subscription rights as equivalent to an income return on
the common stock. Pyramided enterprises are prodigal with subscription rights, for they flow naturally from the succession of new acquisitions and new financing which both promote the ambitions of those
in control and maintain speculative interest at fever heat—until the
inevitable collapse.
The issuance of subscription rights sometimes gives the stock market
an opportunity to indulge in that peculiar circular reasoning which is the
joy of the manipulator and the despair of the analyst. Company A’s stock
is apparently worth no more than 25. Speculation or pool activity has
advanced it to 75. Rights are offered to buy additional shares at 25, and
the rights have a market value of, say, $10 each. To the speculative fraternity these rights are practically equivalent to a special dividend of $10. It
is a bonus that not only justifies the rise to 75 but warrants more optimism and a still higher price. To the analyst the whole proceeding is a
delusion and a snare. Whatever value the rights command is manufactured solely out of speculators’ misguided enthusiasm, yet this chimerical value is accepted as tangible income and as vindication of the
enthusiasm that gave it birth. Thus, with the encouragement of the
manipulator, the speculative public pulls itself up by its bootstraps to
dizzier heights of irrationality.

4 In the three years 1928–1930 the American Founders group reported total net investment
profits of about $43,300,000; but all of this sum and more was derived from profits on intercompany transactions of the kind described above. See the S.E.C.’s Over-all Report on
Investment Trusts, Part III, Chapter VI, Sections II and III, released February 12, 1940.

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[649]

Example: Between August 1928 and February 1929 American and
Foreign Power Company common stock advanced from 33 to 1387/8,
although paying no dividend. Rights were offered to the common stockholders (and other security holders) to buy second preferred stock with
detached stock-purchase warrants. The offering of these rights, which
had an initial market value of about $3 each, was construed by many as
the equivalent of a dividend on the common stock.
Exaggeration of Book Value. The exaggeration of book value may be
effected in cases where a holding company owns most of the shares of
a subsidiary and where consequently an artificially high quotation may
readily be established for the subsidiary issue by manipulating the small
amount of stock remaining in the market. This high quotation is then
taken as the basis of figuring the book value (sometimes called the
“break-up value”) of the share of the holding company. For an early
example of these practices we may point to Tobacco Products Corporation (Va.) which owned about 80% of the common stock of United
Cigar Stores Company of America. An unduly high market price seems
to have been established in 1927 for the small amount of Cigar Stores
stock available in the market, and this high price was used to make
Tobacco Products shares appear attractive to the unwary buyer. The
thoroughly objectionable accounting and stock dividend policies of
United Cigar Stores, which we have previously discussed, were adjuncts
to this manipulative campaign.
The most extraordinary example of such exaggeration of the book
value is found, perhaps, in the case of Electric Bond and Share Company
and was founded on its ownership of most of the American and Foreign
Power Company warrants. The whole set-up seems to have been contrived to induce the public to pay absolutely fantastic prices without their
complete absurdity being too apparent. A brief review of the various steps
in this phantasmagoria of inflated values should be illuminating to the
student of security analysis.
First, American and Foreign Power Company issued in all 1,600,000
shares of common and warrants to buy 7,100,000 more shares at $25. This
permitted a price to be established for the common stock that generously
capitalized its earnings and prospects but paid no attention to the existence of the warrants. The quotation of the common was aided by the
issuance of rights, as explained above.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[650]

Second, the high price registered for the relatively small commonstock issue automatically created a correspondingly high value for the
millions of warrants.
Third, Electric Bond and Share could apply these high values to its
large holdings of American and Foreign Power common and its enormous block of warrants, thus setting up a correspondingly inflated value
for its own common stock.
Exploitation of the Stock-purchase-warrant Device. The result of this
process, at its farthest point in 1929, was almost incredible. The earnings
available for American and Foreign Power common stock had shown the
following rising trend (due in good part, however, to continuous new
acquisitions):
Year

Earnings for common

Number of shares

Earned per share

1926
1927
1928
1929

$216,000
856,000
1,528,000
6,510,000

1,243,988
1,244,388
1,248,930
1,624,357

0.17
0.69
1.22
4.01

On the theory that a “good public-utility stock is worth up to 50 times
its current earnings,” a price of 1991/4 per share was recorded for American and Foreign Power common. This produced in turn a price of 174
for the warrants. Hence, by the insane magic of Wall Street, earnings of
$6,500,000 were transmuted into a market value of $320,000,000 for the
common shares and $1,240,000,000 for the warrants, a staggering total
of $1,560,000,000.
Since over 80% of the warrants were owned by Electric Bond and Share
Company, the effect of these absurd prices for American and Foreign
Power junior securities was to establish a correspondingly absurd breakup value for Electric Bond and Share common. This break-up value was
industriously exploited to justify higher and higher quotations for the latter issue. In March 1929 attention was called to the fact that the market
value of this company’s portfolio was equivalent to about $108 per share
(of new stock), against a range of 91 to 97 for its own market quotation.
The implication was that Electric Bond and Share stock was “undervalued.” In September 1929 the price had advanced to 1841/2. It was then
computed that the “break-up value” amounted to about 150, “allowing no

[651]

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

value for the company’s supervisory and construction business.” The public did not stop to reflect that a considerable part of this “book value” was
based upon an essentially fictitious market quotation for an asset that the
company had received for nothing only a few years before (as a bonus with
American and Foreign Power Second Preferred stock).
This exploitation of the warrants had a peculiar vitality which made
itself felt even in the depth of the depression in 1932–1933. Time having
brought its usual revenge, the once dazzling American and Foreign Power
Company had trembled on the brink of receivership, as shown by a price
of only 151/4 for its 5% bonds. Nevertheless, in November 1933 the highly
unsubstantial warrants still commanded an aggregate market quotation
of nearly $50,000,000, a figure that bore a ridiculous relationship to the
exceedingly low values placed upon the senior securities. The following
table shows how absurd this situation was, the more so since it existed in
a time of deflated stock prices, when relative values are presumably subjected to more critical appraisal.
(000 OMITTED IN MARKET VALUE)

Issue
5% Debentures
$7 First Preferred shares
$6 First Preferred shares
$7 Second Preferred shares
Common shares
Warrants shares

Total
Price
Total
Amount
Price
market Dec. 31, market
outstanding Nov. 1933 value, 1933 1938 value, 1938
$50,000
480
387
2,655
1,850
6,874

40
21
15
12
10
7

$20,000
10,100
5,800
31,900
18,500
48,100

53
197/8
15
91/4
31/2
1

26,500
9,300
5,800
24,900
6,500
6,900

By the end of 1938, as the table indicates, a good part of the absurdity had been corrected.

Some Holding Companies Not Guilty of Excessive Pyramiding.
To avoid creating a false impression, we must point out that, although
pyramiding is usually effected by means of holding companies, it does not
follow that all holding companies are created for this purpose and are
therefore reprehensible. The holding company is often utilized for entirely
legitimate purposes, e.g., to permit unified and economical operations of

[652]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

separate units, to diversify investment and risk and to gain certain technical advantages of flexibility and convenience. Many sound and important enterprises are in holding company form.
Examples: United States Steel Corporation is entirely a holding company; although originally there was some element of pyramiding in its
capital set-up, this defect disappeared in later years. American Telephone
and Telegraph Company is preponderantly a holding company, but its
financial structure has never been subject to serious criticism. General
Motors Corporation is largely a holding company.
A holding-company exhibit must therefore be considered on its merits. American Light and Traction Company is a typical example of the
holding company organized entirely for legitimate purposes. On the other
hand the acquisition of control of this enterprise by United Light and
Railways Company (Del.) must be regarded as a pyramiding move on the
part of the United Light and Power interests.

Speculative Capital Structure May Be Created in Other Ways.
It may be pointed out also that a speculative capital structure can be created without the use of a holding company.
Examples: The Maytag Company recapitalization, discussed in an earlier chapter, yielded results usually attained by the formation of a holding
company and the sale of its senior securities. In the case of Continental
Baking Corporation—to cite another example—the holding company form
was not an essential part of the pyramided result there attained. The speculative structure was due entirely to the creation of large preferred issues
by the parent company, and it would still have existed if Continental Baking had acquired all its properties directly, eliminating its subsidiaries. (As
it happened, in 1938 this company took steps to acquire the assets of its
chief subsidiaries, thus largely eliminating the holding-company form but
retaining the speculative capital structure.)

Legislative Restraints on Pyramiding. So spectacular were the disastrous effects of the public-utility pyramiding of the 1920’s that Congress
was moved to drastic action. The Public Utility Holding Company Act of
1935 includes the so-called “death sentence” for many of the existing systems, requiring them ultimately to simplify their capital structures and
to dispose of subsidiaries operating in noncontiguous territory. Formation of new pyramids is effectively blocked by requiring Commission

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[653]

approval for all acquisitions and all new financing. Similar steps are in
prospect to regulate present railroad holding companies and to prevent
creation of new ones.5
We may say with some confidence that the spectacle of the Van
Sweringen debacle succeeding the Rock Island Company debacle is not
likely to be duplicated in the future. The industrial field never offered the
same romantic possibilities for high finance as were found among the rails
and utilities, but it may well be that the ingenious talents of promoters
and financial wizards will be directed towards the industrials in the
future. The investor and the analyst should be on their guard against such
new dazzlements.

5 See Senate Resolution 71 of the 74th Congress and 21 volumes of hearings thereon which
have appeared to date (December 1939). See also Senate Report No. 180, 75th Congress, 1st
Session, and Senate Report No. 25, pts. 1, 4 and 5, 76th Congress, 1st Session.

Chapter 49

COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF COMPANIES
IN THE SAME FIELD

STATISTICAL COMPARISONS of groups of concerns operating in a given
industry are a more or less routine part of the analyst’s work. Such tabulations permit each company’s showing to be studied against a background of the industry as a whole. They frequently bring to light instances
of undervaluation or overvaluation or lead to the conclusion that the
securities of one enterprise should be replaced by those of another in the
same field.
In this chapter we shall suggest standard forms for such comparative
analyses, and we shall also discuss the significance of the various items
included therein. Needless to say, these forms are called “standard” only
in the sense that they can be used generally to good advantage; no claim
of perfection is made for them, and the student is free to make any
changes that he thinks will serve his particular purpose.

FORM I. RAILROAD COMPARISON
A. Capitalization:
1. Fixed charges.*
2. Effective debt (fixed charges* multiplied by 22).
3. Preferred stock at market (number of shares  market price).
4. Common stock at market (number of shares  market price).
5. Total capitalization.
6. Ratio of effective debt to total capitalization.
7. Ratio of preferred stock to total capitalization.
8. Ratio of common stock to total capitalization.
B. Income Account:
9. Gross revenues.
10. Ratio of maintenance to gross.
[654]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

11. Ratio of railway operating income (net after taxes) to gross.
12. Ratio of fixed charges* to gross.
13. Ratio of preferred dividends to gross.
14. Ratio of balance for common to gross.
C. Calculations:
15. Number of times fixed charges* earned.
15. I.P.† Number of times fixed charges* plus preferred
dividends earned.
16. Earned on common stock, per share.
17. Earned on common stock, % of market price.
18. Ratio of gross to aggregate market value of common stock (9  4).
16. S.P.‡ Earned on preferred stock, per share.
17. S.P. Earned on preferred stock, % of market price.
18. S.P. Ratio of gross to aggregate market value of preferred stock (9  3).
19. Credit or debit to earnings for undistributed profit or loss of subsidiaries
(if important).
D. Seven-year average figures:
20. Earned on common stock, per share.
21. Earned on common stock, % of current market price of common.
20. S.P. Earned on preferred stock, per share.
21. S.P. Earned on preferred stock, % of current market price of preferred.
22. Number of times net deductions earned.
23. Number of times fixed charges earned.
22. I.P. Number of times net deductions plus preferred
dividends earned.
23. I.P. Number of times fixed charges plus preferred dividends earned.
E. Trend figure:
24 to 30. Earned per share on common stock each year for past seven years.
(Where necessary, earnings should be adjusted to present capitalization.)
24. S.P. to 30. S.P. Same data for speculative preferred stock, if wanted.
F. Dividends:
31. Dividend rate on common.
32. Dividend yield on common.
31. P. Dividend rate on preferred.
32. P. Dividend yield on preferred.
* Or net deductions if larger.
† I.P.  for studying an investment preferred stock.
‡ S.P.  for studying a speculative preferred stock.

[655]

[656]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Observations on the Railroad Comparison.1 It has formerly been
the custom to base earnings studies on the figures for the previous calendar years, with certain references to later interim reports. But since complete figures are now available month by month, it is more logical and
effective practice to ignore the calendar-year division and to use instead
the results for the twelve months to the latest date available. The simplest
way to arrive at such a twelve months’ figure is to apply the change shown
for the current year to date to the results of the previous calendar year.
Example:
GROSS EARNINGS OF PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD SYSTEM FOR
12 MONTHS ENDED JUNE, 1939

(1) 6 months to June 1939 (as reported) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $189,623,000
(2) 6 months to June 1938 (as reported) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 167,524,000
(3) Difference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22,099,000
(4) Calender year 1938 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 360,384,000
12 months to June 1939 (4 plus 3) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $382,483,000

Our table includes a few significant calculations based on the sevenyear average. In an intensive study, average results should be scrutinized
in more detail. To save time, it is suggested that additional average figures be computed only for those roads which the analyst selects for further investigation after he has studied the exhibits in the “standard form.”
Whether the period of averaging should cover seven years or a longer or
shorter time is largely a matter for individual judgment. In theory it
should be just long enough to cover a full cyclical fluctuation but not so
long as to include factors or results that are totally out of date. The six
years 1934–1939 might well be regarded as a somewhat better criterion,
for example, than the longer period 1933–1939.
Figures relating to preferred stocks fall into two different classes,
depending on whether the issue is considered for fixed-value investment
or as a speculative commitment. (Usually the market price will indicate
1 Reference is made to earlier chapters for explanation of the terminology and the critical
tests referred to in this discussion.

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[657]

clearly enough in which category a particular issue belongs.) The items
marked “I.P.” are to be used in studying an investment preferred stock,
and those marked “S.P.” in studying a speculative preferred. Where there
are junior income bonds, the simplest and most satisfactory procedure
will be to treat them in all respects as a preferred stock issue, with a footnote referring to their actual title. Such contingent bond interest will
therefore be excluded from the net deductions or the fixed charges.
In this tabular comparison we follow the suggestion previously offered
that the effective debt be computed by capitalizing the larger of net deductions or fixed charges. In using the table as an aid to the selection of senior issues for investment, chief attention will be paid to items 22 and 23 (or
22 “I.P.” and 23 “I.P.”), showing the average margin above interest (and preferred dividend) requirements. Consideration should be given also to items
6, 7 and 8, showing the division of total capitalization between senior securities and junior equity. (In dealing with bonds, the preferred stock is part
of the junior equity; in considering a preferred stock for investment, it must
be included with the effective debt.) Items 10 and 19 should also be examined to see if the earnings have been overstated by reason of inadequate
maintenance or by the inclusion of unearned dividends from subsidiaries.
Speculative preferred stocks will ordinarily be analyzed in much the
same way as common stocks, and the similarity becomes greater as the
price of the preferred stock is lower. It should be remembered, however,
that a preferred stock is always less attractive, logically considered, than a
common stock making the same showing. For example, a $6 preferred
earning $5 per share is intrinsically less desirable than a common stock
earning $5 per share (and with the same prior charges), since the latter is
entitled to all the present and future equity, whereas the preferred stock is
strictly limited in its claim upon the future.
In comparing railroad common stocks (and preferred shares equivalent thereto), the point of departure is the percentage earned on the market price. This may be qualified, to an extent more or less important, by
consideration of items 10 and 19. Items 12 and 18 will indicate at once
whether the company is speculatively or conservatively capitalized, relatively speaking. A speculatively capitalized road will show a large ratio of
net deductions to gross and (ordinarily) a small ratio of common stock
at market value to gross. The converse will be true for a conservatively
capitalized road.

[658]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Limitation upon Comparison of Speculatively and Conservatively Capitalized Companies in the Same Field. The analyst
must beware of trying to draw conclusions as to the relative attractiveness of two railroad common stocks when one is speculatively and the
other is conservatively capitalized. Two such issues will respond quite differently to changes for the better or the worse, so that an advantage possessed by one of them under current conditions may readily be lost if
conditions should change.
Example: The example shown on p. 681 illustrates in a twofold fashion the fallacy of comparing a conservatively capitalized with a speculatively capitalized common stock. In 1922 the earnings of Union Pacific
common were nearly four times as high in relation to market price as
were those of Rock Island common. A conclusion that Union Pacific was
“cheaper,” based on these figures, would have been fallacious, because the
relative capitalization structures were so different as to make the two
companies noncomparable. This fact is shown graphically by the much
larger expansion of the earnings and the market price of Rock Island
common that accompanied the moderate rise in gross business during
the five years following.
The situation in 1927 was substantially the opposite. At that time Rock
Island common was earning proportionately more than Union Pacific
common. But it would have been equally fallacious to conclude that Rock
Island common was “intrinsically cheaper.” The speculative capitalization
structure of the latter road made it highly vulnerable to unfavorable development, so that it was unable to withstand the post-1929 depression.

Other Illustrations in Appendix. The practical approach to comparative analysis of railroad stocks (and bonds) may best be illustrated by the
reproduction of several such comparisons made by one of the authors a
number of years ago and published as part of the service rendered to clients
by a New York Stock Exchange firm. These will be found in Appendix Note
66 on accompanying CD. It will be observed that the comparisons were
made between roads in approximately the same class as regards capitalization structure, with the exception of the comparison between Atchison and
New York Central, in which instance special reference was made to the
greater sensitivity of New York Central to changes in either direction.

[659]

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

COMPARISON OF UNION PACIFIC AND ROCK ISLAND COMMON STOCKS

Item
A. Showing the effect of general
improvement:
Average price of common, 1922
Earned per share, 1922
% earned on market price, 1922
Fixed charges and preferred dividends
earned, 1922
Ratio of gross to market value of
common, 1922
Increase in gross, 1927 over 1922
Earned per share of common, 1927
Increase in earnings on common,
1927 over 1922
Average price of common, 1927
Increase in average price, 1927 over 1922
B. Showing the effect of a general decline
in business:
Earned on average price, 1927
Fixed charges and preferred dividends
earned, 1927
Ratio of gross to market value of
common, 1927
Decrease in gross, 1933 below 1927
Earned on common, 1933
Decrease in earnings for common, 1933
below 1927
Average price of common, 1933
Decrease in average price, 1933
below 1927

Union Pacific
R.R.

Chicago,
Rock Island,
& Pacific Ry.

140
$12.76
9.1%

40
$0.96
2.4%

2.39 times

1.05 times

62%
5.7%
$16.05

419%
12.9%
$12.08

26%
179
28%

1,158%
92
130%

9.0%

13.1%

2.64 times

1.58 times

51%
46%
$7.88

204%
54%
$20.40(d)

51%
97

269%
6

46%

93%

Note: In June 1933 trustees in bankruptcy were appointed for the Rock Island.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[660]

FORM II. PUBLIC-UTILITY COMPARISON
The public-utility comparison form is practically the same as that for railroads. The only changes are the following: Fixed charges (as mentioned
in line 1 and elsewhere) should include subsidiary-preferred dividends.
Line 2 should be called “Funded debt and subsidiary preferred stock,” and
these should be taken from the balance sheet. Items 22 and 22 I.P., relating to net deductions, are not needed. Item 10 becomes “ratio of depreciation to gross.” An item, 10M, may be included to show “ratio of
maintenance to gross” for the companies which publish this information.
Our observations regarding the use of the railroad comparison apply
as well to the public-utility comparison. Variations in the depreciation
rate are fully as important as variations in the railroad maintenance ratios.
When a wide difference appears, it should not be taken for granted that
one property is unduly conservative or the other not conservative enough,
but a presumption to this effect does arise, and the question should be
investigated as thoroughly as possible. A statistical indication that one
utility stock is more attractive than another should not be acted upon
until (among other qualitative matters) some study has been made of the
rate situation and the relative prospects for favorable or unfavorable
changes therein. In view of experience since 1933, careful attention
should also be given to the dangers of municipal or federal competition.

FORM III. INDUSTRIAL COMPARISON (FOR
COMPANIES IN THE SAME FIELD)
Since this form differs in numerous respects from the two preceding, it
is given in full herewith:
A.

Capitalization:
1. Bonds at par.
2. Preferred stock at market value
(number of shares  market price).
3. Common stock at market value
(number of shares  market price).
4. Total capitalization.
5. Ratio of bonds to capitalization.
6. Ratio of aggregate market value of preferred to capitalization.
7. Ratio of aggregate market value of common to capitalization.

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

B.

Income Account (most recent year):
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

C.

[661]

Gross sales.
Depreciation.
Net available for bond interest.
Bond interest.
Preferred dividend requirements.
Balance for common.
Margin of profit (ratio of 10 to 8).
% earned on total capitalization (ratio of 10 to 4).

Calculations:
16. Number of times interest charges earned.
16. I.P. Number of times interest charges plus preferred
dividends earned.
17. Earned on common, per share.
18. Earned on common, % of market price.
17. S.P. Earned on preferred, per share.
18. S.P. Earned on preferred, % of market price.
19. Ratio of gross to aggregate market value of common.
19. S.P. Ratio of gross to aggregate market value of preferred.

D. Seven-year average:
20. Number of times interest charges earned.
21. Earned on common stock per share.
22. Earned on common stock, % of current market price.
(20 I.P., 21 S.P. and 22 S.P.—Same calculation for preferred
stock if wanted).
E.

Trend figure:
23. Earned per share of common stock each year for past seven years
(adjustments in number of shares outstanding to be made where
necessary).
23. S.P. Same data for speculative preferred issues, if wanted.

F.

Dividends:
24. Dividend rate on common.
25. Dividend yield on common.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[662]

24. P. Dividend rate on preferred.
25. P. Dividend yield on preferred.
G. Balance sheet:
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.

Cash assets.
Receivables (less reserves).
Inventories (less proper reserves).
Total current assets.
Total current liabilities.
N. Notes Payable (Including “Bank Loans” and “Bills Payable”)
Net current assets.
Ratio of current assets to current liabilities.
Ratio of inventory to sales.
Ratio of receivables to sales.
Net tangible assets available for total capitalization.
Cash-asset-value of common per share (deducting all prior obligations).
Net-current-asset-value of common per share (deducting all prior
obligations).
38. Net-tangible-asset-value of common per share (deducting all prior
obligations).
(36 S.P., 37 S.P., 38 S.P.—Same data for speculative preferred issues, if
wanted).
H. Supplementary data (when available):
1.

2.

Physical output:
Number of units; receipts per unit; cost per unit; profit per unit; total
capitalization per unit; common stock valuation per unit.
Miscellaneous:
For example: number of stores operated; sales per store; profit
per store; ore reserves; life of mine at current (or average) rate of
production.

Observations on the Industrial Comparison. Some remarks
regarding the use of this suggested form may be helpful. The net earnings figure must be corrected for any known distortions or omissions,
including adjustments for undistributed earnings or losses of subsidiaries.
If it appears to be misleading and cannot be adequately corrected, it
should not be used as a basis of comparisons. (Inferences drawn from
unreliable figures must themselves be unreliable.) No attempt should be

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[663]

made to subject the depreciation figures to exact comparisons; they are
useful only in disclosing wide and obvious disparities in the rates used.
The calculation of bond-interest-coverage is subject to the qualification
discussed in Chap. 17, with respect to companies that may have important rental obligations equivalent to interest charges.
Whereas the percentage earned on the market price of the common
(item 18) is a leading figure in all comparisons, almost equal attention
must be given to item 15, showing the percentage earned on total capitalization. These figures, together with items 7 and 19 (ratio of aggregate
market value of common stock to sales and to capitalization), will indicate the part played by conservative or speculative capitalization structures among the companies compared. (The theory of capitalization
structure was considered in Chap. 40.)
As a matter of practical procedure it is not safe to rely upon the fact
that the earnings ratio for the common stock (item 18) is higher than the
average for the industry, unless the percentage earned on the total capitalization (item 15) is also higher. Furthermore, if the company with the
poorer earnings exhibit shows much larger sales-per-dollar-of-commonstock (item 19), it may have better speculative possibilities in the event of
general business improvement.
The balance-sheet computations do not have primary significance
unless they indicate either definite financial weakness or a substantial
excess of current-asset-value over the market price. The division of
importance as between the current results, the seven-year average and
the trend is something entirely for the analyst’s judgment to decide. Naturally, he will have the more confidence in any suggested conclusion if it
is confirmed on each of these counts.

Example of the Use of Standard Forms. An example of the use of
the standard form to reach a conclusion concerning comparative values
should be of interest. A survey of the common stocks of the listed steel producers in July 1938 indicated that Continental Steel had made a better
exhibit than the average, whereas Granite City Steel had shown much
smaller earning power. The two companies operated to some extent in the
same branches of the steel industry; they were very similar in size, and the
price of their common stocks was identical. In the tabulation presented on
page 666 we supply comparative figures for these two enterprises, omitting
some of the items on our standard form as immaterial to this analysis.

[664]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Comments on the Comparison. The use of five-year average figures
for each item, presented along with those of the most recent twelve
months, is suggested here because the subnormal business conditions
in the year ended June 30, 1938 made it inadvisable to lay too great
emphasis on the results for this single period. Granite City reports on
calendar-year basis, whereas Continental used both a June 30 and a
December 31 fiscal year during 1934–1938. However, the availability of
quarterly or semiannual figures makes it a simple matter for the analyst
to construct his average and 12 months’ figures to end in the middle of
the year.
Analysis of the data reveals only one point of superiority for Granite
City Steel—the smaller amount of senior securities. But even this is not
necessarily an advantage, since the relatively fewer shares of Continental
common make them more sensitive to favorable as well as unfavorable
developments. The exhibit for the June 1938 year, and five-year average,
show a statistical superiority for Continental on each of the following
important points:
Earnings on market price of common stock.
Earnings on total capitalization.
Ratio of gross to market value of common.
Margin of profit.
Depreciation in relation to plant account.
Working-capital position.
Tangible asset values.
Dividend return.
Trend of earnings.

If the comparison is carried back prior to 1934, Granite City is found
to have enjoyed a marked advantage in the depression years from mid1930 to mid-1933. During this time it earned and paid dividends while
Continental Steel was reporting moderate losses. It is curious to observe
that in the more recent recession the tables were exactly turned, and Continental Steel did very well while Granite City fared badly. Obviously the
1937–1938 results would command more attention than those in the
longer past. Nevertheless, the thorough analyst would endeavor to learn
as much as possible about the basic reasons underlying the change in the
relative performance of the two companies.

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[665]

Study of Qualitative Factors Also Necessary. Our last observation
leads to the more general remark that conclusions suggested by comparative tabulations of this sort should not be accepted until careful thought
has been given to the qualitative factors. When one issue seems to be selling much too low on the basis of the exhibit in relation to that of another
in the same field, there may be adequate reasons for this disparity that
the statistics do not disclose. Among such valid reasons may be a definitely poorer outlook or a questionable management. A lower dividend
return for a common stock should not ordinarily be considered as a
strong offsetting factor, since the dividend is usually adjusted to the earning power within a reasonable time.
Although overconservative dividend policies are sometimes followed
for a considerable period (a subject referred to in Chap. 29), there is a
well-defined tendency even in these cases for the market price to reflect
the earning power sooner or later.
Relative popularity and relative market activity are two elements not
connected with intrinsic value that nevertheless exert a powerful and
often a continuing effect upon the market quotation. The analyst must
give these factors respectful heed, but his work would be stultified if he
always favored the more active and the more popular issue.
The recommendation of an exchange of one security for another seems
to involve a greater personal accountability on the part of the analyst than
the selection of an issue for original purchase. The reason is that holders
of securities for investment are loath to make changes, and thus they are
particularly irritated if the subsequent market action makes the move
appear to have been unwise. Speculative holders will naturally gage all
advice by the test of market results—usually immediate results. Bearing
these human-nature factors in mind, the analyst must avoid suggesting
common-stock exchanges to speculators (except possibly if accompanied
by an emphatic disclaimer of responsibility for subsequent market action),
and he must hesitate to suggest such exchanges to holders for investment
unless the statistical superiority of the issue recommended is quite impressive. As an arbitrary rule, we might say that there should be good reason
to believe that by making the exchange the investor would be getting at
least 50% more for his money.
Variations in Homogeneity Affect the Values of Comparative
Analysis. The dependability of industrial comparisons will vary with

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[666]

COMPARISON OF CONTINENTAL STEEL AND GRANITE CITY STEEL
(000 OMITTED, EXCEPT THOSE PER SHARE)
Item
Market price of common, July 1938
1. Bonds at par
2. Preferred stock at market
3. Common stock at market
4. Total capitalization
5. Ratio of common to total
capitalization

Continental Steel

Granite City Steel

17
$1,202
2,450
3,410
7,062

17
$1,618
6,494
8,112

48.3%

80.0%

Average of 5
Average of 5
years ended Year ended years ended
6/30/38
6/30/38
6/30/38
8. Gross sales
9. Depreciation
10. Net available for bond interest
11. Bond interest
12. Preferred dividends
13. Balance for common
14. Margin of profit
15. % earned on total
capitalization
16. Interest charges earned
17. Earned on common, per share
18. Earned on common, % of
market price
19. Ratio of gross to market value
of common
Trend figures:
23. Earned per share by years:
Year ended June 30, 1938
Year ended June 30, 1937
Year ended June 30, 1936
Year ended June 30, 1935
Year ended June 30, 1934
Dividends:
24. Dividend rate on common
25. Dividend yield on common
Financial position (dates):
29. Total current assets
30. Total current liabilities
31. Net current assets
35. Net tangible assets for total
capitalization

Year ended
6/30/38

$15,049
500
704
81
179
444
4.7%

$13,989
445
559
67
171
321
4.0%

$8,715
390
336
(Est.) 18
318
3.9%

341(d)
(def.)

10.0
8.7 times
$2.29

7.9%
8.3 times
$1.60

4.1%
18.7 times
$1.20

(def.)
(def.)
$0.89(d)

13.5

9.4

7.1

(d)

441.5%

409.8%

134.3%

131.8%

$1.60
3.83
2.67
1.69
1.66

$8,554
459
287(d)
(Est.) 54

$0.89(d)
1.31
1.49
1.45
2.65
$1.00
5.9%
6/30/38
$6,467
1,198
5,269

None
12/31/37
$4,179
1,164
3,015

13,498

13,556

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[667]

the nature of the industry considered. The basic question, of course, is
whether future developments are likely to affect all the companies in the
group similarly or dissimilarly. If similarly, then substantial weight may
be accorded to the relative performance in the past, as shown by the statistical exhibit. An industrial group of this type may be called “homogeneous.” But, if the individual companies in the field are likely to respond
quite variously to new conditions, then the relative showing must be
regarded as a much less reliable guide. A group of this kind may be
termed “heterogeneous.”
With certain exceptions for traffic and geographical variations, e.g., in
particular, the Pocohantas soft-coal carriers, the railroads must be considered a highly homogeneous group. The same is true of the larger light, heat
and power utilities. In the industrial field the best examples of homogeneous
groups are afforded by the producers of raw materials and of other standardized products in which the trade name is a minor factor. These would
include producers of sugar, coal, metals, steel products, cement, cotton print
cloths, etc. The larger oil companies may be considered as fairly homogeneous; the smaller concerns are not well suited to comparison because they
are subject to sudden important changes in production, reserves and relative price received. The larger baking, dairy and packing companies fall into
fairly homogeneous groups. The same is true of the larger chain-store enterprises when compared with other units in the same subgroups, e.g., grocery,
five-and-ten-cent, restaurant, etc. Department stores are less homogeneous,
but comparisons in this field are by no means far-fetched.
Makers of manufactured goods sold under advertised trade-marks
must generally be regarded as belonging to heterogeneous groups. In
these fields one concern frequently prospers at the expense of its competitors, so that the units in the industry do not improve or decline
together. Among automobile manufactures, for example, there have been
continuous and pronounced variations in relative standing. Producers of
all the various classes of machinery and equipment are subject to somewhat the same conditions. This is true also of the proprietary drug manufacturers. Intermediate positions from this point of view are occupied
by such groups as the larger makers of tires, of tobacco products, of shoes,
wherein changes of relative position are not so frequent.2
2 But significant changes do occur, of course. Note, for example, the phenomenal growth of

Philip Morris, relative to its large competitors, the somewhat less spectacular development of

[668]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The analyst must be most cautious about drawing comparative conclusions from the statistical data when dealing with companies in a heterogeneous group. No doubt preference may properly be accorded in
these fields to the companies making the best quantitative showing (if not
offset by known qualitative factors)—for this basis of selection would
seem sounder than any other—but the analyst and the investor should be
fully aware that such superiority may prove evanescent. As a general rule,
the less homogeneous the group the more attention must be paid to the
qualitative factors in making comparisons.

More General Limitations on the Value of Comparative Analysis. It may be well once again to caution the student against being
deluded by the mathematical exactitude of his comparative tables into
believing that their indicated conclusions are equally exact. We have mentioned the need of considering qualitative factors and of allowing for lack
of homogeneity. But beyond these points lie all the various obstacles to
the success of the analyst that we presented in some detail in our first
chapter. The technique of comparative analysis may lessen some of the
hazards of his work, but it can never exempt him from the vicissitudes of
the future or the stubborness of the stock market itself or the consequences of his own failure—often unavoidable—to learn all the important facts. He must expect to appear wrong often and to be wrong on
occasion; but with intelligence and prudence his work should yield better over-all results than the guesses or the superficial judgments of the
typical stock buyer.

General Shoe and the exceptional comparative showing of Lee Tire, in the three fields mentioned. All three of these were relatively small enterprises.

Chapter 50

DISCREPANCIES BETWEEN
PRICE AND VALUE

OUR EXPOSITION OF THE TECHNIQUE of security analysis has included many
different examples of overvaluation and undervaluation. Evidently the
processes by which the securities market arrives at its appraisals are frequently illogical and erroneous. These processes, as we pointed out in
our first chapter, are not automatic or mechanical but psychological, for
they go on in the minds of people who buy or sell. The mistakes of the
market are thus the mistakes of groups or masses of individuals. Most of
them can be traced to one or more of three basic causes: exaggeration,
oversimplification or neglect.
In this chapter and the next we shall attempt a concise review of the
various aberrations of the securities market. We shall approach the subject from the standpoint of the practical activities of the analyst, seeking
in each case to determine the extent to which it offers an opportunity for
profitable action on his part. This inquiry will thus constitute an amplification of our early chapter on the scope and limitations of security
analysis, drawing upon the material developed in the succeeding discussions, to which a number of references will be made.

General Procedure of the Analyst. Since we have emphasized that
analysis will lead to a positive conclusion only in the exceptional case, it
follows that many securities must be examined before one is found that
has real possibilities for the analyst. By what practical means does he proceed to make his discoveries? Mainly by hard and systematic work. There
are two broad methods that he may follow. The first consists of a series of
comparative analyses by industrial groups along the lines described in the
previous chapter. Such studies will give him a fair idea of the standard or
usual characteristics of each group and also point out those companies
which deviate widely from the modal exhibit. If, for example, he discovers
[669]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[670]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

that a certain steel common stock has been earning about twice as much
on its market price as the industry as a whole, he has a clue to work on—
or rather a suggestion to be pursued by dint of a thoroughgoing investigation of all the important qualitative and quantitative factors relating to the
enterprise.
The same type of methodical inquiry may be applied to the field of
bonds and preferred stocks. The wide area of receivership railroad bonds
can best be explored by means of a comparative analysis of the showing
of the bonds of roughly the same rank issued by, say, a dozen of the major
carriers in trusteeship. Or a large number of public-utility preferred
stocks could be listed according to: (1) their over-all dividend and interest coverage, (2) their stock-value ratio and (3) their price and yield. Such
a simple grouping might indicate a few issues that either were well
secured and returned more than the average or else were clearly selling
too high in view of their inadequate statistical protection. And so on.
The second general method consists in scrutinizing corporate reports
as they make their appearance and relating their showing to the market
price of their bonds or stocks. These reports can be seen—in summary
form, at least—in various daily papers; a more comprehensive presentation can be found in the daily corporation-report sheets of the financial
services or weekly in the Commercial and Financial Chronicle. A quick
glance at a hundred of such reports may reveal between five and ten that
look interesting enough from the earnings or current-asset standpoint to
warrant more intensive study.

Can Cyclical Swings of Prices Be Exploited? The best understood
disparities between price and value are those which accompany the recurrent broad swings of the market through boom and depression. It is a mere
truism that stocks sell too high in a bull market and too low in a bear market. For at bottom this is simply equivalent to saying that any upward or
downward movement of prices must finally reach a limit, and since prices
do not remain at such limits (or at any other level) permanently, it must
turn out in retrospect that prices will have advanced or declined too far.
Can the analyst exploit successfully the repeated exaggerations of
the general market? Experience suggests that a procedure somewhat like
the following should turn out to be reasonably satisfactory:
1. Select a diversified list of leading common stocks, e.g., those in the
“Dow-Jones Industrial Average.”

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[671]

2. Determine an indicated “normal” value for this group by applying
a suitable multiplier to average earnings. The multiplier might be equivalent to capitalizing the earnings at, say, twice the current interest rate on
highest grade industrial bonds. The period for averaging earnings would
ordinarily be seven to ten years, but exceptional conditions such as
occurred in 1931–1933 might suggest a different method, e.g., basing the
average on the period beginning in 1934, when operating in 1939 or later.
3. Make composite purchases of the list when the shares can be
bought at a substantial discount from normal value, say, at 2/3 such value.
Or purchases may be made on a scale downwards, beginning say, at 80%
of normal value.
4. Sell out such purchases when a price is reached substantially above
normal value, say, 1/3 higher, or from 20% to 50% higher on a scale basis.
This was the general scheme of operations developed by Roger Babson
many years ago. It yielded quite satisfactory results prior to 1925. But—as
we pointed out in Chap. 37—during the 1921–1933 cycle (measuring from
low point to low point) it would have called for purchasing during 1921,
selling out probably in 1926, thus requiring complete abstinence from the
market during the great boom of 1927–1929, and repurchasing in 1931, to
be followed by a severe shrinkage in market values. A program of this
character would have made far too heavy demands upon human fortitude.
The behavior of the market since 1933 has offered difficulties of a different sort in applying these mechanical formulas—particularly in determining normal earnings from which to compute normal values. It is
scarcely to be expected that an idea as basically simple as this one can be
utilized with any high degree of accuracy in catching the broad market
swings. But for those who realize its inherent limitations it may have considerable utility, for at least it is likely on the average to result in purchases
at intrinsically attractive levels—which is more than half the battle in
common-stock investment.

“Catching the Swings” on a Marginal Basis Impracticable.
From the ordinary speculative standpoint, involving purchases on margin and short sales, this method of operation must be set down as impracticable. The outright owner can afford to buy too soon and to sell too
soon. In fact he must expect to do both and to see the market decline farther after he buys and advance farther after he sells out. But the margin
trader is necessarily concerned with immediate results; he swims with the

[672]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

tide, hoping to gage the exact moment when the tide will turn and to
reverse his stroke the moment before. In this he rarely succeeds, so that
his typical experience is temporary success ending in complete disaster.
It is the essential character of the speculator that he buys because he
thinks stocks are going up not because they are cheap, and conversely
when he sells. Hence there is a fundamental cleavage of viewpoint
between the speculator and the securities analyst, which militates strongly
against any enduringly satisfactory association between them.
Bond prices tend undoubtedly to swing through cycles in somewhat
the same way as stocks, and it is frequently suggested that bond investors
follow the policy of selling their holdings near the top of these cycles and
repurchasing them near the bottom. We are doubtful if this can be done
with satisfactory results in the typical case. There are no well-defined
standards as to when high-grade bond prices are cheap or dear corresponding to the earnings-ratio test for common stocks, and the operations have to be guided chiefly by a technique of gaging market moves
that seems rather far removed from “investment.” The loss of interest on
funds between the time of sale and repurchase is a strong debit factor, and
in our opinion the net advantage is not sufficient to warrant incurring
the psychological dangers that inhere in any placing of emphasis by the
investor upon market movements.

Opportunities in “Secondary” or Little-known Issues. Returning to common stocks, although overvaluation or undervaluation of leading issues occurs only at certain points in the stock-market cycle, the
large field of “nonrepresentative” or “secondary” issues is likely to yield
instances of undervaluation at all times. When the market leaders are
cheap, some of the less prominent common stocks are likely to be a good
deal cheaper. During 1932–1933, for example, stocks such as Plymouth
Cordage, Pepperell Manufacturing, American Laundry Machinery and
many others, sold at unbelievably low prices in relation to their past
records and current financial exhibits. It is probably a matter for individual preference whether the investor should purchase an outstanding issue
like General Motors at about 50% of its conservative valuation or a less
prominent stock like Pepperell at about 25% of such value.
The Impermanence of Leadership. The composition of the marketleader group has varied greatly from year to year, especially in view of the
recent shift of attention from past performance to assumed prospects. If

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[673]

we examine the list during the decline of 1937–1938, we shall find quite
a number of once outstanding issues that sold at surprisingly low prices
in relation to their statistical exhibits.
Example: A startling example of this sort is provided by Great Atlantic
and Pacific Tea Company common, which in 1929 sold as high as 494
and in 1938 as low as 36. Salient data on this issue are as follows:

Year1

Sales
(000 omitted)

Net
(000 omitted)

Earned
per share
of common

Dividend
paid on
common

Price range
of common

1938
1937
1936
1935
1934
1933
1932
1931
1930
1929

$ 878,972
881,703
907,371
872,244
842,016
819,617
863,048
1,008,325
1,065,807
1,053,693

$15,834
9,119
17,085
16,593
16,709
20,478
22,733
29,793
30,743
26,220

$ 6.71
3.50
7.31
7.08
7.13
8.94
10.02
13.40
13.86
11.77

$4.00
6.25
7.00
7.00
7.00
7.00
7.00
6.50
5.25
4.50

72–36
1171/2–451/4
1301/2–1101/2
140 –121
150–122
1811/2–115
168–1031/2
260–130
260–155
494–162

1 Year ended following Jan. 31, except price range.

The balance sheet of January 31, 1938, showed cash assets of 85 millions and net current assets of 134 millions. At the 1938 low prices, the
preferred and common together were selling for 126 millions. Here, then,
was a company whose spectacular growth was one of the great romances
of American business, a company that was without doubt the largest retail
enterprise in America and perhaps in the world, that had an uninterrupted record of earnings and dividends for many years—and yet was
selling for less than its net current assets alone. Thus one of the outstanding businesses of the country was considered by Wall Street in 1938 to be
worth less as a going concern than if it were liquidated. Why? First,
because of chain-store tax threats; second, because of a recent decline in
earnings; and, third, because the general market was depressed.
We doubt that a better illustration can be found of the real nature of
the stock market, which does not aim to evaluate businesses with any
exactitude but rather to express its likes and dislikes, its hopes and fears,

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[674]

in the form of daily changing quotations. There is indeed enough sound
sense and selective judgment in the market’s activities to create on most
occasions some degree of correspondence between market price and
ascertainable or intrinsic value. In particular, as was pointed out in Chap.
4, when we are dealing with something as elusive and nonmathematical
as the evaluation of future prospects, we are generally led to accept the
market’s verdict as better than anything that the analyst can arrive at. But,
on enough occasions to keep the analyst busy, the emotions of the stock
market carry it in either direction beyond the limits of sound judgment.
Opportunities in Normal Markets. During the intermediate period,
when average prices show no definite signs of being either too low or too
high, common stocks may usually be found that seem definitely undervalued on a statistical basis. These generally fall into two classes: (1) Those
showing high current and average earnings in relation to market price
and (2) those making a reasonably satisfactory exhibit of earnings and
selling at a low price in relation to net-current-asset value. Obviously,
such companies will not be large and well known, or else the trend of
GROUP A. COMMON STOCKS SELLING AT THE END OF 1938 OR 1939 AT LESS THAN 7 TIMES
PAST YEAR’S EARNINGS AND ALSO AT LESS THAN NET CURRENT ASSET VALUE

Company
J. D. Adams Mfg.
American Seating
Bunte Bros.
Grand Union
International Silver
I. B. Kleinert
New Idea
*N. Y. Merchandise
*Pacific Commercial
Seton Leather

Average
Net
Net
earnings
current tangible
Earnings 1934–1938 or
asset
asset
Year
Price for year
1934–1939
value
value
taken Dec. 31 per share
per share
per share per share
1938
1939
1938
1939
1939
1938
1939
1939
1938
1938

* These stocks belong also in Group B.
† Partly estimated.

8
101/4
10
10
263/4
81/2
121/8
73/4
111/2
61/4

$1.15
1.82
2.10
1.80
4.98
1.27
2.18
1.44
2.31
1.38

$1.20
1.75
2.14
1.25
def 0.10
0.80
1.78
1.44
2.77
0.94

$12.07
11.42
12.84
13.60†
39.67
11.04
13.44
11.66
24.18
8.38

$14.38
23.95
27.83
20.00†
97.50
16.90
16.02
14.05
27.74
11.27

[675]

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

earnings will not have been encouraging. In the appended table are given
a number of companies falling in each group as of the end of 1938 or
1939, at which times the market level for industrial stocks did not appear
to be especially high or especially low.
GROUP B. COMMON STOCKS SELLING AT THE END OF 1938 OR 1939 AT TWO-THIRDS,
OR LESS, OF NET CURRENT ASSET VALUE AND ALSO AT LESS THAN 12 TIMES EITHER

PAST YEAR’S OR AVERAGE EARNINGS

Company
Butler Bros.
Ely & Walker
Gilchrist
Hale Bros. Stores
Intertype
Lee & Cady
H. D. Lee Mercantile
Manhattan Shirt
Reliance Mfg.
S. Stroock

Average
Net
Net
earnings
current tangible
Earnings 1934–1938 or asset
asset
Year Price
for year
1934–1939
value
value
taken Dec. 31 per share
per share per share per share
1939
1939
1939
1939
1939
1939
1938
1938
1939
1939

7
18
43/4
14
83/4
6
14
111/2
12
91/4

$0.83
2.30
0.70*
1.81
0.55
0.77
0.87
0.73
1.69
1.21

$0.27
1.83
0.85*
2.00
0.82
0.73
1.35
1.06
0.94
1.39

$12.75
41.60
13.85
22.13
19.77
11.35
25.00
19.36
18.97
14.90

$19.59
48.51
17.39
28.14
22.35
12.61
31.56
23.62
22.21
26.61

* Years ended following Jan 31.

It is not difficult for the assiduous analyst to find interesting statistical exhibits such as those presented in our table. Much more difficult is
the task of determining whether or not the qualitative factors will justify
following the quantitative indications—in other words, whether or not
the investor may have sufficient confidence in the company’s future to
consider its shares a real bargain at the apparently subnormal price.
On this question the weight of financial opinion appears inclined to a
generally pessimistic conclusion. The investment trusts, with all their facilities for discovering opportunities of this type, have paid little attention to
them—partly, it is true, because they are difficult to buy and sell in the
large quantities that the trusts prefer, but also because of their conviction
that however good the statistical exhibit of a secondary company may be

[676]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

it is not likely to prove a profitable purchase unless there is specific ground
for optimism regarding its future.
The main drawback of a typical smaller sized company is its vulnerability to a sudden and perhaps permanent loss of its earning power.
Undoubtedly such adverse developments occur in a larger proportion of
cases in this group than among the larger enterprises. As an offset to this
we have the fact that the successful small company can multiply its value
far more impressively than those which are already of enormous size. For
example, the growth of Philip Morris, Inc., in market value from 5 millions
in 1934 to 90 millions in 1939, accompanying a 1,200% increase in net earnings, would have been quite inconceivable in the case of American Tobacco.
Similarly, the growth of Pepsi-Cola has far outstripped in percentage that
of Coca-Cola; the same is true of General Shoe vs. International Shoe; etc.
But most students will try to locate the potential Philip Morris opportunities, by gaging future possibilities with greater or less care, and will
then buy their shares even at a fairly high price—rather than make their
commitments in a diversified group of “bargain issues” with only ordinary prospects. Our own experience leads us to favor the latter technique,
although we cannot guarantee brilliant results therefrom under presentday conditions. Yet judging from observations made over a number of
years, it would seem that investment in apparently undervalued common
stocks can be carried on with a very fair degree of over-all success, provided average alertness and good judgment are used in passing on the
future-prospect question—and provided also that commitments are
avoided at times when the general market is statistically much too high.
Two older examples of this type of opportunity are given here, to afford
the reader some notion of former stock markets.
Florence Stove Common
Price in Jan. 1935 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
Dividend . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$2
Earned per share:
1934 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$7.93
1933 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7.98
1932 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3.33
1931 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2.27

Firestone Tire & Rubber Common
Price in Nov. 1925 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Dividend . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $6
Earned per share year ended Oct.:
1925 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$32.57*
1924 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.92
1923 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.06
1922 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17.08

* Earnings before contingency reserves were $40.95 per share.

[677]

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

In these cases the market price had failed to reflect adequately the
indicated earning power.

Market Behavior of Standard and Nonstandard Issues. A close
study of the market action of common stocks suggests the following further general observations:
1. Standard or leading issues almost always respond rapidly to
changes in their reported profits—so much so that they tend regularly
to exaggerate marketwise the significance of year-to-year fluctuations in
earnings.
2. The action of the less familiar issues depends largely upon what attitude is taken towards them by professional market operators. If interest
is lacking, the price may lag far behind the statistical showing. If interest
is attracted to the issue, either manipulatively or more legitimately, the
opposite result can readily be attained, and the price will respond in
extreme fashion to changes in the company’s exhibit.
Examples of Behavior of Nonstandard Issues. The following two
examples will illustrate this diversity of behavior of nonrepresentative
common stocks.
BUTTE AND SUPERIOR COPPER (ACTUALLY ZINC) COMPANY COMMON

Period

Earnings per share

Dividend per share

Price range

Year, 1914
1st quarter, 1915
2d quarter, 1915
3d quarter, 1915
4th quarter, 1915

$ 5.21
4.27
7.73
10.13
11.34

$ 2.25
0.75
3.25
5.75
8.25

44–24
50–36
80–45
73–57
75–59

Year 1915
Year 1916

$33.47
30.58

$18.00
34.00

80–36
105–42

These were extraordinarily large earnings and dividends. Even allowing for the fact that they were due to wartime prices for zinc, the market
price showed none the less a striking disregard of the company’s spectacular exhibit. The reason was lack of general interest or of individual
market sponsorship.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[678]

Contrast the foregoing with the appended showing of the common
stock of Mullins Body (later Mullins Manufacturing) Corporation.
Between 1924 and 1926 we note the characteristic market swings of a
low-priced “secondary” common-stock issue. At the beginning of 1927
the shares were undoubtedly attractive, speculatively, at about 10, for the
price was low in relation to the earnings of the three years previously. A
substantial, but by no means spectacular, rise in profits during 1927–1928
resulted in a typical stock-market exploitation. The price advanced from
10 in 1927 to 95 in 1928 and fell back again to 10 in 1929.
Year

Earned per share

Dividend

Price range

1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929

$1.91
2.47
1.97
5.13
6.53
2.67

None
None
None
None
None
None

18–9
22–13
20–8
79–10
95–69
82–10

A contrast of another kind is afforded by the behavior of the aircraftmanufacturing stocks in 1938–1939, as compared with that of war beneficiaries in 1915–1918. The two following examples will illustrate the
relationship between market price in 1938 and 1939 and actual performance at the time.

Date
Market value of company
Sales 1938
Net 1938
Sales, 9 months 1939
Net, 9 months 1939
Tangible assets, Sept. 30, 1939

Boeing Airplane Co.

Glenn L. Martin Co.

December 1938
$25,270,000
(722,000 sh. @ 35)
2,006,000
555,000(d)
6,566,000
2,606,000(d)
4,527,000

November 1939
$49,413,000
(1,092,000 sh. @ 451/4)
12,417,000
2,349,000
8,506,000
1,514,000
15,200,000

In these cases the market was evidently capitalizing the as yet unrealized profits from war orders as if they supplied a permanent basis of future

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[679]

earnings. The contrast between the Butte and Superior price-earnings
ratio in 1915–1916 and that of these aircraft concerns in 1938–1939 is
very striking.
Relationship of the Analyst to Such Situations. The analyst can deal
intelligently and fairly successfully with situations such as Wright Aeronautical, Bangor and Aroostook, Firestone and Butte and Superior at the
periods referred to. He could even have formed a worth-while opinion
about Mullins early in 1927. But once this issue fell into market operators’ hands it passed beyond the pale of analytical judgment. As far as
Wall Street was concerned, Mullins had ceased to be a business and had
become a symbol on the ticker tape. To buy it or to sell it was equally hazardous; the analyst could warn of the hazard, but he could have no idea
of the limits of its rise or fall. (As it happened, however, the company
issued a convertible preferred stock in 1928 which made possible a profitable hedging operation, consisting of the purchase of the preferred and
the sale of the common.) Similarly with the airplane issues in 1939, the
analyst could go no further than to indicate the obvious hazard that lay
in treating as permanent a source of business that the whole world must
necessarily hope was essentially temporary.
When the general market appears dangerously high to the analyst,
he must be hesitant about recommending unfamiliar common stocks,
even though they may seem to be of the bargain type. A severe decline
in the general market will affect all stock prices adversely, and the less
active issues may prove especially vulnerable to the effects of necessitous selling.

Market Exaggerations Due to Factors Other than Changes in
Earnings: Dividend Changes. The inveterate tendency of the stock market to exaggerate extends to factors other than changes in earnings.
Overemphasis is laid upon such matters as dividend changes, stock splitups, mergers and segregations. An increase in the cash dividend is a favorable development, but it is absurd to add $20 to the price of a stock just
because the dividend rate is advanced from $5 to $6 annually. The buyer
at the higher price is paying out in advance all the additional dividends
that he will receive at the new rate over the next 20 years. The excited
responses often made to stock dividends are even more illogical, since
they are in essence nothing more than pieces of paper. The same is true
of split-ups, which create more shares but give the stockholder nothing

[680]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

he did not have before—except the minor advantage of a possibly broader
market due to the lower price level.1
Mergers and Segregations. Wall Street becomes easily enthusiastic over
mergers and just as ebullient over segregations, which are the exact opposite. Putting two and two together frequently produces five in the stock
market, and this five may later be split up into three and three. Such
inductive studies as have been made of the results following mergers seem
to cast considerable doubt upon the efficacy of consolidation as an aid to
earning power.2 There is also reason to believe that the personal element
in corporate management often stands in the way of really advantageous
consolidations and that those which are consummated are due sometimes
to knowledge by those in control of unfavorable conditions ahead.
The exaggerated response made by the stock market to developments
that seem relatively unimportant in themselves is readily explained in
terms of the psychology of the speculator. He wants “action,” first of all;
and he is willing to contribute to this action if he can be given any pretext for bullish excitement. (Whether through hypocrisy or self-deception, brokerage-house customers generally refuse to admit they are
merely gambling with ticker quotations and insist upon some ostensible
“reason” for their purchases.) Stock dividends and other “favorable developments” of this character supply the desired pretexts, and they have been
exploited by the professional market operators, sometimes with the connivance of the corporate officials. The whole thing would be childish if it
were not so vicious. The securities analyst should understand how these
absurdities of Wall Street come into being, but he would do well to avoid
any form of contact with them.

1 In the Atlas Tack manipulation of 1933 an effort was made to attract public buying by
promising a split-up of the stock, 3 shares for 1. Obviously, such a move could make no real
difference of any kind in the case of an issue selling in the 30s. The circumstances surrounding the rise of Atlas Tack from 11/2 to 343/4 in 1933 and its precipitous fall to 10 are worth
studying as a perfect example of the manipulative pattern. It is illuminating to compare the
price-earnings and the price-assets relationships of the same stock prior to 1929.
2 See, for example, Arthur S. Dewing, “A Statistical Test of the Success of Consolidations,”
published in Quarterly Journal of Economics, November 1921 and reprinted in his Financial
Policy of Corporations, pp. 885–898, New York, 1926. But see Henry R. Seager and Charles
A. Gullick, Trust and Corporation Problems, pp. 659–661, New York, 1929, and Report of the
Committee on Recent Economic Changes, Vol. I, pp. 194 ff., New York, 1929.

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[681]

Litigation. The tendency of Wall Street to go to extremes is illustrated
in the opposite direction by its tremendous dislike of litigation. A lawsuit
of any significance casts a damper on the securities affected, and the
extent of the decline may be out of all proportion to the merits of the case.
Developments of this kind may offer real opportunities to the analyst,
though of course they are of a specialized nature. The aspect of broadest
importance is that of receivership. Since the undervaluations resulting
therefrom are almost always confined to bond issues, we shall discuss this
subject later in the chapter in connection with senior securities.
Example: A rather striking example of the effect of litigation on common-stock values is afforded by the Reading Company case. In 1913 the
United States government brought suit to compel separation of the company’s railroad and coal properties. The stock market, having its own ideas
of consistency, considered this move as a dangerous attack on Reading,
despite the fact that the segregation would in itself ordinarily be considered
as “bullish.” A plan was later agreed upon (in 1921) under which the coal
subsidiary’s stock was in effect to be distributed pro rata among the Reading Company’s common and preferred shareholders. This was hailed in
turn as a favorable development, although in fact it constituted a victory
for the government against the company.
Some common stockholders, however, objected to the participation of
the preferred stock in the coal company “rights.” Suit was brought to restrict
these rights to the common stock. Amusingly, but not surprisingly, the
effect of this move was to depress the price of Reading common. In logic,
the common should have advanced, since, if the suit were successful, there
would be more value for the junior shares, and, if it failed (as it did), there
would be no less value than before. But the stock market reasoned merely
that here was some new litigation and hence Reading common should be
“let alone.”
Situations involving litigation frequently permit the analyst to pursue
to advantage his quantitative approach in contrast with the qualitative
attitude of security holders in general. Assume that the assets of a bankrupt concern have been turned into cash and there is available for distribution to its bondholders the sum of, say, 50% net. But there is a suit
pending, brought by others, to collect a good part of this money. It may
be that the action is so far-fetched as to be almost absurd; it may be that
it has been defeated in the lower courts, and even on appeal, and that it

[682]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

has now but a microscopic chance to be heard by the United States
Supreme Court. Nevertheless, the mere pendency of this litigation will
severely reduce the market value of the bonds. Under the conditions
named, they are likely to sell as low as 35 instead of 50 cents on the dollar. The anomaly here is that a remote claim, which the plaintiff can
regard as having scarcely any real value to him, is made the equivalent in
the market to a heavy liability on the part of the defendant. We thus have
a mathematically demonstrable case of undervaluations, and, taking these
as a class, they lend themselves exceedingly well to exploitation by the
securities analyst.
Examples: Island Oil and Transport 8% Notes. In June 1933 these notes
were selling at 18. The receiver held a cash fund equivalent to about 45%
on the issue, from which were deductible certain fees and allowances, indicating a net distributable balance of about 30 for the notes. The distribution was being delayed by a suit for damages that had been repeatedly
unsuccessful in its various legal stages and was now approaching final determination. This suit was exerting an adverse effect upon the market value
of the notes out of all proportion to its merits, a statement that is demonstrable from the fact that the litigation could have been settled by payment
of a relatively small amount. After the earlier decisions were finally sustained by the higher courts, the noteholders received a distribution of $290
per $1,000 in April 1934. A small additional distribution was indicated.3
A similar situation arose in the case of United Shipyards Corporation
stock after ratification of the sale of its properties to Bethlehem Steel Company in 1938. Dissenting holders brought suit to set the sale aside on the
ground that the price was grossly inadequate. The effect of this litigation
was to hold down the price of the Class B common to 11/4 in January 1939,
as against a realizable value of between 21/2 to 3 if the sale was upheld.
Obviously, if the suit had any merit, the stock should have been worth
more rather than less than 21/2; alternatively, if it had no merit, as seemed

3 A very similar situation existed in 1938 in connection with the various bond issues of
National Bondholders Corporation, which was engaged in liquidating various properties
and claims. These securities were selling at considerably less than the amount realizable for
them in liquidation, chiefly because of certain suits involving a substantial cash fund. As in
the Island Oil example, this litigation was in the last stages of appeal, and the decisions
theretofore had all been favorable to the bondholders. Following the final decision the value
of a typical issue advanced from 26 bid in 1938 to the equivalent of 41 bid in 1939.

[683]

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

clear, then the shares were clearly worth twice their selling price. (A similar disparity existed in connection with the price of the Class A stock.)

Undervalued Investment Issues. Undervalued bonds and preferred
stocks of investment caliber may be discovered in any period by means
of assiduous search. In many cases the low price of a bond or preferred
stock is due to a poor market, which in turn results from the small size
of the issue, but this very small size may make for greater inherent security. The Electric Refrigeration Building Corporation 6s, due 1936,
described in Chap. 26, are a good example of this paradox.
At times some specific development greatly strengthens the position
of a senior issue, but the price is slow to reflect this improvement, and
thus a bargain situation is created. These developments relate usually to
the capitalization structure or to corporate relationships. Several examples will illustrate our point.
Examples: In 1923 Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company purchased
the properties of Steel and Tube Company of America and assumed liability for the latter’s General Mortgage 7s, due 1951. Youngstown sold a
6% debenture issue at 99 to supply funds for this purchase. The following price relationship obtained at the time:
Company

Price

Yield, %

Youngstown Sheet and Tube Debenture 6s
Steel and Tube General 7s

99
102

6.02
6.85

The market failed to realize the altered status of the Steel and Tube
bonds, and thus they sold illogically at a higher yield than the unsecured
issue of the same obligor company. This presented a clear-cut opportunity to the analyst to recommend a purchase or an exchange.
In 1922 the City of Detroit purchased the urban lines of Detroit
United Railway Company and agreed to pay therefor sums sufficient to
retire the Detroit United Railway First 41/2s, due 1932. Unusually strong
protective provisions were inserted in the purchase contract which practically, if not technically, made the City of Detroit liable for the bonds.
But, after the deal was consummated, the bonds sold at 82, yielding more
than 7%. The bond market failed to recognize their true status as virtual
obligations of the City of Detroit.

[684]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

In 1924 Congoleum Company had outstanding $1,800,000 of 7% preferred stock junior to $2,890,000 of bonds and followed by 960,000 shares
of common stock having an average market value of some $48,000,000.
In October of that year the company issued 681,000 additional shares of
common for the business of the Nairn Linoleum Company, a large unit
in the same field, with $15,000,000 of tangible assets. The enormous
equity thus created for the small senior issues made them safe beyond
question, but the price of the preferred stock remained under par.
In 1927 Electric Refrigeration Corporation (now Kelvinator Corporation) sold 373,000 shares of common stock for $6,600,000, making a
total of 1,000,000 shares of common stock, with average market value of
about $21,000,000, coming behind only $2,880,000 of 6% notes, due in
1936. The notes sold at 74, however, to yield 11%. The low price was due
to a large operating deficit incurred in 1927, but the market failed to take
into account the fact that the receipt of a much greater amount of new
cash from the sale of additional stock had established a very strong backing for the small note issue.
These four senior issues have all been paid off at par or higher. (The
Congoleum-Nairn Preferred was called for payment at 107 in 1934.)
Examples of this kind are convenient for the authors since they do not
involve the risk of some later mischance casting doubt upon their judgment. To avoid loading the dice too heavily in our favor, we add another
illustration which is current as this chapter is written.
A Current Example. Choctaw and Memphis Railroad Company First
5s, due 1949, were selling in 1939 at about 35, carrying more than 5 years’
unpaid interest. They were a first lien on underlying mileage of the
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific System. The Rock Island had been
reporting poor earnings since 1930, and all its obligations were in default.
However, a segregation of the 1937 earnings by mortgage divisions
showed that the Choctaw and Memphis mileage was very profitable and
that its interest charges had been covered 2.6 times in that year even
though the company had earned only $2,700,000 toward total interest of
$14,080,000. Furthermore, the several reorganization plans presented up
to 1939, including that of the I.C.C. examiner, had all provided for principal and back interest on this issue in full, although virtually the entire
remaining bond structure was to be drastically cut down, and total interest charges were to be reduced to less than $2,500,000 annually.

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[685]

Assuming, as seemed inevitable, that the company was to be reorganized along the lines proposed, it was clear that these Choctaw and Memphis bonds would enjoy a very strong position, whether they were to be
left undisturbed with their lien on a valuable mileage and their back interest paid off, or were to be given par for par in a new, small first mortgage
on the entire system. This conclusion would be inescapable unless it were
true that a railroad with minimum gross earnings of 65 millions could
not be counted on to meet charges of 21/2 millions annually—less than
one-fifth its former burden.
Thus all the quantitative factors would seem to indicate strongly that
the Choctaw and Memphis 5s were greatly undervalued at 35 and that
once the recapitalization was completed the entrenched position of this
issue should become manifest.4

Price-value Discrepancies in Receiverships. In Chap. 18, dealing with reorganization procedure, we gave two diverse examples of
disparities arising under a receivership: the Fisk Rubber case, in which
the obligations sold at a ridiculously low price compared with the current assets available for them; and the Studebaker case, in which the
price of the 6% notes was clearly out of line with that of the stock. A
general statement may fairly be made that in cases where substantial
values are ultimately realized out of a receivership, the senior securities
will be found to have sold at much too low a price. This characteristic
has a twofold consequence. It has previously led us to advise strongly
against buying at investment levels any securities of a company that
is likely to fall into financial difficulties; it now leads us to suggest
that after these difficulties have arisen they may produce attractive
analytical opportunities.
This will be true not only of issues so strongly entrenched as to come
through reorganization unscathed (e.g., Brooklyn Union Elevated 5s, as
described in Chap. 2) but also of senior securities which are “scaled down”
or otherwise affected in a readjustment plan. It seems to hold most
4 See Appendix Note 67, p. 835 on accompanying CD, for text of the material in the 1934

edition relating to the Fox Film 6% Notes, due 1936, which in 1933 were selling at 75 to yield
20% to maturity.
Further Example: In 1938 Tung Sol Lamp Company 4% Notes, due 1941, were selling at
50. The very small size of this issue, in relation to the company’s resources and earnings,
made payment apparently certain. (In fact they were called in 1939 in advance of maturity.)

[686]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

consistently in cases where liquidation or a sale to outside interests results
ultimately in a cash distribution or its equivalent.
Examples: Three typical examples of such a consummation are given
herewith.
1. Ontario Power Service Corporation First 51/2s, Due 1950. This issue
defaulted interest payment on July 1, 1932. About this time the bonds sold
as low as 21. The Hydro-Electric Commission of Ontario purchased the
property soon afterwards, on a basis that gave $900 of new debentures,
fully guaranteed by the Province of Ontario, for each $1,000 Ontario
Power Service bond. The new debentures were quoted at 90 in December
1933, equivalent to 81 for the old bonds. The small number of bondholders not making the exchange received 70% in cash.
2. Amalgamated Laundries, Inc., 61/2s, Due 1936. Receivers were
appointed in February 1932. The bonds were quoted at 4 in April 1932.
In June 1932 the properties were sold to outside interests, and liquidating dividends of 121/2% and 2% were paid in August 1932 and March
1933. In December 1933 the bonds were still quoted at 4, indicating
expectation of at least that amount in further distributions.
3. Fisk Rubber Company First 8s and Debenture 51/2s, Due 1941 and
1931. Information regarding these issues was given in Chap. 18.
Receivership was announced in January 1931. In 1932 the 8s and 51/2s
sold as low as 16 and 101/2 respectively. In 1933 a reorganization was
effected, which distributed 40% in cash on the 8s and 37% on the 51/2s,
together with securities of two successor companies. The aggregate values of the cash and the new securities at the close of 1933 came close to
100% for the 8% bonds and 70% for the debenture 51/2s.

Price Patterns Produced by Insolvency. Certain price patterns are
likely to be followed during receivership or bankruptcy proceedings,
especially if they are protracted. In the first place, there is often a tendency for the stock issues to sell too high, not only in relation to the price
of the bond issues but also absolutely, i.e., in relation to their probable
ultimate value. This is due to the incidence of speculative interest, which
is attracted by a seemingly low price range. In the case of senior issues,
popular interest steadily decreases, and the price tends to decline accordingly, as the proceedings wear on. Consequently, the lowest levels are
likely to be reached a short time before a reorganization plan is ready to
be announced.

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[687]

A profitable field of analytical activity should be found therefore in
keeping in close touch with such situations, endeavoring to discover securities that appear to be selling far under their intrinsic value and to determine approximately the best time for making a commitment in them. But
in these, as in all analytical situations, we must warn against an endeavor
to gage too nicely the proper time to buy. An essential characteristic of
security analysis, as we understand it, is that the time factor is a subordinate consideration. Hence our use of the qualifying word “approximately,”
which is intended to allow a leeway of several months and sometimes
even longer, in judging the “right time” to enter upon the operation.

Opportunities in Railroad Trusteeships. In the years following
1932 a large part of the country’s railroad mileage went into the hands of
trustees. At the close of 1938 a total of 111 railway companies operating
78,016 miles (31% of the total railway mileage in the United States) were
in the hands of receivers or trustees. This is the greatest mileage ever in
the hands of the courts at any one time. Reorganization in every case has
been long delayed, owing on the one hand to the complicated capital
structures to be dealt with and on the other to the uncertainty as to future
normal earnings. As a result the price of a great many issues fell to
extremely low levels—which would undoubtedly have presented excellent opportunities for the shrewd investor, had it not been that the earnings of the railroads as a whole continued for some years to make
disappointing showings as compared with general business.
Viewing the situation about the end of 1939, it appeared that many of
the first-mortgage liens on important mileage had fallen to lower levels
than were warranted by anything but a most pessimistic view of the future
of the carriers. Certainly, these issues were cheaper than the bonds and
stocks of solvent roads, which sold for the most part at liberal prices in
relation to their current exhibits and which in many cases would be in
danger of insolvency if future conditions turned out as badly as the low
price of trusteeships issues seemed to anticipate. The technique of analyzing issues of the latter group is covered on accompanying CD in Chap.
12 and in Appendix Note 66, page 821.

Chapter 51

DISCREPANCIES BETWEEN PRICE
AND VALUE (Continued)

THE PRACTICAL DISTINCTIONS drawn in our last chapter between leading
and secondary common stocks have their counterpart in the field of senior securities as between seasoned and unseasoned issues. A seasoned
issue may be defined as an issue of a company long and favorably known
to the investment public. (The security itself may be of recent creation so
long as the company has a high reputation among investors.) Seasoned
and unseasoned issues tend at times to follow divergent patterns of conduct in the market, viz.:
1. The price of seasoned issues is often maintained despite a considerable
weakening of their investment position.
2. Unseasoned issues are very sensitive to adverse developments of any
nature. Hence they often fall to prices far lower than seem to be warranted
by their statistical exhibit.

Price Inertia of Seasoned Issues. These opposite characteristics are
due, in part at least, to the inertia and lack of penetration of the typical
investor. He buys by reputation rather than by analysis and he holds tenaciously to what he has bought. Hence holders of long-established issues
do not sell them readily, and even a small decline in price attracts buyers
long familiar with the security.
Example: This trait of seasoned issues is well illustrated by the market
history of the United States Rubber Company 8% Noncumulative Preferred.
The issue received full dividends between 1905 and 1927. In each year of
this period except 1924 there were investors who paid higher than par for
this stock. Its popularity was based entirely upon its reputation and its
dividend record, for the statistical exhibit of the company during most of
the period was anything but impressive, even for an industrial bond, and
[688]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[689]

hence ridiculously inadequate to justify the purchase of a noncumulative
industrial preferred stock. Between the years 1922 and 1927, the following
coverage was shown for interest charges and preferred dividends combined:
1922 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1923 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1924 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1925 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1926 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1927 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.20 times
1.18 times
1.32 times
1.79 times
1.00 times
1.01 times

In 1928 the stock sold as high as 109. During that year the company
sustained an enormous loss, and the preferred dividend was discontinued. Despite the miserable showing and the absence of any dividend, the
issue actually sold at 921/2 in 1929. (In 1932 it sold at 31/8.)1

Vulnerability of Unseasoned Issues. Turning to unseasoned issues,
we may point out that these belong almost entirely to the industrial field.
The element of seasoning plays a very small part as between the various
senior issues of the railroads; and in the public-utility group proper (i.e.,
electric, manufactured gas, telephone and water companies) price variations will be found to follow the statistical showing fairly closely, without
being strongly influenced by the factor of popularity or familiarity—
except in the case of very small concerns.
Industrial financing has brought into the market a continuous stream
of bond and preferred stock issues of companies new to the investment
list. Investors have been persuaded to buy these offerings largely through
the appeal of a yield moderately higher than the standard rate for seasoned securities of comparable grade. If the earning power is maintained
uninterruptedly after issuance, the new security naturally proves a satisfactory commitment. But any adverse development will ordinarily induce
a severe decline in the market price. This vulnerability of unseasoned
issues gives rise to the practical conclusion that it is unwise to buy a new
industrial bond or preferred stock for straight investment.
1 A more recent example of the same kind is presented by Curtis Publishing 7% Preferred,
which sold at 114 in 1936 and 1091/2 in 1937, despite an exceedingly inadequate showing of
earnings (and tangible assets). The high price of many railroad bonds in those years,
notwithstanding their unsatisfactory earnings exhibit, illustrates this point more broadly.

[690]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Since such issues are unduly sensitive to unfavorable developments,
it would seem that the price would often fall too low and in that case they
would afford attractive opportunities to purchase. This is undoubtedly
true, but there is great need of caution in endeavoring to take advantage
of these disparities. In the first place, the disfavor accorded to unseasoned
securities in the market is not merely a subjective matter, due to lack of
knowledge. Seasoning is usually defined as an objective quality, arising
from a demonstrated ability to weather business storms. Although this
definition is not entirely accurate, there is enough truth in it to justify in
good part the investor’s preference for seasoned issues.
More important, perhaps, is the broad distinction of size and prominence that can be drawn between seasoned and unseasoned securities.
The larger companies are generally the older companies, having senior
issues long familiar to the public. Hence unseasoned bonds and preferred
stocks are for the most part issues of concerns of secondary importance.
But we have pointed out, in our discussion of industrial investments
(Chap. 7), that in this field dominant size may reasonably be considered
a most desirable trait. It follows, therefore, that in this respect unseasoned
issues must suffer as a class from a not inconsiderable disadvantage.
Unseasoned Industrial Issues Rarely Deserve an Investment Rating. The
logical and practical result is that unseasoned industrial issues can very
rarely deserve an investment rating, and consequently they should only
be bought on an admittedly speculative basis. This requires in turn that
the market price be low enough to permit of a substantial rise; e.g., the
price must ordinarily be below 70.
It will be recalled that in our treatment of speculative senior issues
(Chap. 26), we referred to the price sector of about 70 to 100 as the “range
of subjective variation,” in which an issue might properly sell because of
a legitimate difference of opinion as to whether or not it was sound. It
seems, however, that in the case of unseasoned industrial bonds or preferred stocks the analyst should not be attracted by a price level within
this range, even though the quantitative showing be quite satisfactory.
He should favor such issues only when they can be bought at a frankly
speculative price.
Exception may be made to this rule when the statistical exhibit is
extraordinarily strong, as perhaps in the case of the Fox Film 6% notes mentioned in the preceding chapter and described in Appendix Note 67,

[691]

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

page 835 on accompanying CD. We doubt if such exceptions can prudently
include any unseasoned industrial preferred stocks, because of the contractual weakness of such issues. (In the case of Congoleum preferred, described
above, the company was of dominant size in its field, and the preferred stock
was not so much “unseasoned” as it was inactive marketwise.)

Discrepancies in Comparative Prices. Comparisons may or may
not be odious, but they hold a somewhat deceptive fascination for the analyst. It seems a much simpler process to decide that issue A is preferable
to issue B than to determine that issue A is an attractive purchase in its
own right. But in our chapter on comparative analysis we have alluded to
the particular responsibility that attaches to the recommendation of security exchanges, and we have warned against an overready acceptance of a
purely quantitative superiority. The future is often no respecter of statistical data. We may frame this caveat in another way by suggesting that the
analyst should not urge a security exchange unless either (1) the issue to
be bought is attractive, regarded by itself, or (2) there is a definite contractual relationship between the two issues in question. Let us illustrate consideration (1) by two examples of comparisons taken from our records.
Examples: I. Comparison Made in March 1932.

Item

Ward Baking First 6s,
due 1937. Price 85 1/4,
yield 9.70%

Bethlehem Steel First & Ref.
5s, due 1942. Price 93,
yield 5.90%

Total interest charges earned:
1931
1930
1929
1928
1927
1926
1925

8.1 times
8.2 times
11.0 times
11.2 times
14.0 times
14.5 times
12.6 times

1.0 times
4.3 times
4.8 times
2.7 times
2.3 times
2.6 times
2.1 times

11.4 times
$ 4,546,000

2.8 times
$145,000,000*

12,200,000
3,438,000
3,494,000

116,000,000
50,300,000
116,300,000

Seven-year average
Amount of bond issues
Market value of stock issues
(March ’32 average)
Cash assets
Net working capital
* Including guaranteed stock.

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[692]

In this comparison the Ward Baking issue made a far stronger statistical showing than the Bethlehem Steel bonds. Furthermore, it appeared
sufficiently well protected to justify an investment rating, despite the high
return. The qualitative factors, although not impressive, did not suggest
any danger of collapse of the business. Hence the bonds could be recommended either as an original purchase or as an advantageous substitute
for the Bethlehem Steel 5s.
II. Comparison Made in March 1929.

Item

Spear & Co. (Furniture Republic Iron &
Stores) 7% First
Steel 7% Preferred.
Preferred. Price 77,
Price 112,
yielding 9.09%
yielding 6.25%

(Interest and) preferred dividends earned:
1928
1927
1926
1925
1924
1923
1922

2.4 times
4.0 times
3.0 times
2.5 times
4.7 times
6.5 times
4.3 times

1.9 times
1.5 times
2.1 times
1.7 times
1.1 times
2.5 times
0.5 times

Seven-year average
Amount of bond issues
Amount of (1st) preferred issue
Market value of junior issues
Net working capital

3.9 times
None
$ 3,900,000
3,200,000*
10,460,000

1.6 times
$32,700,000
25,000,000
62,000,000
21,500,000

* Includes Second Preferred estimated at 50.

In this comparison the Spear and Company issue undoubtedly made
a better statistical showing than Republic Iron and Steel Preferred. Taken
by itself, however, its exhibit was not sufficiently impressive to carry conviction of investment merit, considering the type of business and the fact
that we were dealing with a preferred stock. The price of the issue was
not low enough to warrant recommendation on a fully speculative basis,
i.e., with prime emphasis on the opportunity for enhancement of principal. This meant in turn that it could not consistently be recommended in
exchange for another issue, such as Republic Iron and Steel Preferred.

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[693]

Comparison of Definitely Related Issues. When the issues examined are definitely related, a different situation obtains. An exchange can
then be considered solely from the standpoint of the respective merits
within the given situation; the responsibility for entering into or remaining in the situation need not be assumed by the analyst. In our previous
chapters we have considered a number of cases in which relative prices
were clearly out of line, permitting authoritative recommendations of
exchange. These disparities arise from the frequent failure of the general
market to recognize the effect of contractual provisions and often also
from a tendency for speculative markets to concentrate attention on the
common stocks and to neglect the senior securities. Examples of the first
type were given in our discussion of price discrepancies involving
guaranteed issues in Chap. 17. The price discrepancies between various
Interborough Rapid Transit Company issues, discussed in Appendix Note
56 on accompanying CD, and between Brooklyn Union Elevated Railroad 5s and Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit Corporation 6s, referred to in
Chap. 2, are other illustrations in this category.2
The illogical price relationships between a senior convertible issue and
the common stock, discussed in Chap. 25 on accompanying CD, are examples of opportunities arising from the concentration of speculative interest
on the more active junior shares. A different manifestation of the same general tendency is shown by the spread of 7 points existing in August 1933
between the price of American Water Works and Electric Company “free”
common and the less active voting trust certificates for the same issue. Such
phenomena invite not only direct exchanges but also hedging operations.
A similar comparison could be made in July 1933 between Southern
Railway 5% Noncumulative Preferred, paying no dividend and selling at
49, and the Mobile and Ohio Stock Trust Certificates, which were an obligation of the same road, bearing a perpetual guaranty of a 4% dividend
and selling concurrently at 393/4. Even if the preferred dividend had been
immediately resumed and continued without interruption, the yield
2 The student is invited to consider the price relationships between Pierce Petroleum and
Pierce Oil preferred and common in 1929; between Central States Electric Corporation
51/2% bonds and North American Company common in 1934; between the common issues
of Advance-Rumely Corporation and Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company in 1933;
between Ventures, Ltd., and Falconbridge Nickel, and between Chesapeake Corporation and
Chesapeake and Ohio Railway common stocks in 1939—as examples of disparities arising
from ownership by one company of securities in another.

[694]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

thereon would have been no higher than that obtainable from the senior
fixed-interest obligation. (In 1939 Southern Railway Preferred, still paying no dividend, sold at 35 against a price of about 40 for the Mobile and
Ohio 4% certificates. At these prices the advantage still appeared clearly
on the side of the guaranteed issue.)
Other and Less Certain Discrepancies. In the foregoing examples the
aberrations are mathematically demonstrable. There is a larger class of
disparities between senior and junior securities that may not be proved
quite so conclusively but are sufficiently certain for practical purposes.
As an example of these, consider Colorado Industrial Company 5s, due
August 1, 1934, guaranteed by Colorado Fuel and Iron Company, which
in May 1933 sold at 43, while the Colorado Fuel and Iron 8% Preferred,
paying no dividend, sold at 45. The bond issue had to be paid off in full
within 14 months’ time, or else the preferred stock was faced with the
possibility of complete extinction through receivership. In order that
the preferred stock might prove more valuable than the bonds bought at
the same price, it would be necessary not only that the bonds be paid off
at par in little over a year but that preferred dividends be resumed and
back dividends discharged within that short time. This was almost, if not
quite, inconceivable.
In comparing nonconvertible preferred stocks with common stocks
of the same company, we find the same tendency for the latter to sell too
high, relatively, when both issues are on a speculative basis. Comparisons
of this kind can be safely drawn, however, only when the preferred stock
bears cumulative dividends. (The reason for this restriction should be
clear from our detailed discussion of the disabilities of noncumulative
issues in Chap. 15.) A price of 10 for American and Foreign Power Company common when the $7 Cumulative Second Preferred was selling at
11 in April 1933 was clearly unwarranted. A similar remark may be made
of the price of 211/2 for Chicago Great Western Railroad Company common in February 1927, against 321/2 for the 4% preferred stock on which
dividends of $44 per share had accumulated.
It is true that if extraordinary prosperity should develop in situations
of this kind, the common shares might eventually be worth substantially
more than the preferred. But even if this should occur, the company is
bound to pass through an intermediate period during which the
improved situation permits it to resume preferred dividends and then to

[695]

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

discharge the accumulations. Since such developments benefit the preferred stock directly, they are likely to establish (for a while at least) a market value for the senior issues far higher than that of the common stock.
Hence, assuming any appreciable degree of improvement, a purchase of
the preferred shares at the low levels should fare better than one made in
the common stock.

Discrepancies Due to Special Supply and Demand Factors. The
illogical relationships that we have been considering grow out of supply
and demand conditions that are, in turn, the product of unthinking speculative purchases. Sometimes discrepancies are occasioned by special and
temporary causes affecting either demand or supply.
Examples: In the illogical relationship between the prices of Interboro
Rapid Transit Company 5s and 7s in 1933, the operations of a substantial sinking fund, which purchased the 5s and not the 7s, were undoubtedly instrumental in raising the price of the former disproportionately.
An outstanding example of this kind is found in the market action
of United States Liberty 41/4s during the postwar readjustment of
1921–1922. Large amounts of these bonds had been bought during the
war for patriotic reasons and financed by bank loans. A general desire
to liquidate these loans later on induced a heavy volume of sales which
drove the price down. This special selling pressure actually resulted in
establishing a lower price basis for Liberty Bonds than for high-grade railroad issues, which were, of course, inferior in security and at a greater
disadvantage also in the matter of taxation. Compare the following simultaneous prices in September 1920.
Issue

Price

Yield

United States Liberty Fourth 41/4s, due 1938
Union Pacific First 4s, due 1947

841/2
80

5.64%*
5.42%

* Not allowing for tax exemption.

This situation supplied an excellent opportunity for the securities analyst to advise exchanges from the old-line railroad issues into Liberty Bonds.
A less striking disparity appeared a little later between the price of
these Liberty Bonds and of United States Victory 43/4 s, due 1923. This
state of affairs is discussed in a circular, prepared by one of the authors

[696]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

and issued at that time, a copy of which is given in Appendix Note 68 on
accompanying CD, as an additional example of “practical security analysis.”

United States Savings Bonds Offer Similar Opportunity. For the
investor of moderate means the disparity between United States government
and corporate obligations has reappeared in recent years. The yield on
United States Savings Bonds (available to any one individual to the extent
of $10,000 principal amount each year) is 2.90% on the regular compoundinterest basis of calculation and 3.33% on a simple-interest basis. This yield
is definitely higher than that returned by best-rated public-utility and industrial issues.3 In addition to their safety factor, which at present must clearly
be set higher than that of any corporate issue, the United States Savings
Bonds have the minor advantage of exemption from normal income tax and
the major advantage of being redeemable at the option of the holder at any
time, thus guaranteeing him against intermediate loss in market value.

3 The average yields for such bonds for the first 3 months of 1940, carrying A1 ratings of
Standard Statistics Company, were only 2.62% and 2.44%, respectively.

Chapter 52

MARKET ANALYSIS AND
SECURITY ANALYSIS

FORECASTING SECURITY PRICES is not properly a part of security analysis.
However, the two activities are generally thought to be closely allied, and
they are frequently carried on by the same individuals and organizations.
Endeavors to predict the course of prices have a variety of objectives and
a still greater variety of techniques. Most emphasis is laid in Wall Street
upon the science, or art, or pastime, of prophesying the immediate action
of the “general market,” which is fairly represented by the various averages used in the financial press. Some of the services or experts confine
their aim to predicting the longer term trend of the market, purporting
to ignore day-to-day fluctuations and to consider the broader “swings”
covering a period of, say, several months. A great deal of attention is given
also to prophesying the market action of individual issues, as distinct
from the market as a whole.

Market Analysis as a Substitute for or Adjunct to Security
Analysis. Assuming that these activities are carried on with sufficient
seriousness to represent more than mere guesses, we may refer to all or
any of them by the designation of “market analysis.” In this chapter we
wish to consider the extent to which market analysis may seriously be
considered as a substitute for or a supplement to security analysis. The
question is important. If, as many believe, one can dependably foretell the
movements of stock prices without any reference to the underlying values, then it would be sensible to confine security analysis to the selection
of fixed-value investments only. For, when it comes to the common-stock
type of issue, it would manifestly be more profitable to master the technique of determining when to buy or sell, or of selecting the issues that
are going to have the greatest or quickest advance, than to devote
painstaking efforts to forming conclusions about intrinsic value. Many
[697]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[698]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

other people believe that the best results can be obtained by an analysis
of the market position of a stock in conjunction with an analysis of its
intrinsic value. If this is so, the securities analyst who ventures outside
the fixed-value field must qualify as a market analyst as well and be prepared to view each situation from both standpoints at the same time.
It is not within our province to attempt a detailed criticism of the theories and the technique underlying all the different methods of market
analysis. We shall confine ourselves to considering the broader lines of
reasoning that are involved in the major premises of price forecasting.
Even with this sketchy treatment it should be possible to reach some useful conclusions on the perplexing question of the relationship between
market analysis and security analysis.

Two Kinds of Market Analysis. A distinction may be made between
two kinds of market analysis. The first finds the material for its predictions exclusively in the past action of the stock market. The second considers all sorts of economic factors, e.g., business conditions, general and
specific; money rates; the political outlook. (The market’s behavior is itself
only one of these numerous elements of study.) The underlying theory of
the first approach may be summed up in the declaration that “the market
is its own best forecaster.” The behavior of the market is generally studied
by means of charts on which are plotted the movements of individual
stocks or of “averages.” Those who devote themselves primarily to a study
of these price movements are known as “chartists,” and their procedure is
often called “chart reading.”
But it must be pointed out that much present-day market analysis represents a combination of the two kinds described, in the sense that the market’s action alone constitutes the predominant but not the exclusive field of
study. General economic indications play a subordinate but still significant
role. Considerable latitude is therefore left for individual judgment, not only
in interpreting the technical indications of the market’s action but also in
reconciling such indications with outside factors. The “Dow theory,” however, which is the best known method of market analysis, limits itself essentially to a study of the market’s behavior. Hence we feel justified in dealing
separately with chart reading as applied exclusively to stock prices.
Implication of the First Type of Market Analysis. It must be recognized
that the vogue of such “technical study” has increased immensely during
the past fifteen years. Whereas security analysis suffered a distinct

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[699]

loss of prestige beginning about 1927—from which it has not entirely
recovered—chart reading apparently increased the number of its followers even during the long depression and in the years thereafter. Many
sceptics, it is true, are inclined to dismiss the whole procedure as akin to
astrology or necromancy, but the sheer weight of its importance in Wall
Street requires that its pretensions be examined with some degree of care.
In order to confine our discussion within the framework of logical reasoning, we shall purposely omit even a condensed summary of the main
tenets of chart reading.1 We wish to consider only the implications of the
general idea that a study confined to past price movements can be availed
of profitably to foretell the movements of the future.
Such consideration, we believe, should lead to the following conclusions:
1. Chart reading cannot possibly be a science.
2. It has not proved itself in the past to be a dependable method of making
profits in the stock market.
3. Its theoretical basis rests upon faulty logic or else upon mere assertion.
4. Its vogue is due to certain advantages it possesses over haphazard speculation, but these advantages tend to diminish as the number of chart
students increases.

1. Chart Reading Not a Science and Its Practice Cannot Be Continuously Successful. That chart reading cannot be a science is clearly demonstrable. If it were a science, its conclusions would be as a rule dependable.
In that case everybody could predict tomorrow’s or next week’s price
changes, and hence everyone could make money continuously by buying
and selling at the right time. This is patently impossible. A moment’s
thought will show that there can be no such thing as a scientific prediction of economic events under human control. The very “dependability”
of such a prediction will cause human actions that will invalidate it. Hence
thoughtful chartists admit that continued success is dependent upon
keeping the successful method known to only a few people.

1 For detailed statements concerning the theory and practice of chart reading the student is
referred to: R. W. Shabacker, Stock Market Profits, B. C. Forbes, New York, 1934; Robert
Rhea, “The Dow Theory,” passim, Barron’s, New York, 1932; H. M. Gartley, “Analyzing the
Stock Market,” a series of articles in Barron’s beginning with the issue of Sept. 19, 1932 and
ending with the issue of Dec. 5, 1932. See Appendix Note 69, p. 837 on accompanying CD,
for a brief statement of the main tenets of the Dow theory.

[700]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

2. Because of this fact it follows that there is no generally known
method of chart reading that has been continuously successful for a long
period of time.2 If it were known, it would be speedily adopted by numberless traders. This very following would bring its usefulness to an end.
3. Theoretical Basis Open to Question. The theoretical basis of chart
reading runs somewhat as follows:
a. The action of the market (or of a particular stock) reflects the activities
and the attitude of those interested in it.
b. Therefore, by studying the record of market action, we can tell what is
going to happen next in the market.

The premise may well be true, but the conclusion does not necessarily follow. You may learn a great deal about the technical position of a
stock by studying its chart, and yet you may not learn enough to permit
you to operate profitably in the issue. A good analogy is provided by the
“past performances” of race horses, which are so assiduously studied by
the devotees of the race track. Undoubtedly these charts afford considerable information concerning the relative merits of the entries; they will
often enable the student to pick the winner of a race; but the trouble is
that they do not furnish that valuable information often enough to make
betting on horse races a profitable diversion.
Coming nearer home, we have a similar situation in security analysis
itself. The past earnings of a company supply a useful indication of its
future earnings—useful, but not infallible. Security analysis and market
analysis are alike, therefore, in the fact that they deal with data that are
not conclusive as to the future. The difference, as we shall point out, is
that the securities analyst can protect himself by a margin of safety that is
denied to the market analyst.
Undoubtedly, there are times when the behavior of the market, as
revealed on the charts, carries a definite and trustworthy meaning of particular value to those who are skilled in its interpretation. If reliance on
chart indications were confined to those really convincing cases, a more
positive argument could be made in favor of “technical study.” But such
2 Adherents of the Dow theory claim that it has been continuously successful for a great

many years. We believe this statement to be open to much doubt—turning, in part, on
certain disputed interpretations of what the theory indicated on various key occasions.

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[701]

precise signals seem to occur only at wide intervals, and in the meantime
human impatience plus the exigencies of the chart reader’s profession
impel him to draw more frequent conclusions from less convincing data.
4. Other Theoretical and Practical Weaknesses. The appeal of chart
reading to the stock-market trader is something like that of a patent medicine to an incurable invalid. The stock speculator does suffer, in fact,
from a well-nigh incurable ailment. The cure he seeks, however, is not
abstinence from speculation but profits. Despite all experience, he persuades himself that these can be made and retained; he grasps greedily
and uncritically at every plausible means to this end.
The plausibility of chart reading, in our opinion, derives largely from
its insistence on the sound gambling maxim that losses should be cut
short and profits allowed to run. This principle usually prevents sudden
large losses, and at times it permits a large profit to be taken. The results
are likely to be better, therefore, than those produced by the haphazard
following of “market tips.” Traders, noticing this advantage, are certain
that by developing the technique of chart reading farther they will so
increase its reliability as to assure themselves continued profits.
But in this conclusion there lurks a double fallacy. Many players at
roulette follow a similar system, which limits their losses at any one session
and permits them at times to realize a substantial gain. But in the end they
always find that the aggregate of small losses exceeds the few large profits.
(This must be so, since the mathematical odds against them are inexorable
over a period of time.) The same is true of the stock trader, who will find
that the expense of trading weights the dice heavily against him. A second
difficulty is that, as the methods of chart reading gain in popularity, the
amount of the loss taken in unprofitable trades tends to increase and
the profits also tend to diminish. For as more and more people, following
the same system, receive the signal to buy at about the same time, the result
of this competitive buying must be that a higher average price is paid by
the group. Conversely, when this larger group decides to sell out at the same
time, either to cut short a loss or to protect a profit, the effect must again
be that a lower average price is received. (The growth in the use of “stoploss orders,” formerly a helpful technical device of the trader, had this very
effect of detracting greatly from their value as a protective measure.)
The more intelligent chart students recognize these theoretical weaknesses, we believe, and take the view that market forecasting is an art that

[702]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

requires talent, judgment, intuition and other personal qualities. They
admit that no rules of procedure can be laid down, the automatic following of which will insure success. Hence the widespread tendency in Wall
Street circles towards a composite or eclectic approach, in which a very
thorough study of the market’s performance is projected against the
general economic background, and the whole is subjected to the appraisal
of experienced judgment.

The Second Type of Mechanical Forecasting. Before considering
the significance of this injection of the judgment factor, let us pass on to
the other type of mechanical forecasting, which is based upon factors outside of the market itself. As far as the general market is concerned, the
usual procedure is to construct indices representing various economic
factors, e.g., money rates, carloadings, steel production, and to deduce
impending changes in the market from an observation of a recent change
in these indices.3 One of the earliest methods of the kind, and a very simple one, was based upon the percentage of blast furnaces in operation.
This theory was developed by Col. Leonard P. Ayres of the Cleveland
Trust Company and ran to the effect that security prices usually reached
a bottom when blast furnaces in operation declined through 60% of the
total and that conversely they usually reached a top when blast furnaces
in operation passed through the 60% mark on the upswing in use
thereof.4 A companion theory of Colonel Ayres was that the high point
in bond prices is reached about 14 months subsequent to the low point
in pig-iron production and that the peak in stock prices is reached about
two years following the low point for pig-iron production.5
This simple method is representative of all mechanical forecasting
systems, in that (1) it sounds vaguely plausible on the basis of a priori
3 These indices may also be plotted on charts, in which case the forecasting takes on the
aspect of chart reading. Examples: The A, B, and C lines of the Harvard Economic Service
which were published in weekly letters from Jan. 3, 1922, to Dec. 26, 1931 (since continued
through 1939 at less frequent intervals in The Review of Economic Statistics); also the single
composite Index Line in the “Investment Timing Service” offered by Independence Fund of
North America, Inc., in 1939.
4 See Bulletin of the Cleveland Trust Company, July 15, 1924, cited by David F. Jordan, in
Practical Business Forecasting, p. 203n, New York, 1927.
5 See Business Recovery Following Depression, a pamphlet published by the Cleveland Trust

Company in 1922. The conclusions of Colonel Ayres are summarized on p. 31 of the pamphlet.

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[703]

reasoning and (2) it relies for its convincingness on the fact that it has
“worked” for a number of years past. The necessary weakness of all these
systems lies in the time element. It is easy and safe to prophesy, for example, that a period of high interest rates will lead to a sharp decline in the
market. The question is, “How soon?” There is no scientific way of answering this question. Many of the forecasting services are therefore driven to
a sort of pseudo-science, in which they take it for granted that certain time
lags or certain coincidences that happened to occur several times in the
past (or have been worked out laboriously by a process of trial and error),
can be counted upon to occur in much the same way in the future.
Broadly speaking, therefore, the endeavor to forecast security-price
changes by reference to mechanical indices is open to the same objections
as the methods of the chart readers. They are not truly scientific, because
there is no convincing reasoning to support them and because, furthermore, really scientific (i.e., entirely dependable) forecasting in the economic
field is a logical impossibility.

Disadvantages of Market Analysis as Compared with Security
Analysis. We return in consequence to our earlier conclusion that market analysis is an art for which special talent is needed in order to pursue it successfully. Security analysis is also an art; and it, too, will not
yield satisfactory results unless the analyst has ability as well as knowledge. We think, however, that security analysis has several advantages
over market analysis, which are likely to make the former a more successful field of activity for those with training and intelligence. In security analysis the prime stress is laid upon protection against untoward
events. We obtain this protection by insisting upon margins of safety, or
values well in excess of the price paid. The underlying idea is that even
if the security turns out to be less attractive than it appeared, the commitment might still prove a satisfactory one. In market analysis there are
no margins of safety; you are either right or wrong, and, if you are wrong,
you lose money.6
6 Viewing the two activities as possible professions, we are inclined to draw an analogous
comparison between the law and the concert stage. A talented lawyer should be able to make
a respectable living; a talented, i.e., a “merely talented,” musician faces heartbreaking obstacles to a successful concert career. Thus, as we see it, a thoroughly competent securities analyst should be able to obtain satisfactory results from his work, whereas permanent success
as a market analyst requires unusual qualities—or unusual luck.

[704]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The cardinal rule of the market analyst that losses should be cut short
and profits safeguarded (by selling when a decline commences) leads in
the direction of active trading. This means in turn that the cost of buying and selling becomes a heavily adverse factor in aggregate results.
Operations based on security analysis are ordinarily of the investment
type and do not involve active trading.
A third disadvantage of market analysis is that it involves essentially
a battle of wits. Profits made by trading in the market are for the most
part realized at the expense of others who are trying to do the same
thing. The trader necessarily favors the more active issues, and the price
changes in these are the resultant of the activities of numerous operators
of his own type. The market analyst can be hopeful of success only upon
the assumption that he will be more clever or perhaps luckier than his
competitors.
The work of the securities analyst, on the other hand, is in no similar
sense competitive with that of his fellow analysts. In the typical case the
issue that he elects to buy is not sold by some one who has made an
equally painstaking analysis of its value. We must emphasize the point
that the security analyst examines a far larger list of securities than does
the market analyst. Out of this large list, he selects the exceptional cases
in which the market price falls far short of reflecting intrinsic value, either
through neglect or because of undue emphasis laid upon unfavorable
factors that are probably temporary.
Market analysis seems easier than security analysis, and its rewards
may be realized much more quickly. For these very reasons, it is likely to
prove more disappointing in the long run. There are no dependable ways
of making money easily and quickly, either in Wall Street or anywhere else.

Prophesies Based on Near-term Prospects. A good part of the analysis and advice supplied in the financial district rests upon the near-term
business prospects of the company considered. It is assumed that, if the outlook favors increased earnings, the issue should be bought in the expectation of a higher price when the larger profits are actually reported. In this
reasoning, security analysis and market analysis are made to coincide. The
market prospect is thought to be identical with the business prospect.
But to our mind the theory of buying stocks chiefly upon the basis of
their immediate outlook makes the selection of speculative securities
entirely too simple a matter. Its weakness lies in the fact that the current

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[705]

market price already takes into account the consensus of opinion as to
future prospects. And in many cases the prospects will have been given
more than their just need of recognition. When a stock is recommended
for the reason that next year’s earnings are expected to show improvement, a twofold hazard is involved. First, the forecast of next year’s results
may prove incorrect; second, even if correct, it may have been discounted
or even overdiscounted in the current price.
If markets generally reflected only this year’s earnings, then a good estimate of next year’s results would be of inestimable value. But the premise
is not correct. Our table on page 707 shows on the one hand the annual
earnings per share of United States Steel Corporation common and on the
other hand the price range of that issue for the years 1902–1939. Excluding the 1928–1933 period (in which business changes were so extreme as
necessarily to induce corresponding changes in stock prices), it is difficult
to establish any definite correlation between fluctuations in earnings and
fluctuations in market quotations.
In Appendix Note 70 (on accompanying CD), we reproduce significant parts of the analysis and recommendation concerning two common
stocks made by an important statistical and advisory service in the latter
part of 1933. The recommendations are seen to be based largely upon the
apparent outlook for 1934. There is no indication of any endeavor to
ascertain the fair value of the business and to compare this value with the
current price. A thorough-going statistical analysis would point to the
conclusion that the issue of which the sale is advised was selling below its
intrinsic value, just because of the unfavorable immediate prospects, and
that the opposite was true of the common stock recommended as worth
holding because of its satisfactory outlook.
We are sceptical of the ability of the analyst to forecast with a fair
degree of success the market behavior of individual issues over the nearterm future—whether he base his predictions upon the technical position of the market or upon the general outlook for business or upon the
specific outlook for the individual companies. More satisfactory results
are to be obtained, in our opinion, by confining the positive conclusions
of the analyst to the following fields of endeavor:
1. The selection of standard senior issues that meet exacting tests of safety.
2. The discovery of senior issues that merit an investment rating but that
also have opportunities of an appreciable enhancement in value.

[706]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

3. The discovery of common stocks, or speculative senior issues, that appear
to be selling at far less than their intrinsic value.
4. The determination of definite price discrepancies existing between related
securities, which situations may justify making exchanges or initiating
hedging or arbitrage operations.

A SUMMARY OF OUR VIEWS ON
INVESTMENT POLICIES
If we transfer our attention, finally, from the analyst to the owner of securities, we may briefly express our views on what he may soundly do and
not do. The following résumé makes some allowance for different categories of investors.

A. The Investor of Small Means. 1. Investment for Income. In his case
the only sensible investment for safety and accumulated income, under present conditions, is found in United States Savings Bonds. Other good investments yield little if any more, and they have not equal protection against
both ultimate and intermediate loss. Straight bonds and preferred stocks
ostensibly offering a higher return are almost certain to involve an appreciable risk factor. The various types of “savings plans” and similar securities offered by salesmen are full of pitfalls; the investor persuaded by their
promise of liberal income to prefer them to United States Savings Bonds
is very, very likely to regret his choice.
2. Investment for Profit. Four approaches are open to both the small
and the large investor:
a. Purchase of representative common stocks when the market level
is clearly low as judged by objective, long-term standards. This policy
requires patience and courage and is by no means free from the possibility of grave miscalculation. Over a long period we believe that it will show
good results.
b. Purchase of individual issues with special growth possibilities,
when these can be obtained at reasonable prices in relation to actual
accomplishment.
Where growth is generally expected, the price is rarely reasonable. If
the basis of purchase is a confidence in future growth not held by the public, the operation may prove sound and profitable; it may also prove illfounded and costly.
c. Purchase of well-secured privileged senior issues. A combination of
really adequate security with a promising conversion or similar right is a

[707]

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

UNITED STATES STEEL COMMON, 1901–1939

Range of market price
Year

Earned per share

High

Low

Average

1901
1902
1903
1904
1905
1906
1907
1908
1909
1910
1911
1912
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
1924
1925
1926
1927*
1927†
1928
1929
1930
1931
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939

$ 9.1
10.7
4.9
1.0
8.5
14.3
15.6
4.1
10.6
12.2
5.9
5.7
11.0
0.3(d)
10.0
48.5
39.2
22.1
10.1
16.6
2.2
2.8
16.4
11.8
12.9
18.0
12.3
8.8
12.5
21.2
9.1
1.4(d)
11.1(d)
7.1(d)
5.4(d)
2.8(d)
2.9
8.0
3.8(d)
1.84

55
47
40
34
43
50
50
59
95
91
82
81
69
67
90
130
137
117
116
109
87
112
110
121
139
161
246
176
173
262
199
152
53
68
60
51
80
127
71
83

24
30
10
8
25
33
22
26
41
61
50
58
50
48
38
80
80
87
88
76
70
82
86
94
112
117
155
111
132
150
134
36
21
23
29
28
46
49
38
41

40
39
25
21
34
42
36
48
68
76
66
70
60
58
64
105
109
102
102
93
79
97
98
108
126
139
201
144
153
206
167
99
37
46
45
40
63
88
55
62

* Before allowing for 40% stock dividend.
† After allowing for 40% stock dividend.

[708]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

rare but by no means unknown phenomenon. A policy of careful selection in this field should bring good results, provided the investor has the
patience and persistence needed to find his opportunities.
d. Purchase of securities selling well below intrinsic value. Intrinsic
value takes into account not only past earnings and liquid asset values but
also future earning power, conservatively estimated—in other words,
qualitative as well as quantitative elements. We think that since a large
percentage of all issues nowadays are relatively unpopular, there must be
many cases in which the market goes clearly and crassly astray, thus creating real opportunities for the discriminating student. These may be
found in bonds, preferred stocks and common stocks.
In our view, the search for and the recognition of security values of
the types just discussed are not beyond the competence of the small
investor who wishes to practice security analysis in a nonprofessional
capacity, although he will undoubtedly need better than average intelligence and training. But we think it should be a necessary rule that the
nonprofessional investor submit his ideas to the criticism of a professional
analyst, such as the statistician of a New York Stock Exchange firm. Surely
modesty is not incompatible with self-confidence; and there is logic in
the thought that unless a man is qualified to advise others professionally,
he should not, unaided, prescribe for himself.
3. Speculation. The investor of small means is privileged, of course,
to step out of his role and become a speculator. (He is also privileged to
regret his action afterwards.) There are various types of speculation, and
they offer varying chances of success:
a. Buying stock in new or virtually new ventures. This we can condemn unhesitatingly and with emphasis. The odds are so strongly
against the man who buys into these new flotations that he might as
well throw three-quarters of the money out of the window and keep the
rest in the bank.
b. Trading in the market. It is fortunate for Wall Street as an institution that a small minority of people can trade successfully and that many
others think they can. The accepted view holds that stock trading is like
anything else; i.e., with intelligence and application, or with good professional guidance, profits can be realized. Our own opinion is sceptical, perhaps jaundiced. We think that, regardless of preparation and method,
success in trading is either accidental and impermanent or else due to a

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[709]

highly uncommon talent. Hence the vast majority of stock traders are
inevitably doomed to failure. We do not expect this conclusion to have
much effect on the public. (Note our basic distinction between purchasing stocks at objectively low levels and selling them at high levels—which
we term investment—and the popular practice of buying only when the
market is “expected” to advance and selling when it is “due” to decline—
which we call speculation.)
c. Purchase of “growth stocks” at generous prices. In calling this “speculation,” we contravene most authoritative views. For reasons previously
expressed, we consider this popular approach to be inherently dangerous
and increasingly so as it becomes more popular. But the chances of individual success are much brighter here than in the other forms of speculation, and there is a better field for the exercise of foresight, judgment
and moderation.

B. The Individual Investor of Large Means. Although he has obvious technical advantages over the small investor, he suffers from three
special handicaps:
1. He cannot solve his straight investment problem simply by buying
nothing but United States Savings Bonds, since the amount that any individual may purchase is limited. Hence he must, perforce, consider the
broader field of fixed-value investment. We believe that strict application
of quantitative tests, plus reasonably good judgment in the qualitative
area, should afford a satisfactory end result.
2. However, the extraneous problem of possible inflation is more serious to him than to the small investor. Since 1932 there has been a strong
common-sense argument for some common-stock holdings as a defensive measure. In addition, a substantial holding of common stocks corresponds with the traditional attitude and practice of the wealthy individual.
3. The size of his investment unit is more likely to induce the large
investor to concentrate on the popular and active issues. To some extent,
therefore, he is handicapped in the application of the undervalued-security technique. However, we imagine that a more serious obstacle thereto
will be found in his preferences and prejudices.

C. Investment by Business Corporations. We believe that United
States government bonds, carrying exemption from corporate income
taxes, are almost the only logical medium for such business funds as may

[710]

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

properly be invested for a term of years. (Under 1940 conditions short-time
investment involves as much trouble as income.) It seems fairly evident, on
the whole, that other types of investments by business enterprises—whether
in bonds or in stocks—can offer an appreciably higher return only at risk
of loss and of criticism.

D. Institutional Investment. We shall not presume to suggest policies for financial institutions whose business it is to be versed in the theory and practice of investment. The same might be said for philanthropic
and educational institutions, since these generally have the benefit of
experienced financiers in shaping their financial policies. But in order
not to dodge completely a very difficult issue, we venture the following
final observation: An institution that can manage to get along on the low
income provided by high-grade fixed-value issues should, in our opinion, confine its holdings to this field. We doubt if the better performance
of common-stock indexes over past periods will, in itself, warrant the
heavy responsibilities and the recurring uncertainties that are inseparable from a common-stock investment program. This conclusion may perhaps be modified either if there is substantial unanimity of view that
inflation must be guarded against or if the insufficiency of income compels search for a higher return. In such case those in charge may be warranted in setting aside a portion of the institution’s funds for
administration in other than fixed-value fields, in accordance with the
canons and technique of security analysis.7

7 Yale University now follows a policy of investing part of its funds in “equities”—defined as
common stocks and nonpaying senior issues. The percentage varies in accordance with a
fixed formula, somewhat as follows: The initial proportion is 30% of the total fund. Whenever
a rise in the market level advances this figure to 40%, one-eighth of each stock holding is
switched into bonds. Conversely, whenever a decline in the market reduces the proportion to
15%, bonds are sold and one-third additional of each stock is bought. See address of Laurence
G. Tighe, Associate Treasurer of Yale University entitled “Present Day Investment Problems
of Endowed Institutions,” delivered on February 14, 1940 before the Trust Division of the
American Bankers Association. It was summarized in the New York Sun of February 20, 1940.

PART VIII

GLOBAL VALUE
INVESTING

Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

This page intentionally left blank

Par t VIII

G LO B E T R O T T I N G W I T H
GRAHAM AND DODD
BY THOMAS A. RUSSO

I

have the privilege of introducing the part of Security Analysis that was
never written, that on global investing. This was not a grievous omission by the authors. After all, other than in Great Britain and a few

European countries, global securities markets were still fairly undeveloped when the second edition was published in 1940.
I first learned of global value investing from Professor Jack McDonald
at Stanford Business School in the early 1980s. McDonald regaled us with
“war stories” about his own experiences investing abroad. Even as
recently as the 1980s, foreign investing was difficult. By U.S. standards,
overseas markets were illiquid and trading costs high. Accounting practices were foreign, to say the least, and disclosure was less transparent
than in the United States.
That was not all. Consider the challenges posed to the would-be
global investor by local corporate governance and management practices; restrictions on capital movements; variations in taxation; differences in language, culture, and political stability; unusual hours at which
trades are executed; complexity of foreign exchange transactions; currency risks; and logistics involved in managing custody of foreign securities. Why bother?
Oddly enough, it was Omaha, Nebraska’s Warren Buffett who cleared
a path for me through this minefield. A guest lecturer in Professor

[713]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[714]

Part VIII

McDonald’s class, Buffett was not and still is not a specialist in global
investing. Buffett, a student of Graham and Dodd’s at Columbia in the
1950s, had, by the early 1980s, evolved from being purely a balance
sheet investor to being an investor who was seeking companies with
exceptional business franchises that were run by honest, capable, and
shareholder-friendly managements. Such companies are rare, so why
limit yourself to just the United States?
Because there is almost always a scarcity of great opportunity—Buffett says you are lucky to have 20 great ideas in your investing lifetime—
a narrow search could result in less-than-optimal diversification.
Investors can—and indeed, must—“compensate” for a sparse set of
opportunities through a broad-based search. A deep and growing
understanding of particular industries allows an investor to evaluate
both domestic and foreign opportunities within a circle of competence.
There may be local variations in tastes and laws, but the fundamental
economics of producing, marketing, and distributing most goods and
services transcend national boundaries.
Using a focus like Buffett’s on the underlying economics of businesses also helps an investor cope with national differences in accounting and disclosure practices. Local accounting can be analyzed in the
context of results of similarly situated companies in other countries. For
example, if the implied returns of a German beer company appear to
deviate from those of French, British, and Italian brewers, there is a reasonable chance that the nuances of financial statements were misunderstood and that further analysis of those numbers is required. Of course,
discrepancies could also be explained by the local regulatory environment or divergent consumer preferences. When results for an important
subsidiary are not fully identified in the income statement, the numbers
can be better understood by studying similar businesses in other countries. For example, the profitability of brewing companies depends criti-

Thomas A. Russo

[715]

cally on local distribution networks and local market share. A brewery
subsidiary with a small share in a distant market is not likely to represent
significant value. Finally, focusing on underlying business operations
leads an investor to develop a global network of industry contacts that
may help fill in the gaps in financial reports.
Graham and Dodd—and Buffett—are properly concerned with the
tendency of some managements to cling tightly to corporate assets, to
withhold dividends, and to make acquisitions whose sole purpose seems
to be to increase the prestige and salaries of management. That is why
Buffett looks for managers who emphasize the long-term protection and
enhancement of their business franchises and are primarily concerned
with the effectiveness of a company’s capital allocation process. When
investing in foreign companies, you really need the kind of managers
that Buffett covets because corporate governance rules and management practices are generally less responsive to shareholder concerns
than they are in the United States. If management does not get it right,
you cannot count on your fellow shareholders to make it happen.
Also, while cultural and language differences make it difficult to render judgments based on direct contact with overseas managers, management’s long-term record is available. You can judge past decisions,
based on your knowledge of the industry’s best practices. Furthermore,
as Buffett has frequently noted, simple businesses with strong franchises
can be run by any idiot. Absent a track record, language and cultural differences make it difficult to identify, say, French, Czech, or Thai superstars
from lesser lights. So Buffett’s “simple business, strong franchise”
approach offers an extra measure of protection when investing abroad.

Global Investing in Practice
Since embarking on my own course of investing abroad over 20 years
ago, I have encountered challenges relating to currency fluctuations,

[716]

Part VIII

accounting practices, corporate disclosure, trading, and execution as well
as my share of administrative barriers. While each of these challenges
has abated over the years as non-U.S. markets have become somewhat
more oriented to global investors, they all remain obstacles for many
investors seeking to go global.

Currency Risk
I have often been quizzed by prospective investors about how I planned
to protect against the risk of adverse foreign currency fluctuations. While
some American investors prefer to hedge all foreign currency exposure
back to U.S. dollars, I believe investor interests are best served by diversifying currency holdings. Given that Americans are exposed to multiple
currencies in the goods and services they purchase, it only makes sense
to have some foreign currency exposure.
Gaining that exposure has not been easy. Prior to the euro’s arrival in
1992, investing in European companies required conversion, for instance,
into a host of currencies. Managing multiple currency positions is cumbersome and sometimes subject to high transaction costs. That is why I eventually gave up on, for instance, Figaro, Philip Morris’s Slovakia-based confectionery subsidiary. Maintaining Slovak currency exposure was too costly.
Another factor is that, even if one were inclined to hedge, it would be
surprisingly complicated to figure out a proper hedge. Most companies
operate in multiple countries having different currencies. For example,
investors who try to hedge away Nestlé’s Swiss franc exposure (its shares
are listed in Switzerland) will have trouble knowing what currency to
hedge against, as less than 5% of Nestlé’s revenues are in Swiss francs.
Moreover, sometimes the most compelling investment opportunities
arise when currencies are reeling and, thus, costly to hedge. For instance,
in the early 1990s I invested in the Norwegian stock market after prices
had collapsed as a result of a shipping-industry crisis brought on by the
Gulf War. The Scandinavian currencies were then under such pressure

Thomas A. Russo

[717]

that a hedge—which was priced to build in further currency declines—
would be prohibitively expensive. A strong argument could be made
that not only were Norway’s stocks undervalued, its currency was too.
The very thing that would cause Norwegian shares to rise—the end of
the Gulf War—would also be bullish for the currency.

Accounting Standards
When I first began to invest abroad, U.S. investors would ask, “Can you
rely on foreign company accounting?” Even then my answer was, “Compared to what?” While there are many shortcomings in foreign accounting standards, in some cases they are actually more conservative than
U.S. accounting rules. Meanwhile, our prized standards have not averted
such accounting debacles as Enron’s and WorldCom’s frauds.
Nonetheless, early accounting standards in foreign markets did make
investing abroad tricky. One area of difficulty involved unconsolidated
subsidiaries. Often, you could find no reference to such partially owned
subsidiaries either on the income statement or the balance sheet, even
though they represented a considerable amount of a company’s intrinsic
value. Varied rules for treatment of goodwill, amortization, and depreciation made apples-to-apples comparisons difficult for companies based in
different countries.
For instance, when I started investing in the Dutch brewer Heineken
in the late 1980s, the company looked less profitable than its U.S. competitors. But Heineken logged what were effectively excessive depreciation charges because it used replacement cost accounting. Once
adjusted under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), the
brewer’s profitability shined through. That was an easy adjustment,
enabled by good financial disclosure in the Heineken reports.
Often, however, foreign companies fail to provide sufficient segmentlevel disclosures or worse yet they fail to disclose unconsolidated subsidiaries at all, and that makes these adjustments far more speculative. In

[718]

Part VIII

such cases, investors have to insist on a wider margin of safety to protect
against risks that arise from incomplete disclosure. Fortunately, worldwide accounting standards have improved over the years to require
broader reporting of results by business segment and more disclosure of
unconsolidated subsidiaries.

Information Unavailable
In some countries, information on public companies is often unavailable,
and what is available is of poor quality. Some financial statements are
not translated into English, especially in relatively small markets such as
Norway and the Czech Republic. I have frequently hired translators to tell
me what is in those reports. With the advent of Bloomberg and other
data suppliers, more information is becoming available sooner and in
English. However, news releases are often in the local language only.
It is also hard for U.S. investors to arrange meetings with management. I recall my first visit to Heineken in the late 1980s. When I was
introduced to the vice chairman, he asked “What are you doing here?” in
a way that showed he meant it. Indeed, he had likely never seen American investors before, and he could not quite imagine why they might
have an interest in the company. Similarly, when initially investing in the
U.K.-based breakfast cereal manufacturer Weetabix, only once was I able
to meet with anyone from management.
Weetabix and Heineken were each controlled by their founding families, and there was little an investor could do to get management’s ear.
Nonetheless, a careful read of each company’s reports showed that both
were carefully run, shareholder-minded businesses.
I can live with investor-shy managements, but I require a greater margin of safety in making such investments. Still, there are limits. I recall visiting South Korea in the late 1990s following the Asian currency collapse.
Meeting with senior management from one of South Korea’s leading
candy makers, Lotte Confectionery, I asked management about prospects

Thomas A. Russo

[719]

for the next year’s cash flow. The interpreter and management spoke for
nearly 30 minutes, after which I got a one-word response: “Better.” Lacking
any insight into the discussion that led to that insufficient answer, I walked
away from this otherwise promising company.

Who’s Got Custody?
When I started investing abroad, few foreign companies had their shares
listed in the United States in the form of now-common American
Depositary Receipts (ADRs). That meant many American fiduciaries were
effectively unable to invest abroad since they typically need to have
domestic custody of shares. While I invest in both ADRs and local shares,
some of my clients are able to hold only ADRs. Worse yet: some countries have restrictions that really handcuff foreign investors.
This was so in the mid-1980s when my investors who held shares in
James Burroughs PLC (producer of Beefeater’s Gin) were barred by law
from accepting a stock swap offer by Whitbread. Instead, they could take
only cash. As such, they were denied the chance to participate in subsequent acquisitions of Whitbread by Allied Domecq and of Allied Domecq
by Pernod Ricard. Instead, they were forced to pay taxes on an unwillingly realized gain. Similarly, I have difficulty investing in some developing markets (for example, India and China) due to the local securities
markets’ regulations restricting foreign investments.
U.S.-based investors have also been limited in the types of instruments
in which they can invest. For instance, when I first invested in Nestlé in the
mid-1980s, as non-Swiss investors we could not buy actual shares, only
“participation certificates.” This was also true for both Weetabix and the
Dutch-based media company De Telegraaf. Because a certificate holder
would have fewer rights than a shareholder, I lowered the price I would
pay to maintain a sufficient margin of safety in these situations.
Completing foreign trades and maintaining foreign holdings remains
a challenge today, even with the tidal wave of funds flowing into over-

[720]

Part VIII

seas markets. Commissions remain fixed at high levels in most of them,
and many of those markets levy fees and taxes atop the commissions.
Finally, many U.S-based custodians charge extra fees for settling foreign
trades; they also attempt to profit further on currency transactions. Collecting foreign dividends is typically delayed and subject to hefty commissions for converting dividends into dollars. Moreover, tax-exempt
investors, such as pension funds and endowments, have a miserable
time trying to recover taxes on foreign dividends that are withheld by
local authorities. Taxable investors can solve this by claiming a credit on
their U.S. taxes for foreign taxes paid. Finally, it is difficult to vote proxies
for foreign holdings as custodians often are notified of corporate actions
late or not at all by their foreign subcustodians.
Despite a litany of administrative and technical difficulties that
remain even to this day, concerns regarding corporate governance and
securities regulation are overblown. International corporate governance
protections for investors, especially in Europe, increasingly resemble
those in the United States. Nonexecutive board chairs exist in practice in
many countries, a trend that is gaining steam in the United States. Additionally, although European markets lack new mandates for corporate
board conduct such as those recently promulgated in the United States
under Sarbanes-Oxley, the reality is that their principles-based systems of
corporate governance provide every bit as much protection as our country’s rules-based structure.

“Be Right Once”: Weetabix
I always approach investing with a mindset that Warren Buffett once
described as “being right once.” Find businesses selling at reasonable
prices with superior brands that possess genuine competitive advantage,
conservative capital structures, and an owner-minded management
team that has evidenced a history of respecting shareholder interests.

Thomas A. Russo

[721]

Let these owner-minded managements reinvest the abundant free cash
flow their brands generate. Each business’s intrinsic value should grow
over time, ideally at a rate high enough to deliver attractive investor
returns far into the future. An example of such a company is Weetabix.
I became aware of Weetabix about 20 years ago through my wife
who, like everyone who spent their childhood in England, retains
remarkable loyalty to its eponymous breakfast cereal, which is similar to
Nabisco Shredded Wheat. It’s not my taste. But, through market research
into the breakfast-cereal industry and through conversations with
Weetabix’s global competitors, I discovered that Weetabix possesses not
only intensely brand-loyal consumers but also a substantial share of the
U.K. breakfast-cereal market. Could I invest in this company? I was
impressed with the summary financials in a company handbook, but
getting more detailed information was difficult.
What I discovered was that over the five years prior to my investment,
Weetabix’s revenues had grown by over 60%. More important, operating
income had gone from 2.2 pence a share loss in 1982 to 38.6 pence a
share profit in 1986. Nonetheless, Weetabix’s operating margin, at just
under 10%, was still modest by industry standards. That suggested further
possible upside for margins. In addition, Weetabix’s balance sheet was
conservative, with cash balances of 7 million pounds, which amounted to
over 10% of its market capitalization. What’s more, the shares sold at a reasonable price-to-earnings ratio of 7, and a 14% free-cash-flow yield. On
balance, Weetabix had a strongly branded product in its home market.
Moreover, the company’s performance was improving under the management of Sir Richard George, an heir to Weetabix’s controlling family.
My first investment in Weetabix illustrates how difficult it can be to
invest abroad. First and foremost, Weetabix voting shares were rarely, if
ever, traded. The nonvoting certificates, which my clients owned, traded
on a market called OFEX, which was not one of the main exchanges—

[722]

Part VIII

Weetabix shares indeed traded by appointment. The spreads between
the bid and offer prices were enormous. On top of the wide spreads,
transaction costs were high. Two brokers split the trading in Weetabix
shares between them, so there was really no way to shop around for a
better price. Despite these obstacles, the stock was such a bargain that I
became a very large buyer of shares. But there were other frustrations:
for about a decade, I had enormous difficulties perfecting settlement for
the shares I purchased, and collecting dividends was excruciating.
Another reason Weetabix back then was so cheap was an investor
bias against family-controlled companies. Investors often fear that family
members in control of a public company may be indifferent to the share
price or they may even divert assets to their personal benefit. Interestingly enough, I prefer to invest in family-controlled entities. Provided
that you attach your interests to an honest clan, family control can actually lead to better, not worse, long-term decisions that benefit shareholders, not management. After all, a family controlling a company is free to
make long-term decisions without worrying what others think.
Finally, Weetabix management was unusually uncommunicative with
investors. There were no fancy lunches at gilded brokerage offices within
the City of London. There were few corporate news releases besides
mandatory half-year and full-year results. There were no opportunities to
meet with management at analyst meetings. Indeed, the annual chairman’s letter to shareholders in the annual report provided the bulk of
the information investors would receive. Numerous efforts notwithstanding, it was years before I met the CEO, even though my clients then held
nearly 16% of the shares outstanding.
While such inaccessibility discouraged many investors, I appreciated
management’s practice of focusing on the company’s operating
prospects and letting results speak for themselves. As I saw no evidence
of self-dealing over the years, I was comfortable with management’s suc-

Thomas A. Russo

[723]

cess at building shareholder value. Best of all, the very difficulty that
caused the stock to be undervalued when I first learned of it caused it to
remain undervalued over time. I was delighted with the chance to continue to add to holdings at market prices below intrinsic value. By the
time Weetabix’s shares were acquired in 2003, my original investment
had increased tenfold.

Summing Up
The bottom line is that Graham and Dodd’s—and Buffett’s—principles
are equally suited to international markets as they are to the U.S. market.
Indeed, because so many investors are scouring the U.S. markets for bargains, some foreign markets remain considerably less efficient, dominated by short-term trends, rumors, and overreactions to new
developments. What could be better for value investors?

This page intentionally left blank

ABOUT THIS EDITION

T

his project began in late 2006 when I was approached by an editor
at McGraw-Hill about putting together a new edition of Security
Analysis. I agreed to take on this project as lead editor, and over

the months that followed, we assembled a team of three additional editors: a prominent financial writer and historian, a leading value-investing
academic, and an experienced financial journalist. We also had modernday practitioners comment on the original text, thereby providing a fresh
perspective based on their own approaches to value investing. We added
a new essay on global value investing.
Because these contributions were submitted and edited during the
second half of 2007 and early 2008, you will not see references to the
deepening credit crisis and sharp financial market sell-off that very nearly
bankrupted the venerable investment bank Bear Stearns in March 2008.
The reason is that instead of focusing myopically on very recent developments, we took a long-term view that would be applicable in both good
markets and bad, and, like Graham and Dodd, we concerned ourselves
chiefly with “concepts, methods, standards, principles, and, above all, with
logical reasoning.”
We decided to base this sixth edition on the second edition of Security Analysis, published in 1940, because it was the most comprehensive
edition, and we also decided not to alter the text of this classic work. By
proceeding in this fashion, we hope that readers will gain both an appreciation for the magisterial accomplishment of Graham and Dodd in their

[725]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[726]

About This Edition

exact words as well as insight into what is still relevant and important
even in today’s vastly changed world.
This project has brought together 11 contributors in a collaboration
that is emblematic of the nature of the value-investing community. Many
of us are business rivals, but we are also friends and colleagues. All of us
know that no one of us possesses all the answers; we vividly remember
our biggest mistakes as if they happened yesterday. Similarly, we recognize that none of us has perfected the art of value investing; there are
always new challenges, and there is always room to improve. By assembling the diverse perspectives of these experienced and able contributors
and editors, we hope to make this sixth edition of Security Analysis a rich,
varied, and highly informed tapestry of investment thinking that will be a
worthy and long-lived successor to the five preceding editions.
Seth A. Klarman
Lead Editor
May 2008

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

I

owe much to the coeditors and contributors who found time in their
busy lives to share their insights and experiences for the readers of
this edition. On behalf of all of them, I would like to acknowledge our

authors, Benjamin Graham and David Dodd. Through their writings and
legacy, they have touched each of us in important ways; obviously, without them, this collaboration would never have happened. I would also
like to thank Warren Buffett for his very personal foreword and, more
important, for serving as the living embodiment of Graham and Dodd’s
principles of value investing, sound reasoning, high integrity, and generosity through the avenues of teaching and philanthropy.
In addition, I must acknowledge a debt to Leah Spiro, who had the
idea to bring together leading practitioners of value investing to tell us
how they apply Graham and Dodd’s principles today. This collaboration
was difficult to orchestrate, and some doubted it could be done. Indeed,
the project would have faltered if not for her persistence and leadership.
My thanks also goes to the many professionals at McGraw-Hill—including Philip Ruppel, Herb Schaffner, Laura Friedman, Seth Morris, Lydia
Rinaldi, Anthony Landi, Jane Palmieri, and Maureen Harper—who
ensured that this would be a work of which we could all be proud.
Seth A. Klarman
Lead Editor

[727]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

This page intentionally left blank

ABOUT THE CONTRIBUTORS

Seth A. Klarman, president of the Boston-based Baupost Group, L.L.C.,
manages a series of successful investment partnerships using Graham
and Dodd principles. In his preface, Klarman discusses the timelessness
of their philosophy, the changes in the environment with which value
investors must work, and the unanswerable questions that will always
require value investors to work hard. He is also the author of Margin of
Safety, a classic investment book. Klarman is the lead editor of this sixth
edition.
James Grant, founder and editor of Grant’s Interest Rate Observer, has
been writing about markets and financial figures for over 30 years. He is
the author of five books, including biographies of financier Bernard
Baruch and President John Adams. He is a founding general partner of
Nippon Partners, a hedge fund that invests in Japan. Grant’s introduction
takes us back to Graham and Dodd’s era to put Security Analysis in a historical perspective. He also served as an editor of this sixth edition.
Roger Lowenstein, one of America’s top financial journalists, gives us his
keen insights into contemporary value investing. Lowenstein is a frequent contributor to the New York Times Magazine, Portfolio, and Smart
Money. He is also the bestselling author of the books Buffett: The Making
of an American Capitalist and When Genius Failed: The Rise and Fall of
Long-Term Capital. His most recent book is While America Aged. Lowenstein is also an outside director of the Sequoia Fund.

[729]
Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[730]

About the Contributors

Howard S. Marks, CFA, chairman and cofounder of Oaktree Capital Management based in Los Angeles, was an early investor in high yield bonds
and a devotee of Graham and Dodd. At first glance, those two ideas
appear to be antithetical, but Marks says that’s not the case. His introduction to Part II, which is about fixed income investments, explains how
the ideas in Security Analysis can be applied profitably to today’s corporate bond market.
J. Ezra Merkin, managing partner of Gabriel Capital Group in New York
City, is one of today’s leading investors in corporate bankruptcy and
distressed securities. In “Blood and Judgement,” which is the introduction
to Part III, Merkin lays out various bankruptcy scenarios using real
examples and analyzes them as investment opportunities from a value
buyer’s perspective.
Bruce Berkowitz is the founder of Fairholme Capital Management and
the manager of the Fairholme Fund, a value mutual fund. This Miamibased investor offers his insights on corporate dividends and their
modern-day equivalent, free cash flow. Using examples and anecdotes
from his own experience, Berkowitz provides this key update to Graham
and Dodd’s wisdom.
Glenn H. Greenberg, CFA, cofounder and managing director of New
York–based Chieftain Capital Management, admits flat out that he never
read Security Analysis in business school and that even midway through
his career, he found the text a bit fusty. Going back to the book after
more than three decades on Wall Street, he finds it remarkable for its
enduring sound advice. His introduction to Part V shows us how to assess
companies and their income statements with a value investor’s eye.
Bruce Greenwald is the Robert Heilbrunn Professor of Finance and Asset
Management at Columbia Business School, and he also heads the Heilbrunn Center for Graham and Dodd Investing. In his introduction to Part VI,

About the Contributors

[731]

he tears apart the corporate balance sheet and shares his unique
insights on this most important of financial statements. He is the author
of Value Investing: From Graham to Buffett and Beyond. He also served as
an editor of this sixth edition.
David Abrams heads his own investment partnership, Boston-based
Abrams Capital Management. In “The Great Illusion of the Stock Market
and the Future of Value Investing,” which is the introduction to Part VII,
Abrams offers his early experiences in and lessons from the investment
business and makes the dry subject of warrants and options come alive.
Thomas A. Russo is a partner in Gardner Russo & Gardner, which is
based in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and is a general partner of Semper Vic
Partners, L.P. Russo has specialized in global value investing for over 20
years. His essay introduces the part of the book that was never written—
value investing in global markets. The subject was small bore in Graham
and Dodd’s day, but it is of great importance now.
Jeffrey M. Laderman, CFA, served as an editor of this sixth edition. He is
a 25-year veteran of BusinessWeek and has written and edited articles on
everything from stock market crises to trading scandals. He is now the
editor of On the Markets and The View, publications that go to the clients
of Smith Barney and Citi Private Bank respectively.

This page intentionally left blank

ABOUT THE AUTHORS

Benjamin Graham was a seminal figure on Wall Street and is widely
acknowledged to be the father of modern security analysis. The founder
of the value school of investing and founder and former president of the
Graham-Newman corporation investment fund, Graham taught at
Columbia University’s Graduate School of Business from 1928 through
1957. He popularized the examination of price-to-earnings (P/E) ratios,
debt-to-equity ratios, dividend records, book values, and earnings growth,
and also wrote the popular investors’ guide The Intelligent Investor.
David L. Dodd was a colleague of Benjamin Graham’s at Columbia
University, where he was an assistant professor of finance.

Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

This page intentionally left blank

INDEX

A
A. E. Staley Manufacturing
Company, 514–517, 518
Abbott Laboratories, 29, 34
Accounting standards, global
investing and, 717–718
Acme Steel, 461n
Adams-Mills, 502
Adelphia, 274, 275
“The Adelphia Story” (Leonard),
274n
Advance-Rumely Corporation, 693n
The Adventure Company, Ltd., 100n
Aeolian Company, 199n, 243
Aer Lingus, 399
Aeronautical Corporation of
America, 639–640
Affiliated Fund, Inc., 248, 309n
Ahmeek Mine, 488
Ajax Rubber Company, 329
Alaska Juneau Gold Mining
Company, 90, 465, 487n
Albertson’s, 275
Alexander, Greg, 50–51
Alleghany Corporation, 248n, 645,
646
Allied Chemical and Dye
Corporation, 94n, 463n
Allied Domecq, 719
Allied Owners Corporation, 203n
Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing
Company, 693n
Alton, 212
Amalgamated Laundries, Inc., 686

Amazon.com, 53–54, 347
American Airlines, 504
American and Foreign Power
Company, 115, 649–651, 694
American Arch Company, 94
American Austin Car Company,
638–639
American Bantam Car Corporation,
626, 638–639
American Book, 92n
American Can, 23, 93, 350, 351,
353, 354–355, 458–459, 461,
606
American Car and Foundry
Company, 200n, 457, 458–460
American Cigarette and Cigar, 532n
American Commercial Alcohol
Corporation, 598, 599
American Depositary Receipts
(ADRs), 719
American Electric Power
Corporation, 318
American European Securities
Company, 248
American Express, 40
American Founders, 647–648
American Gas and Electric, 151
American Glue, 585
American Hide and Leather
Company, 334
American Home Products, 34
American Ice Company, 454
American Laundry Machinery
Company, 480, 509n, 573, 672
[735]

Copyright © 2009, 1988, 1962, 1951, 1940, 1934 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.

[736]

Index

American Light and Traction
Company, 652
American Locomotive Company, 91,
454–455, 481n
American Machine and Foundry,
160n, 245
American Machine and Metals, Inc.,
421–423, 424–425
American Maize Products Company,
514–517
American Metals Company, 429
American Rolling Mill Company,
597
American Safety Razor, 502
American Seating, 330, 674
American Smelting and Refining
Company, 429, 606
American Steel Foundries, 93, 460
American Sugar Refining Company,
160n, 377–378, 457–458,
459–460
American Sumatra Tobacco, 93n
American Telegraph and Cable
Company, 211
American Telephone and Telegraph
Company (AT&T), 23, 44, 77,
96, 117, 314n, 315, 321, 545,
590n
American Terminals and Transit
Company, 113n
American Tobacco Company, 201n,
218–219, 250, 305, 306, 444, 445,
532n, 676
American Type Founders Company,
221
American Water Works and Electric
Company, 504–505, 513–514,
693
American Water Works Company, 90
American Woolen, 91, 606
American Zinc, 509n
American Zinc, Lead and Smelting
Company, 197n, 332–333

Amortization:
of bond discount, in income
account, 433–434
of good-will, 471
of leaseholds and leasehold
improvements, 470–471
of oil and ore reserves, 464–469
of patents, 471
Anaconda Copper Mining
Company, 316, 317, 465, 594
Anacostia and Potomac River
Railroad Company, 210
Analytical technique, limitation by
character and purposes of
commitment, 81–82
“Analyzing the Stock Market”
(Gartley), 699n
Anderson, Benjamin M., 6n
Ann Arbor Railroad Company,
448n–449n
Annual reports as information
source, 91–94
Appraisals of real estate, 185
Archer-Daniels-Midland Company,
592–593, 598
“Are Oil Earnings Reports Fictitious”
(Braunthal), 467n
Argentina, 175
Armour and Company of Delaware,
221, 421
Armour and Company of Illinois,
221
Arndt, Michael, 272n
Ashland Home Telephone, 245n
Asian stocks, selling down of,
investing and, 50–51
Asset(s):
mispricing of, capitalizing on,
621–622
realizable value of, 560–562
Asset valuation:
importance placed on, 539–540
of intangible assets, 543

Index

modern information resources for,
542
related to earnings power,
543–544
Associated Gas and Electric
Company, 115, 205n, 319, 434
Associated Oil Company, 160n
Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe
Railway Company, 149–151,
158n, 200n, 203, 204, 212,
302–303, 309n, 321, 350,
351–352, 353, 355, 377–378,
379–380, 388, 658
Atlantic Coast Line, 444
Atlas Tack, 680n
Austin Nichols and Company, 198
Australia, 175
Austria, 175
Automated Data Processing, 340
AutoZone, 58
Ayres, Leonard P., 702

B
B. F. Goodrich, 245, 606
Badger, R. E., 193n
Bagehot, Walter, 143
Balance sheet, 93–94
asset valuation and (see Asset
valuation)
as check on published earnings
statement, 437–438
checking effect of losses or profits
on financial position and,
600–607
checking up on reported earnings
per share on, 598–600
comparison over time, 598–613
long-range study of earning power
and resources and, 607–613
usefulness of, 538–539
Baldwin Locomotive Works, 90, 457,
459, 606
Balsam, Jerome, 265n

[737]

Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company, 239, 244, 257n
Bangor and Aroostook Railroad,
177–178, 679
Bank debt, large, as sign of
weakness, 594–596
Bank loans of intermediate maturity,
597–598
Bankruptcy:
bondholders and, 231–236
price patterns produced by,
686–687
price-value discrepancies and,
685–687
protective committee and, 240–241
tendency to sell below fair value
and, 236–237
varieties of, 268–270
voluntary readjustment plans and,
237–239
(See also Distressed investing)
Bankruptcy Abuse Protection and
Consumer Protection Act of
2005, 270n
Bankruptcy Act of 1898, 270n
Barclay v. Wabash Railway, 199n
Bargain hunting, 50–53
Barker Bros. Corp., 522–523
Barnhart Bros. and Spindler
Company, 221
Barnsdall Oil Company, 451–452,
620–621
Baruch, Bernard M., 16
Basic-stock inventory accounting,
429–430
Bayuk Cigars, Inc., 303
Bear Stearns, 725
Belding, Heminway Company, 329
Belgium, 174, 175
Bemis Brothers’ Bag, 92n
Bendix Aviation Corporation, 423
Berkey and Gay Furniture Company,
252, 330

[738]

Index

Berkshire Hathaway, 40, 287n, 342,
344–345
Berle, A. A., Jr., 199n, 576, 577
Bethlehem Steel Company, 305–306,
461, 462, 481n, 579, 682–683,
691–692
Better Business Bureau of New York
City, 259n
Beuhler, Alfred G., 392n
Bloomberg, 718
Bloomberg, Lawrence N., 558n
Bloomingdale’s, 43
“Blue-sky flotation,” 259n
Boeing Airplane Company, 678
Bolivia, 175
Bon Ami, 93n
Bond(s), 123–140
amortization of discount on,
433–434
avoidance of loss and, 143
buying on depression basis,
154–164, 266
collapses of, causes of, 157–161
collateral-trust, 182–183
common sense and, 135–137
conflicting views on financing by,
161–162
convertible (see Convertible
issues)
durability of Security Analysis and,
137–140
early maturing, danger of,
596–597
equipment obligations, 180–182
evolution of investment standards
and, 125–126
exclusion by New York statute,
171–172
Federal Land Bank, 213–214
as fixed-value investment,
141–143
of foreign corporations, 176
foreign-government, 173–175

high-grade (see High-grade
bonds)
income, 202–208
investing vs. speculating and, 102
investment absolutes and, 126
investment standards for,
169–179, 180–189
investment vs. speculation and,
126–128
investment-trust, protective
provisions for, 247–252
legal rights of bondholders and,
230–231
low-priced, limitation of profit on,
323–324
mortgage, 215–218
Oaktree Capital Management
investment methodology for,
130–135
pragmatic approach for, 128–130
protective covenants and (see
Protective covenants)
railroads, unsound financial
policies followed by, 162
real estate, 183–189
as safe investment, rejection of
rule by Graham and Dodd, 43
sound, unavailability of, 161
speculative, 28, 324–325
subordination to bank debt in
reorganization, 243
of subsidiary companies, 226–227
“underlying,” 152–153
undervalued, market
exaggerations due to,
683–685
working-capital requirements
and, 245–246
zero-coupon, 284
Bond and Mortgage Guarantee
Company, 216
Bond prices, interest rates and,
25–27

Index

Book value, 548–558
of common stocks, treatment of
preferred stocks and, 550–551
computation of, 548–550
current-asset value and cash-asset
value and, 553–554
exaggeration by pyramiding,
649–650
practical significance of, 555–558
of preferred stocks, 551–553
Borg Warner, 456
Borman, Frank, 265
Bosland, Chelcie C., 4, 17, 362n
Botany Worsted Mills, 430
Bowker Building, 185n
Bradlees, 276–278
Braunthal, Alfred, 467n
Brazil, 175
“A Break in the Action” (Castro),
271n
Breeden, Richard, 279–280
British Companies Act of 1929,
386n–387n
Brooklyn Heights Railroad
Company, 209
Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company,
209, 492
Brooklyn Union Elevated Railroad,
78–79, 146–147, 209, 685, 693
Brooklyn Union Gas Company, 321,
322
Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit
Corporation, 79, 595, 693
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., 7
Budd Manufacturing Company,
246n
Buffalo Sabres, 274
Buffett, Warren, 40, 53, 54, 58,
137–138, 273, 287, 345, 396, 622,
629, 713–714, 715, 720
Bulgaria, 175
Bunte Brothers, 674
Burchill Act, 233n

[739]

Burlington, 212
Burtchett, E. F., 193n
Bush, George H. W., 286
Bush Terminal Building Company,
421
“Business man’s investment,” 167
Butler Bros., 675
Butte and Superior Copper
Company, 677, 679
Butte and Superior Mining
Company, 491
“Buy-and-hold” investing, 133
Buyer as element in security
analysis, 76

C
Cable Television Hall of Fame, 274
Calumet and Hecla Consolidated
Copper Company, 487–488
Campeau, Robert, 43
Canada, 174, 175, 233n
Canadian Pacific Railway, 158n,
210n, 211, 226
Capellas, Michael, 279
Capital Administration Company,
550
Capital Consumption and
Adjustment (Fabricant), 454n
Capital Income Debentures, 115n
Capital structure, 406–407, 507–519
arbitrary variations in, alteration
of value of enterprise by, 508
limitation on comparison in same
field, 658, 659
optimum, principle of, 508–510
shortage of sound industrial
bonds and, 510
speculative (see Speculative capital
structure)
top-heavy, earnings appraisal and,
511–512
total market value of securities
and, 334–335

[740]

Index

Capitalization, allowance for changes
in, 503–505
Cash flows, 56
Cash-asset value, 553–554
Cassel, Gustave, 3
Castro, Janice, 271n
Caterpillar Tractor, 90n
Cates, Staley, 267n
Celanese Corporation of America,
92n, 94, 309
Celluloid Corporation, 309
Central Branch Union Pacific
Railway, 153
Central Leather, 606
Central Railroad of New Jersey, 451
Central States Electric Corporation,
306, 307, 313–314, 318, 647,
693n
Century Communications, 274–275
Century Ribbon Mills, Inc., 327, 328
Cerberus Capital Management, 280
Cerro de Paso Copper Corp., 465
Chamberlain, Lawrence, 102n
Chance, value of analysis and, 72–73
Chandler (Federal Bankruptcy) Act of
1938, 208n, 230n, 231–232, 234
Chandler Railroad Readjustment
Act of 1939, 238n
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code,
271
Chesapeake and Ohio Railway
Company, 158n, 293, 448, 461,
645, 646, 693n
Chesapeake Corporation, 313, 509n,
645, 646, 693n
Chevron, 271
Chicago, Burlington and Quincy
Railroad Company, 158n, 445, 447
Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and
Pacific Railroad Company, 203n,
209, 242, 319
Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul
Railway Company, 242

Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific
Railway Company, 596, 646, 684
Chicago, Terra Haute, and Southeastern Railway Company, 203n, 209
Chicago and Eastern Illinois
Consolidated, 152
Chicago and Eastern Illinois
Railroad, 199n
Chicago and North Western Railway,
153, 182, 202n, 249n
Chicago Great Western Railroad
Company, 97, 694
Chicago Herald and Examiner, 147n
Chicago School, 281
Chicago Yellow Cab Company, 461n
Chieftain Capital Management, 397
Chile, 175
Chile Copper Company, 636n
China, 175
Choctaw and Memphis Railway
Company, 684–685
Chrysler, 512n
Cities Service Company, 595
Citigroup, 346
City of Detroit, 683
Classification of securities, 112–119
conventional, objections to,
112–115
new, suggested, 115–119
Clover Leaf Corporation, 645
Cluett Peabody, 383n
Coca-Cola Company, 29, 59–60,
397, 483, 500, 551, 676
Collateral-trust bonds, 182–183
Collins & Aikman, 93n
Colorado Fuel and Iron Company,
194, 203, 596, 694
Colorado Industrial Company, 596,
694
Columbia, 175
Columbia Gas and Electric
Company, 434n
Comcast, 274, 275, 401–402

Index

The Commercial and Financial
Chronicle, 97
Commercial bankers as investment
advice source, 259
Commercial Investment Trust
Corporation, 290n, 311, 598
Commercial Mackay Corporation,
235n
Commercial Solvents, 555–557
Commissions, reports to, as
information source, 94–95
Common stock(s), 28–35, 338–392
basis of valuation and, 349
book value of, preferred stocks
and, 550–551
future of corporate profits and, 31
individual growth as basis for
investing in, 368–372
interest rates and, 34
investment prestige of, 349
as long-term investments,
358–359
low-priced, 520–526
margin of safety as basis for
investing in, 372–375
market behavior of standard and
nonstandard issues of, 677–679
price-earnings ratios for (see
Price-earnings ratios)
quality differentials and, 31–34
“secondary” or little-known issues
of, 672–677
secular expansion as basis for
investing in, 367–368
selling below liquidating value (see
Sub-liquidating value common
stocks)
speculative (see Speculative
common stocks)
speculative senior issues
distinguished from, 325–327
timing of investment in, 34–35
valuation of, 497

[741]

Wall-Street method of appraising,
410–411
watering of, plowing back due to,
383–384
Common stock analysis, 348–365
dividends and, 376–392
history of, 349
instability and, 350–353
merits of, 348–349
new-era theory of investing and,
356–365
prewar conception of investing
and, 354–356
Common Stock Indexes (Cowles),
362n, 527n
The Common Stock Theory of
Investment, Its Development and
Significance (Bosland), 4, 17,
362n
Common Stocks as Long Term
Investments (Smith), 17, 361
Common-stock dividends, 376–392
arbitrariness of dividend policies
and, 382–383
plowing back, 381, 383–384
withholding of, 378–381
Commonwealth and Southern
Corp., 195
Commonwealth Edison Company,
292–293, 296
Companies (see Enterprises)
Companies’ Creditors Arrangement
Act, 233n
Comparative analysis:
general limitations on, 668
of public utilities, 660–668
quantitative elements in, 665
of railroads, 654–659
variations in homogeneity
affecting, 665, 667–668
Competition, real estate bonds and, 217
Congoleum Company, 684, 691
Congoleum-Nairn, 684

[742]

Index

Congress Cigar Company, Inc., 316
Consolidated Edison Company of
New York, 94, 244n, 444n
Consolidated Gas Company of New
York, 94, 444n
Consolidated Oil Corporation, 466n,
635
Consolidated reports, 443–452
allowance for nonconsolidated
profits and losses and,
445–446
degree of consolidation and, 444
earnings distortion by parentsubsidiary relationships and,
447–449
former and current practices and,
444
special dividends paid by
subsidiaries and, 447
subsidiaries’ losses and, 449–452
Consolidated Textile Corporation,
314n
Consolidated Traction Company of
New Jersey, 227
Contagion, real estate bonds and,
217
Continental Baking Corporation,
480, 652
Continental Can Company, 91, 461
Continental Motors Corporation,
523n
Continental Oil Company, 468
Continental Steel, 245, 663–664, 666
Convertible issues, 313–322
combination with stock purchase,
321
convertible at option of company,
319
convertible into other bonds, 320
convertible into preferred stock,
318–319
delayed, 321–322
dilution and, 313–315

with original market value in
excess of par, 320–321
price behavior of, 306–307
sliding scales to accelerate
conversion and, 315–318
Corn Products Refining Company,
160n, 201n, 606, 607, 611–613
Corporate pyramiding, 644–653
alternative methods of creating
speculative capital structure
and, 652–653
evils of, 647–651
holding companies not guilty of,
651–652
legal restraints on, 652–653
Corporation Records Service
(Standard Statistics), 93n
Costa Rica, 175
Cottle, Sidney, 123
Coty, Inc., 485
Coudersport, PA, 274
Counsel as investment advice
source, 261
Court-Livingston Corporation, 113n
Cowles, Alfred, III, 362n, 527n
Cox Communications, 274
Cram’s Auto Service, 57, 95
Crash of 1929, Graham’s position
and, 16
Credit default swaps (CDSs), 622
Credit risk, Oaktree Capital
Management investment
methodology and, 132
Critical Path, 267
Crucible Steel, 330
Cuba, 175
Cuban Atlantic Sugar Company, 584n
Cudahy Packing Company, 129,
148–149, 460n
Currency risk, 716–717
Current-asset value, 553–554,
559–574
liquidating value and, 559

Index

realizable value of assets and,
560–562
stocks selling below liquidating
value and (see Sub-liquidating
value common stocks)
Curtis Publishing, 689n
Cushman’s Sons, Inc., 450–451
Czecho-Slovakia, 175

D
Daekyo Corp., 51
Davis, William Milton, 275
Davis Coal and Coke Company,
529n, 532n, 568, 584n
Dawes Loan, 173n
Dawson Railway and Coal, 320n
Day v. United States Cast Iron Pipe
and Foundry Company, 198n
De Telegraaf, 719
Debenture, 147n, 148
Debt:
intercorporate, 596
large, as sign of weakness,
594–596
Deeds of trust, 229
Deferred charges in income account,
431–433
Deficits, earning power and,
480–481
Delaware and Hudson Railroad, 208n
Dell Computer, 347
Denmark, 174, 175
Department of Commerce, 98
Depletion of oil reserves, 465–467
Depreciation, 453–463
balance sheet–income account
discrepancies and, 455–456
bases for, 454–456
concealed, 461–462
excessive, concealed by accounting
practices, 462–463
failure to state, 463
mark-downs to reduce, 455

[743]

mergers and, 461
rate of, 456–463
Depression:
bonds as investment and, 154–164
fixed-value investing in, 258
Great Depression, ending of, 1
Derivatives market, 622
Descriptive function of security
analysis, 62
Dewing, Arthur S., 220n, 308n, 680n
Dickens, Charles, 269
Dilution, convertible issues and,
313–315
Discount on bonds, amortization of,
433–434
The Discovery Company, Ltd., 100n
Disney, 402
Distilling Company of America, 209
Distressed investing, 265–268
case study of, 280–283
examples of coups in, 270–283
in fallen angels, 284–285
safety margin and, 268
types of bankruptcy and, 269–270
(See also Bankruptcy)
Dividends:
changes in, market exaggerations
due to, 679–683
common-stock (see Commonstock dividends)
distortion by pyramiding, 648–649
fictitious value placed on, 442–443
paid by subsidiaries, 447
Dodge Brothers, Inc., 315n, 512n
Dollar, value of, 28
Dome Mines, Ltd., 465
Dominican Republic, 175
The Dominion Companies Act
(Lighthall), 233n
Double Click, 267
“Double-counting,” 59
Douglas Aircraft Company, 593–594
Dow, Jones and Company, 95

[744]

Index

“The Dow Theory” (Rhea), 699n
Drexel Burnham Lambert, 84, 138
Drug, Inc., 227
Du Pont, 15, 147n, 423, 445–446
Dun & Bradstreet (D&B), 9, 92n
Dunlap, Al, 56

E
E. I. du Pont de Nemours and
Company, 15, 147n, 423,
445–446
Earning power:
amortization of capital assets and,
464–471
concept of, 472–473
depreciation and, 453–463
disadvantages of sole emphasis on,
409–410
intrinsic value and, 65–66
long-range study of, 607–613
Earnings:
arbitrary determination of, 411
distortion through parentsubsidiary relationships,
447–449
future trend in, 84–86
manufactured, in income account,
424–426
Earnings forecasting, 53–58
Earnings per share, checking via
balance sheet, 598–600
Earnings power, asset valuation
related to, 543–544
Earnings power evaluation, 395–423
Chieftain’s method for, 397–400
disciplined investing and,
404–408
income account and (see Income
account)
modern accounting challenges
and, 400–401
undervaluation by management
and, 401–404

Earnings record, 472–486
anomalous prices and price
relationships in, 492–493
average vs. trend of earnings and,
477–480
caution against intuition and,
481–484
deficits and, 480–481
earnings power concept and,
472–473
fluctuations in stock prices and,
476–477
future price of product and, 491–492
qualitative considerations in,
474–476
rate of output and operating costs
and, 487–491
transitory nature of large profits
and, 484–486
Earnings statements, balance-sheet
and income taxes as checks on,
437–438
Earnings-per-share (EPS),
calculation of, 400
Eastman Kodak, 197
easyJet, 399
The Ebb and Flow of Investment
Value (Mead and Grodinski),
326n, 371n
EchoStar Corp., 344
Edison companies, 155
“The Effect of Direct Charges to
Surplus on the Measurement of
Income” (Hosmer), 600n
Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH),
281
El Paso and Southwestern Railroad
Company, 320n
Electric Bond and Share Company,
579, 596, 649–651
Electric Power and Light, 364n
Electric Refrigeration Building Corporation (Kelvinator), 328, 683, 684

Index

Electric Storage Battery Company,
456–457
Elmira and Williamsport Railroad,
203n
Ely & Walker Dry Goods Co., 570, 675
Emotion, pitfalls for investing,
404–405
Engineers Public Service Company,
317n
Enron, 51, 56, 717
Enterprises:
continuation/noncontinuation of,
580–582
data on, 89–98
location of, 173–176
nature of, 171–173
requests for direct information
from, 97–98
size of, 176–179
subsidiary (see Consolidated
reports; Subsidiaries)
type of, value of data and, 82
valuation of, free cash flow and,
340–342
Equal-and-ratable security clauses,
242–243
Equipment obligations, 180–182
Erie Railroad Company, 199n, 447,
461, 646
Esthonia, 175
Eureka Pipe Line, 399
Exchange magazine, 3, 5
Executive Life, 628
Extent of analysis, limitation by
character and purposes of
commitment, 81–82

F
F. G. Shattuck Company, 432n
F. W. Lafrentz and Company, 438
F. W. Woolworth Company,
383–384, 417, 470
Fabricant, Solomon, 454n

[745]

“Fair Reorganization Plans under
Chapter X of the Chandler Act”
(Graham), 233n
Fairbanks, Morse and Company, 245
Fairholme Capital Management, 341
Falconbridge Nickel, 693n
Fallen angels, 284–285
Faultless Rubber Company, 585n
Federal Housing Administration
(F.H.A.), 188n
Federal Knitting Mills, 585
Federal Land Bank bonds, 213–214
Federal Mining and Smelting
Company, 250
Federal Trade Commission, 96
Federated Department Stores, 43–44
Fifth Avenue Bus Securities
Company, 94
Figaro, 716
Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB), 400
Financial careers, embarking on,
631–632
Financial Investing Company, 183
Financial position, effects of profits
or losses on, checking on,
600–607
Financial publications as
information source, 97
Financial Study of the Joint Stock
Land Banks (Schwartz), 213
Finland, 175
Firestone Tire and Rubber, 676, 679
First National City Bank, 135
First National Stores, 87, 88
“First-leasehold mortgage bonds,” 188
Fisher, Kenneth L., 283n
Fisk Rubber Company, 149, 236,
237n, 596, 597, 685, 686
Fitch Services, 62, 97
Fixed assets, profits or losses from
sale of, in income account,
414–416

[746]

Index

Fixed-value investments:
selection of, 141–144
(See also Bond(s); Common
stock(s); High-grade bonds;
High-grade preferred stocks;
Preferred stocks)
Florence Stove, 676
Florida East Coast Railway, 182
Ford, Henry, 641
Forecasting earnings, 53–58
Foreign corporate bonds, 176
Foreign-government bonds, 173–175
Foulke, Roy A., 592n
419-4th Avenue Corporation, 185n
Fox Film Corporation, 237
Fox New England Theaters, Inc.,
147n
France, 174, 175
Francis H. Leggett Company, 328
Fred F. French Investing Company,
Inc., 78n
Free cash flow, 339–347
dividends and, 345–347
valuing companies and,
340–342
Freeport Sulfur Company, 489–490
Freeport Texas Company, 309n
The French Plan (French), 78n
Fritzemeier, Louis H., 520n
Fundamental elements in security
analysis, 75–88
commitment on attractive terms
and, 78–79
commitment on unattractive
terms and, 78
personal element as, 76
price element as, 77
relative importance of terms of
commitment and character of
enterprise and, 79–81
security element as, 77
time element as, 76–77
Future of value investing, 618–619

Future prospects as qualitative
element in analysis, 83–84

G
G. R. Kinney Company, 246n, 318
Gabriel Capital Group, 265n
The Gabriel Company, 485n
Gartley, H. M., 699n
GE Commercial Aviation Services,
279
GEICO, 342
General American Investors, 248
General Baking Company, 86, 160n
General Cigar Company, 147n
General Electric Company, 22,
29–30, 106, 107–108, 110–111,
111n, 160n, 192, 200, 201n, 279,
500, 555–557, 606
General Foods Corporation, 244n
General Motors Acceptance
Corporation, 160n
General Motors (GM) Corporation,
15, 54, 90, 91, 346, 390, 417,
445–446, 496n, 652, 672
General Public Service Corporation,
248
General Securities Group, 646
General Shoe Company, 637n, 668n,
676
General Steel Castings Corporation,
455
Geneva Corp., 646
George, Richard, 721
George A. Fuller Company, 199n
Georgia Midland Railroad, 219–220
Germany, 175
Getty Oil Company, 271
Gilchrist Company, 523n, 675
Gimbel Brothers, Inc., 423, 524–525
Glen Alden Coal Company, 530,
532
Glenn L. Martin Co., 678
Glenwood Range, 92n

Index

Global value investing, 713–723
in practice, 715–720
selecting securities for, 720–723
Goizueta, Roberto, 59–60
Gold Dust Corporation, 433
Goldberg, Steven, 267n
Golden, Andy, 630
Goldman Sachs, 44, 626
“Good Times Are Coming” (Miller),
282n
Goodman Manufacturing, 92n
Goodrich Rubber, 421
Good-will, amortization of, 471
Goodyear Tire and Rubber
Company, 13, 421, 426–428, 501
Google, 53, 55
Gotham Silk Hosiery Company, 244n
Graham, Benjamin, 233n, 392n
biographical information about,
12–19
dissent to Smith’s thesis, 17
investment career of, 14–16
writings of, 13–14
(See also Security Analysis)
Granby Consolidated Mining, Co.,
465
Grand Union, 674
Granite City Steel, 663–664, 666
Grant, James, 3n, 17n
Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea
Company (A&P), 8, 80, 673
Great Britain, 174, 175
Great Depression, ending of, 1
Great Northern Railway, 115, 445
Great Southern Lumber Company,
584n
Great Western Power Company of
California, 320n
Great Western Railway, 212
Greece, 175
Greed, 405
Green Bay and Western Railroad
Company, 203

[747]

Green River Valley Terminal
Company, 113n
Griess-Pfleger Tanning Company, 9,
115n
Grodinski, J., 326n, 371n
Growth, common stock selection
based on, 368–372
Guaranteed issues, 208–228
fixed charge calculation and,
222–226
joint and several guarantees and,
212
leasehold obligations equivalent to
guarantees, 218–222
real estate mortgages and
mortgage bonds, 215–218
status of, 209–210
subsidiary company bonds, 226–228
terms of guaranty and, 210–211
undervaluation of, 220–222
Guardian Investors Corporation, 247n
Guatamala, 175
Guggenheim Exploration Company,
12
Guinness Peat Aviation, 278–279
Gulf Oil Corporation, 423, 466n, 467
Gulf States Steel Corporation, 159,
421
Gullick, Charles A., 680n
Guthmann, H. G., 193n

H
H. D. Lee Mercantile, 675
H. R. Mallinson and Company,
601–602
Haiti, 175
Hale Bros. Stores, 675
Hall Printing Company, 456
Hamilton Woolen Company, 565,
584–585
Handbook of Commercial and
Financial Services, 99n
Hansen, Alvin, 3–4

[748]

Index

Harbison Walker Refractories
Company, 93–94, 460n
Harriman Building, 252n
Hartman Corporation, 95
Harvard, 630–631
Hawkins, Mason, 267n
Haytian Corporation, 232n
Hazel-Atlas Glass Company, 94
Hecker Products, 433, 551n
Heineken, 717, 718
Hercules Powder, 445
High-grade bonds, 24–28
future of interest rates and bond
prices and, 25–27
safety of interest and principal
and, 24–25
value of dollar and, 28
High-grade preferred stocks:
future of interest rates and bond
prices and, 25–27
safety of interest and principal
and, 24–25
value of dollar and, 28
Hillside Coal and Iron Company, 447
Hiram Walker-Goderham and
Worts, 316, 317
Hocking Valley Railway Company,
461, 646
Holding companies, pyramiding and
(see Corporate pyramiding)
Holland, 174, 175
Homestake Mining Co., 465
Hosmer, W. A., 600n
How to Evaluate Financial
Statements (Wall), 592n
Hudson Motor Car Company, 433,
473
Hudson Towers, 187n
Humble Oil and Refining Company,
160n
Hungary, 175
Hupp Motor Car Corporation,
569–570, 601

Huyler’s of Delaware, Inc., 221
Hydro-Electric Commission of
Ontario, 686

I
I. B. Kleinert, 674
I. Benesch and Sons, 566n, 585
Icahn, Carl, 271, 272
Idle-plant expense in income
account, 430–431
Illinois Central Railroad Company,
197n, 445
Illinois Zinc Corporation, 413n
Income, investing vs. speculating
and, 103–104
Income account, 92–93, 409–452
allowance for nonconsolidated
profits and losses in, 445–446
amortization of bond discount in,
433–434
deferred charges in, 431–433
depreciation on, 453–463
general observations in, 413–414
idle-plant expense in, 430–431
inventory accounting and,
426–430
manufactured earnings in,
424–426
misleading artifices in, 435–452
nonrecurrent items in, 414–416, 423
padded, example of, 435–437
profits from sales of marketable
securities and, 416–420
profits through repurchase of
senior securities at discount
and, 420–423
Income bonds, 202–208
increased volume of, 204–205
interest payments on, 202–203
investment rating of, 203–204
safety margin calculations for,
205–207
senior, 207–208

Index

Income sources, 526–532
Income taxes as check on published
earnings statement, 437–438
Indentures, 229
Independent Oil and Gas Company,
306, 307
Independent surety company
guarantees, 217–218
Indiana Harbor Belt Railway, 226
Industrial Office Building Company,
238n
Industrial Rayon, 235n
Industrials:
character of, 156
depression performance of,
156–157
earnings performance of bonds
and, 159–161
New York statute provisions and,
178
Industries:
character of, 156
depression and, 155
information sources on, 98–99
statistical comparisons of, 660–668
Information sources for analysis,
57–60, 89–99
on company, 89–98
on industry, 98–99
Information sources for global
investing, 718–719
Instability of tangibles, commonstock analysis and, 350–353
Insull system, 595
Intangibles:
common-stock analysis and,
350–353
valuation of, 543
Interborough Consolidated
Corporation, 492, 494
Interborough Rapid Transit
Company, 63–64, 67–68, 146n,
249–250, 320, 492–495, 693, 695

[749]

Interborough-Metropolitan
Corporation, 492, 494n
Intercontinental Rubber Products
Co., 301
Interest, safety of, investment in
high-grade bonds and preferred
stocks and, 24–25
Interest payments on income bonds,
202–203
Interest rates:
bond prices and, 25–27
common stock investment and, 34
International Business Machine
Corporation (IBM), 160n, 623
International Hydro-Electric System,
318
International Nickel Co. of Canada,
Ltd., 465
International Paper and Power
Company, 317n
International Securities Corporation
of America, 421, 647–648
International Shoe, 676
International Silver, 674
International Telephone and
Telegraph Company, 433
Internet Capital Group (ICG), 45
Interstate Commerce Commission
(I.C.C.), 94, 95, 97, 233n, 239n,
249n, 646–647
Interstate Department Stores, 118n,
222, 432n
Interstate Hosiery Mills, 413n
Intertype Corporation, 482–483,
675
Intrinsic value, 535–536
earning power and, 65–66
price vs., 64–65
Intrinsic value role in work of
analyst, 66–67
flexibility of concept, 67–68
Inventory:
last-in, first-out method for, 429

[750]

Index

Inventory (Cont.):
losses from, reserves for, in
income account, 426–428
Investing:
declining market value during late
1930s, 7–8
effort required for, 619–620
laymen’s disinterest in, during
1930s, 2–7
modern-day, contrast with
Graham’s day, 8–12
styles of, 618
Investment:
connotations of term, 100–101
definition of, 265–266
future and, 109
proposed definition of, 105–108
speculative components of,
110–111
types of, 109
Investment advice, sources of,
259–261
Investment banking firms, 626–632
floating of issues by, 635–640
as investment advice source,
259–260
new role of, 637–640
swindles and, 641–642
unsound practices, repercussions
of, 642–643
Investment policies:
for business corporations, 709–710
for institutional investment, 710
for investors individual of large
means, 709
for investors individual of small
means, 706, 708–709
summary of Graham and Dodd’s
views on, 706, 708–710
Investment Principles and Practices
(Badger and Guthmann), 193n
Investment standards:
for bonds, 169–179

evolution of, 125–126
Investment trusts, common stock
investing by, 360–361
Investment value, intrinsic value
and, 111
The Investment Value of Goodwill
(Bloomberg), 558n
Investment vs. speculation, 45–47, 266
bonds and, 126–128
investment and speculation
distinguished and, 100–111
Investments and Investment Policy
(Burtchett), 193n
Ireland, 175
Iron Steamboat Company, 250
Island Creek Coal Company, 197,
200, 550
Island Oil and Transport, 682
Italy, 175
J
J. C. Penney, 223
J. D. Adams Mfg., 674
J. H. Holmes and Company, 521n
J. I. Case Company, 65–66, 67, 111,
473
J. J. Newberry, 502
J. R. Thompson, 95
J. W. Watson Company, 484
Jamail, Joseph, Jr., 272n
James Burroughs PLC, 719
Japan, 175
mispricing in stock market of,
621–622
Jennison Associates, 123
Johns-Manville, 500
Joint Stock Land Banks, 213, 214n
Jones and Laughlin Steel, 476n
Jones Soda, 58
Jordon, David F., 702n
Joseph Dixon Crucible, 92n
Jugoslavia, 175
Julian and Kokenge Company, 585n

Index

Julius Garfinckel and Company,
637n
Junk bonds in 1980s, 43–44

K
Kana Communications, 267
Kanawa and Hocking Coal and
Coke Company, 208
Kansas City Public Service
Company, 238
Kansas City Southern Railway
Company, 198n, 212, 646
Kansas City Terminal Railway
Company, 212
Kaufmann Department Stores
Securities Corporation, 509n
Kelsey-Hayes Wheel Company, 308
Kelvinator Corporation, 328, 684
Kennecott Copper Corp., 465
Keynes, John Maynard, 127
Keystone Watch Case Corporation,
584n
Kraft Cheese Company, 432–433
Kreuger, Ivar, 412
Kreuger and Toll, 118, 309

L
LabCorp, 402–403
Lackawanna Securities Company,
529–530, 531, 532
Lackawanna Steel, 606
Lake Erie and Western Railroad
Company, 645
Lambert, 34
Lampert, Eddie, 58
Lane, Jeffrey, 84
Last-in, first-out inventory
accounting, 429
Lawrence Portland Cement
Company, 328
Lawyers Mortgage Company, 187, 216
Laymen, disinterest in investing
during 1930s, 2–7

[751]

Leasehold(s), amortization of,
470–471
Leasehold improvements,
amortization of, 470–471
Leasehold obligations, 218–222
Lee, Kenneth, 287n
Lee & Cady, 675
Lee Tire, 668n
Lehigh Coal and Navigation
Company, 451, 532n
Lehigh Valley Railroad, 239
Leonard, Devin, 274n
Leucadia National, 344–345
Levy, Leon, 282
Lien as measure of safety, 144–151
Liggett and Myers Tobacco
Company, 160n, 195, 257, 305
Lighthall, W. S., 233n
Lincoln Motor Company, 636n
Liquidating value:
buying below, 540–541
definition of, 559
stocks selling below (see Subliquidating value common
stocks)
Liquidations, 268
examples of coups in distressed
investing in, 270–273
Listing applications, as information
source, 95
Litigation, market exaggerations due
to, 680–683
Liz Claiborne, 543
Loew’s, Inc., 203n, 224, 225
Lone Star Gas, 147n
Long-Term Capital Management
(LTCM), 39, 48–49
Loose-Wiles Biscuit, 94
Losses:
by buyers of low-priced common
stocks, 521–523
financial position and, checking
on, 600–607

[752]

Index

Losses (Cont.):
from inventory, reserves for, in
income account, 426–428
nonconsolidated, allowance for, in
income account, 445–446
from sale of fixed assets, in
income account, 414–416
of subsidiaries, significance of,
449–452
Lotte Confectionery, 718–719
Louis K. Liggett Company, 227
Louisville and Nashville, 444
Lovett, Robert A., 7
Lowenstein, Louis, 43n
Lowenstein, Roger, 40n, 41n, 59n
Low-priced bonds, limitation of
profit on, 323–324
Low-priced common stock, 520–526
arithmetical advantage of,
520–521
investing in, losses and, 521–523
speculative capitalization coupled
with, 523–525
Lucent Technologies, 44, 56, 57
Lyman Mills, 585
Lynch, Peter, 275

M
Mack Trucks, Inc., 482n
Mackay Companies, 94
Management:
abuse of compensation by,
579–580
conservatism of, 216
cost of, 633–635
foreign, evaluating, 715
market price for shares and,
582–585
as qualitative element in analysis,
84
relationships with stockholders
(see Stockholder-management
relationships)

undervaluation by, 401–404
Management Assistance Liquidating
Trust, 628
Mandel Brothers, Inc., 524–525
Manhattan Electrical Supply
Company, 415, 421
Manhattan Shirt Company, 569–570,
601, 602–604, 607, 675
Manufactured earnings in income
account, 424–426
Maple Leaf Milling Company, Ltd.,
235n
Margin trading, price cycling and,
671–672
Marginal purchases, investing vs.
speculating and, 102–103
Marion Steam Shovel, 330
Mark-downs to reduce depreciation
charges, 455
Market, irrational behavior of, as
barrier to security analysis, 69–70
Market analysis:
Ayres mechanical forecasting
method and, 702–703
disadvantages as compared with
security analysis, 703–704
prophesies based on near-term
prospects and, 704–706, 707
as substitute or adjunct to security
analysis, 697–702
Market efficiency, 624–625, 631–632
Market price, intrinsic value related
to, 70–71
Market timing, 133
Marketable securities, profits from
sale of, in income account,
416–420
Market-adjusted debt (MAD) ratios,
138
Markowitz, Harry, 125
Marland Oil Company, 466
Marlin Rockwell Corporation, 93n
Maryland Casualty Company, 218n

Index

Mason City and Fort Dodge
Railroad Company, 97
Mathieson Alkali, 93n
Maytag Company, 509n, 652
McClelland Stores Co., 224, 225
McCrory Stores Corp., 224, 225
McDonald, Jack, 713
McDonald’s, 53
MCI, 545
“MCI: Is Being Good Good
Enough?” (Mehta), 279n
MCI WorldCom, 279–280
McKeesport Tin Plate Corporation,
460n
McKesson and Robbins Company,
330, 412n–413n
Mead, Edward S., 326n, 371n
Means, G. C., 199n, 576, 577
Mehta, Stephanie N., 279n
The Memoirs of the Dean of Wall
Street (Graham), 1
Mergers:
depreciation and, 461
market exaggerations due to, 680
Merrill Lynch & Company, 5, 44
Message Media, 267
Mesta Machine, 93n
Metropolitan Casualty Company,
218n
Mexico, 175
Meyer, Jack, 630
MFS Communications, 545
Microsoft, 54–56, 340, 342
Midland Steel Products Company,
457
Milken, Michael, 138
Miller, Bill, 282n
Milwaukee, Sparta and
Northwestern, 153
Milwaukee Lake Shore and Western,
202n
Mining companies, ore reserve
amortization by, 464–469

[753]

Minneapolis, St. Paul and Sault Sainte
Marie Railroad, 210–211, 212, 226
Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad
Company, 146, 205–207, 212,
318
Missouri Pacific Railroad Company,
152–153, 199n, 212, 646
Mobile and Ohio Railroad, 222n,
693–694
The Modern Corporation and Private
Property (Berle and Means),
199n, 576
Mohawk Hudson Power
Corporation, 306, 307
Mohawk Industries, 342–343
Mohawk Mining Company, 567, 585
Mohawk Rubber, 517, 519
Montana Power Company, 506
Monthly statements as information
source, 90
Moody’s, 97
Moody’s Manual, 78n
Moody’s Manual of Industrials, 591n
Moody’s Manual of Investments,
448n–449n
Moran v. United States Cast Iron Pipe
and Foundry Company, 198n
Morgan Stanley, 5, 44, 626
Mortgage(s), purchase-money, 243
Mortgage bonds, 215–218
Mortgage companies, 187–188
Mortgage guarantees, 215–218
flame-out of, in early 1930s,
10–11
Mouquin, Inc., 638n
Mullins Body Corporation, 678,
679
Mullins Manufacturing, 90, 678,
679
Munger, Charlie, 58
Murray Corporation, 328–329
Mutual savings banks, selling down
of, investing and, 50

[754]

Index

N
Nairn Linoleum Company, 684
National Acme, 330
National Biscuit Company,
141–142, 251, 350, 351–352,
353, 462–463
National Bondholders Corporation,
682n
National Broadcasting Company,
471
National Cloak and Suit, 383n
National Department Stores, 198
National Distillers Products
Corporation, 308
National Electric Power, 240n
National Enameling and Stamping
Company, 460n
National Hotel of Cuba, 235n
National Investors Corporation, 368,
369
National Lead Company, 429
National Radiator Corporation,
243n
National Sugar Refining Company,
160n, 460
National Surety Company, 218
National Trade Journals, Inc.,
294–295, 296
National Transit Company, 416
Nature of business as qualitative
element in analysis, 83–84
Neisner Brothers, Inc., 225
Neisner Realty Corporation, 225
Nelson Act, 270n
Neporent, Mark, 280
Nestlé, 716, 719
Netherlands, 174, 175n
New Idea Company, 637n, 674
New Jersey Zinc, 92n
New York, Chicago and St. Louis
Railroad Company (Nickel
Plate), 417, 444, 447, 448, 597,
644, 645, 646

New York, New Haven and Hartford
Railroad Company, 147n,
242–243, 315n, 322
New York and Erie Railroad, 152
New York Central Railroad
Company, 226, 645, 658
New York City, 216, 249–250
New York Curb, 92n
New York Edison Company,
243–244
New York Moratorium Law, 252n
New York Savings-bank Law:
bond investment criteria imposed
by, 170–179
provisions of, 177–178
New York State, 233n
New York State Railways, 235n
New York Stock Exchange, 235n
New York Stock Exchange firms as
investment advice source, 260
New York Transit Company, 430
New York Water Service
Corporation, 595
N. Y. and Harlem Railroad, 222n
N. Y. Merchandise, 674
Newberger, Henderson & Loeb, 12
New-enterprise financing, public,
640–641
Newman, Jerry, 4, 15–16
Niagara Shares Corporation, 248
Nicaragua, 175
Nickel Plate (New York, Chicago and
St. Louis Railroad Company), 444,
447, 448, 461, 597, 644, 645, 646
Niles-Bement-Pond, 211
NLRB v. Bildisco & Bildisco, 272n
“Noncash Dividends and Stock
Rights as Methods for Avoidance
of the Undistributed Profits Tax”
(Rolbein), 391n
Noranda Mines, Ltd., 465
Norfolk and Western Railway
Company, 158n, 197, 201n

Index

Normal-stock inventory accounting,
429–430
North American Company, 90,
444n, 647, 693n
Northern Express Company, 447
Northern Pacific Railway Company,
117, 244, 445, 447
Northern Pipeline Company,
527–529, 531–532, 562, 567–568
Northern States Power Company, 434n
Northwestern Improvement
Company, 447
Norway, 175

O
O. J. Curry, 387n
Oaktree Capital Management, L.P.,
130
Ohio Copper Company, 302–303
Ohio Oil Company, 468
Oil and Gas Journal, 95
Oil reserves:
amortization of, 464–469
depletion of, 465–467
100 Minds That Made the Market
(Fisher), 283n
Ontario Power Service Corporation,
686
Open-market purchases, shareholder
abuse through, 586–589
Operating costs in earnings record,
487–491
Oppenheim Collins and Company,
94
Oracle, 340
Ore reserves, amortization of,
464–469
Otis Company, 553–554, 562,
567–568, 583–584
Otis Steel, 90
The Outlet Company, 222
Output, rate of, in earnings record,
487–491

[755]

Outright purchases, investing vs.
speculating and, 102–103
Overvaluation, 10
Owens-Illinois Glass Company,
63, 66

P
P. Lorillard Company, 160n
Pacific Commercial, 674
Pacific Mills, 570
Pacific Power and Light, 151
Pacific Railway of Missouri, 152–153
Pan American Petroleum, 306
Panama, 175
Paramount Pictures, 64
Park and Tilford, Inc., 435–437
Participating interests, allowance for,
505–506
Participation privilege:
disadvantage of, 305–306
unlimited, 304–305
Patents, amortization of, 471
Patino Mines, 465
Patterson-UTI Energy, 51
“Pay-in-kind” (PIK) preferreds, 284
Pennsylvania Coal Company, 447,
556, 557
Pennsylvania Railroad Company, 23,
218n, 350, 353, 355
Pennzoil, 271–272
Pennzoil v. Texaco, 272n
Pepperell Manufacturing, 556, 557,
562, 564, 672
Pepsi-Cola, 676
Pequot Capital Management, 267
Pere Marquette Railway Company,
158n, 244, 417, 448, 461, 645,
646
Perfection Stove, 92n
Permanent holdings, investing vs.
speculating and, 102–103
“Permanent investment,” 253
Pernod Ricard, 719

[756]

Index

Peru, 175
Petroleum Corporation of America,
633–635
Phelps Dodge Corp., 465
Philip Morris, Inc., 667n, 676, 716
Philippine Railway Company, 210
Philippines (government), 210
Pierce Oil, 693n
Pierce Petroleum, 693n
Pillsbury Flour Mills Company, 160n
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago
Railway Company, 218n
Pittsburgh, Youngstown and
Ashtabula Railway, 199n
Pittsburgh Plate Glass, 94
The Pittston Company, 646
Plowing back dividends, 381, 383–384
Plymouth Cordage Company,
429–430, 601–602, 604–605, 672
Pocohantas Fuel Company, 92n
Poland, 175
Poor’s Publishing Company, 97
Porto Rican-American Tobacco
Company, 316, 317n
Postal Telegraph and Cable
Corporation, 94
Potts, Mark, 272n
Prairie Oil and Gas Company, 635
Prairie Pipe Line Company, 635
Pratt and Whitney, 211
Preferred stocks, 190–201
bond issues convertible into,
318–319
book value of, calculation of,
551–553
common stock valuation and,
550–551
criteria for, 190–191
earnings coverage calculation for,
192–196
features of, 199–201
as fixed-value investment,
141–142

funded debt and, 191–192
high-grade (see High-grade
preferred stocks)
noncumulative issues and,
197–199
speculative (see Speculative
preferred stocks)
stock-value ratio calculation for,
196–197
undervalued, market
exaggerations due to, 683–685
Preinreich, Gabriel, 364n
“Present Day Investment Problems
of Endowed Institutions”
(Tighe), 710n
Price(s) (see Bond prices; Product
price; Securities prices; Stock
prices)
Price-earnings ratios, 496–503, 537
basis of maximum appraisal for
investment and, 497–499
impossibility of exact appraisal of,
497
speculative vs. investment
common stocks and, 499–503
Price-value discrepancies, 669–696
bankruptcy and, 685–687
in comparative prices, 691–692
cyclical swings of prices and,
exploiting, 670–672
definitely related issues and,
693–695
market behavior of standard and
nonstandard issues and,
677–679
market exaggerations and,
679–683
opportunities in “secondary” or
little-known issues, 672–677
price inertia of seasoned issues
and, 688–689
price vulnerability of unseasoned
issues and, 689–691

Index

supply and demand factors and,
695–696
undervaluation and, 683–685
Princeton, 630–631
Principal, safety of, investment in
high-grade bonds and preferred
stocks and, 24–25
Privileged issues, 289–312
comparative merits of types of,
304–312
considerations generally applicable
to, 299–304
at disadvantage, marketwise,
305–306
senior issues with speculative
privileges, 289–298
unlimited participation privilege
and, 304–305
Procter and Gamble Company, 196,
200, 551n
Product price, future, earnings and,
491–492
Profits:
financial position and, checking
on, 600–607
future of, common-stock
investment and, 31
investing vs. speculating and,
103–104
large, transitoriness of, 484–486
on low-priced bonds, limitation
on, 323–324
nonconsolidated, allowance for,
in income account, 445–446
through repurchase of senior
securities at discount,
420–423
from sale of fixed assets, in
income account, 414–416
from sale of marketable securities, in income account,
416–420
undistributed, tax on, 390–392

[757]

Property value:
appraisals and, 185–187
earning power related to, 184–185
Prospectuses as information source,
95–96
Protective covenants, 228–252
bankruptcy and reorganization
and, 231–236
bondholders’ legal rights and,
230–231
equal-and-ratable security clauses,
242–243
for investment-trust issues, 247–252
prior lien prohibition and,
242–243
protective committee and, 240–241
safeguards against creation of
additional amounts of bond
issue, 244
subordination of bond issues to
bank debt in reorganization,
243
tendency to sell below fair value
and, 236–237
voluntary readjustment plans and,
237–239
voting control, 246
working-capital requirements,
245–246
Public agencies, reports to, as
information source, 94–95
Public Service Corporation of New
Jersey, 227
Public Service of New Hampshire,
628
Public utilities:
character of, 156
depression performance of,
156–157
New York statute provisions and,
177, 178
statistical comparisons of, 660
Public Utility Act of 1935, 96

[758]

Index

Public Utility Holding Company Act
of 1935, 641–642, 652
Publix Super Markets, 275
Purchase-money mortgages, 243
Purchase(s) of companies, using
stock, 401–402
Pure Oil Company, 467
Purity Bakeries Corporation,
450–451
Pyramiding (see Corporate
pyramiding)

Q
Qualitative elements in analysis:
appraisal of, 86
quantitative elements vs.,
82–83
Quantitative elements in analysis:
for industry comparison, 665
qualitative elements vs.,
82–83
Quarterly statements as information
source, 91

R
R. Hoe and Company, 329
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company,
306n
Radio Corporation of America, 101,
471
Radio-Keith-Orpheum Corporation,
237
Railroad(s):
character of, 156
corporate pyramiding by,
644–647
depression performance of,
156–157
earnings performance of bonds
and, 158–159
equipment obligations of, 181, 182
New York statute provisions and,
177–178

safeguards against creation of
additional amounts of bond
issue and, 244
statistical comparisons of,
654–659
undervaluation and, 684–685
Railroad trusteeships, opportunities
in, 687
Railway Age, 95
Rand Kardex Bureau, Inc., 293–294,
301
Raskob, J. J., 496n
Reading Company, 158n, 444n, 681
Real estate appraisals, 185
Real estate bonds, 183–189
Real estate mortgage guarantees,
215–218
Realizable value of assets, 560–562
Receivership, bondholders’ legal
rights and, 230–231
Regal Shoe, 92n
Registration statements, as
information source, 95–96
“Relative Price Fluctuations of
Industrial Stocks in Different
Price Groups” (Fritzemeier),
520n
Reliable Stores Corporation, 301
Reliance Management Corporation,
183
Reliance Mfg., 675
Remington Rand, Inc., 197
Remington Typewriter, 294
Reorganizations, 268–269
bondholders and, 231–236
examples of coups in distressed
investing in, 278–280
subordination of bond issues to
bank debt in, 243
Report of the Industrial Securities
Committee of the Investment
Bankers Association of America
for 1927, 290n

Index

Report on the Study and
Investigation of the Work,
Activities, Personnel and
Functions of Protective and
Reorganization Committees
(S.E.C.), 235n
Reports to commissions as
information source, 94–95
Reports to stockholders as
information source, 89–94
Republic Iron and Steel Company,
606, 692
Republic Steel Corporation, 245
Repurchase of senior securities at
discount, profits through,
420–423
Reserves for inventory losses in
income account, 426–428
“Revaluations of Fixed Assets, 19251926” (Fabricant), 454n
Revenue Act of 1936, 579n
Revenue Act of 1938, 429n, 579n
Revenue Act of 1939, 429n
Reynolds Investing Company, 247n,
248n
Rhea, Robert, 699n
Rich, Louis, 2
Richfield Oil Corporation, 235n
Rigas, John, 274
Risk, 283–287
cyclical, 165–166
investing vs. speculating and,
103–104
relationship with yield,
164–168
Roberts, Brian, 401, 402
Rock Island Company, 212,
645–647, 658, 659
Rodkey, Robert G., 201n
Rolbein, David L., 391n
Rosenman, Judge, 240n
Ruane Cunniff & Goldfarb, 50
Rumania, 175

[759]

Russia, 175
Ryanair, 398–399

S
S. H. Kress and Company, 196, 223,
473
Safety:
of bonds, 142–143
income bonds and, 205–207
investing vs. speculating and,
103–104
measurement of, 144–153
sacrificing for yield, 164–168
of speculative senior issues,
327–330
Safety margin:
common-stock selection based on,
372–375
distressed investing and, 268
exceptional, 257–258
Safety standards, 105
for bond investment, 169–170
St. Joseph Lead Co., 465
St. Louis Southwestern Railway
Company, 198n, 207–208
St. Louis-San Francisco Railway
Company, 63, 66, 197n, 198,
199n, 202n, 212, 646
Saltex Looms, Inc., 227
Salvador, 175
Samberg, Arthur, 267
San Antonio and Aransas Pass
Railway Company, 220, 221
San Francisco Toll-Bridge Company,
309
San Joaquin Light and Power
Corporation, 320n
Sao Paulo, 173n
Savings Bank Trust Company of
New York, 172
Savold Tire, 15
Savoy Plaza Corporation, 208n
Schackno Act, 233n

[760]

Schletter and Zander, Inc., 365
Schloss, Edwin, 57–58
Schloss, Walter, 57–58
Schulte Retail Stores Corporation,
221
Schumpeter, Joseph, 3
Schwartz, Carl H., 213n
Schwed, Fred, Jr., 6
Seaboard Air Line, 182
Seaboard-All Florida Railway, 145
Seager, Henry R., 680n
Sears Roebuck, 53, 383n
Seasoned issues, price inertia of,
688–689
Secular stagnation, 3–4
Securities Act of 1933, 414n
Securities analysis, general
procedure for, 669–670
Securities and Exchange
Commission, 115n, 223, 232
Securities as element in security
analysis, 7
Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
255n, 414n, 582
Securities prices:
comparative, discrepancies in,
691–692
of convertible and warrantbearing issues, 306–307
of definitely related issues,
comparison of, 693–695
as element in security analysis,
77
intrinsic value vs., 64–65
of seasoned issues, inertia of,
688–689
sensitivity of, 256–257
of speculative preferred stocks,
330–334
supply and demand factors and,
695–696
(See also Bond prices; Stock
prices)

Index

Security analysis:
Ayres mechanical forecasting
method and, 702–703
at Chieftain Capital Management,
397–400
critical function of, 73–74
cyclical nature of, 11–12
descriptive function of, 62
disadvantages of market analysis
as compared with, 703–704
market analysis as substitute or
adjunct to, 697–702
prestige of, 61
prophesies based on near-term
prospects and, 704–706, 707
selective function of, 62–71
speculation and, 71–73
usefulness of, 62
Security Analysis, shortcomings of,
620–622
Security Analysis, first edition:
acceptance of, 16–19, 39–40
analytical approach of, 41–44
endurance of, 40–41, 42–43,
137–140
focus on bonds, 44
historical background, 1–19
Rich’s review of, 2
Security Analysis, second edition:
on corporate finance, 8–12
historical background, 1, 6
Segregations, market exaggerations
due to, 680
Selective function of security
analysis, 62–71
examples of analytical judgments
and, 63–64
intrinsic value and, 64–68, 70–71
obstacles to, 68–70
tardy adjustment of price value
and, 70
Semiannual reports as information
source, 91

Index

Senior securities, 229–241
indenture or charter provisions
designed to protect holders of,
229–230
Seton Leather, 674
Shabacker, R. W., 699n
Shaffner, Felix I., 104n
Shamus, Sanford L., 635n
Share repurchases, 402
Shawinigan Water and Power
Company, 320n
Shawmut Association, 571–573
Shawmut Bank Investment Trust,
571–573
Sheaffer Pen, 93n
Shearson Lehman Hutton, 84
Shinyoung Securities, 50–51
Sidney Blumenthal & Co., Inc., 227,
329
Siemens and Halski, 309
Signature Hosiery Company, 365,
585
Signs of the Times (Foulke), 592n
Simmons, 501
Simms Petroleum Company, 585n
Sinking funds:
for investment-trust issues,
247–252
safety of speculative senior issues
and, 327–330
Skelly Oil, 245
Sliding scales to accelerate
conversion, 315–318
Sloan, Lawrence H., 103n
Smith, Edgar Lawrence, 17, 361, 362
Smith (A.O.) Corporation, 160n
Socony Vacuum Corporation, 160n,
467
Sources of income, 526–532
Southern Pacific Company, 220, 221,
320n
Southern Railway, 219–220, 693–694
Spear and Company, 692

[761]

Speculation:
analysis and, 71–73
emphasis on future prospects and,
354–355
future and, 109
investment vs. (see Investment vs.
speculation)
senior issues with speculative
privileges and, 289–298
temptation for, 266
types of, 110
Speculative capital structure:
attractiveness of investment and,
518–519
creating without using holding
companies, 652
high production cost equivalence
to, 525–526
leverage in, 512–516
low price coupled with, 523–525
undervaluation and, 516–518
Speculative common stocks:
attractiveness of investment and,
518–519
investment common stocks vs.,
499–503
Speculative preferred stocks, 28
prices of, 330–334
Speculative senior securities, 323–335
capital structure and, 334–335
common stocks distinguished
from, 325–327
limitation of profit on low-prices
bonds and, 323–324
preferred stock prices and,
330–334
sinking funds and, 327–330
viewpoints on bonds and, 324–325
working-capital and, 327–330
Speculative value, intrinsic value
and, 111
Stability as qualitative element in
analysis, 86–88

[762]

Index

Standard & Poor’s Corp., 97
Standard Corporation Records, 97
Standard Oil Company of Indiana,
160n, 466n, 566
Standard Oil Company of Nebraska,
565–566, 585
Standard Oil Company of New
Jersey, 148, 160n, 466n
Standard Oil Group, 90, 95, 568,
584n
Standard Statistics Bond Guide, 226
Standard Statistics Company, Inc.,
62, 93n, 427, 428n, 447n, 551n,
696n
Starbucks, 58
Statistical publications, as
information source, 97
“A Statistical Test of the Success of
Consolidations” (Dewing), 680n
Stavrou, Chris, 628
Steel and Tube Company of
America, 683
“Steel Sinkers,” 249
Stewart Warner Corporation, 430,
600n
Stock(s):
investing vs. speculating and, 102
as unsafe investment, rejection of
rule by Graham and Dodd, 43
(See also Common stock(s);
Preferred stocks)
Stock market, collapse of public
participation in, following Great
Depression, 5–6
Stock Market Profits (Shabacker),
699n
Stock options, 623–626
Stock prices:
correcting, 583–585
cyclical swings of, exploiting,
670–672
insolvency and, 686–687
management’s interest in, 583–584

price-value discrepancies in
receiverships and, 685–686
Stock swindles, 641–642
Stock watering, plowing back due to,
383–384
Stockholder(s), reports to, 89–94
Stockholder-management
relationships, 575–590
abuse of shareholders through
open-market purchase of
shares and, 586–589
conflict of interest and, 577–578
continuation/noncontinuation of
business and, 580–582
directors’ self-interest and,
578–580
false stockholder assumptions
and, 577
market price for shares and,
582–585
stockholder apathy and docility
and, 575–576
stockholder assumptions about
management and, 577
Stokely Brothers and Company,
593–594, 598
Stone, Sheldon, 131, 132
Studebaker Corporation, 87–88, 236,
237, 474–475, 565, 588n, 606
A Study of Corporation Securities
(Dewing), 220n, 308n
Sub-liquidating value common
stocks, 562–574
favorable developments on,
564–568
prevalence of, 562–564
selection of, 568–570
Subsidiaries, 51–53
consolidated reports and (see
Consolidated reports)
intercorporate debt and, 596
losses of, significance of, 449–452
Subsidiary company bonds, 226–227

Index

Sunbeam, 56
Supervision of investment holdings,
253–261
in depression, 258
exceptional margins of safety and,
257–258
investment advice sources and,
259–261
periodic inspection for, 253–254
switching and, 256–257
Survey of Current Business, 95, 98
Sweden, 175
Swensen, David, 620, 630
Swift and Company, 224, 374n, 428
Switching, 256–257
Switzerland, 174, 175
Syracuse System, 235n

T
Taxes:
as check on published earnings
statement, 437–438
on undistributed profits,
390–392
Templeton, John, 282
Temporary holdings, investing vs.
speculating and, 102–103
Terms of issue, data on, 89
Texaco, 270–273
“Texaco, Icahn Make a Deal”
(Arndt), 272n
Texas Company, 489
Texas Fuel Company, 271
Texas Gulf Producing Company, 469
Texas Gulf Sulphur Co., 465, 489n,
490
The Theory of Dividends
(Preinreich), 364n
The Theory of Investment Value
(Williams), 18, 364n, 476n
Third Avenue Railway, 235n
Tidewater Associated, 466n
Tighe, Laurence G., 710n

[763]

Time as element in security analysis,
76–77
Time Warner, 274, 275
Timing of investment in common
stock, 34–35
Tintex Company, Inc., 435
Title Guarantee and Trust Company,
187
Tobacco Products Corporation of
New Jersey, 218, 250, 442–443
Tobacco Products Corporation of
Virginia, 530–531, 532, 649
Toledo, St. Louis and Western
Railroad Company, 645
Tonopah Mining, 14
Trico Products Corporation, 93n,
505–506
Trinity Buildings Corporation of
New York, 189n, 208n, 232n
Trouncing the Dow: A Value-Based
Method for Making Huge Profits
(Lee), 287n
Trust and Corporation Problems
(Seager and Gullick), 680n
Trust Indenture Act of 1939, 232,
239–240
Tubize Chatillon Corporation,
551–553
Tung Sol Lamp Company, 685n

U
Undervaluation, 10
of guaranteed issues, 220–222
by management, earnings power
evaluation and, 401–404
market exaggerations due to,
683–685
speculative capital structure and,
516–518
Undistributed profits, tax on,
390–392
The Undistributed Profits Tax
(Buehler), 392n

[764]

Index

“The Undistributed Profits Tax and
the Investor” (Graham), 392n
Union Carbide and Carbon
Corporation, 218
Union Pacific, 10, 153, 158n, 212,
388, 445, 658, 659, 695
Union Pacific Railroad–Oregon
Short Line, 308n
United Aircraft and Transport
Corporation, 310
United Biscuit, 309n
United Cigar Stores, 95, 223, 227,
438–442, 530–531, 649
United Cigar–Whelan Stores, 421
United Drug Company, 226–227,
228, 421
United Engineering and Foundry,
93n
United Fruit, 92n
United Gas Corporation, 596
United Light and Power Company,
514n
United Light and Railways Company
of Delaware, 652
United Merchants and
Manufacturers, 423
United Railway Company, 683
United Savings Bank of Tacoma, 50
United Shipyards, 566n, 585,
682–683
United States and Foreign Securities
Corporation, 644n
United States and International
Securities Corporation, 644n
United States Cast Iron Pipe, 198
United States Coal Commission,
57, 96
United States Express Company,
113n
United States Fidelity and Guaranty
Corporation, 218n
United States government bonds,
254

United States Industrial Alcohol
Company, 209, 425n, 599–600
United States Leather Company, 92
United States Liberty Bonds, 103,
695–696
United States Lines Company, 199n
United States Radiator Corporation,
245, 246, 246n
United States Realty and
Improvement Company, 189n,
208n, 232n
United States Rubber Company,
426–428, 606–607, 688–689
United States Savings Bonds, 25, 696
advantages of, 696
superiority of, 254–256
United States Steel Corporation, 22,
90, 93, 94, 95, 155n, 160n, 249,
308n, 380, 384, 415–416, 421,
423, 474–475, 476n, 481, 549,
607–611, 612–613, 652, 705, 707
United States Tobacco Company,
200
United States Treasury Bonds, 10,
76
United States Victory Bonds,
695–696
United Steel Works Corporation,
309
Universal Pictures Company, 327
University of Michigan, 201n
Unseasoned issues, price
vulnerability of, 689–691
Uruguay, 175
Utah Power and Light Company, 420
Utah Securities Corporation, 420
Utica, Clinton and Binghamton
Railroad, 208n
Utility holding companies, shunning
of, 52
Utilization of Corporate Profits in
Prosperity and Depression
(Curry), 387n

Index

V
Valuation, 48–49
Van Sweringen, M. J., 644–647
Van Sweringen, O. P., 644–647
The Vaness Co., 646
Ventures, Ltd., 693n
Verizon, 280
Vermont, 174
Virginia Transportation Company,
646
Voting control, 246

W
W. T. Grant, 225
Wabash Railroad, 182, 207n–208n,
212, 448n–449n
Wabash Railway et al. v. Barclay et
al., 199
Waldorf System, 95
Wall, Alexander, 592n
Wal-Mart Stores, 53, 275, 277, 401
Walt Disney, 40, 401–402
“Want to Win at Fund Investing?
Learn from Longleaf ”
(Goldberg), 267n
Ward Baking, 691–692
Warner Bros. Pictures, Inc., 194,
290n
Warrant-bearing issues, 306–312,
620–621
callable provision and, 308–310
disposal of, 311
price behavior of, 306–307
pyramiding and, 650–651
separability of speculative
components of, 307–308
Warren Brothers Company, 444n
Washington Mutual (WaMu), 45–47,
57
Waste Management, 56
Weetabix, 718, 720–723
West Penn Electric Company, 193,
194

[765]

West Virginia Pulp and Paper, 245
Western Auto Supply Company, 598
Western Pacific Railroad
Corporation, 448
Western Union Telegraph Company,
211
Westinghouse Electric and
Manufacturing Company, 80,
304–305, 306
Westmoreland Coal Company, 532n,
588–589
Westvaco Chlorine Products
Corporation, 218
Wheeling and Lake Erie Railway
Company, 444, 447, 646
Wheeling Steel Corporation,
243–244, 245
Where Are the Customers’ Yachts?
(Schwed), 6
Whitbread, 719
White Motor Company, 560–562,
565, 579, 586–588
White Motor Securities
Corporation, 561
White Rock Mineral Springs
Company, 303, 305n, 306
White Sewing Machine Company,
306, 307, 308
Willet and Gray, 95
Williams, John Burr, 18, 364n, 476n
Willys-Overland Company, 252, 330
Wilson and Company, 245, 428
Winn–Dixie Stores, 275–276
“With Icahn Agreement, Texaco
Emerges from Years of Trying
Times” (Potts), 272n
Withholding of dividends, 378–381
Woolworth, 86
Working capital:
basic rules for, 591–594
requirements for, 245–246
safety of speculative senior issues
and, 327–330

[766]

Index

World War I, interest rates and bond
prices and, 25
WorldCom, 545–547, 717
Wright Aeronautical Corporation,
63, 67, 679
Wright-Hargreaves Mines, Ltd.,
522–523

X

Yale University, 630–631, 710n
Yield:
relationship with risk,
164–168
sacrificing safety for,
164–168
Youngstown Sheet and Tube
Company, 244, 430, 461, 462,
476n, 501, 683

Xcel Energy, 51–53

Z
Y
Yahoo!, 53

Zero-coupon bonds, 284

09_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:35 AM

Page 120

Chapter 9

SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR
BOND INVESTMENT (Continued)

THE PROVISIONS OF THE ISSUE
Under this heading come such features as the security of the bonds, the
conditions affecting interest payments, and the date of maturity. Conversion and similar privileges, specified in the indenture, are, of course,
important in themselves, but they do not enter into the determination of
standards for the selection of fixed-value investments.
Under the New York statute, only bonds secured by mortgage are
eligible in the public-utility group.1 However, debenture (unsecured) railroad bonds are admitted, provided the earnings and dividend record meet
stiffer requirements than are set forth for mortgage issues. The statute also
permits the purchase of income bonds (i.e., those on which the obligation
to pay interest is dependent upon earnings) on the same basis as debentures.

Obsolete and Illogical Restrictions. In our opinion this set of restrictions is quite out of date and illogical. In view of our emphatic argument
in Chap. 6 (see sixth edition text) against attaching predominant weight
to specific security, it must be clear that we do not favor the exclusion of
any group of unsecured bond issues per se, or even the establishment of
any sharply defined standards or requirements which favor secured bonds
over debentures.
If a company has only one bond issue, it would seem to make little difference whether this is a first mortgage or a debenture, provided the latter
is protected against the placing of future issues ahead of it. Needless to say,
a debenture bond preceded by a first mortgage is not so attractive as the
1 The specific provisions of the statute are now referred to, without regard to the discretionary

powers of the Banking Board to waive any or all of them (supra p. 172 of sixth edition text).

[120]

09_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:35 AM

Page 121

Fixed-value Investments

[121]

first-mortgage bond itself, even though the investor’s chief reliance in both
cases must be the same—i.e., the ability of the company to meet all its
obligations. But this distinction would be equally applicable to a secondmortgage issue and hence is not concerned with debentures as such. We
have already discussed the practicalities of selecting as between senior and
junior liens (pages 148–151 in sixth edition text) and shall refer to this
point again when we consider interest coverage.

Income Bonds in Weaker Position than Debentures. While the
New York statute is too severe in its categorical exclusion of all unsecured
public-utility issues, its acceptance of railroad income issues on the same
basis as railroad debentures is fully as objectionable for the opposite reason. The provisions of income bonds vary greatly among the different
issues, the basic distinction being between those on which interest must
be paid if earned and those over which the directors have a greater or
lesser measure of discretion. Generally speaking, income bonds are allied
more closely to preferred stocks than to ordinary fixed obligations. We
shall consider them, accordingly, in our chapter on preferred stocks, in
which we shall set forth the need for especial caution and strictness in the
selection of this type of security for straight investment.
Standards of Safety Should Not Be Relaxed Because of Early
Maturity. Investors are inclined to attach considerable importance to
the maturity date of an issue, because of its bearing on whether it is a
short- or long-term security. A short maturity, carrying with it the right
to repayment soon after purchase, is considered an advantageous feature
from the standpoint of safety. Consequently, investors are prone to be less
exacting in their standards when purchasing notes or bonds due in a short
time (say, up to three years) than in their other bond selections.
In our opinion this distinction is unsound. A near maturity means a
problem of refinancing for the company as well as a privilege of repayment
for the investor. The bondholder cannot count on the mere fact of maturity
to assure this repayment. The company must either have the cash available
(which happens relatively seldom) or else an earning power and financial
position which will permit it to raise new funds. Corporations frequently
sell short-term issues because their credit is too poor at the time to permit
of a long-term flotation at a reasonable rate. Such a practice frequently results
in trouble for the company, and therefore for the investor, at maturity.

09_Graham_Dodd

[122]

11/15/08

10:35 AM

Page 122

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Examples: The Fisk Rubber Company sold $10,000,000 of five-year
51/2s in 1926. In 1929 they sold at 96 because of their near maturity,
although the company’s earnings exhibit was unsatisfactory. But payment
of principal was defaulted at maturity in 1931; the company went into
receivership; and the price of the notes fell to 103/4 in that year.
In 1929 the New York, Chicago and St. Louis Railway (Nickel Plate)
sold $20,000,000 of three-year 6% notes. They have been repeatedly
extended but only with great difficulty and upon threat of insolvency if
the holders refused to extend. (In 1936 they sold as low as 26 3/4.)
A recent example of apparently unwarranted partiality accorded by
the bond market to an issue of near maturity is supplied by PennsylvaniaDixie Cement Company First 6s, due September 1941, which in early
1939 sold above par. This issue had barely covered interest charges (on a
reduced depreciation basis) in 1937 and 1938, and had reported deficits
in the six preceding years. Net current assets were less than the outstanding bonds. It was possible, of course, that conditions in 1941 might permit the repayment of this security; but those who bought it at a full price
in 1939 were undoubtedly taking an unnecessary risk of severe shrinkage
of principal value.
Distinctions between Short and Long Maturities of the Same Issue.
There have been quite a number of cases in which investors have been
willing to pay much higher prices for a short-term issue than for an
equally secured long-term issue of the same company. In nearly every
case this has proved a mistake—because either (1) the company’s credit
improved, in which case the distant maturity had a much greater rise in
price, or else (2) the company was unable to pay off the short term issue
at maturity.
Examples of (1):
Low Price 1932
Lehigh Valley Coal Company First Refunding 5s, due 1934 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .961/2
Lehigh Valley Coal Company First Refunding 5s, due 1944 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35

The company was able to pay off the 1934 issue at maturity, but in
the meantime the 5s of 1944 had advanced to 91. See also example under
(2) below.

09_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:35 AM

Page 123

Fixed-value Investments

[123]

Low Price 1932
U. S. Rubber Company Secured 61/2s, due 1933 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94
U. S. Rubber Company Secured 61/2s, due 1935 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43

The 1933 issue was paid at maturity, but so was the 1935 issue, which
of course proved by far the better purchase.
Examples of (2):
High Price 1938
Lehigh Valley Coal Company First Refunding 5s, due 1944 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .997/8
Lehigh Valley Coal Company First Refunding 5s, due 1954 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .45

Interest was defaulted in January 1939, and the price of the 1944 issue
collapsed to 36, versus 20 for the 1954 maturity.

Low Price 1932
Pressed Steel Car Debenture 5s, due 1933 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .82
Pressed Steel Car Debenture 5s, due 1943 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40

Both defaulted on Jan. 1, 1933, and were ultimately treated alike in the
reorganization.

High Price 1934
Standard Gas and Electric Debenture 6s, due 1935 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94
Standard Gas and Electric Debenture 6s, due 1951 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .60

The company failed to meet the 1935 maturity. In the ensuing reorganization the various debenture issues were treated practically alike, and
in 1939 they all sold at the same price.
Because of the foregoing discussion and examples we advise against
the drawing of distinctions between long- and short-term issues such as

09_Graham_Dodd

[124]

11/15/08

10:35 AM

Page 124

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

result in any relaxation of standards of safety in the selection of issues of
the latter type.2

RECORD OF INTEREST AND DIVIDEND PAYMENTS
Bonds purchased on an investment basis should have behind them a sufficiently long record of successful operation and of financial stability on
the part of the issuer. New enterprises and those recently emerged from
financial difficulties are not entitled to the high credit rating essential to
justify a fixed-value investment.3 A similar disqualification would logically apply to states or municipalities which have failed to meet their obligations punctually at any time over a preceding period of years.

Provisions of New York Statute. The New York statute recognizes
this criterion and gives it concrete expression as follows: Bonds of states
other than New York are eligible if the state has not defaulted on interest
or principal payments during the previous ten years. For municipalities
outside New York State, the period is twenty-five years; for railroads, six
years; for gas, electric, and telephone companies, eight years.
With respect to bonds of corporations, however, the requirements as
to earnings coverage to be discussed under the next heading—should
adequately take care of the question of past record. The time covered by
the earnings requirement is only a little shorter than the periods above
suggested, and hence it would seem an unnecessary complication to exact
a past-solvency test in addition to an earnings test.
Civil obligations, on the other hand, are not sold on the basis of an
earnings record. Consequently the investor is compelled to attach primary importance to a satisfactory history of punctual payment. The

2 In an exceptional case a short-term issue may be bought at an investment price, even

though the earnings exhibit is inadequate, provided the working capital position is so strong
as to assure payment without difficulty. Such an investment would correspond to a loan
made by a commercial bank.
Example: This would apply to Central Steel Company First 8s, assumed by Republic Steel
Corporation, due Nov. 1, 1941, and selling in November 1939 at 109 to yield 3.31%. Note
also that preference may properly be given to short maturities at times as a matter of investment policy, but not to the extent of relaxing the standards of safety.
3 This statement might not apply in those cases in which the financial difficulties were due

to an excessive debt burden which the reorganization reduces to a figure that would have
been amply taken care of by the previous earnings.

09_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:35 AM

Page 125

Fixed-value Investments

[125]

requirement on this point set forth in the New York statute would no
doubt appear reasonable to the average investor.
We cannot recommend such a rule of investment, however, without
considering the results that would follow from its general adoption. If all
purchases of municipal bonds required a clean record for 25 years, how
could any township float a bond issue during the first quarter-century of
its existence? And similarly, if a state or city has been driven into default,
how will it finance itself during the 10 or 25 years, respectively, needed to
restore its obligations to the eligible list? In the case of corporations, such
financing might be accomplished on a speculative basis, through the sale
of stock, or convertible bonds, or even bonds at a large discount. But such
methods are not open to municipalities. The difficulty is met in actual
practice by raising the coupon rate on the obligations of states or municipalities with inferior credit. For example, a city emerging from financial
embarrassment might be able to attract new funds by offering a 5%
coupon rate in contrast with 2% paid by New York State.4 But this solution of the problem runs counter to the principle, previously developed,
that a high coupon rate is not adequate compensation for the assumption
of substantial risk of principal. In other words, it would be a mistake to
buy a municipal obligation for its high yield, if it is recognized as inferior
in grade and subject to more than a nominal possibility of default.

A Dilemma and a Suggested Solution. We are faced therefore by
a dilemma, since the theoretically correct attitude of the bond buyer
would render impossible the necessary financing of many municipalities.
Viewing the matter realistically, it may be dismissed with the observation
that there will always be enough undiscriminating investors on hand to
absorb the bonds of any town or village which offers a seemingly attractive rate. Consequently the logical and careful bond buyer can avoid such
issues without fatal results to borrowers having second-rate credit.
This disposition of the dilemma is too cynical to be entirely satisfactory. The ideal solution would probably lie in setting up some especially
stringent quantitative tests to compensate for the failure by a municipality to meet the twenty-five year requirement of punctual payment. If a city
4 Note that in November 1939 City of Detroit obligations due 1954 (which had been in

default in 1933) sold at a 3.70% yield basis, as against a return of about 2% on similar bonds
of smaller municipalities with a good record.

09_Graham_Dodd

[126]

11/15/08

10:35 AM

Page 126

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

has fallen into financial difficulties, it must rehabilitate itself by reducing
its expenditures, or by raising its tax rate and other revenue, or possibly
by a compulsory scaling down of its debt, corresponding to a corporate
reorganization. By such means the town may place its finances on an
entirely new and sound basis entitling it to a satisfactory credit rating in
spite of its previous default. But the prudent investor will accord such a
credit rating only after a careful study of the financial exhibit, including
such items as the relation of expenditures and total debt, on the one hand,
to population, property values and revenues, on the other. The bond buyer
should expect to obtain a higher than standard yield on municipal obligations of this character, in repayment not for the assumption of special
risk, but for the effort required to satisfy himself of the soundness of the issue.
A similar attitude should be taken towards newly organized civil
bodies, where only a short record of debt service is available.5

The Dividend Record. The statutes governing legal investments have
traditionally laid great stress upon a satisfactory record of dividend payments by the issuing enterprise. In most states a bond is eligible only if
the company has paid regular dividends in certain minimum amounts
for at least five years. This requirement is evidently based on the theory
that since corporations exist in order to pay dividends, only those which
do in fact pay dividends may be said to be really successful and therefore
suitable for bond investment.
Dividend Record Not Conclusive Evidence of Financial Strength. It may
not be denied that dividend-paying concerns as a class are more prosperous than non-dividend payers. But this fact would not in itself justify
the summary condemnation of all the bonds of non-dividend-paying
enterprises. An exceedingly strong argument against such a rule lies in

5 The technique of analysis of state or municipal finances is elaborate and it does not lend

itself to dependable short cuts. An adequate treatment of the subject would lie outside the
purview of this book or the competence of the authors. We refer the reader to treatments of
the subject in standard works on investment such as Hastings Lyon, Investment, pp. 56–179,
New York, 1926; Ralph E. Badger and Harry G. Guthmann, Investment: Principles and Practices, pp. 735–780, rev. ed., New York, 1936; and to Proceedings of the Conference on Bond
Portfolios 1939 of the New York State Bankers Association, pp. 136–158, New York, 1939;
Investment Standards and Procedure, which is Commercial Bank Management Booklet No. 19,
issued by the Bank Management Commission of the American Bankers Association, New
York, 1937; A. M. Hillhouse, Municipal Bonds: A Century of Experience, New York, 1936.

09_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:35 AM

Page 127

Fixed-value Investments

[127]

the fact that the payment of dividends is only an indication of financial
strength; and not only does it fail to afford any direct advantage to the
bondholder, but it may often be injurious to his interests by reducing
the corporation’s resources. In actual practice the dividend provisions of
the statutes governing legal investments have at times had consequences
directly opposite to those intended. Railroad companies in a weak financial position have improvidently continued dividend payments for the
particular purpose of maintaining their bonds on the eligible list, so that
the very practice supposed to indicate strength behind the bond has in
reality undermined its safety.6
The Role of the Dividend Record in Bond Investment. The evidence
given by the balance sheet and income account must be regarded as a
more dependable clue to the soundness of an enterprise than is the record
of dividend payments. It seems best therefore to dispense with all hard
and fast rules on the latter point in determining the suitability of bond
issues for straight investment. But the failure of a company to pay dividends when the earnings appear satisfactory should properly cause an
intending bond buyer to scrutinize the situation with more than usual
care, in order to discover whether the policy of the directors is due to
weak elements in the picture not yet reflected in the income account. We
might also point out incidentally that the bonds of dividend-paying companies possess a certain mechanical advantage in that their owners may
receive a definite and perhaps timely warning of impending trouble by
the later passing of the dividend; and being thus placed on their guard,
they may be able to protect themselves against serious loss. Bonds of nondividend-paying concerns are at a certain disadvantage in this respect,
but in our opinion this may be adequately offset by the exercise of somewhat greater caution on the part of the investor.
The New York statute is somewhat more progressive than those of other
states in its treatment of the dividend question. Railroads are required

6 Cf. the testimony of the chairman of the New Haven in December 1936, in the Interstate

Commerce Commission’s investigation of that road, admitting that dividends were paid in
1931 to keep its bonds “legal” and listing other roads that paid unearned dividends presumably for the same reason (see New York Times of Dec. 3, 1936). For a much earlier example,
see Dewing’s discussion of the payment of unearned dividends by Boston and Maine Railroad
in 1911–1913, to keep its bonds legal (Financial Policy of Corporations, 3d rev. ed., p. 609n).
Also see our reference to the Wabash-Ann Arbor in 1930, p. 448n in sixth edition text.

09_Graham_Dodd

[128]

11/15/08

10:35 AM

Page 128

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

alternatively either to have paid dividends of a certain amount in five out
of the last six years, or failing this, to meet more stringent requirements
as to coverage of fixed charges. Public-utility companies are required either
to have paid certain dividends in each of the five preceding years, or else
to have earned an amount equal thereto. This provision falls into the error
of the other statutes by possibly impelling payment of unearned dividends.
The progressive idea appears in the converse side of the provision, which
waives payment of dividends so long as they are earned.

RELATION OF EARNINGS TO
INTEREST REQUIREMENTS
The present-day investor is accustomed to regard the ratio of earnings to
interest charges as the most important specific test of safety. It is to be
expected therefore that any detailed legislation governing the selection of
bond investments would be sure to include minimum requirements in
respect to this cardinal factor. Nevertheless the majority of the statutes
cover this point in only a fragmentary and inadequate manner. The legislatures have relied to a considerable extent on their requirements as to
the company’s dividend record to assure a satisfactory earning power.7 As
we have just pointed out, this criterion is open to serious objection. The
superiority of the New York statute is manifest chiefly in two provisions:
first, its recognition of the prime importance of an adequate earnings
record; and secondly, its consistent treatment of a company’s total fixed
charges as an indivisible unit.

Requirements of the New York Law. The requirements of the New
York law with respect to earnings coverage may be summarized as follows:
In the case of railroad-mortgage bonds (or collateral-trust bonds equivalent thereto) and railroad-equipment obligations, the company must have
earned its fixed charges 11/2 times in five out of the six years immediately
preceding, and also in the latest year. If dividends have not been paid as
stipulated, then the period is set at nine out of the ten preceding years.
In the case of other kinds of railroad bonds, e.g., debentures, income
obligations, etc., the fixed charges (plus interest on income bonds, if any)
7 Vermont, for example, permits investment in bonds of New England railroads without any

earnings test; in the case of other roads the fixed charges must not exceed 20% of the gross
business. A record of continuous dividend payments is required in both cases.

09_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:35 AM

Page 129

Fixed-value Investments

[129]

must be earned twice in both the latest year and in five out of the six preceding years. In this category, the requirement as to dividend payments
is apparently absolute, and no substitute therefor is admitted.
In the case of gas, electric, and telephone bonds, the average earnings
for the past five years must have equalled twice the average total-interest
charges, and the same coverage must have been shown in the latest year.

Three Phases of the Earnings Coverage: 1. Method of Computation. In analyzing these statutory provisions, three elements deserve
consideration. The first is the method of computing the earnings coverage; the second is the amount of coverage required; and the third is the
period required for the test.
The Prior-deductions Method. Various methods are in common use
for computing and stating the relation of earnings to interest charges. One
of these (which may be called the Prior-deductions Method) is thoroughly objectionable. Nevertheless, prior to 1933 it was followed by the
majority of issuing houses in their circulars offering junior bonds for sale,
because it makes for a deceptively strong exhibit. The procedure consists
of first deducting the prior charges from the earnings and then calculating the number of times the junior requirements are covered by the balance. The following illustration will show both the method itself and its
inherent absurdity:
Company A has $10,000,000 of ﬁrst-mortgage, 5% bonds and $5,000,000 of debenture
6% bonds.
Its average earnings are
$1,400,000
Deduct interest on ﬁrst 5s
500,000 earned 2.8 times
Balance for debenture 6s
$ 900,000
Interest on debenture 6s
$ 300,000 earned 3 times

A circular offering the 6% debenture issue was likely to state that “as
shown above” the interest charges are covered three times. It should be
noted, however, that the interest on the first 5s is covered only 2.8 times.
The implication of these figures would be that the junior issue is better
protected than the senior issue, which is clearly absurd. The fact is that
the results shown for junior bonds by this prior-deductions method are
completely valueless and misleading. One of the favorable results of the

09_Graham_Dodd

[130]

11/15/08

10:35 AM

Page 130

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Securities Act of 1933 has been the abandonment of this indefensible
method of stating interest coverage in new bond offerings. This change
has been due, apparently, not to any specific prohibition by the statute or
the S.E.C. regulations but rather to the desire to avoid risking penalties
for deceit.
Some Canadian bond offering circulars still use the prior-deductions
method. Example: Famous Players Canadian Corporation, Ltd., First and
Collateral Trust Bonds, Series A, offered about June 1936.
The Cumulative-deductions Method. The second procedure may be
called the Cumulative-deductions Method. Under this method, interest on a junior bond is always considered in conjunction with prior and
equivalent charges. In the example given, the interest on the debenture
6s would be computed as earned 13/4 times, found by dividing the
combined charges of both issues, namely $800,000, into the available
earnings of $1,400,000. The first-mortgage interest, however, would be
said to be earned 2.8 times, since bond interest junior to the issue analyzed is left out of consideration in this method. The majority of
investors would regard this point of view as entirely sound, and
the procedure has been specifically prescribed by a number of states in
their enactments governing the eligibility of bonds for savings-bank
investment.8
The Total-deductions or “Over-all” Method. In a previous chapter, however, we have emphasized the primary importance of a company’s ability to
meet all its fixed obligations, because insolvency resulting from default on
a junior lien invariably reacts to the disadvantage of the prior-mortgage
bondholders. An investor can be sure of his position only if the total-interest charges are well covered. Consequently, the conservative and therefore
advisable way of calculating interest coverage should always be by the “totaldeductions method”; i.e., the controlling figure should be the number of
times that all fixed charges are covered. This would mean that the same

8 See, for example, Maine, Sec. 27, Chap. 57 of Revised Statutes, as amended by Chap. 222

of Public Laws 1931, subsections VI, VII and VIII, dealing with obligations of steam railroads, public utilities and telephone companies. Similar provisions are to be found in the
Vermont statute relative to public-utility bonds. New Hampshire permits the cumulativedeductions method for railroad and public-service company bonds; but, rather strangely,
it requires the total-deductions method in the case of the bonds of telephone and
telegraph companies.

09_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:35 AM

Page 131

Fixed-value Investments

[131]

earnings ratio would be used in analyzing all the fixed interest bonds of any
company, whether they are senior or junior liens. In the example above
given, the ratio would be 13/4, as applied to either the first 5s or the debenture 6s. In bond circulars and annual reports this method is now commonly
referred to as the “over-all basis” for computing interest coverage.9
It is important to bear in mind that fixed charges exclude incomebond interest which is a contingent charge. The words “interest charges”
and “bonded debt” are also used, for convenience, to refer only to fixedinterest bonds unless the context indicates otherwise.
There is no reason, of course, why the coverage for a senior bond
should not be computed by the cumulative-deductions method also, and
if this coverage is very large it may properly be regarded as an added argument in favor of the issue. But our recommendation is that in applying
any minimum requirement designed to test the company’s strength, the
total fixed charges should always be taken into account. The New York
statute holds consistently to this very stand, and in our opinion it deserves
to be approved and followed.

2. Minimum Requirements for Earnings Coverage. The preference accorded by the New York statute to railroad bonds over public-utility issues is no longer justified, and the more recent record of both groups
suggests that their relative positions should be reversed. It is necessary,
also, to add a minimum figure for industrial bonds, which should clearly
be set higher than for either utilities or rails. Taking these factors into
account, we should recommend the following minimum requirements
for the coverage of total fixed charges:
Public utilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13/4 times
Railroads . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2 times
Industrials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3 times

9 The phrases: “earnings ratio,” “times interest earned,” and “earnings coverage,” all have

the same significance. The statement that “interest is covered 13/4 times” is more readily
understood than the equivalent expression, sometimes used, that “the factor of safety is
75%,” and we should advise the consistent use of the former type of expression. Some
authorities (e.g., Moody’s “Manual of Investments” prior to 1930) have used the expression
“margin of safety” to mean the ratio of the balance after interest to the earnings available
for interest. Example: If interest is covered 13/4 times the margin of safety becomes
3/4 ⫼ 13/4 ⫽ 426/7%.

09_Graham_Dodd

[132]

11/15/08

10:35 AM

Page 132

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

3. The Period Comprised by the Earnings Test. Our summary of
the New York provisions regarding earnings coverage pointed out that
the five-year average is used in the case of utility issues. For railroad
bonds, however, the stipulated minimum margin must be shown in five
separate years out of the latest six. In all instances, the minimum must be
met in the year immediately preceding the date of investment.
Requirements such as the last two are easy to promulgate, but they are
poorly suited to the realities of bond investment in an economic world
subject to recurring years of serious depression. If it should be characteristic of business in general to experience eight prosperous or average years
followed by two unprofitable ones, the effect of these rules would be to
encourage investment in bonds (at high prices) during good times, and
to impel their sale (at low prices) during depressions.10
In our view, the only practical rigid application of a minimum-earnings standard must be to the average results over a period of time. A fiveyear average, as prescribed by the statute in the case of public-utility
bonds, would seem too short under many circumstances, and we should
suggest a seven-year period as a more suitable normal standard. But this
might be shortened somewhat to exclude clearly abnormal years. (For
example, the six-year period 1934–1939 would probably provide a fairer
test period than the seven-year period 1933–1939.)
If the test had been made, say, in 1934 or 1935, it would have been
better to use a ten- or even twelve-year period to avoid giving undue
weight to years of severe depression. Practical considerations suggest
also that averaging-in the large deficits experienced by some industrial
companies during 1931–1933 might produce an earnings-coverage figure too low to be fairly representative of the current situation, even
though a long-term average were taken. This difficulty may be solved,
arbitrarily, by considering the earnings in deficit years as zero instead of
the actual negative figure.
10 The impracticability of these provisions of the New York statute is best evidenced by the

fact that annual amendments were deemed necessary between 1931 and 1937 inclusive,
their effect being to exclude the results of 1931 through 1936 from the earnings test. This
“moratorium” terminated in April 1938, at which time over $3,000,000,000 par value of
railroad bonds were removed from the eligible list. A new moratorium retains bonds of
carriers that have earned interest charges once over in the last year and in five out of the
last six years.

09_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:35 AM

Page 133

Fixed-value Investments

[133]

Example: Interest coverage of Fairbanks Morse Company Debenture
4s, due 1956, as of early 1938.
Interest charges, 1937 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$232,000
Earned after interest and taxes, 1937 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2,148,000
1937 interest earned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10.2 times
Total earnings after interest, 1928–30 and 1934–1937 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11,740,000
Total deﬁcits after interest, 1931–1933 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8,873,000
Annual earnings after interest, 1928–1937 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .287,000
Indicated 10-year coverage for 1937 interest charges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2.2 times
Alternative basis for calculating the 10-year coverage:
10-year average earnings after interest, counting
1931–1933 years as zero . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$ 1,174,000
Revised 10-year coverage for 1937 interest charges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6.1 times
Stock-equity ratio . . . . . . . . . . . . .$3.42 of stock at market for each $1 of bonds at par

The second, or revised, average must be considered as a more realistic reflection of the company’s earning power than the straight ten-year
average, which fails to meet our minimum requirement. We trust, however, that from 1940 on it will be possible to use seven-year averages, or
longer, without having to meet a similar problem.

Other Phases of the Earnings Record. There are, of course, a number of other aspects of the earnings picture to which the investor would
do well to pay attention. Among these are the trend, the minimum figure,
and the current figure. The importance of each of these cannot be gainsaid, but they do not lend themselves effectively to the application of hard
and fast rules. In this case, as in the matter of mortgage security previously
discussed, a distinction must be drawn between the few factors which
can successfully be embraced by definite and universally applicable rules,
and the many other factors which resist such exact formulation but must
nevertheless be taken into account by the judgment of the investor.

Unfavorable Factors May Be Offset. The practical method of dealing with elements of the latter type may be illustrated in this matter of the
earning exhibit. The investor must demand an average at least equal to
the minimum standard. In addition, he will be attracted by: (a) a rising
trend of profits; (b) an especially good current showing; and (c) a satisfactory margin over interest charges in every year during the period

09_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

[134]

10:35 AM

Page 134

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

studied. If a bond is deficient in any one of these three aspects, the result
should not necessarily be to condemn the issue but rather to exact an
average earnings coverage well in excess of the minimum and to require
closer attention to the general or qualitative elements in the situation. If
the trend has been unfavorable, or the latest figure alone has been decidedly poor, the investor should certainly not accept the bond unless the
average earnings have been substantially above the minimum requirement—and unless also he has reasonable grounds for believing that the
downward trend or the current slump is not likely to continue indefinitely.
Needless to say, the amount by which the average must be advanced in
order to offset an unfavorable trend or current exhibit is a matter within
the discretion of the investor to determine, and cannot be developed into
any set of mathematical formulas.

The Relation of the Coupon Rate to the Earnings Coverage. The
theory of earnings coverage is complicated by the arithmetical fact that
this coverage varies inversely with the rate of interest. Given the same earnings, interest on a 3% bond issue would be earned twice as many times as
it would be if the rate were 6%. Consider the following comparison:
Utility Company A
Earnings for interest
Interest charges
Times interest earned

$600,000
(3% on $10,000,000)
300,000
2.00

Utility Company B
$600,000
(51/2% on $10,000,000)
550,000
1.09

The difference in coupon rates alone makes Company A pass our
earnings coverage test, whereas Company B barely earns its interest.
This point may well raise several questions, viz.: (1) Can a bond be considered “safe” merely because it carries a low coupon rate? (2) What
would be the effect on this safety of a rise in the general rate of interest? (3) Are the bonds of Company A a sounder purchase for investment than those of Company B? Let us attempt to answer these
questions briefly in their order.
1. Effect of Coupon Rate on Safety. Safety, in the technical sense of
assurance of continued payment of interest, can certainly be created or
destroyed by varying the coupon rate. It is not feasible to think of a

09_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:35 AM

Page 135

Fixed-value Investments

[135]

51/2% bond as being safe as to 3% interest and unsafe as to the additional 21/2%. Safety of interest is an indivisible concept and must apply
to the entire interest charge, the reason being that inability to pay
part of the contractual interest—or even junior interest—will result in
financial difficulties. These in turn mean the destruction, at least temporarily, of the investment status.
Safety in the sense of maintenance of principal value can also be “created” by a low rate of interest, provided this rate is considered to be permanent—i.e., lasting either through maturity or for a great many years in
the future. If the 3% rate is permanent, the earnings of $600,000 should
enable Company A to refund its bonds at maturity, and they should also
maintain the market price of the bonds not far from par.
Allowance must be made for the fact that the rate of interest tends to
vary inversely with the ability of the company to pay it. A strong company borrows at a low rate, although it could afford to pay more than
could a weak company. This means that “good credit” itself produces
“better credit” through its own saving in interest charges, whereas the
opposite is equally true. Although this may seem paradoxical and unfair,
it must be accepted as a fact in security analysis.
2. Effect of a Rise in Interest Rates on Safety. A general rise in interest
rates would not affect the ability of a company to meet its interest charges
during the life of its low-rate bond issue. But if they mature in a short time,
it will be faced with the problem of refunding at a higher rate, to effect which
its earnings must show an adequate margin above this higher rate. On the
other hand, if the maturity is distant the market price of this and other bonds
will decline substantially should the general rate of interest experience a considerable rise. (Note that the Dow-Jones Index of bond prices declined about
30% between 1917 and 1920, reflecting a rise in interest rates.)
It follows, therefore, that safety of principal, in the sense of maintenance of market value, is certain to be affected adversely in the case of
long-term bonds by a sharp rise in the rate of interest.11 Safety of principal of short-term debt may be affected adversely by such a rise in interest rates if the earnings coverage does not exceed our minimum by a
comfortable margin.

11 An exception would be high-coupon bonds whose price had been held down by a
callable feature.

09_Graham_Dodd

[136]

11/15/08

10:35 AM

Page 136

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The practical conclusion must be that if the investor considers a rise
in interest rates probable, he should not buy long-term low-coupon
bonds, no matter how strong the company; and he should buy short-term
issues only if earnings would cover a higher coupon rate with an adequate
margin. If, however, he is convinced that the low interest rates are here to
stay, he may accept them in the same way as the higher rates were formerly accepted. If he is undecided as to the future of interest rates, the
best policy might seem to be to confine purchases to bonds of fairly short
maturity (say not longer than ten years) and also to increase his earnings
coverage requirement to offset the low coupon rate.
3. Relative Attractiveness of the Two Bonds. Our third question relates
to the comparative attractiveness of the 3% bonds of Company A and the
51/2% bonds of Company B. In strict logic the 51/2% bond must certainly
be more desirable than the 3% bond, since the 51/2% bondholder could
always place his claim to the extra 21/2% on a contingent basis and thus
make his company’s margin above fixed charges the same as Company
A’s. But in practice such a reduction of fixed interest is likely to be made
only after the issuer has fallen into financial difficulties, which in turn
would cause a substantial decline in the market price of the issue. Hence,
as a practical matter, it is possible that the holder of the 3% bond may fare
better than the owner of the 51/2% bond.
However, the anomaly evident in our example should carry a warning to the investor not to pay about par for a 3% bond on the showing of
Company A unless he is absolutely convinced of the permanence of very
low interest rates. (It will also indicate that there are certain speculative
opportunities inherent in a bond of the Company B type if it is selling at
a very low price because of the small margin above its high interest
charges—especially if continuance of low interest rates is expected.)

11_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 147

Chapter 11

SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR
BOND INVESTMENT (Concluded)

RELATION OF STOCK CAPITALIZATION
TO BONDED DEBT
The amount of stock and surplus following or junior to a bond issue
expresses the same fact as the excess of resources over indebtedness. This
can be seen at once from the following condensed typical balance sheet:
Assets, less current liabilities
Bonded debt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 600,000
(net assets) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$1,000,000
Stock and surplus (stock equity) . . . 400,000
$1,000,000
$11,000,000
The resultant simple formula is as follows:
Stock equity
net assets
⫽
⫺1
Bonded debt
bonded debt

Standards Prescribed by the New York Law. If we are studying balance-sheet figures, therefore, we can look either at the net assets or at the
stock equity to determine the indicated coverage or margin above the principal amount of the debt. The New York statute governing investments of
savings banks employs both approaches in its regulations respecting public-utility bonds. It stipulates: (1) that the mortgage debt in question, plus
all underlying mortgage debt, shall not exceed 60% of the value of the
mortgaged property; and (2) that the capital stock shall be equal to at least
two-thirds of the mortgage debt. It will readily be observed from the typical balance sheet just given that these two requirements are broadly equivalent. Where a company has a substantial unsecured indebtedness,
however, it might meet requirement 1 and not requirement 2, so that in
such cases the second stipulation supplies an added protection. This point
may be illustrated by the following example:
[147]

11_Graham_Dodd

[148]

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 148

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Mortgaged property . . . . . . . . . . . . . $10,000,000
Working capital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,000,000
$11,000,000

Mortgage debt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $6,000,000
Debentures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,000,000
Stock and surplus . . . . . . . . . . . 2,000,000
$1,000,000

In this case the mortgage debt is only 60% of the pledged property but
the stock equity is much less than two-thirds of the mortgage debt. Hence
the latter bonds would not be eligible.
It should be noted that the New York statute considers only the par or
stated value of the stock issues (including, of course, both preferred and
common), and it does not give credit for the book surplus, which is part
of the stockholders’ equity. The theory behind this restriction may be that
the surplus is legally distributable to the stockholders, and cannot therefore be counted on as a permanent protection for the bondholders. In
actuality, however, a utility company’s surplus is almost invariably
invested to a large extent in fixed assets and is not distributable in cash.
Hence, if tests of this kind are to be required, the stock-and-surplus figure would appear more logical than the stock issue alone.

Equity Test of Doubtful Merit in the Case of Utilities. We are
inclined to question whether any substantial advantage is gained in the
ordinary case by applying the property or stock-issue test to public-utility bonds. It is unlikely to give any indication of safety or lack of safety
not already shown by the earnings record. In some few instances, perhaps, the income exhibit may be satisfactory but the asset coverage
unduly small, and the latter point may suggest that since the company is
earning an exceptionally high rate on its investment, it is vulnerable to
unfavorable rate regulation. The primary difficulty, however, has lain in
the lack of dependability of the balance-sheet figures of property values
(and hence of stock equity) as an indication either of the actual cash
investment or of the reproduction value which may be designated as the
rate base. But in recent years the activities of the state commissions and
the S.E.C. have given the public far more accurate balance sheets than
formerly. Even allowing for this improvement, there does not seem to be
sufficient reason to exact a property value or stock-equity test for publicutility bonds and none for railroad bonds.
There is, of course, no objection to the application of this stock-equity
test (based on book figures) to both railroad and public-utility obligations,

11_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 149

Fixed-value Investments

[149]

as an added precaution, either regularly or in special cases where there is
reason to doubt the reliability of the earnings record as a measure of the
future ability to meet bond interest. If this test is applied, it should be
pointed out that a maximum ratio of 60% of debt to 40% of stock and surplus is proportionately more severe than a minimum earnings ratio of 13/4
times interest charges. It would be more consistent, therefore, to admit a
bonded debt as high as 75% of the property value, or three times the
amount of the stock and surplus.

Importance of a Real-value Coverage behind a Bond Issue. Our
principal objection to the property-value criterion arises from the
undoubted fact that the book valuations of fixed assets are highly unreliable as indications of the safety of a bond. But on the other hand we are
convinced that a substantial margin of going-concern value over funded
debt is not only important but even vitally necessary to assure the soundness of a fixed-value investment. Before paying standard prices for bonds
of any enterprise, whether it be a railroad, a telephone company, or a
department store, the investor must be convinced that the business is
worth a great deal more than it owes. In this respect the bond buyer must
take the same attitude as the lender of money on a house or a diamond
ring, with the important difference that it is the value of the business as
an entity which the investor must usually consider, and not that of the
separate assets.

Going-concern Value and Earning Power. “The value of the business as an entity” is most often entirely determined by its earning power.
This explains the overshadowing significance that has come to be
attached to the income exhibit, for the latter reveals not only the ability
of the company to meet its interest charges, but also the extent to which
the going value of the business may be said to exceed the principal of the
bond issue. It is for this reason that most investors have come to regard
the earnings record as the only statistical or quantitative test necessary in
the selection of bond issues. All other criteria commonly employed are
either qualitative or subjective (i.e., involving personal views as to the
management, prospects, etc.).
While it is desirable to make the tests of safe bonds as simple and
as few as possible, their reduction to the single criterion of the margin

11_Graham_Dodd

[150]

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 150

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

of earnings over interest charges would seem to be a dangerous oversimplification of the problem. The earnings during the period examined may be nonrepresentative, either because they resulted from
definitely temporary conditions, favorable or the reverse, or because
they were presented in such a way as not to reflect the true income.
These conditions are particularly likely to occur in the case of industrial companies, which are subject both to greater individual vicissitudes
and to a smaller degree of accounting supervision than is true of railroads and utilities.

Shareholders’ Equity Measured by Market Value of Stock
Issues—a Supplemental Test. We feel, therefore, that it is essential,
in the case of industrial bonds at least, to supplement the earnings test by
some other quantitative index of the margin of going-concern value above
the funded debt. The best criterion that we are able to offer for this purpose is the ratio of the market value of the capital stock to the total funded
debt. Strenuous objections may, of course, be leveled against using the
market price of stock issues as a proof of anything, in view of the extreme
and senseless variations to which stock quotations are notoriously subject. Nevertheless, with all its imperfections, the market value of the stock
issues is generally recognized as a better index of the fair going value of
a business than is afforded by the balance-sheet figures or even the ordinary appraisal.1
Note carefully that we are proposing the use of stock prices for the
restricted purpose only of ascertaining whether or not a substantial equity
exists behind the bond issue. This is by no means tantamount to stating
that the price is always an exact measure of the fair or intrinsic value. The
market-price test is suggested as a rough index or clue to the existing
values, and it is to be employed only as a supplement—but an important
supplement—to the more carefully scrutinized figures supplied by the
earnings record.2
1 The liquidating value, arising chiefly from the net current assets, may at times exceed
the market price, but this point is seldom of significance in the selection of high-grade
investments.
2 Note that the tests of safety suggested by the New York State Bankers Association, in col-

laboration with Standard Statistics Company, include in the case of railroad and industrial

11_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 151

Fixed-value Investments

[151]

The utility of the market-price test in extreme cases is unquestionable.
The presence of a stock equity with market value many times as large as
the total debt carries a strong assurance of the safety of the bond issue,3
and conversely, an exceedingly small stock equity at market prices must
call the soundness of the bond into serious question. The determination
of the market value of the stock equity, and its comparison with the total
amount of funded debt, is a well-established feature of bond analysis, and
it was formerly included in bond-offering circulars (when the showing
made was satisfactory). We recommend that this calculation be made a
standard element in the procedure of bond selection, especially for industrial issues; and that minimum requirements under this heading be set
up which will serve as a secondary quantitative test of safety.

Minima for the Stock-equity Test. What should be the normal minimum relationship between stock values and funded debt? It is difficult
to answer this question satisfactorily from actual experience because of
the wide changes in stock prices and the variations in the exhibits of individual companies. A theoretical rule can be established by assuming,
somewhat arbitrarily, that railroad and utility stocks should earn about
11/2 times as large a percentage on their price as the interest rate on their
bonds; whereas industrial stocks should earn twice as much as the interest rate on their bonds. These assumptions would produce the following
arithmetical relationship4 between the minimum interest coverage on the
one hand and the stock-to-bond ratio on the other.
On page 152 we present a summarized exhibit of a public utility, a
railroad, and an industrial company, as of December 31, 1938, which will
support in a general way the relationships suggested above.

bonds the market price of the stock equity, designated as the “most realistic measure of debt
position”—i.e., of the value of the junior capital. See our more detailed discussion of these
tests in Appendix Note 22, p. 751.
3 See our discussion of Fox Film Corporation 6% Notes, as of December 1933 in Appendix
Note 67, p. 835.
4 To place both tests on the same arithmetical basis, the stock-value ratio should really be
expressed as the ratio of total capitalization (bonds at par plus stock at market) to bonds.
Thus calculated, the minimum “capitalization coverage” required would be, respectively, 11/2,
12/3, and 2. The student may use whichever of the two methods seems more convenient to
him; their implications are, of course, identical.

Dec. 31, 1938
$37,663,000
22,554,000*
1.67
$15,109,000
1,819,000
13,290,000
$1.55
1.53
$438,000,000*
606,000 sh. @ 56—$ 34,000,000
8,571,000 sh. @ 23—$187,000,000
$221,000,000
0.51 to 1

North American Co.
Dec. 31, 1938
$32,964,000
14,263,000
2.31
$18,701,000
3,982,000
14,719,000
$6.62
6.82
$355,000,000
995,000 sh. @ 83—$ 83,000,000
2,220,000 sh. @ 98—$218,000,000
$301,000,000
0.85 to 1

Union Paciﬁc R.R. Co.

Dec. 31, 1938
$1,327,000
297,000
4.47
$1,030,000
77,000
953,000
$2.08
2.00
$6,150,000
11,400 sh. @ 118 —$1,345,000
459,000 sh. @ 161/2—$7,570,000
$8,915,000
1.45 to 1

United Biscuit Co. of America

11/15/08
10:36 AM

[152]

* Includes preferred stock of subsidiary companies and requirements thereof (see Chap. 13).

Year ended
Balance for interest charges
Interest charges
Times earned
Balance for dividends
Preferred dividends
Balance for common
Per share
Average per share 1934–1938
Bonded debt
Preferred stock at market
Common stock at market
Total stock at market
Ratio of stock to bonds

Item

EXAMPLES OF NORMAL RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN INTEREST COVERAGE AND STOCK-VALUE RATIO

11_Graham_Dodd
Page 152

11_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 153

Fixed-value Investments

Type of enterprise
Public utilities
Railroads
Industrials

[153]

Minimum number of
times ﬁxed charges earned
(Average interest coverage)

Minimum ratio of stock
value to bonded debt
(Stock-value ratio)

13/4
2
3

$1 of stock to $2 of bonds
$1 of stock to $1.50 of bonds
$1 of stock to $1 of bonds

Income Bonds Equivalent to Stock Equity. In Chap. 9 we pointed
out that since interest on income bonds is not a fixed charge, it need not be
included in the total charges on which coverage is to be calculated. Similarly, the principal amount of such bonds is not to be included in
the total funded debt that is to be compared with the stock equity. Not only
is this so, but it is true also that junior income bonds (of long maturity) are
so close in their character to preferred stock that their market value may
properly be considered as part of the stock equity (or rather “income bond
and stock equity”) junior to, and protecting, the fixed-interest bonds.
Example:
Colorado Fuel and Iron General (First) 5s, due 1943, price June 30, 1939,
1031/2 yielding 3.90%
Amount outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 4,483.000
Income bond and stock equity June 30, 1939:
$11,035,000 Income 5s due 1970
@ 45
4,966,000
7,050,000
564,000 shares common stock
@ 121/2
315,000 stock purchase warrants
@ 41/4
1,339,000
Total equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $13,355,000

In this case the technical position of the 1st mortgage 5s is entirely different by virtue of the fact that the junior lien is an income bond than it
would be if the latter carried fixed interest. That this is true is shown in striking fashion by reference to the situation prior to the reorganization of 1936.
In the former setup the First 5s were followed by a large fixed-interest bond
issue, the requirements of which (including their maturity) precipitated a
receivership in 1933, following which the First 5s sold as low as 30.

Significance of Unusually Large Stock-value Ratio. As we have
previously intimated, if the stock-value ratio were always proportionate

11_Graham_Dodd

[154]

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 154

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

to the interest coverage, in the manner suggested in the foregoing table,
there would be no reason to apply both tests, since the passing of one
would assure passing of the other. Such is not the case, however, and we
must accordingly consider what is implied when the stock-value ratio
gives a substantially different indication from that given by the interest
coverage. Let us assume first that the earnings picture is not completely
convincing but that the stock-value ratio is considerably higher than our
minimum requirement.
Example: Referring to the Fairbanks-Morse example on page 133 in
Chap. 9, the investor would be impressed by the fact that at the lowest
market price in 1938 the stock-equity ratio was more than 2 to 1 (about
$12,000,000 market value of stock behind $5,600,000 of bonds). This
evidence of strength might well dispel any doubt arising from the inadequacy of the straight ten-year average.

Significance of a Subnormal Stock-value Ratio. The opposite case
is that in which the interest coverage may be called satisfactory but the
stock-value ratio is substantially below the minimum required.
Examples: The problem here may be better understood by the use of
two contrasting examples, one taken in the midst of depression and the
other at the peak of recovery.
The first example is that of Inland Steel 41/2s, due 1978, which sold in
September 1932 at 82, to yield 5.6%. The relevant data appear in the table
on page 155, together with corresponding figures for Crucible Steel 5s,
due 1940, which are supplied for comparison.
It will be seen that the Inland Steel issue met our earnings test (based
on a 61/2-year average) but failed to meet our stock-ratio test. Most
investors would reason that the bond was a very sound and attractive
investment at the time, because (1) Inland Steel was one of the best steel
companies, with a fine predepression record; and (2) the 1932 figures,
both for earnings and for stock prices, were so abnormal as to afford no
guide to the safety of the bond issue. The fact that the company’s earnings recovered later on and that the bonds were called at a premium in
1936 would be pointed to as confirming the soundness of this view.
But the weakness of the reasoning lies in the fact that it required certain assumptions as to the future which should not be needed to justify
the purchase of an investment bond. (Note that under the conditions of

11_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 155

Fixed-value Investments

[155]

COMPARATIVE EXHIBIT OF TWO BOND ISSUES, SEPTEMBER, 1932

Item
Annual interest charge
Earned for interest by years:
1932 (ﬁrst half)
1931
1930
1929
1928
1927
1926
61/2-year average
Interest coverage
Bonded debt
Stock value:
Preferred
Common
Total stock value
Stock-value ratio

Inland Steel 41/2s,
due 1978 and 1981
Price 82, yield 5.6%
$ 1,890,000
496,000(d)
3,126,000
7,793,000
13,042,000
10,569,000
7,482,000

Crucible Steel 5s,
due 1940 Price 60,
yield 13.4%
$

675,000
1,348,000(d)
1,339,000(d)
4,542,000
8,364,000
5,849,000
5,844,000

7,851,000
$ 7,595,000
4.6 times*
$42,000,000

6,787,000
$ 4,400,000
7.1 times*
$13,500,000

1,200,000 sh. @ 20 ⫽ $24,000,000
$24,000,000
0.57 to 1

250,000 sh. @ 30 ⫽ $7,500,000
450,000 sh. @ 17 ⫽ $7,650,000
$15,100,000
1.12 to 1

* Adjusted for changes in the funded debt during the period.

1932, the price of 82 for Inland Steel 41/2s put them distinctly in the
investment class.) This should be clear if we compare the exhibits of the
Inland and Crucible issues. It will be seen that both the earnings coverage and the stock-value ratio were better for the Crucible issue, yet the
yield on the latter was twice as high as for the Inland bond. The purchaser
of the Inland Steel 41/2s would have to assume not only that the 1932 conditions were transitory—a necessary assumption if there was to be any
buying of securities—but also (1) that the price of Inland Steel stock was
much too low and (2) that the price of Crucible Steel stock issues was
much too high. For unless the Inland stock was selling too low, the Inland
bonds could not be considered safe; and unless the Crucible shares were
selling too high, he would have been much better advised to buy the lower
priced Crucible bonds. This would seem to be entirely too complicated
and doubtful a basis for a straight bond investment.

11_Graham_Dodd

[156]

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 156

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

It is true also, as a general rule, that no bond investment should be made
if it requires the assumption that the common stock is selling too low at the
time. If the investor is right in that judgment of the stock value, it would certainly be more profitable to buy the stock than the bonds. If he is wrong as
to the stock value, he runs great risk of having made a poor bond purchase.
The fact that the Inland Steel bonds were later repaid at an advance
of some 20 points does not invalidate our logic but rather confirms it; for
by the same time Inland common had advanced over fourfold in value
and the Crucible Steel 5s had risen from 60 to 102. We advert once more
to our controlling principle that bond investment is a negative art. This
discussion was not intended to imply that the Inland Steel 41/2s were a
poor investment—the contrary is clearly the case—but we wished to point
out that a logical examination of the picture at the time would not have
led to an affirmative verdict for that issue, particularly in view of the alternative investments offered.
A Second Example: We may buttress our argument further by introducing an opposite type of illustration—the Brooklyn Manhattan Transit 41/2s, due 1966, which sold at 104 to yield 4.27% in January 1937. The
average earnings coverage here was about adequate, judged by our minimum standard for railroad bonds. However, the stock-value ratio—even
at the high general market level then obtaining—showed less than 40
cents of stock for each dollar of bonds. This meant in essence that the
stock market was not sufficiently optimistic as to the prospects of the
B.M.T. to value the equity issues at our minimum requirement in relation
to total debt. The bond buyer would have been well advised to take this
deficiency in the secondary test as a hint to look elsewhere for his 41/2%
investments. (By December of that same year the bonds had fallen to 44.)
Our reference to the stock market’s valuation of future prospects of
Brooklyn Manhattan Transit suggests that the stock-equity test is not
merely an additional quantitative criterion of bond safety but that it is in
good part a qualitative index as well. A third function of the stock-value
test may be to throw justifiable doubt on the complete accuracy of the
reported earnings figures. In the case of the B.M.T. a careful study of the
offering prospectus would have revealed a wide difference between depreciation and amortization charges as shown on the reports to security
holders and as taken on the income tax returns. The more conservative
depreciation basis would have reduced the interest coverage to well below
our suggested minimum.

11_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 157

Fixed-value Investments

[157]

Stock-value Ratio for Railroad and Public-utility Companies.
In the case of industrial companies the stock-value ratio may be easily
calculated. Railroads and public utilities, however, are likely to present
various complications. In addition to the bonded debt as shown in the
balance sheet, it may also be necessary to consider rental obligations
equivalent to debt and preferred stocks of subsidiaries ranking ahead of
parent company bonds. These difficulties militate somewhat against the
use of the stock-value ratio test for railroad and utility bonds. However,
we believe that a careful investor should apply the stock-value test in these
fields as well as to industrial. As we shall point out in the next chapter,
the stock-value test would have been of great utility in guarding against
the mistaken purchase of many railroad bonds at high prices during
1935–1937. In the next chapter, also, we shall describe the procedure of
capitalizing the fixed charges to arrive at a fair estimate of total debt when
the balance sheet may not tell the whole story.

Stock-value Test Not to Be Modified to Reflect Changing
Market Conditions. The question arises: To what extent should the
stock-value ratio test be modified to reflect changing market conditions?
It would seem proper to expect, and therefore to demand, a higher relative market value for the stock behind a bond issue when times are good
than during a depression. If $1 of stock to $1 of bonds is taken as the “normal” requirement for an industrial company, would it not be sound to
demand, say, a $2-to-$1 ratio when stock prices are inflated, and conversely to be satisfied with a 50-cent-to-$1 ratio when quotations are far
below intrinsic values? But this suggestion is impracticable for two reasons, the first being that it implies that the bond buyer can recognize an
unduly high or low level of stock prices, which is far too complimentary
an assumption. The second is that it would require bond investors to act
with especial caution when things are booming and with greater confidence when times are hard. This is a counsel of perfection which it is not
in human nature to follow. Bond buyers are people, and they cannot be
expected to escape entirely either the enthusiasm of bull markets or the
apprehensions of a severe depression.
We should not propose a rule, therefore, by which investors are to
require a larger than usual stock-value ratio when prices are high; for such
advice will not be followed. (But if the bond buyer is personally convinced
that stock prices are dangerously high, he would be wise to insist on a

11_Graham_Dodd

[158]

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 158

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

stock-equity coverage well above our minimum ratios.) Nor shall we propose the opposite rule for bear markets, particularly because by diligent
search it will always be possible to find some investments that meet all
the normal tests even under depressed conditions.5
SUMMARY OF MINIMUM QUANTITATIVE REQUIREMENTS SUGGESTED FOR
FIXED-VALUE INVESTMENT

1. Size of obligor:
Municipalities: population . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10,000
Public utilities: gross revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$2,000,000
Railroads: gross revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3,000,000
Industrials: gross revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5,000,000
2. Interest coverage:
Public-utility bonds: (7-year average) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13/4 times
Railroad bonds: (7-year average) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2 times
Industrial bonds: (7-year average) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3 times
Real estate bonds: (dependable estimate) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2 times
3. Value of property:
Real estate bonds: Fair value of property (based on actual sales in a noninﬂated market)
must be 50% more than the amount of the bond issue.
Investment trust bonds: Similar ratio, using market value of assets.
4. Market value of the stock issues:
Public utilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50% of the bonded debt
Railroads . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .662/3% of the bonded debt
Industrials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100% of the bonded debt

5 For example: In September 1932 General Baking 51/2s could have been bought to yield 6%.

Their average earnings coverage was twenty times interest charges; in the first half of 1932
interest was covered fourteen times. The stock-value ratio was 6 to 1.

12_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 159

Chapter 12

SPECIAL FACTORS IN THE ANALYSIS OF
RAILROAD AND PUBLIC-UTILITY BONDS

RAILROAD-BOND ANALYSIS
The selection of railroad bonds can be made a process of extreme
complexity. The reports of the carriers to the Interstate Commerce Commission contain voluminous data on the financial and physical condition
of the railroads, which supply material for elaborate analysis. A really
thorough study of a railway report would devote attention to the following items, among others:
1. Financial:
a. Composition and trend of operating revenue.
b. Ratio of maintenance expenditures to gross.
c. Relative amount and trend of transportation expenses.
d. Character of “other income.”
e. Coverage for, and relative growth of, interest and other deductions.
2. Physical:
a. Location.
b. Amount of double and third track.
c. Weight of rail.
d. Character of ballast.
e. Amount and capacity of equipment owned.
3. Operating:
a. Character and density of traffic.
b. Average haul and average rate received.
c. Trainload.
d. Fuel costs.
e. Train- and car-mile operating costs.
f. Maintenance charges per unit of equipment.
[159]

12_Graham_Dodd

[160]

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 160

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

In addition to the above items affecting the railroad as a whole, a
special study can be made of the mileage covered by the mortgage lien
under consideration.1

Elaborate Technique of Analysis Not Necessary for Selection of
High-grade Bonds. Comprehensive analyses of this kind are actually
made by the investment departments of large financial institutions which
purchase railroad bonds. They are, however, not only clearly beyond the
competence of the individual investor, but in our opinion they are hardly
consistent with the true nature of high-grade bond investment. The selection of a fixed-value security for limited-income return should be, relatively, at least, a simple operation. The investor must make certain by
quantitative tests that the income has been amply above the interest charges
and that the current value of the business is well in excess of its debts. In
addition, he must be satisfied in his own judgment that the character of
the enterprise is such as to promise continued success in the future, or
more accurately speaking, to make failure a highly unlikely occurrence.
These tests and this expression of judgment should not require a
highly elaborate technique of analysis. If the investor in railroad bonds
must weigh such factors as a favorable trainload trend as against a poor
diversification of traffic handled, he is called upon to exercise penetration and skill out of all proportion to the reward offered, viz., a fixed
income return of from 2 3/4 to 41/2 %. He would certainly be better advised
to buy United States government securities, which yield a lower return
but are safe beyond question, or else to let one of the large savings banks
invest his money for him with the aid of its extensive statistical staff.

Recommended Procedure. The complexities associated with railroadbond analysis have arisen naturally—but in our view, rather illogically—
from the wealth of data available for study. The fact that a mass of figures
is obtainable does not mean that it is necessary, or even advantageous, to

1 Elaborate graphic portrayal of railroad mortgage liens, the specific trackage covered, etc.,

together with supporting data and descriptions, are provided by White and Kemble’s Atlas
and Digest of Railroad Mortgages, covering all of the railroads of major importance in the
United States. More exhaustive study of the character and volume of traffic originating on
and transported over particular sections of the road securing individual mortgage issues is
greatly facilitated by examination of the “Freight Traffic Density Charts” and data assembled
by H. H. Copeland and Son of New York City, which are distributed privately by them
among a large group of investment institutions.

12_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 161

Fixed-value Investments

[161]

dissect them. We recommend that the buyer of high-grade railroad bonds
confine his quantitative study to the coverage of fixed charges (with due
attention to the trend of earnings and the adequacy of maintenance expenditures) and to the amount of the stock equity. If he desires to be particularly careful, he will probably be better advised to increase his minimum
requirements on these two points, rather than to extend his statistical tests
to numerous other features of the annual reports.
It may make our viewpoint clearer if we add that such elaborate analyses may at times be of real value to the purchaser of speculative railroad
bonds or stocks, as aids to his judgment of what the future will bring. But
the whole raison d’être of fixed-value investment is opposed to any primary reliance upon surmises as to the future, since the field for exercising such judgment must logically be among those issues which offer
possibilities of gain as a reward for being right, commensurate with the
penalties attached to being wrong.

Technical Aspects of Railroad-income Analysis. The application
of the interest-coverage test to railroad bonds involves a few technical
questions which require attention. Railways have various kinds of fixed
charges which are obligations equivalent to bond interest and which
clearly should be included with such interest in calculating the margin of
safety. There are also certain deductions which partake to some extent of
the nature of fixed charges and to some extent also of operating expenses.
Furthermore, there are credits designated as “other income,” such as bond
interest received, which may properly be considered as offset to interest
paid—at least for the purpose of comparison with other roads. In the following schedule we allocate the more important items of this character
that are encountered in railroad statements.
1. Bond interest and equivalent charges.
a. Interest on funded and unfunded debt.
b. Rent for leased lines.
c. Joint-facility rents (net debit).
2. Deductions midway between fixed charges and operating expense.
a. Hire of equipment (net debit).2
b. Miscellaneous rents and miscellaneous deductions.
2 Since Jan. 1, 1936, the I.C.C. definition of “fixed charges” for the purposes of railroad-income

accounts has included rent paid for the use of equipment. But this definition is not followed, as
yet, in the calculation of fixed-charge coverage by the financial manuals and services.

12_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 162

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[162]

3. Credits that may be partially offset against bond interest (in order of
dependability).
a. Bond interest received; rent for leased lines; joint-facility rents (net credit).
b. Hire of equipment (net credit); dividends received.
c. Miscellaneous nonoperating income.

Methods of Computing Fixed-charge Coverage. Considerable
argument might be indulged in as to the most scientific way of handling
all these items in order to arrive at the best formulation of the fixed
charges. The matter may be simplified, however, by bearing in mind that
the bond buyer is not interested in exactitude, but rather in reasonable
accuracy. After all, the data he is dealing with represent past history, the
sole value of which is to serve as a hint or clue to the future. For such a
purpose refinement of calculation is of little benefit. We suggest that for
railroad bonds the necessities of the case with respect to interest coverage may be met by setting up a double test, and requiring that the minimum margin be shown by each. The method proposed is as follows:
Test A. Number of times ﬁxed charges are earned:
Fixed charges ⫽ gross income ⫺ net income.
Times ﬁxed charges earned

gross income
⫽ gross income ⫺ net income

NOTE: “Gross income” is the “net after rents” plus “other income.” “Net income” is the balance
available for dividends.3
Test B.

Number of times net deductions are earned:
Net deductions ⫽ railway operating income ⫺ net income.

Times net deductions earned ⫽

railway operating income
railway operating income ⫺ net income

NOTE: “Railway operating income” is the same as a “net after taxes,” i.e. the gross revenues minus
operating expenses and taxes.

3 The figure for fixed charges as computed by Standard Statistics Company excludes some of
the minor items, which are subtracted from gross income first, under the caption of “miscellaneous deductions.” Our method is simpler, but the Standard Statistics calculation will give
almost the same result, so that if their results are available they may as well be used.

12_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 163

Fixed-value Investments

[163]

CALCULATION OF MARGIN OF SAFETY FOR RAILROAD BONDS
(UNIT $1,000; CALENDAR YEAR 1931)

Item
1. Gross revenue
2. Net after taxes (railway operating
income
3. Equipment and joint-facility rents
4. Net after rents (net railway
operating income)
5. Other income
6. Gross income
7. Interest and other ﬁxed charges
8. Balance for dividends (net income)

Chesapeake
& Ohio

Chicago Great
Western

Northern
Paciﬁc

$119,552

$20,108

$62,312

35,417
dr. 88

4,988
dr. 2,417

3,403
cr. 3,398

35,329
2,269
$ 37,598
10,902
$ 26,696

2,571
196
$ 2,767
1,866
$ 901

6,801
16,853
$23,654
14,752
$ 8,902

Chesapeake and Ohio, 1931
Gross income exceeds net after taxes. Therefore use ﬁxed-charges test (Test A).
Fixed charges earned ⫽

(6)
37,598
⫽
⫽ 3.45 times
(6) ⫺ (8)
10,902

Chicago Great Western, 1931
Net after taxes exceeds gross income. Therefore use net-deductions test (Test B).
Net deductions earned ⫽

(2)
4,988
⫽
⫽ 1.22 times
(2) ⫺ (8)
4,087

Northern Paciﬁc, 1931
Gross income exceeds net after taxes. Therefore use ﬁxed-charges test (Test A).
Fixed charges earned ⫽

23,654
⫽ 1.60 times
14,752
NOTES ON THE FOREGOING TESTS

1. Chesapeake and Ohio represents the typical exhibit in which the results of both tests would
have pointed to the same conclusion—in this case to the presence of a satisfactory margin of
safety for the bonds.
2. In the case of Chicago Great Western, Test A, which is ordinarily applied, would not
adequately reﬂect the burden of the unusually large rental deductions. Their effect is shown
by Test B, and in accordance with our suggestion this less favorable result should be the one
considered by the investor.
3. Northern Paciﬁc presents the opposite situation. Its other income has been exceptionally
large as compared with the bond interest, so that in most years the net deductions ﬁgure out as
a credit. In this case the investor should follow the results of Test A, and consider Test B as a
secondary indication of strength.

12_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

[164]

Page 164

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

It is necessary to apply only one of these two tests, viz., the more stringent one, which may readily be identified by inspection. The rule is as
follows: If gross income exceeds net after taxes, apply the fixed-charges
test (Test A). If net after taxes exceeds gross income, apply the net-deductions test (Test B). The application of these alternative tests will be clear
from the examples as shown on page 163.
The Pennsylvania Railroad’s reports offer an exceptional case, in that
the larger part of its substantial other income is a direct offset against the
fixed charges. These other-income items consist of interest and guaranteed dividends received on securities of the system itself which are owned
by the parent company, so that the same items appear later as interest and
rentals paid. In 1938 these offsetting amounts totalled some $30,298,074.
They should properly be eliminated from the statement altogether. The
effect of their inclusion was to reduce the indicated coverage under the
fixed-charges test, as the following will show:
Fixed-charges test
1938

As reported As corrected

Net deductions test

Gross income
Fixed charges
Times earned
Times earned, 10-year average

$93,559,000
82,513,000
1.13
1.42

Net after taxes $66,112,000
Net deductions 55,066,000
1.20
1.68

$63,261,000
52,215,000
1.21
1.67*

* Amount of correction estimated for years prior to 1932.

In this case the net-deductions test afforded a fairer criterion than the
fixed-charges test uncorrected. Where an especially careful analysis is to
be made, the reported figures should be adjusted as above indicated, on
the basis of the available facts.

Bearing of Maintenance Expenditures upon Fixed-charge Coverage. There are two important items in railroad accounting which are
subject in some degree to arbitrary determination by the management, and
which may therefore be treated in any one year in such a manner as to produce deceptively favorable or unfavorable results. The first of these is the
maintenance account. If unduly small amounts are spent on upkeep of road
and equipment, the net profits are thereby increased at the expense of the
property, and the balance reported as available for fixed charges does not
fairly represent the earning power during the period under review. Bond

12_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 165

Fixed-value Investments

[165]

buyers might do well to examine the maintenance ratio (i.e., the percentage
of gross revenues expended on upkeep of way and rolling stock) in order to
make sure that it is not suspiciously below standard. Unfortunately it is difficult to determine with any degree of assurarice just what should be considered a standard maintenance rate for different groups of carriers. Prior
to 1931 a figure of about 33% of gross operating revenues was so generally
and consistently reported that it undoubtedly could be considered a norm,
any wide deviation from which deserved special study.4 Since 1930, however, there has been a moderate decline in this percentage figure concurrently with a major shrinkage in the gross operating revenues against which
it is computed. As a result, actual dollar expenditures for maintenance have
been cut nearly in half. (Somewhat surprisingly, the maintenance-of-way
outlays in dollars—which presumably are not so subject to curtailment on
account of smaller traffic—suffered a decline of 51% in 1933–1937 as against
1926–1930, whereas maintenance of equipment costs were reduced by 39%.)
On the other side must be set the undoubted improvement in the technology of maintenance as shown in the use of more efficient methods and
more durable materials.5 The cost of maintaining railroad property in adequate condition is now substantially less than it was prior to 1931. But how
much less we cannot say with assurance; hence the difficulty of determining whether the average ratio of about 301/2 % on the reduced gross of
1933–1937 (shown by all Class I Railroads) is sufficient to reassure the
bond buyer against the existence of undermaintenance. Our judgment
leans to the view that this figure is rather low 6 and that a somewhat higher
ratio—say 32%—might better be taken as the investor’s norm.

4 Geographical differences, formerly productive of rather wide variations in the customary
maintenance ratio, were not of great importance in the years 1926–1930. See material on this
point and others relating to railroad maintenance in Appendix Note 23, p. 755.
5 Many detailed examples on this point are given in an address of L. A. Downs, president of
the Illinois Central Railroad, delivered Dec. 3, 1936, and reprinted by the Association of
American Railroads.
6 This conclusion is supported by the replies of the railroads themselves to a circular of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, dated Dec. 12, 1938, in which they estimated that a total
of $283,800,000 of deferred maintenance existed on their lines at the end of 1938. The
replies generally distinguished between maintenance sufficient for safe and economical
operation, which they contended had been performed, and maintenance necessary to bring
the property to a satisfactory engineering standard. (See summary of return on Statistical
Series Circular 26, published as Statement 3911 by the Bureau of Statistics of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, March 1939.)

12_Graham_Dodd

[166]

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 166

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

If this suggestion is accepted, it would mean that when considering
bonds of a railroad spending less than 32% of its gross on maintenance
the investor will either: (1) make such further study as will convince him
that the lower rate is adequate or (2) adjust the reported earnings to a
hypothetical 32% ratio, thus reducing the earnings coverage correspondingly. If the coverage is satisfactory after this correction, it may be
assumed that the possible undermaintenance is not in itself a serious
enough factor to impair the safety of the bond.

Nonrecurring Dividend Receipts. A second item which sometimes
repays scrutiny is that of Dividends Received. When a railroad controls
subsidiary companies, it is possible to draw out accumulated profits at
irregular intervals in the form of special dividends paid to the parent
company. The effect of such transactions is to overstate the actual earning power of the parent company for the year in which the subsidiary’s
special dividend was received.7

Excessive Maintenance and Undistributed Earnings of Subsidiaries. Railroad reports will also disclose the opposite situation at
times, viz., excessive maintenance expenditures or the existence of large
current earnings of subsidiaries not paid over to the parent company. The
effect of such accounting is to understate the true earning power of
the carrier examined. Matters of this kind are of considerable interest in
the analysis of stock values, but the bond buyer’s concern with such factors is of secondary character. In general he should not permit them to
reverse an otherwise unfavorable verdict as to the safety of the bond, but
he should recognize that their presence gives added attractiveness to bond
issues which show adequate security without taking them into account.8

Analysis of Low-priced Railroad Bonds. A study of speculatively
priced railroad bonds will properly include consideration of many factors in addition to those just discussed. Under our broad principles of
arrangement, consideration of this subject should be deferred to our later
chapter on speculative senior securities. It seems preferable to deal with
7 This and allied phases of accounting having to do with income of a nonrecurring character
are considered in detail in Chaps. 31 to 33, which can be found in the sixth edition text
(see especially Chap. 31, p. 414, where several examples are given).
8 See Appendix Note 24, p. 757, for examples.

12_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 167

Fixed-value Investments

[167]

it here, however, in order not to break up our treatment of railroad-bond
analysis. Many bond buyers may be moved also to carry the analysis of
investment issues further than we suggest is necessary, and to be guided
in their selection among all eligible issues by more detailed considerations of operating, traffic and financial statistics.
More exhaustive study of a railroad-bond issue falls under two headings: (1) the showing and prospects of the road as a whole and (2) the
position of the individual bond issue.
Under the first division will come, in addition to the basic points
already outlined, such matters as the character of the traffic and the efficiency of operation.
Character of Traffic. On this score a significant change in viewpoint
has been forced on the investor in the last generation. Formerly, chief
emphasis was laid upon diversification of traffic and upon a liberal
percentage of better paying classes—e.g., miscellaneous and less-thancarload lot shipments. More recent developments have proved this older
viewpoint unsound. The higher rate classes of traffic have turned out to
be especially vulnerable to truck competition; and some of the roads with
the “choicest” quality of traffic have fallen behind most since 1929. At the
other extreme we find that the few consistently profitable carriers have
been mainly the eastern soft-coal lines—Chesapeake and Ohio, Norfolk
and Western, Virginian, and (to a lesser extent) Western Maryland—
which have concentrated on a single type of low-rate freight movement
which they have been able to handle with extraordinary economy.9
By contrast, the anthracite carriers have had a very disappointing and
difficult time, due to a severe decline in the use of hard coal because of
fuel-oil competition. The complete change in the relative position of the
hard- and the soft-coal carriers between 1923 and 1938 is shown graphically in the following table and constitutes a warning to the security
buyer not to accept the present or the past as a guarantee of the future.
(This warning may be applicable to the soft-coal roads themselves, whose
prosperity could conceivably vanish as did that of the anthracite carriers.
9 The operating ratio of Chesapeake and Ohio in 1937 was only 56.95% as compared with
74.87% for all Class I railroads. This characteristic places the eastern soft-coal carriers in a
group apart—almost in a different industry. Incidentally, they have been greatly favored by
the growth of output of their shippers—largely in the Pocohantas field—at the expense of
higher cost mines elsewhere.

12_Graham_Dodd

[168]

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 168

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The contrast between the continuing depression in the bituminous industry and the dazzling prosperity of the soft-coal carriers may have significance for the future.)
FINANCIAL STATISTICS OF SOFT- AND HARD-COAL CARRIERS IN 1923–1927
AND 1934–1938 (000 OMITTED)

Pocahontas soft coalers:1
Total operating revenues
Net railway operating income
Net income (balance for dividends)
Hard coalers:2
Total operating revenues
Net railway operating income
Net income (balance for dividends)

1923–1927

1934–1938

$1,334,162
330,036
250,465

$1,097,739
381,364
315,053

2,393,777
401,784
289,608

1,374,607
195,975
18,615 (d)

1 Totals for the Virginian; Chesapeake and Ohio; Norfolk and Western.
2 Totals for Central Railroad of New Jersey; Delaware and Hudson; Delaware, Lackawanna and Western; Erie; Lehigh Valley;
Reading.

Because of the loss of light traffic to motor trucks and of passenger
traffic to automobiles and buses, the railroads as a whole have become
more dependent than formerly on heavy traffic—e.g., coal, iron and steel,
other minerals, stone, sand, etc. Their prosperity is more tied up than formerly with activity in the capital-goods industries. Hence, taken as a
whole, they are now handicapped both by a definite diminution of their
average traffic and by an added degree of year-to-year variability in the
traffic that remains.
It is not difficult, perhaps, to obtain a clear view of the traffic situation as it has developed on the railroads generally and on the individual
lines. But the application of this knowledge to the future, and the selection of specific bond or stock issues based thereon, is far from a simple
process.10 It may be assumed that traffic developments to date are fully
10 See, for example, “Why Railroads Show Diverse Trends,” by E. S. Adams in Barron’s for

Nov. 21, 1938. It is suggested that “long-term traffic trends should be given most weight in
assessing the investment merits of individual issues.” But the article itself does little more
than point out why certain changes in relative values have taken place in the past.

12_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 169

Fixed-value Investments

[169]

reflected in both operating results and security prices. Can the investor
go further and form a dependable judgment as to what classes of business are due to suffer still greater losses to competitors, which ones are
relatively immune, and which may even be built up or regained? It is
undoubtedly part of the speculator’s function to arrive at conclusions on
such matters as these. But we must express doubt whether the facts and
their implications are sufficiently definite to form a basis for what may
properly be called an investment judgment. Hence we must reiterate our
view that the purchase of railroad bonds for investment must be motivated primarily by an adequate margin of safety actually demonstrated
and that expectations as to future traffic developments should play only
a cautionary role.
Operating Efficiency. The measures of operating efficiency generally
considered are the following: Operating Ratio; Transportation Ratio; Average Trainload and Carload; Average Car Miles per Day; Ratio of Empty
Mileage to Total Mileage; Fuel Consumption per Locomotive Mile.
The operating ratio is the ratio of all operating expenses, excluding
taxes, to gross revenues. The transportation ratio applies only to those
costs classified as “transportation expenses.” In our opinion a more useful criterion than either of these would be the ratio to gross of all operating expenses except maintenance but including taxes. This might be
called the “other operating-expense ratio.” Maintenance outlays are separated because they are generally regarded as an indication of the liberality rather than the efficiency of the management. Allowance must, of
course, be made for the lower maintenance requirements of some carriers in relation to their revenues—e.g., the soft coalers. Some studies may
also be attempted to determine whether a given road is accomplishing a
physical unit of maintenance cheaply or expensively, but this is a difficult
subject on which to reach dependable conclusions.
The other items are self-explanatory. A high average trainload and
carload, high car mileage per day, low mileage of “empties,” low fuel consumption, are all obvious desiderata. However, the usefulness of these
data is diminished by the fact that they are all pretty well reflected in the
transportation ratio, so that one must beware of emphasizing the same
point twice. It may also be an open question if a road making a rather
poor showing in these respects may not present a more rather than a less
attractive opportunity, provided these disadvantages are fully reflected in

12_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

[170]

Page 170

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

the price of its securities—since it may be easier to produce improvement
in the future precisely because its performance is substandard.
These observations apply also to two intermediate factors—the traffic density (ton-miles carried per mile of road) and the average length of
haul per ton. These figures relate to the character of the traffic, but their
influence shows itself largely in the operating ratio.
The Specific Security. As long as a road seems certain to remain solvent with ample margins to spare, all its obligations may be viewed almost
as a unit, and the difference in value between one fixed-value security and
another is relatively minor. With the first threat of trouble this difference
begins to take on great significance. Attention is then directed (1) to the
character of the mileage securing the bond and (2) to the order of its lien
thereon. The necessity of careful study, in such cases, of the specific position of so-called “underlying bonds” and “divisional liens” was emphasized
at the end of Chap. 6 (see sixth edition text). In studies of this kind the
“Freight Traffic Density Charts”11 will prove of great value, though it must
be pointed out that these are not readily accessible to ordinary analysts.
Insolvent roads are frequently required to segregate the earnings and
expenses applicable to the various mortgage liens, to determine the contribution of each issue to the earning power of the system. Such data are
usually made the basis of the treatment to be accorded these issues in the
reorganization plan.12
In Appendix Note 66, p. 821, we present an analysis of certain securities of Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railway as of December 31, 1939, to illustrate the technique of security analysis as applied to
speculative railroad bonds. The reader’s attention is directed also to the
three much older railroad analyses reproduced in the same Note. It may
be added that these analyses, and the entire preceding discussion, are
equally applicable to railroad stocks as well as speculative bonds.
11 See footnote p. 160.
12 For segregations of this kind see the figures relating to the various mortgage liens of Chicago

and North Western for the year 1937. That road’s first reorganization plan (dated 1936) based
its treatment of the different issues on their relative prices in a preceding period, but this was
superseded by the more accurate determination of relative value. Similar data were made the
basis of the treatment of the bonds of Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific, as explained in its
reorganization plan, dated July 15, 1936. Note, however, the special treatment sought to be
accorded St. Paul and Kansas City Short Line 41/2 s, for reasons other than operating results.

12_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 171

Fixed-value Investments

[171]

PUBLIC-UTILITY BOND ANALYSIS
The popularity of public-utility securities between 1926 and 1929
resulted in an enormous increase in the amount of such financing, but
this increased quantity was accompanied by a definite retrogression in
the standards of quality and in the methods of presentation employed
by the issuing houses. Investment bankers, including some of the highest reputation, followed entirely indefensible practices in their offering
circulars, in order to make the issues appear safer than they actually
were. Of these objectionable devices, the most important were: (1) the
application of the term “public utility” to industrial operations; (2) the
use of the prior-deductions method of stating the earnings coverage; and
(3) the ignoring of depreciation in calculating the net earnings available
for bond interest.

1. Abuse of the Term “Public Utility.” Just what constitutes a public-utility enterprise may be the subject of some controversy. In its strict
definition it would be any enterprise supplying an essential service to the
public, subject to the terms of a franchise and to continuous regulation
by the state. (While steam railroads are in fact a public-utility undertaking, it is convenient and customary to place them in a separate category.)
From the investment standpoint, the most important idea associated with
a public utility is that of stability, based first upon the rendering of an
indispensable (and generally exclusive) service to a large number of customers, and, secondly, upon the legal right to charge a rate of compensation sufficient to yield a fair return on the invested capital.
It must be borne in mind that this stability is relative rather than
absolute, since it is not immune from basic changes or unexpected vicissitudes. Twenty years ago the leading type of utility was the street railway; but this industry is now subject to such severe competition from
other forms of local transportation that in most communities it is not
practicable to set the fare high enough to return reasonable earnings on
the actual investment. Furthermore, during the war inflation period of
1918–1920 the light and power companies suffered keenly from rising
labor and material costs together with difficulties and delays in obtaining permission to advance rates proportionately. These hardships had
for a time an adverse effect upon the popularity of all utility investments, but the subsequent brilliant expansion of both gross and net

12_Graham_Dodd

[172]

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 172

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

earnings of gas, electric, water and telephone companies speedily
restored their securities to favor.
It is to three of these services, viz., gas, electric and telephone, that the
utility investments of savings banks are restricted by the New York statute.
We have remarked previously (page 172 in sixth edition text) that this
category may properly be widened to include companies supplying water
to communities of substantial size.
Pseudo-utilities. But in the heyday of public-utility-bond flotations,
this popular label was used by banking houses to promote the sale of
many issues which partook only partially at best of the true character of
public utilities and which may well be stigmatized as “pseudo-utilities.”
Companies selling ice, operating taxicabs or owning cold-storage plants
became suddenly “affected with a public interest” to an extent permitting
them to bond themselves for the major portion of their property investment and to sell these bonds to investors as public-utility securities. In
most instances the enterprises so financed represented a combination of
small gas, electric or telephone establishments with the ice or cold-storage business, in such a way as to confuse or mislead the public as to the
true nature of the investment offered. An outstanding and unfortunate
precedent for this hybrid form of organization was set many years ago by
the Cities Service Company, which combined a large bona fide publicutility network with an equally large venture in the production, refining,
and marketing of oil.
Natural Gas. The period preceding the 1929 crash was marked also
by the sudden transmutation of natural gas from a branch of the oil
industry into “one of the country’s leading public utilities.” Up to that
time, natural gas had been used mainly as industrial fuel and as raw
material for the production of gasolines and carbon black. Improvements
in pipe-line construction permitted the transport of this gas over long
distances to urban centers where it replaced considerable quantities of
manufactured gas. Promoters and banking houses were quick to exploit
the popular appeal of this new “utility”; and by the use of this designation an enormous total of natural-gas bond financing was successfully
foisted on the public. As in the case of the ice plants, considerable
recourse was had to the device of combining a natural-gas development
with small bona fide utility properties. In many cases, the sale of these
bonds under the guise of public-utility investments was a gross abuse of

12_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 173

Fixed-value Investments

[173]

the public confidence, because the bulk of the natural-gas output was
being taken for manufacturing use and the business was subject to all
the hazards of the fuel industry.13
The above exposition should make it plain that there are utilities and
“utilities,” and that investors must not take stability for granted because
an issue is marketed under this popular title. In particular they should
shun these hybrid mixtures of electric or telephone services with industrial activities, because at bottom every such combination represents an
attempt to sail under false colors.14

2. Use of the Prior-deductions Method of Calculating Coverage. We have already indicated (pages 129–131 in Chap. 9) the fallacy
involved in the calculation of interest coverage after the deduction of prior
charges. This deceptive method seems now to have been abandoned, but
the investor should be on his guard against its return. Furthermore, as we
point out in Chap. 15 (see sixth edition text), the practice, still continued,
of stating earnings on investment preferred stocks as so many dollars per
share, without reference to prior-interest charges, is in essence identical
with the prior-deductions method of stating interest coverage.

3. Omission of Depreciation Charges in Calculating Coverage. No satisfactory reason can be advanced for the formerly widespread failure of the bond-offering circulars to deduct the depreciation
allowance before computing the interest coverage. Depreciation is a real
and vital element in the operating expense of a public utility. In the case
of the typical well-established company, a good part of the annualdepreciation reserve is actually expended for the renewal of worn-out
or obsolete equipment, so that it cannot be claimed that depreciation is
a mere bookkeeping concept which need not be taken seriously. There
is naturally room for a divergence of opinion with respect to the proper
amount of depreciation to charge in any situation; but if proper attention were given to the extremely important element of obsolescence, it
is hardly likely that the allowance made by the typical holding company
13 Hamilton Gas Company was an example of a business almost entirely industrial in character but financed on a public-utility basis. Result: bankruptcy and an appalling shrinkage in
security values.
14 See Appendix Note 25, p. 758, for examples.

12_Graham_Dodd

[174]

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 174

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

will be found excessive, and in fact it is more likely to understate the
true depreciation.15
In the writers’ opinion, the cavalier omission of depreciation charges
in the statement of earnings applicable to bond interest comes perilously
close to outright misrepresentation of the facts.16 A device fully as misleading is illustrated by the offering in 1924 of Cities Service Power and
Light Company 6s, due in 1944. In this case, the indenture was so drawn
as to require a minimum charge for depreciation and maintenance
amounting to much less than the sums actually expended and reserved
by the various operating subsidiaries. In the bond prospectus the earnings were stated after deductions for depreciation “assumed at rates in the
Indenture securing these bonds,” which in plain language meant that the
true depreciation was greatly understated in calculating the margin of
safety behind the bond issue.17 This piece of financing is commented on
further below.

Recommended Procedure. It is emphatically recommended that the
intending purchaser of a public-utility bond issue make sure that a normal depreciation charge has been deducted from earnings, before he
accepts the reported statement of interest coverage. Based upon the
reports of many such companies, it would seem that an allowance
amounting to less than 10% of gross may be viewed with suspicion as
probably inadequate. In fact, the conservatively minded might be justified in applying a minimum figure of 12% of gross. Depreciation actually
accrues, of course, as a percentage of the property account and not of the
15 See the pungent comments on this head by William Z. Ripley, Main Street and Wall Street,

pp. 172–175 and 333–336, especially the latter, Boston, 1927. See also Chap. 35 of the text for
a further discussion of utility depreciation charges.
16 This pernicious practice is encouraged, however, by the loosely drawn provisions govern-

ing investments by saving banks in public-utility bonds in various states, which apply the
earnings test before deducting depreciation. In Vermont, for example, depreciation is
deducted in determining the net income of telephone companies, but not in the case of gas,
electric, water, and traction companies. See Appendix Note 26, p. 758, for comments by
various committees of the Investment Bankers Association of America with respect to the
manner of handling depreciation charges in bond circulars.
17 This company and others, once using the indenture basis of charging depreciation in their
bond-offering circulars and even their annual reports, have nearly all given up that objectionable policy. However, the prospectus of Alabama Gas Company, dated Sept. 15, 1936,
calculates the provision for retirements on the indenture basis.

12_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 175

Fixed-value Investments

[175]

revenues. But since there is a fairly constant relationship between the
investment and the gross receipts (about $4 of property for $1 of revenue)
the adequacy of the depreciation allowance may be conveniently judged
by reference to the gross revenues.
Examples Showing Need for Critical Examination of Offering Circular.
The following actual example illustrates in rather extreme fashion the
practices formerly followed in bankers’ circulars offering public-utility
bonds.
Utilities Service Company Convertible Debenture 61/2 s, due 1938,
offered in 1928 at 99 1/2, yielding 6.55%. The presentation in the offering
circular may be summarized as follows:
Amount of issue . . . . .$3,000,000
Business . . . . . . . . . . . .Operates 20 telephone companies and 4 ice companies.
Value of property . . . . .$12,500,000 after depreciation, equal to $1,650 per $1,000 bond after
deducting prior obligations.
Earnings

Year Ended
May 31, 1928
Gross . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $3,361,000
Net before depreciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
969,000
Prior deductions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
441,000
Balance for debentures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
528,000
Interest on debentures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
195,000
Balance for stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
333,000
“Balance as above is equal to 2.71 times interest on this issue.”

Criticism of This Offering Circular.
1. The business is a combination of utility (telephone) and industrial
(ice) operations, but it is bonded more heavily than a 100% utility enterprise could safely stand, the total debt being 84% of the appraised property value. The proportion of gross and net contributed by the ice
business is not stated and must therefore be assumed to be substantial.18
2. The omission of the depreciation charge from the earnings statement is so misleading as to appear almost fraudulent. Depreciation
18 Figures subsequently published show that the ice business made up more than half of the
total business.

12_Graham_Dodd

[176]

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 176

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

reserves by telephone companies absorb a large percentage of gross
receipts. In the case of the American Telephone and Telegraph System
this percentage averages about 15%,19 and the same deduction was actually made by the chief subsidiary of the Utilities Service Company (Lima
Telephone Company). If depreciation at the rate of 15% of gross is
charged against the total revenue, the amount so to be deducted would
be $500,000, and would leave practically no earnings available for the
debenture interest. In other words, instead of covering the debenture interest 2.71 times as stated, the company would be failing to earn the interest charges by a large deficit.
The ice operations would carry a smaller depreciation charge than 15%
of gross, but this advantage should be offset by the greater margin of safety
required for an industrial business. Furthermore, if the net valuation of
$12,500,000 placed on the property is accepted, then in any event the
annual depreciation deduction should not be less than 4% or $500,000.
3. The calculation of interest coverage in the circular made by the
prior-deductions method would indicate that the debentures were better
protected than the prior liens. (They “earned their interest” 2.71 times,
while senior interest was covered 2.20 times.)
Assuming a low depreciation charge of $300,000 per annum, and presenting the interest deductions properly, the exhibit of this bond offering
should be restated as follows:
Gross . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $3,361,000
Net before depreciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
969,000
Depreciation (estimated) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
300,000
Balance for interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
669,000
Total interest charges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
636,000
Balance for dividends . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
33,000
Interest charges earned. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.05 times

4. The statement that there was $1,650 of property value behind each
$1,000 debenture is based upon a similarly misleading method. The
aggregate bonded debt was $10,500,000 against $12,500,000 of appraised
19 There is some evidence (in court decisions and the 1939 report of the Federal Communi-

cations Commission) that the depreciation charges of American Telephone and Telegraph
have been overliberal, but this would hardly affect our reasoning as above.

12_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 177

Fixed-value Investments

[177]

value, so that the appraisal showed only $1,190 of value behind each
$1,000 of total debt.20
Another example: It may be illuminating also to make a similar critical examination of the advertisement offering Cities Service Power and
Light Company Secured 6s, due 1944, at 96 to yield 6.35%, as published
in April 1926. The earnings data covering the calendar year 1925 were
presented substantially as follows:
Gross, including other income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $49,662,000
Net after operating expenses and taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19,096,000
Deduct:
Fixed charges and preferred dividends of subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,102,000
Depreciation (“assumed at rates in the indenture securing
these bonds”) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,574,000
Minority interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
209,000
Income applicable to interest of Cities Service Power and Light . . . . . . . . . 7,211,000
Interest on this issue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,466,000

“Income applicable to interest charges, as shown above, was over 4.9
times maximum annual interest requirements on Series A bonds of
$1,466,250, and over 4.1 times maximum annual interest charges of
$1,736,250 on all outstanding funded debt of Cities Service Power and
Light Company.”
This circular was misleading in two important respects: first in
employing the prior-deductions method for computing the earnings
coverage on the bonds offered; and secondly, in using an artificial and
quite inadequate basis of depreciation. A study of the application to list
this issue on the New York Stock Exchange shows that the operating
subsidiaries actually made appropriations for replacements amounting
to $5,214,000 for the year ending June 30, 1925. This was almost four
times the arbitrary rates set up in the indenture. A revision of the offering circular, to conform with the actual situation in respect to depreciation, and with the proper method of stating interest coverage, will show
the following exhibit:

20 In 1932 the Utilities Service Company went into receivership and the debenture bondholders lost their entire investment.

12_Graham_Dodd

[178]

11/15/08

10:36 AM

Page 178

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Gross . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $49,662,000
Net, after minority interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18,887,000
Depreciation for year ending June 30, 1925 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5,214,000
Balance for ﬁxed charges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13,673,000
Interest and preferred dividends of subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,102,000
Interest charges of parent company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,736,000
Total ﬁxed charges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11,838,000
Balance for parent company dividends . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,835,000
Fixed charges earned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.16 times

This showing is very different indeed from a coverage of 4.1 or 4.9
times interest as indicated in the offering circular.

Deduction of Federal Taxes in Computing Interest Coverage.
The federal income tax is imposed upon profits after subtracting interest
paid. Hence earnings available for interest should properly be shown
before deducting the federal tax. In corporate reports to stockholders it
is customary to reverse this order, and in many cases the amount of the
tax is not shown. But in analyzing the exhibit of a bond issue, it should
not be necessary to revise the income statements by adding back the federal taxes, actual or estimated. The reason is that the result produced by
such revision can very rarely make enough difference to affect the apparent eligibility of the bond issue for investment. Furthermore, the error,
such as it is, lies on the side of understatement—which is by no means
objectionable in the selection of investment bonds. In general, the analyst should refrain from elaborate computations or adjustments which are
not needed to arrive at the conclusion he is seeking.
In bond-offering circulars, the income available for interest is usually
stated before deduction of federal tax, in order to make the best showing
permissible. This cannot properly be objected to, except sometimes in the
case of offerings of bond issues of public-utility holding companies. Such
bonds are usually junior to the preferred stocks of subsidiary companies,
and the federal tax must be computed and deducted before these dividends are paid. Hence, objection may fairly be leveled against a presentation such as was made in the offering circular of Cities Service Power
and Light Debenture 51/2 s in November 1927, wherein the earnings applicable for interest on the holding company’s bonds were stated before
deducting federal taxes of the system.

13_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:37 AM

Page 179

Chapter 13

OTHER SPECIAL FACTORS
IN BOND ANALYSIS

“Parent Company Only” vs. Consolidated Return. Both bondoffering circulars and annual reports almost invariably present the earnings statement of a public-utility holding-company system in a consolidated
form, i.e., they start with the gross revenues of the operating subsidiaries
and carry the figures down through operating expenses, depreciation, fixed
charges, and preferred dividends of subsidiaries, until they arrive at the balance available for the parent company’s interest charges, and finally at the
amount earned on its common stock. There is also published, largely as a
matter of form, the income account of the parent company only, which
starts with the dividends received by it from the operating subsidiaries and
therefore does not show the latter’s interest and preferred dividend payments to the public. The interest coverage shown by the income account
of the parent company only is an example of the prior-deductions method,
and consequently it will almost always make a better showing for the parent company’s bonds than will be found in the consolidated report. The
investor should pay no attention to the “parent company only” figures and
insist upon a completely consolidated income account.
Example: The following example will illustrate this point:
STANDARD GAS AND ELECTRIC SYSTEM, 1931

Item
Gross revenues
Balance for ﬁxed charges
Fixed charges
Balance for parent-company stocks
Fixed charges earned

“Parent company only”

Consolidated results

$16,790,000
16,514,000
4,739,000
11,775,000
3.48 times

$159,070,000
57,190,000
42,226,000
14,964,000
1.36 times

[179]

13_Graham_Dodd

[180]

11/15/08

10:37 AM

Page 180

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The parent company did not receive in dividends the full amount earned
by its subsidiaries, but even with this smaller income the prior-deductions
method results in a much larger indicated coverage for the parent-company
bond interest on the basis of its own results than on a consolidated basis.

Dividends on Preferred Stocks of Subsidiaries. In a holding-company system the preferred stocks of the important operating subsidiaries
are in effect senior to the parent company’s bonds, since interest on the latter is met chiefly out of dividends paid on the subsidiaries’ common stocks.
For this reason subsidiary preferred dividends are always included in the
fixed charges of a public-utility holding-company system. In other words,
these fixed charges consist of the following items, in order of seniority:
1. Subsidiaries’ bond interest.
2. Subsidiaries’ preferred dividends.
3. Parent company’s bond interest.

This statement assumes that all the subsidiary companies are of substantially the same relative importance to the system. An individual subsidiary which happens to be unprofitable may discontinue preferred
dividends and even bond interest, while at the same time the earnings of
the other subsidiaries may permit the parent company to continue its own
interest and dividend payments. In such a case, which is somewhat exceptional, the unprofitable subsidiary’s charges are not really senior to the parent company’s securities. This point is discussed at the end of Chap. 17
(see sixth edition text).
The fixed charges should also properly include any annual rentals paid
for leased property which are equivalent to bond interest or guaranteed
dividends. In the majority of holding-company reports this practice is
followed (e.g., Public Service Corporation of New Jersey).
The holder of preferred shares of an important operating subsidiary
has to all intents and purposes a claim which is as fixed and enforceable
on the system’s earnings as have the owners of the parent company’s
bonds. But if the parent company becomes insolvent, then the owners of
the underlying preferred issues no longer occupy the strategic position
of bondholder, since they cannot compel the operating subsidiary to continue paying its preferred dividends.
Example: New York Water Service Corporation Preferred may be cited
as an example. The company is an operating subsidiary of Federal Water
Service Corporation, which in turn was a subsidiary of Tri-Utilities

13_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:37 AM

Page 181

Fixed-value Investments

[181]

Corporation. Dividends on this issue and on Federal Water Service
Preferred ranked as fixed charges of the Tri-Utilities system. When the
latter company was unable to meet interest on its debentures and went
into receivership in August, 1931, dividends on these underlying preferred issues were promptly discontinued, although both were apparently
earned and the income of New York Water Service Corporation actually
showed an increase over the previous year.

Minority Interest in Common Stock of Subsidiaries. The earnings applicable to minority stock are usually deducted in the income statement after the parent company’s bond interest, and hence the former item
does not reduce the margin of safety as generally computed. We prefer to
subtract the minority interest before calculating the interest coverage. Exact
treatment would require a prorating of deductions, but this involves needlessly burdensome calculations. When the minority interest is small, as is
true in most cases, the difference between the various methods is inconsequential. When the minority interest is fairly large, analysis will show
that the customary procedure gives a margin of safety somewhat higher
than is strictly accurate, whereas our method errs moderately in the opposite direction, and hence should be preferred by conservative investors.1
“Capitalization of Fixed Charges,” for Railroads and Utilities.
In the previous chapter we pointed out certain difficulties in the way of
arriving at a fair statement of the ratio of stock to debt in the case of railroads and public utilities. Debt may be represented not only by bond
issues but also by guaranteed stocks, annual rental obligations, and effectively also by nonguaranteed preferred stocks of operating subsidiaries.
In computing the interest coverage these items are taken care of by using
the omnibus figure of fixed charges, instead of merely the bond interest.
The principal amount of all these obligations is usually stated quite clearly
in the consolidated balance sheet of a public-utility enterprise; but this
may not be true in the case of a railroad company, chiefly because its
rental obligations are not likely to be reflected in the balance sheet.
We suggest, therefore, that the “true” or “effective” debt of a railroad
may be calculated by multiplying the fixed charges by an appropriate
figure, say 22. This is equivalent to capitalizing the fixed charges at an
assumed rate of 41/2%—in other words, to assuming that the true debt is
1 See Appendix, Note 27, p. 759, for a calculation under the three methods applied to the
report of United Light and Railways Company for 1938.

13_Graham_Dodd

[182]

11/15/08

10:37 AM

Page 182

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

that figure, 41/2% on which will produce the annual fixed charges. (The
41/2% figure reflects the actual current interest rate carried by railroad
indebtedness as a whole in 1938.)2
Technique Illustrated. We have suggested that the earnings coverage
for railroads be applied to either the Net Deductions or the Fixed Charges
(as previously defined), whichever are larger. In the same way the larger
of these two items should be used as the base for computing the principal amount of the road’s “effective debt.” The technique to be followed is
illustrated herewith:
Examples:
New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad
A. Net deductions (1932) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 18,511,000
B. Fixed charges (1932). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17,403,000
Net deductions capitalized at 41/2% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $408,000,000
(Funded debt shown on balance sheet—$258,000,000)
Preferred stock: 490,000 sh. @ 50 (July 1933). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 24,500,000
Common stock: 1,570,000 sh. @ 22 (July 1933) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34,500,000
Total market value of stock issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 59,000,000
Stock-to-bond ratio—1 to 6–9
Net deductions earned, 1932 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0.93 times
Net deductions earned, 7-yr. average. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.57 times
Chesapeake and Ohio Railway
A. Net deductions (1932) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 9,870,000
B. Fixed charges (1932). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,760,000
Fixed charges, capitalized at 41/2% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $239,000,000
Bonded debt shown on balance sheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 222,000,000
Common stock: 7,650,000 sh. @ 38 (July 1933) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 291,000,000
Stock-to-bond ratio—1 to .82 (i.e., $1 of stock to 82 cents of bonds)
Fixed charges earned, 1932. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.21 times
Fixed charges earned, 7-yr. average . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.80 times

Conclusions Based on Foregoing. The “effective debt” of the New
Haven was computed from the net deductions (which are larger than the
fixed charges, because they include a substantial debit for equipment
rentals, etc.). This effective debt is considerably more than that shown in

2 In the few instances in which a public utility shows rental payments not reflected in the bal-

ance sheet, it would be sufficient to capitalize such a rental at, say 41/2% and add this value to
the senior security total.

13_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:37 AM

Page 183

Fixed-value Investments

[183]

the balance sheet. With the preferred and common stocks together selling in July 1933 for less than a sixth of the true debt, it is evident that the
bonds had an insufficient stock equity at the time. If the prospects were
considered favorable there might be good reason to buy the common
stock for larger capital appreciation. But no such possibility attached to
the 6% bonds selling at 92, and consequently the purchase of this issue
could not be supported by sound analysis.
The Chesapeake and Ohio exhibit, on the other hand, supplies a
stock-value ratio which fully confirms the satisfactory showing of the
earnings coverage. If the investor were satisfied with the prospects of this
road, he would then be justified in buying its bonds (e.g., the Refunding
and Improvement 41/2s selling at 921/2) since these meet both quantitative tests in satisfactory fashion.

THE WORKING-CAPITAL FACTOR IN THE
ANALYSIS OF INDUSTRIAL BONDS
For reasons already explained, a company’s statement of its fixed assets
will not ordinarily carry much weight in determining the soundness of
its bonds. But the current-asset position has an important bearing upon
the financial strength of nearly all industrial enterprises, and consequently the intending bond purchaser should give it close attention. It is
true that industrial bonds which meet the stringent tests already prescribed will in nearly every instance be found to make a satisfactory
working-capital exhibit as well, but a separate check is nevertheless desirable in order to guard against the exceptional case.
Current assets (termed also “liquid,” “quick,” or “working” assets)
include cash, marketable securities, receivables, and merchandise inventory.3 These items are either directly equivalent to cash, or are expected
to be turned into cash, through sale or collection, in the ordinary course
of business. To conduct its operations effectively, an industrial enterprise
must possess a substantial excess of current assets over current liabilities,
the latter being all debts payable within a short term. This excess is called
the working capital, or the net current assets.
3 Some authorities exclude inventories from “quick assets,” but include them in “current
assets.” This distinction is useful, and we suggest that it be adopted as standard. It has been
followed in the S.E.C.-W.P.A. “Census of American Listed Corporations,” a series of studies
published in 1938–1940.

13_Graham_Dodd

[184]

11/15/08

10:37 AM

Page 184

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Three Requisites with Respect to Working Capital. In examining the current-asset situation, an industrial bond buyer should satisfy
himself on three counts, viz.:
1. That the cash holdings are ample.
2. That the ratio of current assets to current liabilities is a strong one.
3. That the working capital bears a suitable proportion to the funded debt.

It is not feasible to fix definite minimum requirements for any one of
these three factors, especially since the normal working-capital situation
varies widely with different types of enterprise. It is generally held that
current assets should be at least double the current liabilities, and a
smaller ratio would undoubtedly call for further investigation. We suggest an additional standard requirement for the ordinary industrial company, viz., that the working capital be at least equal to the amount of the
bonded debt. This is admittedly an arbitrary criterion, and in some cases
it may prove unduly severe. But it is interesting to note that in the case of
every one of the industrial issues which maintained their investment rank
marketwise throughout 1932, as listed on page 160n in sixth edition text,
the working capital exceeded the total of bonds.4
In contrast with the emphasis laid upon the current-asset position of
industrial concerns, relatively little attention has been paid to the working
capital shown by railroads, and none at all to that of public utilities. The
reason for this is twofold. Neither railways nor utilities have the problem
of financing the production and carrying of merchandise stocks or of
extending large credits to customers. Furthermore, these companies have
been accustomed to raising new capital periodically for expansion purposes, in the course of which they readily replenish their cash account if
depleted. Because new financing is easily obtainable by prosperous companies of this type, even an excess of current liabilities over quick assets
has not been considered a serious matter. Recent experience indicates the
desirability of substantial cash holdings by a railroad to meet emergency
developments, and the bond buyer might do well to favor those public utilities also which maintain a comfortable working-capital position.
4 General Baking reached this position during 1932. Including General Baking, 13 of the 18
companies showed cash assets alone exceeding their funded debt. Certain types of industrials—e.g., baking, ice and restaurant concerns—normally require a relatively small amount of
working capital in relation to total assets and business. For such businesses, the 100% net
current-asset coverage requirement for bonds would be overstringent. See our later discussion of indenture provisions requiring maintenance of working capital as a protection for
bond issues (Chap. 19 in sixth edition text).

14_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:38 AM

Page 185

Chapter 14

THE THEORY OF PREFERRED STOCKS

THAT THE TYPICAL preferred stock represents an unattractive form of
investment contract is hardly open to question. On the one hand, its principal value and income return are both limited; on the other hand, the
owner has no fixed, enforceable claim to payment of either principal or
income. It may be said that preferred stocks combine the limitations of
creditorship (bonds) with the hazards of partnership (common stocks).
Yet despite these strong theoretical objections, the preferred stock has
developed into a major factor in our financial scheme, and has evidently
succeeded in commending itself to the American investor. In 1939 there
were about 420 different preferred issues listed on the New York Stock
Exchange as against some 830 common stocks. In 1929 the value of the
listed preferred shares exceeded 81/2 billion dollars and was about half as
great as that of listed corporation bonds.1

The Verdict of the Market Place. In the subsequent market collapse,
the price of these shares suffered a drastic shrinkage, an experience that
was repeated on a smaller scale in 1937–1938. The following comparative figures tell an interesting story:
AVERAGE OF ALL LISTED ON THE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

Type of security

High
price
1929

Low
price
1932

High
price
1937

Low
Price
1938

Price
Dec. 30,
1939

United States corporate bonds
Preferred stocks
Common stocks

95.33
84.99
89.94

52.68
25.38
10.59

90.89
75.15
43.29

65.82
46.50
20.44

74.60
61.55
30.16

1 At the end of 1939 the value of all listed preferred shares was about $6,250,000,000, compared

with about $14,250,000,000 for all listed corporation bonds (New York Stock Exchange totals).

[185]

14_Graham_Dodd

[186]

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 186

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

These figures establish the fact that, although both bonds and preferred stocks have shown themselves vulnerable to adverse conditions,
there can be no doubt that preferred stocks as a whole are subject to the
greater percentage decline. Certainly a contrast exists between the theoretical weakness plus the unsatisfactory performance of preferred
stocks, on the one hand, and their widespread popular acceptance, on
the other. A thoroughgoing analysis would seem to be called for, in order
to determine the true merits of preferred shares as a practical medium
of investment.

Basic Difference between Preferred Stocks and Bonds. The
essential difference between preferred stocks and bonds is that payment
of preferred dividends is entirely discretionary with the directors, whereas
payment of bond interest is compulsory. Preferred dividends must indeed
be paid as long as any disbursements are being made on the common
shares; but since directors have the power to suspend common dividends
at any time the preferred stockholder’s right to income is at bottom an
entirely contingent one. However, if a company’s earnings are regularly
far in excess of preferred-dividend requirements, payment is usually
made as a matter of course; and in such instances, the absence of an
enforceable claim to dividends does not seem to be of real importance.
This explains the existence of a relatively small number of high-grade preferred issues which are considered equivalent in quality to sound bonds
and sell at comparable prices.
At the opposite extreme are the cases in which corporations are
unable to pay anything, whether it be on bonds or on preferred stock.
In such situations the bondholder’s legal right to receive interest results
not in payment but in bankruptcy. As we have previously pointed out,
the practical value of this remedy is doubtful, and in most instances
it may fairly be said that the position of a bond in default is little
better than that of a nondividend-paying preferred stock without bonds
ahead of it.
At both extremes therefore, the contractual superiority of bonds over
preferred stocks is not of substantial value. This fact has led many
investors to believe that as a general rule the bond form has no real advantage over the preferred stock form. Their line of reasoning runs: “If the
company is good, its preferred stock is as good as a bond; and if the company is bad, its bonds are as bad as a preferred stock.”

14_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 187

Fixed-value Investments

[187]

Weakness Because of the Discretionary Right to Omit Dividends.
This point of view is highly inexact, because it fails to take into account the
wide middle region occupied by companies neither unqualifiedly “good”
nor unqualifiedly “bad,” but subject to variations and uncertainties in either
direction. If it could be assumed that directors will always pay preferred dividends when possible (and hence will suspend payment only under conditions which would compel default of interest if the issue were a bond), then
even in the intermediate situations the preferred stockholder’s status would
not be greatly inferior to the bondholder’s. But in actual fact this is not the
case, because directors frequently exercise their discretion to withhold preferred dividends when payment is by no means impossible but merely
inconvenient or inexpedient. It is considered an approved financial policy
to sacrifice the preferred stockholder’s present income to what he is told is
his future welfare; in other words, to retain cash available for dividends in
the treasury to meet future emergencies or even for future expansion.
Even if it be conceded that such a practice may ultimately be advantageous to the preferred stockholder, the fact remains that it subjects his
income to a hazard not present in the case of a similarly situated bond. If
such a hazard is at all substantial, it automatically disqualifies the preferred issue as a fixed-value investment, because it is the essence of such
investments that the income must be considered entirely dependable.
Stating the point more concretely, any preferred stock subject to a real
danger of dividend reduction or suspension will fluctuate widely in
market value. It is a point worth noting that in all cases where the dividend could be continued, but instead is withheld “for the sake of the
stockholders’ future advantage,” the quoted price suffers a severe decline,
indicating that the investment market does not agree with the directors
as to what is really in the best interests of the preferred stockholders.

Conflicts of Interest. Nearly every investor would rather have his
income continued, even at possible risk to the future of the business. There
is evidently a basic disagreement, amounting almost to a logical contradiction, between what the investor considers to be his individual advantage (viz., the continuance of his income at all costs) and what he seems
willing to admit may be sound corporate policy (viz., the suspension of
dividends for the sake of the future). In this connection, the question of a
possible conflict of interest between the preferred and the common stockholders is of undoubted importance. Withholding preferred dividends

14_Graham_Dodd

[188]

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 188

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

may be of distinct advantage to the common stock. The directors are
legally required to represent the interests of all stockholders impartially,
but since in fact they are most often elected by the common stockholders
they tend to act primarily in the latter’s behalf. Directors have also grown
accustomed to consider the interests of the enterprise itself, as an entity
apart from the interests of its owners—i.e., the stockholders—and they
frequently pursue policies with the apparent purpose and result of
strengthening the corporation at the actual expense of its proprietors. This
paradoxical viewpoint may perhaps be explained in part by the customary close connection between corporate directors and the salary-drawing
officers.2

Form of Preferred Contract Often Entails Real Disadvantage.
Whatever the reason or justification may be, the fact remains that preferred stockholders are subject to the danger of interruption of dividend
payments under conditions which would not seriously threaten the payment of bond interest. This means that the form of the preferred stockholder’s contract will often entail a real disadvantage.
Example: A striking illustration of this fact is afforded by the case of
United States Steel Corporation Preferred, which is probably the largest
senior stock issue in the world, and was for many years thoroughly representative of those preferred shares which enjoyed a high investment rating. In 1931—although the depression was well advanced—this issue sold
at a price to yield only 4.67%, and it was thought to occupy an impregnable position as a result of the accumulation of enormous sums out of
the earnings during the preceding 30 years and their application to the
improvement of manufacturing facilities, the enlargement of working
capital, and the retirement of nearly all the bonded debt. Yet immediately
thereafter, a single year of operating losses jeopardized the preferred dividend to such an extent as to destroy nearly two-thirds of its market price
and undermine completely its standing as a prime investment. In the
following year the dividend was reduced to $2 annually.
These disastrous developments were due, of course, to the unprecedented losses of 1932–1933. But if it had not been for the weakness of the
preferred stock form, the holder of these shares would have had little reason
to fear the discontinuance of his income. In other words, if he had possessed
2 See our further discussion of this point in Chap. 44 (see sixth edition text) on Stockholdermanagement Relationships.

14_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 189

Fixed-value Investments

[189]

a fixed claim for interest instead of a contingent claim for dividends, he could
have relied with confidence on the corporation’s enormous resources to take
care of its obligations. In support of this contention, a brief comparison is
appended of the market action of Inland Steel 4 1/2 s (previously discussed)
with that of United States Steel Preferred.

U.S. Steel Pfd.
Period
High price, 1931
Low price, 1932
High price, Jan. 1933

Price
150
511/2
67

Yield, %
4.67
13.59
10.45

Inland Steel 41/2%
bonds, due 1978
Price
973/4
61
81

Yield, %
4.62
7.54
5.67

Both of these issues were subject to the same adverse business conditions, but the contractual weakness of United States Steel Preferred was
responsible for the loss of an investment position which the Inland bonds
were able to retain without serious difficulty (except for a brief period of
utter demoralization in the bond market).

Voting Rights a Potential Safeguard but Generally Ineffective.
The contractual weakness of preferred stocks as compared with bonds
might be greatly reduced if preferred stockholders were to exercise effective voting control over the enterprise as soon as either dividends or sinking-fund were suspended. We shall point out in our later chapters on
protective provisions that such voting control, properly exercised, might
constitute the best protective and remedial arrangement for both bonds
and preferred stock. This would imply that, given suitable protective provisions intelligently availed of, the practical position of bondholders and
preferred shareholders would not be significantly different. In our opinion, a good part of the present very real inferiority of preferred stocks to
bonds is ascribable to the failure of preferred stockholders either to obtain
voting control promptly or to exercise it intelligently, after dividends are
suspended. However, our analysis of the investment status of preferred
stocks must be predicated on the undoubted fact that, with conditions as
they are, the individual holder of preferred shares cannot rely upon his
voting rights to achieve full protection of his interests.

Yield and Risk. Returning to the actual performance of preferred
issues in the last decade, their unsatisfactory record as a class may well

14_Graham_Dodd

[190]

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 190

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

raise the question if they should not be completely avoided as a medium
of fixed-value investment. But in rebuttal it may be pointed out that a
small number of preferred issues maintained an investment rating even
at the worst moments of 1932, and a much larger number during the
severe recession of 1938. The proponents of preferred shares will contend, moreover, that under normal variations in business conditions the
higher yield of this group will compensate for such inferiority as exists in
their safety as compared with bonds. This is an argument which always
appeals to the investor in good times, when the increased income is an
actuality and the risk to principal seems a remote contingency. In bad
times there is perhaps an opposite disposition to consider only the shrinkage of principal suffered and to forget about the higher income received
in the years preceding.
To present a broader view of this question, we revert to our previous
discussion of bonds with varying degrees of safety, in which we arrived
at the principle that risk and income return are at bottom incommensurable. If this statement is valid for bonds, it must apply with equal force
to preferred stocks. This means that it is not sound procedure to purchase
a preferred stock at an investment price (e.g., close to par) when the presence of a substantial risk to principal is recognized, but when this risk is
expected to be offset by an attractive dividend return. It would follow
from this principle that the only preferred stock which can properly be
bought for investment would be one which in the purchaser’s opinion
carries no appreciable risk of dividend suspension.

Qualification of High-grade Preferred Stocks. What must be the
qualifications of such a preferred stock? In the first place, it must meet all
the minimum requirements of a safe bond. In the second place, it must
exceed these minimum requirements by a certain added margin to offset the discretionary feature in the payment of dividends; i.e., the margin
of safety must be so large that the directors may always be expected to
declare the dividend as a matter of course. Thirdly, the stipulation of
inherent stability in the business itself must be more stringent than in the
case of a bond investment, because a company subject to alternations
between large profits and temporary losses is likely to suspend preferred
dividends during the latter periods even though its average earnings may
far exceed the annual requirements.
The foregoing reasoning suggests conclusions that correspond to the
actual behavior of preferred shares in 1932–1933. These conclusions are,

14_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 191

Fixed-value Investments

[191]

not that preferred stocks must, per se, be excluded from the investment
category, but rather that such severe specific requirements must be
imposed upon them as to make the number of eligible issues comparatively small. The list shown on page 192 comprises all of the preferred
stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange which maintained a price
equal to a 7% return or less at all times during 1932 and 1933.3 There are
appended also, certain quantitative data bearing on the degree of safety
enjoyed by each of these issues.
Sound Preferred Issues Exceptions. This list of preferred stocks comprises only 5% of the total number of issues listed on the New York Stock
Exchange in 1932. This small percentage bears out our thesis that a sound
preferred stock, while not an impossibility, is an exceptional phenomenon.
It may be called exceptional not only in the numerical sense, but also from
a more theoretical standpoint. In practically every instance in the above
list, the preferred stock could have been replaced by a bond issue without
affecting in any material degree the soundness of the corporation’s capital
structure. This means that the company itself derived no important advantage through having preferred stock outstanding instead of bonds, and on
the other hand it suffered important disadvantages through income-tax liability and also because of the higher cost of its senior capital.4 Stating the
matter differently, in order that a preferred stock may be thoroughly sound,
the burden it imposes must be so light that the company may just as readily carry that burden in the form of a bond obligation.
We are led therefore, to the final conclusion that not only are sound
preferred stocks exceptional but in a certain sense they must be called
anomalies or mistakes, because they are preferred issues which should
really be outstanding as bonds. Hence the preferred stock form lacks basic
justification, from an investment standpoint, in that it does not offer
mutual advantages to both the issuer and the owner. Wherever the issuing business derives a real benefit from its discretionary right to suspend
dividends, then the owner does not possess a fixed-value investment. And
conversely, when the issue is a high-grade one, then the issuer derives no
such benefit.
3 We exclude Standard Oil Export Corporation 5% Preferred; Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and

Chicago Railway 7% Preferred and other guaranteed preferred issues, since they occupy
substantially the position of a debenture bond of the guarantor.
4 Bond interest is deductible from earnings before arriving at the profit subject to income
tax, but preferred dividends may not be so deducted.

0.60
6.00
5.00
5.00
7.00
5.00
4.00
7.00
6.00
6.00
7.00
6.00
6.00
6.00
7.00
5.00
7.00
7.00
6.00
7.00
6.00

105/3
1043/4
85
83
115
81
65
1132/3
951/4
94
110
901/2
90
90
101
721/2
100
100
851/2
991/2
85
5.6
5.7
5.9
6.0
6.1
6.2
6.2
6.2
6.3
6.4
6.4
6.6
6.7
6.7
6.9
6.9
7.0
7.0
7.0
7.0
7.06

Yield at
low price, %

Yes
No
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
No
No
Yes
No
No
No
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
No

Funded
debt

19.19
51.91
3.67
2.58
9.00
17.96‡
5.96
8.12
10.48§
39.50
18.00¶
2.92
17.25
8.46
11.31
2.92
7.06
5.63
1.96
6.90
13.58

Average
13.75
36.25
3.19
2.02
6.67
15.35‡
4.57
7.67
7.26§
(def.)
15.86
1.99
11.32
7.98
9.37
2.70
6.20
5.04
1.61
5.73
9.28

Minimum

[192]

3.08
2.55
4.76
0.70
2.09
1.65
0.72
2.18
2.62

**

*
†
8.42
4.59
0.69
2.61
3.87||
6.06
9.90

5.09
12.30

10:39 AM

* Not computed. All common stock owned by Philadelphia Company. No market.
† Not computed. All common stock owned by Public Service Company of New Jersey.
‡ Fiscal years ending June 30. Including year ended June 30, 1932, average would have been 14.75 and minimum 6.34.
§ Treating annual rental of $2,500,000 payable to Tobacco Products Corporation (N. J.) as an operating expense. Treating it as a ﬁxed charge, average would have been 6.33 and minimum 4.52.
|| Tobacco Products Corporation (N. J.) 61/2% bonds, due in 2022, secured by lease of brands to American Tobacco Company, not included with funded debt of the latter. Including this item as funded debt of American Tobacco the stock-value
ratio would be 2.31:1.
¶ Average for 21/2 years since organization of company.
** Not computed. All common stock owned by Continental Gas and Electric Corporation.

Rate in
dollars

Low price in
1932–1933

Ratio of lowest
market value
of common to
preferred and
bonds combined

11/15/08

General Electric (Par $10) (Cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eastman Kodak (Cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Duquesne Light (Cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Service Electric & Gas (Cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
United States Tobacco (Non-cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Procter & Gamble (2d Preferred) (Cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Norfolk & Western R.R. (Non-cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
G. W. Helme (Non-cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
American Tobacco (Cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ingersoll-Rand (Cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Standard Brands (Cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kansas City Power & Light (Cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Otis Elevator (Cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
American Snuff (Non-cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Biscuit (Cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consolidated Gas Co. of New York (Cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Liggett & Myers (Cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brown Shoe (Cum.) (Sinking Fund) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paciﬁc Telephone & Telegraph (Cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corn Products Reﬁning (Cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Island Creek Coal (Par $1) (Cum.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Name of company

Number of times preferred
dividends (and ﬁxed
charges) were earned
1927–1931

LISTED PREFERRED STOCKS WHICH MAINTAINED AN INVESTMENT PRICE-LEVEL THROUGHOUT 1932–1933

14_Graham_Dodd
Page 192

14_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 193

Fixed-value Investments

[193]

High-grade Preferred Stocks Usually Seasoned Issues. In support of the above conclusion, it should be observed that high-grade industrial preferred issues have almost always reached this position as the result
of many years of prosperous growth by the corporation after the preferred
stock was first created. Exceedingly few preferred shares are so strongly
entrenched at the time of original sale as to meet the stringent requirements needed for a full investment rating. For when a corporation is able
to make as strong a showing as we require, it will nearly always prefer to
do its financing through a relatively small bond issue, at a low interest
rate and with substantial income-tax saving. This does not apply to the
public-utility companies since, for reasons probably related to the “legal
investment” status of their bond issues, they prefer to carry a portion of
their senior financing in the form of stock. (Thus, four of the five highgrade utility preferred stocks included in the above list were floated in
recent years.) But the industrial preferred shares in this list present an
entirely different picture. Only one out of the 15 issues was actually sold
to the public within the past 20 years, and even this exception (Procter
and Gamble Company 5% Preferred) was floated to replace an older preferred issue at a lower dividend rate. The General Electric Company senior shares were the result of a stock-dividend plan, but the 13 other issues
originated long ago and owe their investment status to the prosperous
years which followed.
Preferred-stock Financing 1935–1938. Our view that the preferred
stock form lacks inherent logic must be advanced with the caveat that it
is not shared by investment bankers. New financing in recent years has
included a sizable number of preferred-stock offerings. Many of these
have been privileged issues (convertibles, etc.) and as such fall outside the
present discussion. But there have also been flotations of straight industrial preferreds—at least eight such new issues having been listed on the
New York Stock Exchange between 1935 and 1938.5 All but one of these
would have met our stringent tests of safety, and hence they could not
be objected to as insecure. But in our opinion they might just as well, or
better, have been floated as bonds.

5 These were issued by Champion Paper and Fibre, Continental Can, Du Pont, General
Foods, Loose-Wiles Biscuit, Monsanto Chemical, G. C. Murphy, Scott Paper.

14_Graham_Dodd

[194]

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 194

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Origin of the Popularity of Preferred Stocks. At the beginning
of this discussion, we referred to the prominent role that preferred
stocks have played in financing American corporations. But if our subsequent analysis is correct in concluding that this form of straight
investment is fundamentally unsound, it may be asked why this
unsoundness was not long ago convincingly demonstrated by the actual
experience of investors. The answer is that the great popularity of preferred stocks developed during a 15-year period which rather accidentally favored the typical preferred stockholder against the typical
bondholder. At the beginning of this period, just before the World War,
the majority of preferred stocks were industrial issues and most of these
were admittedly speculative in character, selling at substantial discounts
from par. The tremendous prosperity and growth of our larger enterprises during the war, and during the years subsequent to 1922, effected
a great improvement in the status and hence in the market price of
many of the leading industrial preferred stocks. Within the same time,
railroad and traction obligations, which constituted the main portion
of the bond list, were subjected to influences of a generally adverse
character. Investors, observing that the typical preferred stock was
behaving better than the typical bond, drew the natural but erroneous
inference that preferred stocks in general were intrinsically as sound
as bonds.

Poor Record Shown by Extensive Study of Preferred Issues.
More detailed investigation will show that the popularity of preferred
stocks rested upon the excellent performance of a comparatively small
number of old-established, and prominent industrial issues. During the
latter part of the period under review, the much more numerous new
flotations of industrial preferred stocks, sold on the strength of this very
popularity, did not fare so well. A study was made under the direction of
the Harvard School of Business Administration, covering all the new preferred-stock offerings from January 1, 1915 to January 1, 1920 which
ranked between $100,000 and $25,000,000 in size (607 issues in all). This
showed that the average price of 537 issues for which quotations were
obtainable on January 1, 1923, had declined to a figure 28.8% below the
original offering price (from 99 to 701/2), so that their purchasers had suffered a shrinkage in principal greater than the total income received. The

14_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 195

Fixed-value Investments

[195]

conclusions drawn from this inductive study were highly unfavorable to
preferred stocks as a form of straight investment.6

A More Recent Study. A more recent investigation published by the
Bureau of Business Research of the University of Michigan leads its
author to a quite different opinion.7 His “tests” of preferred stocks preceded by bond issues (both railroad and industrial) indicate clearly that
senior shares of this type do not offer a satisfactory medium of investment. But with respect to industrial preferred stocks not preceded by
bonds, the author’s tests bring him to the opposite conclusion. Of these,
he asserts that “they appear to meet the most exacting investment tests”
and also that diversified investment in such issues would seem to “provide both a degree of safety for principal and an income return greater
than that achieved by industrial or railroad bonds.”
The deduction that it is better to buy preferred stocks without rather
than with bonds ahead of them is undoubtedly sound, since the latter
group is clearly more vulnerable to adverse developments. But in our view
the methods followed in this investigation are open to certain objections
that greatly diminish the practical value of its other conclusions.8 One
feature of the study, however, deserves particular comment. The detailed
figures show in striking fashion that the stability of nearly every preferred
stock considered was directly dependent upon an increase in the value of
the common stock. The preferred stockholder had a satisfactory investment only while the common stock was proving a profitable speculation.
As soon as any common stock declined in market value below the original price, the preferred shares did likewise.

6 Quotations were not obtainable, even from the issuing houses, for 70 out of 607 issues.
Hence the loss to the investor was undoubtedly greater than that indicated by the 537 cases
studied statistically. For further details of this study see: Arthur S. Dewing, “The Role of
Economic Profits in the Return on Investments,” Harvard Business Review, Vol. I, pp. 451,
461–462; Arthur S. Dewing, Financial Policy of Corporations, Book vi, Chap. 2, pp.
1198–1199, New York, 1926.
7 Rodkey, Robert G., Preferred Stocks as Long-term Investments, Ann Arbor, University of

Michigan Press, 1932.
8 For a brief statement of Dr. Rodkey’s approach and of the objections thereto see the 1934
edition of this work, Appendix Note 25.

14_Graham_Dodd

[196]

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 196

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

An investment subject to such conditions is clearly unwise. It is a case
of: “Heads, the common stockholder wins; tails, the preferred stockholder
loses.” One of the basic principles of investment is that the safety of a security with limited return must never rest primarily upon the future expansion of profits. If the investor is positive that this expansion will take place,
he should obviously buy the common stock and participate in its profits.
If, as must usually be the case, he cannot be so certain of future prosperity, then he should not expose his capital to a risk of loss (by buying the
preferred stock) without compensating opportunities for enhancement.

20_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 260

Chapter 20

PREFERRED-STOCK PROTECTIVE
PROVISIONS. MAINTENANCE OF
JUNIOR CAPITAL

PREFERRED STOCKS are almost always accorded certain safeguards against
the placing of new issues ahead of them. The standard provision prohibits
either a prior stock or a mortgage-bond issue except upon approval by
vote of two-thirds or three-fourths of the preferred stock. The prohibition is not made absolute because conditions are always within contemplation under which the preferred stockholders may find it to their
advantage to authorize the creation of a senior issue. This may be done
because new financing through a bond issue is necessary to avoid
receivership. An example is afforded by Eitingon-Schild Company in
1932. According to the provisions of the 6 1/2% First Preferred stock the
company could not create a mortgage, lien, or charge on any of its property, except purchase-money obligations, extensions of existing mortgages, and pledge of liquid assets to secure loans made in the ordinary
course of business. Because of the precarious financial condition of the
company in 1932 the preferred stockholders authorized certain financial
rearrangements, including the creation of a $5,500,000-issue of 5%
debentures containing certain provisions the effect of which was to
create a special charge against fixed properties.

Protection against Creation of Unsecured Debt Desirable. It is
a common practice to give preferred stockholders no control over the creation of unsecured debt. This point is exemplified by the American Metal
Company, which in 1930 issued $20,000,000 of debenture notes without
vote of the preferred stockholders but in 1933 was compelled to ask for
their approval of the possible pledging of collateral to refund the notes at
maturity. This distinction appears to us to be unsound, since unsecured
[260]

20_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 261

Fixed-value Investments

[261]

debt is just as much a threat to a preferred stock as is a mortgage obligation. It does seem illogical to provide, as is usually done, that preferred
stockholders may forbid the issuance of new preferred shares ranking
ahead of or equivalent to theirs and also of any secured indebtedness, but
that they have nothing to say about the creation of a debenture bond
issue, however large.
Presumably this exclusion arose from the desire to permit bank borrowing for ordinary business purposes, but this point may be taken care of
by a specific stipulation to that effect—just as the standard provision now
used permits the pledge of assets to secure “loans made in the ordinary
course of business” without requiring preferred stockholders’ consent.1
The preferred stockholders’ vote is rather frequently availed of to permit the issuance of an equal-ranking or even a prior security which is to
be exchanged for the preferred stock itself under a recapitalization plan,
the latter usually being designed to dispose of accumulated dividends. By
giving the new issue equality with or priority over the old, stockholders
who might otherwise be inclined to reject the composition are almost
compelled to accept it.
Examples: In 1930 Austin Nichols and Company had 7% preferred
stock outstanding on which dividends of $21 per share had accumulated.
The company offered to exchange each share for one share of $5 Cumulative Prior A stock plus 1.2 shares of common. By vote of the preferred
stockholders accepting the plan, the new Prior A stock was made senior
to the old preferred. As a result, about 99% of the latter was turned in
for exchange. International Paper and Fisk Rubber made similar adjustments of back dividends on the preferred in 1917 and 1925, respectively.
In these cases, additional preferred stock was issued ranking equally with
the old shares.2
1 It should be noted, however, that there is a growing tendency in recent years to protect

preferred stockholders against the creation of debenture bonds by requiring their approval
of the issuance of any “bonds, notes, debentures, or other evidence of indebtedness maturing
later than one year from the date of their issue.” See for example: the Kendall Company $6
Participating Preferred, A. M. Byers Company 7% Preferred. Among the older issues LooseWiles Biscuit Company 7% First Preferred had this type of protection.
2 More recent laws of some states have permitted companies to compel all preferred stockholders to accept a recapitalization plan upon a two-thirds affirmative vote. Example: The
recapitalization of International Paper and Power in 1937 (under the laws of Massachusetts)

20_Graham_Dodd

[262]

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 262

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Preferred-stock Sinking Funds. Very few public-utility or railroad
preferred-stock issues have a sinking-fund provision. But in the case of
industrial preferred-stock offerings sinking funds have become the general rule. The advantages that bonds derive from a sinking fund are
equally applicable to preferred stocks. Furthermore, in view of the weak
contractual position of preferred stocks, which we have frequently
emphasized, there is the more reason for the buyer to insist on special
protective arrangements of this kind. But although a sinking fund is thus
a highly desirable feature of a preferred issue, its presence is no assurance,
nor is its absence a negation of adequate safety. The list of 21 preferred
stocks (given in Chap. 14) that maintained an investment status throughout 1932–1933 contains only one issue with a sinking-fund provision. As
previously explained, this paradox is due to the fact that nearly all the
strong industrial preferreds are old established issues, and the sinking
fund is a relatively recent development.
The amount of the sinking fund is usually fixed at a certain percentage of the maximum amount of preferred stock at any time outstanding,
3% being perhaps the most frequent figure. Less often the amount is
based on a percentage of profits. There are a number of variations and
technicalities of a descriptive nature, which we shall not detail. In most
cases the payment of the sinking fund is obligatory, provided: (1) preferred dividends have been paid in full or “provided for,” and (2) there
remain surplus profits equal to the sinking-fund requirement.
A small number of preferred stocks are protected by an agreement to
maintain net current assets, usually at 100% of the preferred issue or 100%
of the preferred stock plus bond issues. In some cases the penalty for
nonobservance is merely a prohibition of common dividends (e.g., Sidney Blumenthal and Company), whereas in other cases voting control
passes to the preferred stock (e.g., A. G. Spalding and Brothers 7% First
replaced the original 6% preferred and the successor 7% preferred (together with their accumulated dividends) by a new convertible 5% preferred, plus a bonus of common stock. The
effect of various court decisions has been to hold, however, that, in the case of corporations
formed prior to the enactment of these statutes, the claim for accumulated dividends is a
vested right which cannot be taken away by stockholders’ vote.
See Keller vs. Wilson & Co., Inc., 190 Atl. 115 (Del. 1936), and S.E.C. Report on the Study
and Investigation of the Work, Activities, Personnel and Functions of Protective and Reorganization Committees, Pt. VIII, “Management Plans without Aid of Committees,” pp. 187 et seq.,
United States Government Printing Office, 1938.

20_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 263

Fixed-value Investments

[263]

Preferred, where working capital was required to equal 125% of the
preferred issue).3

Voting Power in the Event of Nonpayment of Dividends. The
second general type of protective provision for preferred stocks relates
to voting power accruing in the event of nonpayment of dividends.
As far as we know, these stipulations apply only to cumulative issues.
The arrangement varies with respect to when the voting power becomes
effective and to the degree of control bestowed. In a few cases (e.g.,
Kaufmann Department Stores 7% Preferred and Royal Baking Powder
Company 6% Preferred) the voting right accrues after one dividend is
omitted. At the other extreme, the right becomes effective only after
eight quarterly payments are in default (e.g., Brunswick-Balke-Collender Company). The customary period allowed is one year. The right
conferred upon the preferred stock may be: (1) to vote exclusively for
the directors, (2) to elect separately a majority of the board, (3) to elect
separately a minority of the board, or (4) to vote share for share with the
common stock.
Example of (1): McKesson and Robbins, Inc., Preferred Stock received
the sole right to elect the directors upon omission of the fourth quarterly
dividend in December 1932.
Example of (2): In 1933 Hahn Department Stores Preferred obtained
the right to elect a majority of the board, because of the omission of four
quarterly dividends.
Example of (3): Universal Pictures First Preferred has the right to elect
two directors in the event of default of six quarterly dividends. Brooklyn
and Queens Transit Corporation Preferred may elect one-third of the
board if all arrears are not paid up within a year after any quarterly dividend is omitted.
Example of (4): City Ice and Fuel Preferred votes share for share with
the common in the event of nonpayment of four quarterly dividends.4

3 In 1939 the 7% First Preferred was replaced by income bonds, new preferred, and common.
4 An unusual variation of this idea was found in the case of Du Pont “Non-voting Debenture
Stock” (a preferred issue), retired in 1939. The holders were given the right to vote equally
with the common stock in the event that the earnings for any calendar year fell below 9% on
the debenture stock issue. They received exclusive voting power if dividends were in default
for six months.

20_Graham_Dodd

[264]

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 264

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The value of the last arrangement would seem to depend a good deal
on whether the preferred stock is larger or smaller than the common
issue. If larger, the share-for-share voting right could give the issue effective control; but in most cases the preferred issue is smaller, and hence
this voting right is likely to prove ineffective.
Composite Rights. West Penn Power 4 1/2% Preferred and Wisconsin
Gas and Electric 4 1/2% Preferred, both issued in 1939, have the following
voting rights: (1) a vote share for share with the common, unless: (2) a
year’s dividend is in default, in which case the preferred stockholders have
the right to elect two additional directors; (3) if three years’ dividends are
in default, they have the right to elect a majority of the board. North
American Company 6% Preferred Stock can always elect one-quarter of
the board. If three years’ dividends are in arrears, it can elect a majority
of the directors.

Noncumulative Issues Need Greater Protection. The practices
outlined above merit certain other criticisms of a more general nature. In
the first place, although it is taken for granted that these special voting
provisions should apply to cumulative preferred stocks only, the exclusion of noncumulative issues seem to us to be most illogical. Their holders have certainly a greater reason to demand representation in the event
of nonpayment, because they have no right to recover the lost dividends
in the future. In our view it should be established as a financial principle
that any preferred stock that is not paying its full dividend currently
should have some separate representation on the board of directors.
On the other hand we do not consider it proper to deprive the common stock of all representation when preferred dividends are unpaid.
Complete domination of the board by the preferred stockholders may
lead to some practices distinctly unfair to the common stock, e.g., perpetuation of preferred-stock control by unnecessarily refraining from
paying up back dividends in full. An alert minority on the board of directors, even though powerless in the actual voting, may be able to accomplish a great deal in preventing unfair or unsound practices.

A General Canon Regarding Voting Power. From the foregoing
discussion, a general canon with respect to voting power may readily be
formulated. The standard arrangement should give every preferred and
every common issue the separate right to elect some directors under all

20_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 265

Fixed-value Investments

[265]

circumstances.5 It would be logical for the common stock to elect the
majority of the board as long as preferred dividends were regularly paid
and equally logical that whenever the full dividend was not paid, on either
a cumulative or noncumulative preferred issue, the right to choose the
majority of the board should pass to the preferred stockholders.6
Adequate protection for preferred issues should require that voting
control pass to the holders in the event not only of default in dividends
but also of nonpayment of the sinking fund or the failure to maintain working capital as stipulated. A few charters, e.g., those of Bayuk Cigars and
A. G. Spalding, afford this threefold remedial right to the preferred stockholders. In our view, this practice should be standard instead of exceptional.

Value of Voting Control by Preferred Stock May Be Questioned. Viewing the matter realistically, it must be admitted that the
vesting of voting control in holders of a preferred issue does not necessarily prove of benefit to them. In some cases, perhaps, no effective use
can be made of this privilege; in other cases the holders are too inert—or
too poorly advised—to protect their interests even though they have
power to do so. These practical limitations may be illustrated by a case in
point, viz., the Maytag Company.
In 1928 this enterprise (manufacturing washing machines) was recapitalized and issued the following securities:
100,000 shares of $6 Cumulative First Preferred.
320,000 shares of $3 Cumulative Preference (Second Preferred).
1,600,000 shares of common.

Approximately 80% of all these shares were received by the Maytag
family. Through investment bankers they sold to the public their holdings

5 So far as we have been able to determine, such issues are comparatively rare. See, however,
North American Company Preferred and the new preferred stock of Ogden Corporation
(successor to Utilities Power and Light Corporation). It seems probable that more such
issues will be forthcoming under S.E.C. auspices. On the general subject of preferred stockholders’ voting rights see W. H. S. Stevens, “Voting Rights of Capital Stock and Shareholders,” XI The Journal of Business of the University of Chicago, 311–348, October, 1938.
6 Section 216–12(a) of Chap. X of the Bankruptcy Act of 1938 apparently requires that pre-

ferred shares issued thereunder be given the right to elect some directors in the event of any
default in dividends.

20_Graham_Dodd

[266]

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 266

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

of first and second preferred. This netted them individually (i.e., not the
company) the sum of about $20,000,000. They retained control of the business through their ownership of common stock. The charter provided that
neither preferred issue should have voting rights unless four quarterly dividends were defaulted on either. In that case both issues, voting together
as a single class, would have the right to elect a majority of the directors.
In 1932 dividends were omitted on both classes of preferred. Voting control consequently passed to the holders of these issues early in 1933.
Peculiarly enough, the only change made during the 1932–1933 period
in the board of directors was the resignation of the single member who—
as partner of one of the issuing houses—had presumably represented the
preferred stockholders. All of the five directors remaining were operating
officials and closely identified with the common-stock ownership. In the
meantime the price of the two preferred issues declined to 15 and 3 1/8,
respectively, as compared with original offering prices of 101 and 50.
Reviewing the situation, we see private owners of a business selling a
preferred claim against its profits for a very large sum, which they
retained individually. To protect the public’s stake in the enterprise, the
preferred issues were given voting control in the event of continued nonpayment of dividends. This event occurred and with it a catastrophic
decline in the value of the shares. But the new voting control was not exercised, and the board of directors remained dominated, even more completely than before, by those owning the common stock.
Wall Street’s attitude toward this incident would be that, since the
management of the company was honest and capable, a change in the
directorate would be unnecessary and even unwise. In our opinion this
reasoning misses the basic point. No doubt the operating management
should remain unchanged; possibly—though by no means certainly—
directors representing the preferred stock would follow the same financial policies in matters affecting the senior issues as would be followed by
a board identified with the common stock. But the crux of the matter is
that these decisions should actually be made by a board of directors of
which the majority has been selected by the preferred stockholders in
accordance with their rights. Regardless of whether or not a change in
the board would result in any change in policy, the directors should be
chosen as provided in the articles of incorporation. For otherwise the
voting provision is entirely meaningless. It becomes merely a phrase to

20_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 267

Fixed-value Investments

[267]

persuade the preferred-stock buyer into believing he has safeguards that
are in fact nonexistent.7
Recommended Procedure in Such Cases. In the authors’ view the
proper procedure in cases such as the Maytag situation is perfectly clear.
The preferred stockholders individually have no satisfactory means of
going about the nomination and election of directors to represent them.
This duty should devolve upon the issuing houses, and they should discharge it conscientiously. They should: (1) obtain a list of the preferred
stockholders of record, (2) advise them of their new voting rights, and
(3) recommend to them a slate of directors and request their proxies to
vote for these nominees. The directors suggested should, of course, be as
well qualified as possible for their posts. They must be free from any large
interest in or close affiliation with the common stock, and it would be
desirable if they were themselves substantial owners of preferred shares.
(In the case of preferred stock issued pursuant to reorganization, there
may be no issuing house to take the initiative, but this may be done by
the same agencies formerly active in behalf of the security holders in the
reorganization itself.)
It is quite possible, none the less, that the directors chosen by the preferred stockholders will be incompetent or for other reasons fail to represent their interests properly. But this is not a valid argument against the
possession and the exercise of voting power by preferred stockholders.
The same objection applies to voting rights of common stockholders—
and of citizens. The remedy is not disenfranchisement but education. As
we have previously pointed out, a combination of adequate voting-control provisions for preferred shares with their prompt and effective use
could largely overcome the disadvantages inherent in the absence of an
unqualified legal right to receive dividends. But until both these conditions are fulfilled, we must continue to stress the practical superiority for
investors of the bond form over the preferred-stock form.

Maintenance of Adequate Junior Capital. We wish to call attention finally to a protective requirement for both bondholders and preferred stockholders which is technically of great importance but which
7 It should be added that the dividends on Maytag $6 Preferred were resumed in October
1933 and accumulations discharged in 1934.

20_Graham_Dodd

[268]

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 268

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

frequently is not taken care of in indentures or charter provisions. The
point referred to is the maintenance of an adequate amount of junior
capital. We have previously emphasized the principle that such junior
capital is an indispensable condition for any sound fixed-value investment. No loan could prudently be made to a business at 3 or 4% interest
unless the business were worth a considerable amount over and above
the amount borrowed. This is elementary and well understood. But it is
not generally realized that the corporation laws permit the withdrawal of
substantially all the capital and surplus after the loan has been made. This
can be done by the legal process of reducing the capital to a nominal sum
and distributing the amount of the reduction to the stockholders. Such a
maneuver the creditors are powerless to prevent unless they have specifically guarded against it in their loan contract.
Danger in the Right to Reduce Stated Capital. Let us attempt to bring
this point home by a hypothetical example. A company is engaged in the
business of lending money on installment accounts. It has $2,100,000 of
capital and surplus. Ostensibly for the purpose of expanding its operations, it borrows $2,000,000 by sale of a 20-year 5% debenture bond issue.
The earnings and stock equity appear to provide sufficient protection for
the bonds. Business subsequently falls off, and the company has a
substantial amount of unused cash. The stockholders vote to reduce the
capital to $100,000 (in theory it might be reduced to $1), and they receive
back $2,000,000 in cash, as a return of capital.
In effect the stockholders have recovered their capital with the cash
supplied by the bondholders, but they retain ownership and control of
the business together with the right to receive all profits above 5%. The
bondholders find themselves in the absurd position of having provided
all the capital and having thereby assumed all the risk of loss, without any
share in the profits above ordinary interest. Such a development would
be most unfair, but apparently it can be carried out legally unless the
indenture of the bond issue specifically prevented it by stipulating that
no distributions could be made to the stockholders that would reduce the
capital and surplus below a certain figure.
The removal of the bondholders’ “cushion” by its direct withdrawal in
cash—as in our hypothetical example—is a rare, perhaps unexampled,
occurrence. But a corresponding situation does actually arise in practice

20_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 269

Fixed-value Investments

[269]

through a combination of large operating losses followed by a reduction
in capital to wipe out the consequent balance sheet deficit.
Examples: In Chap. 38 (see sixth edition text) we refer to an extraordinary example of this kind, viz., the Interborough-Metropolitan case. Here
the stated capital was reduced by stockholders’ action to eliminate a huge
profit-and-loss deficit. Following this action, earnings of a distinctly temporary character were disbursed in dividends, instead of being conserved
for the benefit of the bondholders, who later suffered a tremendous loss. To
effect the capital reduction under the laws then existing, a “merger” with a
dummy corporation was resorted to. The same artifice has been used several times since in connection with recapitalization schemes, e.g., Central
Leather Company in 1926 and Kelly-Springfield Tire Company in 1932.
As the result of losses sustained during the depression of the 1930s
numerous reductions of capitalization have been voted by the stockholders. These actions have been taken without consulting the bondholders.
Most of such reductions have been effected by changes from no-par
shares to shares of a low par value. Frequently this has been accompanied
by write-offs of intangible assets or mark-downs of fixed assets. Such
write-downs of asset values on one side of the balance sheet and capital
on the other are of no special significance from the bondholders’ standpoint, except possibly in the fact that they may permit unduly low depreciation charges and therefore unduly liberal dividend payments. But in
most of these cases a substantial sum also has effectively been transferred
from capital to surplus and thus made available to absorb future operating losses and to facilitate the resumption of dividends before past losses
have been made up.
For example, Remington Rand, Inc., changed its common stock from
no par to $1 par and thereby, together with cancellation of shares held by
the company itself, reduced the stated value of the common from
$17,133,000 to $1,291,000. It applied $7,800,000 of this reduction to write
down its intangible assets, $2,300,000 additional to mark down its plant
account, and $400,000 for miscellaneous write-downs and reserves. This
left about $5,350,000 actually transferred from capital to surplus. In the
same manner the par value of Lexington Utilities $6 Preferred Stock was
reduced in 1935 from $100 to $25 per share, with no change in dividend
or other significant rights and for the sole purpose of eliminating a

20_Graham_Dodd

[270]

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 270

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

capital deficit and permitting the resumption of preferred dividends. This
action destroyed about three-quarters of the margin above funded debt
which bondholders were formerly entitled to have maintained before
dividends could be paid. In subsequent years large sums were disbursed
in preferred dividends that otherwise would have been held or invested
to make good the bondholders’ “cushion.”
Similar reductions were made by New York Shipbuilding Corporation; Servel, Inc.; Warner Brothers Pictures, Inc.; H. F. Wilcox Oil and Gas
Company; Thermoid Company. National Acme Company reduced the
par value of its capital stock twice, from $50 to $10 in 1924 and from $10
to $1 in 1933. The result was a telescoping of its stated capital from
$25,000,000 into $500,000. In the case of Capital Administration Company not only was the stated value of the common stock reduced, but the
$3 cumulative preferred stock was also given a fictitiously low par value
of $10.
Some Issues Protected against This Danger. Fortunately for the bondholders in some of these cases, the indentures contain provisions prohibiting dividends or other distributions to the stockholders unless there
is an adequate margin of resources above the indebtedness. In the case of
Remington Rand Debenture 5 1/2 s, a threefold protection was supplied by
the terms of the trust indenture, viz.:
1. Cash dividends may be paid only out of earned surplus.
2. Cash dividends may be paid only if net tangible assets after deducting the
dividend in question shall equal at least 175% of the funded debt.
3. No stock may be retired, in excess of $3,500,000, except out of additional
paid-in capital or earned surplus.

The last provision is directed against the reduction of junior capital
by buying in preferred or common stock. It would be more satisfactory
if it prohibited the acquisition (rather than the retirement) of the company’s own stock.
Protective provisions of these various kinds appear in many but by
no means all indentures. (They are absent, for example, in the case of
Lexington Utilities, New York Shipbuilding, and Servel bonds, to name
three of the companies that reduced their stated capital by stockholders’
vote.) From the foregoing discussion, it should be clear that these
covenants are essential to the proper safeguarding of a bond issue.

20_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 271

Fixed-value Investments

[271]

Conscientious issuing houses and intelligent investors should insist on
their inclusion in all indentures.8
Anomalous Position of Preferred Stocks in This Connection. The position of preferred stocks in this matter is a somewhat peculiar one. Their
holders have the same interest as have bondholders in the maintenance of
an adequate amount of junior capital. But losses that result in a balancesheet deficit will legally prevent the payment not only of common dividends but of preferred dividends as well. Hence the preferred stockholders
are likely to be very anxious for a reduction in the stated value of the common stock, which will eliminate the profit-and-loss deficit and permit the
resumption of dividends on their own shares. In such cases their interest
in maintaining an adequate amount of junior capital is offset by their
greater desire to make dividends possible. (At the close of 1921, for example, losses taken by Montgomery Ward had created a profit-and-loss deficit
of $7,700,000, which had compelled suspension of the preferred dividend.
Accordingly holders of this issue welcomed a reduction in the stated value
of the common stock from $28,300,000 to $11,400,000, which eliminated
the balance-sheet deficit and thus permitted the resumption of the preferred dividends and discharge of the accumulations.)
This situation has even been exploited by the common stockholders
to compel large concessions from the preferred holders in connection
with a profit-and-loss deficit. A notorious example is the Central Leather
reorganization plan, resulting in the formation of a successor company,
United States Leather. As the price of their vote in favor of reducing the
stated capital, the common stockholders forced the preferred holders to
waive their back dividends and to reduce their cumulative right to future
dividends.9

8 Since this was written in 1934, it has come to be common practice to include such safe-

guards in new bond indentures. Not only is there a prohibition against the reduction of stated
capital, but there is a tendency also to “freeze” the surplus as of the time of the bond issue,
though often with some leeway. Examples: The Youngstown Sheet and Tube First 4% and
Debenture 3 1/2% indentures limit cash distributions to shareholders to earnings since Dec.
31, 1935, plus $5,000,000. In the case of Koppers Company First and Collateral 4s, due 1951,
distributions are limited to profits since Jan. 1, 1936, plus proceeds of sale of additional stock.
9 The International Paper and Power Company recapitalization of 1937, referred to in a footnote on p. 261, involved a similar sacrifice by preferred stockholders. It was approved by the
S.E.C. with considerable qualms and was oited by Commissioner Frank as a deplorable

20_Graham_Dodd

[272]

11/15/08

10:39 AM

Page 272

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Preferred Stocks Need Both Specific Protective Provisions and Voting
Power for Their Protection. These considerations confirm our previously
expressed criticisms of the preferred stock form as an investment
medium. It is not particularly difficult to safeguard these issues against
the withdrawal of junior capital; this is frequently done and should always
be done.10 But to deal satisfactorily from the preferred stockholders’
standpoint with conditions resulting in a profit-and-loss deficit is a difficult matter. It requires, above all, complete control of the corporation’s
policies by directors representing the preferred issue. This serves to
emphasize the importance of adequate voting power for preferred stockholders in the event of nonpayment of dividends.

example in his vigorous and lengthy dissent from the Commission’s order of Jan. 30, 1939,
approving issuance of North American Company 6% Preferred Stock.
In this dissent he makes the interesting suggestion that preferred stockholders can escape
the dilemma we have discussed if the stated value of the common is reduced to a low figure
and a large special capital surplus thereby created, against which losses could be charged
which otherwise would result in an impairment of capital. Coupled with this device is the
suggestion that, when a substantial reduction in this special capital surplus has taken place,
voting control should pass to the preferred stock.
10 For example, the charter of General American Investors Company, Inc., prohibits any dividend or other distribution on the common that will reduce net assets below $150 per share
of preferred stock. The charter of Interstate Department Stores, Inc., requires the consent of
holders of two-thirds of the preferred stock to any distribution to the holders of common
stock of capital or surplus resulting from any statutory reduction of capital.

25_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 319

Chapter 25

SENIOR SECURITIES WITH WARRANTS.
PARTICIPATING ISSUES. SWITCHING
AND HEDGING

NEARLY ALL THE variations found in convertible issues have their counterpart in the terms of subscription warrants. The purchase price of the
stock is ordinarily subject to change, up or down, corresponding to the
standard provisions for adjusting a conversion price.
Example: White Eagle Oil and Refining Company Debenture 51/2 s,
due 1937, were offered in March 1927 and carried warrants entitling
the holder to subscribe on or before March 15, 1932, to 10 shares of the
capital stock of the company at the following prices.
$32 per share to and including March 15, 1928, and thereafter at
$34 per share to and including March 15, 1929, and thereafter at
$36 per share to and including March 15, 1930, and thereafter at
$38 per share to and including March 15, 1931, and thereafter at
$40 per share to and including March 15, 1932.

On January 27, 1930, the Standard Oil Company of New York acquired
the White Eagle properties by assuming the liabilities of the latter company and exchanging 8 1/2 shares of Standard Oil of New York for each 10
shares of White Eagle. In accordance with the terms of the indenture protecting the warrants against dilution and providing for readjustment of
the subscription price in the case of a sale of the properties or merger of
the company, the warrants thereafter entitled the holder to subscribe to
81/2 shares of Standard Oil of New York (now Socony-Vacuum Corporation) at $42.35 per share to and including March 15, 1930, at $44.71 for
the next year and at $47.06 for the following year.

[319]

25_Graham_Dodd

[320]

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 320

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Sliding Scales of Both Types. Sliding-scale arrangements of both
types are also encountered in option-warrant issues.
Examples: Interstate Department Stores, Inc., 7% Preferred, issued in
1928, carried nondetachable warrants entitling the holder to purchase
common stock, share for share, at the following prices:
$37 per share up to January 31, 1929.
$42 per share up to January 31, 1931.
$47 per share up to January 31, 1933.

Central States Electric Corporation Optional 51/2% Debentures, due
1954, carried detachable warrants entitling the holder to buy, on or before
September 15, 1934, 10 shares of common stock for each $1,000 bond, at
the following prices:
$89 per share for the first 25% of the warrants exercised.
$94 per share for the next 25% of the warrants exercised.
$99 per share for the next 25% of the warrants exercised.
$104 per share for the last 25% of the warrants exercised.

As with convertibles, a sliding scale based on the “block” principle
detracts greatly from the value of the privilege until the last block, i.e., the
highest price, is reached, at which time it becomes an ordinary purchase
option.

Methods of Payment. Stock-purchase warrants attached to bonds or
preferred stocks frequently provide that payment for the common stock
may be made either in cash or by turning in the senior security itself at
par. Such an arrangement may prove directly equivalent to a conversion
privilege. For example, each share of American and Foreign Power Second Preferred was issued with warrants to buy 4 shares of common at $25
per share. Instead of paying cash, the holder can tender preferred stock
at a value of $100 per share. If he does so, he is actually converting his
preferred stock with warrants into common.
Similarly, the Rand Kardex 51/2% bonds, described in Chap. 22 (see sixth
edition text), could be tendered at par, in lieu of cash, upon exercising the
warrants. Since the warrants attached to a $1,000 bond called for payment
of $900 (221/2 shares at 40), the owner of a $1,000 bond making payment in
this fashion would have a $100 bond remaining. These provisions were thus
equivalent to convertibility of 90% of each bond into common.

25_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 321

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[321]

More recent examples of this arrangement are Scullin Steel 6s and
warrants and Commercial Mackay Income 4s and warrants.

Advantage of Option to Pay Cash. The option to pay cash instead of
turning in the senior issue must be considered an advantage over a straight
conversion privilege—first, because the bond or preferred, “ex-warrants,”
may be worth more than par, thus increasing the profit; second, because,
as previously explained, the holder may be glad to retain his investment
while realizing a cash profit on its speculative component; and third,
because the warrant is likely to sell separately at a greater premium over its
realizable value than a pure convertible. All these advantages are illustrated
by the Mohawk Hudson Power Corporation Second Preferred with warrants as shown in the table on page 307 in sixth edition text. This stock was
tenderable at par, in lieu of cash, upon exercise of the warrants, thus
having rights equivalent to convertibility, but the warrant arrangement
proved far more profitable than an equivalent conversion privilege.

Detachability. Stock-purchase warrants are either detachable, nondetachable, or nondetachable for a certain period and detachable thereafter. A detachable warrant may be exercised upon presentation of the
warrant alone. Hence it may be sold separately from the issue of which
it originally formed a part. A nondetachable warrant or right may be
exercised only in conjunction with the senior issue; i.e., the bond or preferred stock must be physically presented at the time of making payment
for the common shares. Hence such warrants may not be dealt in separately. For example, the warrants attached to Montecatini 7s, due 1937,
and those accompanying the Fiat Debenture 7s, due 1946, were detachable immediately after issuance. Those attached to Loews, Inc., $6.50
Preferred, offered in December 1927, were not detachable until July 1,
1928; and the warrants attached to the Loews, Inc., 6% Debentures, due
1941, were not detachable until October 1, 1926, also six months after
their issuance. On the other hand, the warrants attached to CrownZellerbach Corporation Debenture 6s, due 1940, and to Interstate
Department Stores, Inc., 7% Preferred were not detachable during the
life of the warrant, unless the senior issue to which they were attached
were called for redemption.
In an active stock market, separate option warrants are popular
with speculators (as pointed out before), and they sell at considerable

25_Graham_Dodd

[322]

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 322

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

premiums above their immediately realizable value. Other things being
equal, therefore, an issue with detachable warrants will sell higher than
one with a nonseparable right. In view of this fact it may be asked why
all subscription warrants are not made immediately detachable, to give
the holder the benefit of their superior market appeal. The reason for
making a warrant nondetachable is that both the company and the underwriters of the issue wish to avoid the establishment of an unduly low price
for its bonds ex-warrants. Such a low price is likely to follow if large purchases of the bond with warrants are made by out-and-out speculators.
For these holders, having no interest in the bond as such, are likely to
detach the warrant and sell the bond ex-warrants for whatever it will
bring. Selling pressure from this source, coupled with the absence of any
steady demand for the issue due to lack of “seasoning,” may result in so
low a price as to constitute an apparent reflection upon the corporation’s
credit, which is evidently undesirable.
The compromise arrangement—which makes the warrant detachable only after an interval—is based upon the assumption that, after the
security has had time to become fairly well known in the investment
world, a proper price may more readily be established for the issue
ex-warrants, even in the face of sales by those who have profited from
the warrants.
When once these subscription warrants were made detachable from
the related senior issue, they were bound to assume an existence and characteristics of their own. From a mere appendage of bond financing they
developed into an independent form of security and a major vehicle of
speculation during the madness of 1928–1929. It is an amazing fact that
the option warrants created by one company, American and Foreign
Power, reached an indicated market value in 1929 of over a billion dollars, a figure that exceeded the market value of all the railroad common
stocks of the United States listed on the New York Stock Exchange in July
1932, less than three years later.
It will be necessary, therefore, to consider in a later chapter the
characteristics of stock-purchase warrants, viewed as an independent
speculative medium. At that time we shall discuss the relationships
between the prices of such warrants and of the preferred and common
shares of the same corporations.

25_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 323

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[323]

PARTICIPATING ISSUES
Most of the traits of this type of privilege have already been brought out
in the preceding comparison with the other forms. A distinction may be
made between two kinds of participation. The more usual arrangement
depends upon the dividend paid upon the common; less frequently,
the profit sharing is determined by the earnings without reference to the
dividend rate.
Examples: Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company Preferred, already described, is a standard example of the first type; Budd
Wheel Company Preferred illustrates the second. In the latter case the
basic dividend is 7% cumulative, but this rate increases to 8, 9, and 10%,
according as the net earnings of the previous year exceed $600,000;
$800,000 and $1,000,000, respectively. Celanese Corporation Participating First Preferred and Celluloid Corporation Participating Second Preferred are each entitled to a basic 7%, plus 10% of the earnings otherwise
available for the common stock.
Preferred shares constitute the great bulk of participating issues; participating bonds are rare and likely to deviate widely in other respects
from the standard bond pattern. The Kreuger and Toll Participating
Debentures, for example, although nominally a bond, were in essence a
nonvoting common stock. The Green Bay and Western Railway (Participating) Debentures, Series A and Series B, are in reality preferred and
common stocks respectively. Spanish River Pulp and Paper Mills, Ltd.,
First 6s, due 1931 but redeemed in 1928, are one of the few examples of
an investment-type bond with a participating privilege.1 Siemens and
Halske A. G. (a German enterprise) issued a series of Participating
Debentures, due 2930, carrying interest equal to the rate of dividend paid
upon the common stock but not less than 6%.
Participating preferred stocks originally had a standard pattern, exemplified by Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company Preferred.
The order of payment is first a fixed preference to the senior shares, then
a similar amount on the common shares, and finally an equal participation, share for share, in additional dividends. This pattern arose from the
1 See Appendix Note 40, p. 774, for details concerning this issue.

25_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

[324]

10:40 AM

Page 324

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

common-law right of all classes of stock to share equally in earnings and
assets, except as otherwise provided by agreement. Other examples of this
arrangement are Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul, and Pacific Railroad Company Preferred; Wabash Railway Company 5% Preferred A; Consolidated
Film Industries, Inc., Preferred.
In recent years, however, a wide diversity of participating arrangements have made their appearance, so that there is now no standard
pattern.2
Participating issues require two kinds of calculation: one showing the
number of times the fixed interest or dividend is earned, and the other
showing the amount per share or per bond available for distribution
under the participation privilege.
Example:
CELANESE CORPORATION OF AMERICA, 1938

Net for dividends . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$2,479,749
Prior preferred dividend ($7) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1,153,726
First participating preferred dividend at $7 rate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1,037,253
First participating preferred: additional participation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28,877
Balance for common . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .259,893
Prior preferred dividends earned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2.15 times
Prior preferred and participating preferred ($7) dividends earned . . . . . . . . .1.13 times
Earned for participating preferred: participating basis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$7.19 per share

Privileged Issues Compared with the Related Common Stocks.
In our previous discussion of the merits of privileged issues as a class it
was pointed out that they sometimes offer a very attractive combination
of security and chance for profit. More frequently, a decision may be
reached that the privileged senior security is preferable to the common
stock of the enterprise. Since a conclusion of this kind is based on
comparative elements only, it is likely to involve smaller risks of error than
one that asserts the absolute attractiveness of an issue.
Examples: Paramount Pictures Corporation $6 First Preferred is convertible at any time into 7 shares of common. Towards the end of 1936 it
2 For a number of variations of participating securities, see Appendix Note 3 in the 1934

edition of this work.

25_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 325

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[325]

was selling at just about seven times the price of the common, although it
carried accumulated dividends of nearly $12 per share, which of course
would have to be paid before the common could receive anything. (E.g., on
October 17, 1936, the preferred sold at 113 against 157/8 for the common.)
Clearly a switch from the common into the preferred would have been
a wise move. The preferred stock could not be worth less than seven times
the price of the common; it might sell at more than this ratio, especially
if the common declined in price; it was certain to receive substantial dividends before anything was disbursed on the common. The sequel
promptly bore out this analysis. In December 1936 back dividends of
$12 per share were paid on the preferred. In November 1937 the preferred
sold at 921/4, vs. only 101/4 for the common, showing a spread
of 201/2 points. Including $4.50 of additional dividends paid on the
preferred up to that time, the aggregate advantage accruing to the preferred stock as against the common amounted to fully $35 per share of
preferred.
A virtually identical situation existed in Studebaker Corporation 3–6%
Debentures, due 1945, and the common stock in 1936. The bonds were
convertible into 80 shares of common; they carried 3% fixed interest and
3% cumulative contingent interest, of which 55/8% had accrued by November 18. Yet their price was 1201/2, practically on a parity with the price of
15 for the common. Less than a year later the bonds sold at 593/4 against
only 3 for the common—a “spread,” or profit, on the exchange of 351/4
points, exclusive of 3% fixed interest received on the bonds.3
“Parity,” “Premium,” and “Discount.” When the price of a convertible
bond or preferred is exactly equivalent, on an exchange basis, to the current price of the common stock, the two issues are said to be selling at a
parity.4 When the price of the senior issue is above parity it is said to be
selling at a premium, and the difference between its price and conversion

3 In the latter part of 1938 and 1939 a similar close relationship existed between the price of
Baldwin Locomotive Works 6s, due 1950, convertible into 65 shares of common stock, and
the price of the common. Compare the highs of 171/4 for the stock and 1161/2 for the bonds
in 1938, with the respective lows of 91/8 and 821/2 and the subsequent highs of 211/4 and
139 in 1939.
4 This should not be confused with par, which means simply the face value of the security in
question. “Par,” when applied to the price of a common stock, nearly always means $100 per
share and has no reference to the real par value of the share, which may be quite different.

25_Graham_Dodd

[326]

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 326

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

parity is called the amount of the premium, or the “spread.” Conversely
if the price of the convertible is below parity, the difference is sometimes
called the discount.5
A Fruitful Field for Dependable Analysis. The Paramount and Studebaker examples give us that infrequent phenomenon—an absolutely
dependable conclusion arrived at by security analysis. Holders of the common could not possibly lose by exchanging into the convertible issues, and
they had excellent prospects, which in fact were realized, of deriving substantial benefits in the form of both increased income and greater market
value. In this respect, privileged issues offer a fruitful field for the more
scientific application of the technique of analysis. The foregoing examples
are typical also of the price relationships created by an active and advancing market. When there is a senior issue convertible into common, the
concentration of speculative interest in the latter often results in establishing a price level closely equivalent to (and sometimes even higher than)
the price of the senior issue, to which the public pays little attention.
Conclusion from Foregoing. It is clear that a convertible issue selling
on a parity with the common is preferable thereto, except when its price
is so far above an investment level that it has become merely a form of
commitment in the common stock. (Brooklyn Union Gas Company Convertible 51/2s, due 1936, are an example of the latter type of situation. The
bonds, convertible into 20 shares of common from January 1, 1929, sold
at 147 or higher during the years 1927–1932, inclusive, and sold at 489 in
1929.) It is generally worth while to pay some moderate premium in order
to obtain the superior safety of the senior issue. This is certainly true when
the convertible yields a higher income return than the common, and it
holds good to some extent even if the income yield is lower.
5 If the senior issue may be promptly exchanged for the common, a discount results in creating an arbitrage opportunity. This is a chance to make a profit (usually small) without risk
of loss by: (1) simultaneously buying the senior issue and selling the common stock; (2)
immediately converting the senior issue into the common stock; and (3) delivering the
common stock against the sale, thus completing the transaction. Arbitraging of this “openand-shut” kind is done rather extensively in active, rising markets, but the opportunities are
usually monopolized by brokers specializing in such operations. Other forms of intersecurity
arbitrage operations arise from reorganizations, mergers, stock split-ups, rights to buy new
stocks, etc. For detailed discussion see Meyer H. Weinstein, Arbitrage in Securities, Harper &
Brothers, 1931. In the older sense, the term “arbitrage” applied to simultaneous purchases
and sales of the same security in different markets (e.g., New York and London), and to
similar operations involving foreign exchange.

25_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 327

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[327]

Switching. As a practical rule, therefore, holders of common stocks
who wish to retain their interest in the company should always exchange
into a convertible senior issue of the enterprise, whenever it sells both at
an investment level on its own account and also close to parity on a conversion basis. Just how large a premium a common stockholder should
be willing to pay in making such an exchange is a matter of individual
judgment. Because of his confidence in the future of his company, he is
usually unwilling to pay anything substantial for insurance against a
decline in value. But experience shows that he would be wise to give up
somewhat more than he thinks is necessary in order to secure the strategic advantages that even a fairly sound convertible issue possesses over a
common stock.6

Hedging. These advantages of a strong convertible issue over a common
stock become manifest when the market declines. The price of the senior
issue will ordinarily suffer less severely than the common, so that a goodsized spread may thereby be established, instead of the near-parity previously existing. This possibility suggests a special form of market operation,
known as “hedging,” in which the operator buys the convertible and sells
the common stock short against it, at an approximate parity.7 In the event
of a protracted rise, he can convert the senior issue and thus close out the
transaction at only a slight loss, consisting of the original spread plus
carrying expenses. But if the market declines substantially, he can “undo”
the operation at a considerable profit, by selling out the senior issue and
buying back the common.
6 The same reasoning holds true when both issues are confessedly speculative.

Example: Western Maryland Railroad Preferred is convertible into common share for
share. It sold no higher than the common during the greater part of 1928–1933. Yet, if any
one was willing to own the common, he should have switched into the preferred, which had
all the possibilities of the common plus its senior position. Early in 1934 the preferred sold
at a fair premium above the common—23 against 17.
7 “Hedging” in commodities is a superficially similar but basically different type of operation. Generally speaking, its purpose is to protect a normal manufacturing or distributing
profit against the chance of speculative loss through commodity price changes. A miller,
having bought wheat that he will sell as flour some months later, will sell wheat futures as a
“hedge” against the possibility of a decline in wheat destroying his profit margin. When the
flour is disposed of, he covers (buys back) the wheat sold as protection. Most commodity
hedging is thus designed as a safeguard, whereas security hedging is usually intended to
yield direct profits.

25_Graham_Dodd

[328]

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 328

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

A practical illustration of a hedging operation is afforded by KeithAlbee-Orpheum $7 Preferred, convertible at the time into 3 shares of
Radio-Keith-Orpheum A, the hedge being established on March 1, 1929,
and the positions reversed or “undone” on March 26, 1929, as follows:
1. Sold (short) 300 R-K-O A @ 39 7/8 on March
1, 1929 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$11,962.50
Less commission ($45) and tax ($12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .57.00
Proceeds of short sale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bought 300 R-K-O A @ 29 on March 26, 1929 . . . . . . . . . . . . .$8,700.00
Plus commission on this purchase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .45.00
Cost of cover . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Proﬁt on short sale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Bought on March 1, 1929, 100 Keith-AlbeeOrpheum Pfd. @ 120 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$12,000.00
Plus commission ($25) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25.00
Cost of long stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sold 100 Keith-Albee Orpheum Pfd. on
March 26, 1929 @ 98 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$9,800.00
Less commission ($20) and tax ($4) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24.00
Proceeds of long stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$9,776.00
Plus dividend received on long stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .175.00
(Preferred sold ex-div. on March 19, 1929)
Net proceeds from sale of long stock and
dividends thereon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Loss on long stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Proﬁt on short sale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$3,160.50
Loss on long stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2,074.00
Net proﬁt on hedge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$1,086.50

$11,905.50

$8,745.00
$3,160.50

$12,025.00

$9,951.00
$2,074.00

The profit indicated was about 9% on the capital tied up in the transaction, and, since it covered a period of 26 days, the profit was at the rate
of over 100% per year. Since there was no chance of loss on the transaction, a considerable part of the cost of the preferred stock could properly
have been borrowed, thus largely increasing the percentage of profit on
the capital supplied by the operator. With favorable surrounding conditions, operations of this kind offer a chance for large gains against a small
maximum loss. They are particularly suitable as a form of protection

25_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 329

Senior Securities with Speculative Features

[329]

against other financial commitments, for they yield their profit in a
declining market when other holdings are likely to show losses.
Some Technical Aspects of Hedging. Hedging has numerous technical
aspects, however, which make it less simple and “fool-proof ” than our
brief description would indicate. An exhaustive discussion of hedging
would fall outside the scope of this volume, and for this reason we shall
merely list below certain elements that the experienced hedger will take
into account in embarking upon such operations:
1. Ability to borrow stock sold and to maintain short position
indefinitely.8
2. Original cost of establishing position, including spread and
commissions.
3. Cost of maintaining the position, including interest charges on long
holdings, dividends on short stock, possible premiums payable for borrowing stock, and stamp taxes in connection with reborrowings of
stock—less offsets in the forms of dividends or interest receivable on long
securities and possible interest credit on short position.
4. Amount of profit at which operation will probably be closed out if
opportunity offers. Relationship between this maximum profit and probable maximum loss, consisting of (2) plus (3).
It should be borne in mind in these, as in all other operations in securities, that the potential profit to be taken into account is not the maximum
figure that might conceivably be reached in the market but merely the highest figure for which the operator is likely to wait before he closes out his
position. Once a given profit is taken, the additional profit that might have
been realized subsequently becomes of merely academic interest.
An Intermediate Form of Hedging. An intermediate form of hedging
consists of purchasing a convertible issue and selling only part of the
related common shares, say, one-half of the amount receivable upon conversion. On this basis a profit may be realized in the event of either a
substantial advance or a substantial decline in the common stock. This
is probably the most scientific method of hedging, since it requires no
8 Regulations of the S.E.C. and the stock exchanges have made short selling more difficult
since 1934. For example, short sales could be made for a time only at a price higher than the
last previous trade. The rule was later relaxed to permit short sales at a price no lower than
the last trade. The obstacle imposed by these rules is mitigated in part by the fact that hedges
of the kind under discussion are ordinarily set up only in a rising and fairly active market.

25_Graham_Dodd

[330]

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 330

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

opinion as to the future course of prices. An ideal situation of this kind
would meet the following two requirements:
1. A strongly entrenched senior issue that can be relied on to maintain a price close to par even if the common should drop precipitately. A
good convertible bond, maturing in a short time, is an ideal type for this
purpose.
2. A common stock in which the speculative interest is large and that
is therefore subject to wide fluctuations in either direction.
An example of this form of hedge is supplied by operations carried on
in 1918–1919 in Pierce Oil 6s, due in 1920, and the company’s common
stock.9
The advantages possessed by convertibles, along the lines just
described, are shared also by participating and purchase-warrant issues.
The latter types of privileged securities may, of course, be used as media
for hedging operations. Similarly, it may be found most desirable to switch
from common stocks into such issues. The Rand Kardex 51/2s, described
on page 293 in sixth edition text, were not only an attractive direct commitment at the time of issuance, but they were certainly a desirable substitute for the Class A stock. Furthermore they offered an interesting
hedging opportunity. In like manner, persons committed to a permanent
investment in Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company would
certainly have been wise to switch from the common stock into the participating preferred when the latter sold at a lower price than the common
in 1929 or 1930. In this case, however, a hedging operation between the
preferred and common would have involved special hazards, because the
senior issue was not convertible into the junior shares.

9 This operation is analyzed in the Appendix Note 41, p. 775.

30_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 393

Chapter 30

STOCK DIVIDENDS

DISTRIBUTIONS MADE in the form of stock instead of cash are of two kinds,
which may be called extraordinary and periodic. An extraordinary stock
dividend may be defined as one that capitalizes part of the accumulated
surplus of past years; i.e., it transfers a substantial amount from the accumulated surplus to stated capital and gives the stockholders additional
shares to represent the funds thus transferred.
A periodic stock dividend may be defined as one that capitalizes part
of only the current year’s earnings. Hence it is almost always of relatively
small size. It is called periodic because such dividends are usually repeated
over a number of years in accordance with an established policy.

EXTRAORDINARY STOCK DIVIDENDS
Extraordinary stock dividends are legal and legitimate, but by and large
they produce unfortunate effects. The only reason for such a dividend
that is at once sound and practical is that it will adjust the market price
of the shares to a more convenient level. Widespread public interest and
an active market are desirable attributes of a common stock, and these
are diminished when the normal price range has advanced to such a high
figure as, say, $300 or $400 per share. Hence an increase in the number
of shares and the reduction in value of each share, by means of a large
stock dividend, would be a logical step to take.
Example: In 1917 Bethlehem Steel stock was selling above $500 per
share. A stock dividend of 200% was paid (and additional shares were
sold at par) bringing the market price down to about 150.

Split-ups. Exactly the same result may be obtained by reducing the par
value of the shares, such a move being referred to familiarly as a “splitup.” During the bull market of the 1920’s reductions in par value were
much more frequent than large stock dividends on stocks with par value,
[393]

30_Graham_Dodd

[394]

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 394

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

because the rise in market price had so far outstripped the accumulated
surplus that a distribution of the latter would have been insufficient for
the purpose.
Example: In 1926 General Electric stock was selling at 360. Four new
shares of no-par value were given for each old share of $100 par value,
thus reducing the market price to about 90. To have effected the same
result by a 300% stock dividend would have required the transfer of 540
millions from surplus to capital, but the surplus was then only 100 millions. A similar situation existed in 1930 when General Electric shares
were again split four for one.
In the case of Woolworth, the original common issue of 500,000
shares was increased to 9,750,000 shares by the following steps, involving both stock dividends and split-ups.
Total Shares
Outstanding
1920: Stock dividend of 30%, reducing the price from
about 140 to about 110 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1924: Par value cut from $100 to $25, reducing the price
from about 320 to about 80 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1927: Stock dividend of 50%, reducing the price
from about 180 to about 120 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1929: Par value cut from $25 to $10, reducing the price
from about 225 to about 90 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

650,000
2,600,000
3,900,000
9,750,000

American Can combined both devices at one time in 1926. It reduced
the par value from $100 to $25 and also paid a stock dividend of 50%.
Hence six shares were issued for one, and the price was reduced from
about 300 to about 50.

Stock Splits and Stock Dividends in No-par Stock. In the case of
common stocks of no-par value, a split-up or a stock dividend leads to
exactly the same results, and to all practical purposes they are indistinguishable. Although a stock dividend requires the transfer of a certain sum
on the books from surplus to capital, the infinite latitude in accounting
permitted by no-par stock may make this transfer a purely nominal affair.
Examples: Central States Electric Corporation paid a 900% stock dividend in 1926, increasing the number of shares (no par) from 109,000 to

30_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 395

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[395]

1,090,000. The old stock had a book value of about $44 per share at the
end of 1925, but the new stock was charged against surplus at the rate of
only $1 per share.
Similarly in 1929, the Coca-Cola Company paid a 100% stock dividend in Class A stock without par value. This stock was booked at $5 per
share (lower than the stated value of the common) despite the fact that
the Class A stock has all of the characteristics of a $50-par, 6% preferred
issue, except formal designation of such a par figure. (See also the
accounting by this company of its 100% dividend payable in common
stock in 1927, and also our discussion of its treatment of repurchases of
Class A shares in Chap. 42, which can be found in the sixth edition text.)

Objections to Extraordinary Stock Dividends and Split-ups.
Extraordinary stock dividends and stock split-ups are both open to the
serious objection that their declaration exercises an undue influence upon
market prices and hence that they afford an avenue for manipulation and
for unfair profits by insiders. It is obvious that in theory a large stock dividend gives the stockholder nothing that he did not own before. His two
pieces of paper now represent the same ownership formerly expressed by
one piece of paper. This reasoning led the United States Supreme Court
to decide that stock dividends are not income and consequently not subject to income tax.1 In practice, however, a stock dividend may readily be
given exceptional speculative importance. For stock speculation is largely
a matter of A trying to decide what B, C and D are likely to think—with
B, C and D trying to do the same. Hence a stock dividend, even if it has
no real significance of any kind, can and does serve as a stimulus to that
mutual attempt at taking advantage of each other which often lies at the
bottom of speculators’ activities.2
1 This was the famous Eisner vs. Macomber decision in 1920 (252 U. S. 189). In 1936 the
Supreme Court decided, in the Koshland case (297 U. S. 702), that stock dividends that gave
the stockholder a different pro-rata interest than he had before were taxable. Under a ruling
of the Board of Tax Appeals this would apply, for example, to a dividend payable in preferred
stock of which some was previously outstanding.
2 Compare the amusing and edifying simile of J. M. Keynes: “… professional investment may
be likened to those newspaper competitions in which the competitors have to pick out the
six prettiest faces from a hundred photographs, the prize being awarded to the competitor
whose choice most nearly corresponds to the average preferences of the competitors as a
whole; so that each competitor has to pick not those faces which he himself finds prettiest,

30_Graham_Dodd

[396]

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 396

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Effect on the Cash Dividend Rate. The essentially illusive character
of large stock dividends would be more evident were it not for the fact that
an investment element of real importance may also enter into the picture.
The payment of an extraordinary stock dividend is usually the forerunner
of an increase in the regular cash dividend rate. Since investors are legitimately interested in the cash dividend, they must necessarily be interested
also in any stock dividend, for this may have a bearing upon the probable
cash dividend. This serves to confuse the issue and to make less obtrusive
the purely manipulative aspects of stock-dividend declarations.
The dividend history of a successful industrial corporation frequently
discloses the following sequence:
1. A protracted period of small dividends in relation to earnings, with the
upbuilding of a huge surplus.
2. The sudden payment of a large stock dividend.
3. An immediate increase in the regular cash dividend payments.3

No policy could be more conducive to the confusion of investment
and speculative attitudes or lend itself more easily to the taking of unfair
advantage by those in control.

PERIODIC STOCK DIVIDENDS
This policy represents a great advance in basic soundness over the haphazard and often inequitable practices that we have been discussing. Such
practices involve first the large accumulation of undistributed earnings
but those which he thinks likeliest to catch the fancy of the other competitors, all of whom
are looking at the problem from the same point of view. It is not a case of choosing those
which, to the best of one’s judgment, are really the prettiest, nor even those which average
opinion genuinely thinks the prettiest. We have reached the third degree where we devote
our intelligences to anticipating what average opinion expects the average opinion to be.
And there are some, I believe, who practice the fourth, fifth and higher degrees.” The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money, p. 156, New York, 1936.
3 For example, American Can issued six shares for one in 1926 through a four-for-one split
and a 50% stock dividend. The dividend rate was $7 per share on the old stock, but a $2 rate
was immediately inaugurated on the new stock, which was equivalent to $12 per share on
the old. The rate on the new stock was stepped up to $5 per share in 1929. Likewise National
Biscuit paid a $7 dividend annually from 1912 through 1922, although it earned substantially in excess of that figure. The stock was split 7 for 1 in 1922 through issuing 4 new
shares for each old share, followed by a 75% stock dividend. Dividends on the new shares
were inaugurated at $3 per share, equivalent to $21 per share on the old.

30_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 397

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[397]

in the surplus account, and second the ultimate capitalization thereof
through stock dividends at arbitrary times and in arbitrary amounts.
Assuming that in many cases it may be desirable to retain a good part of
each year’s earnings in the business, then the interests of the stockholders would be best served by giving them currently a tangible evidence of
their ownership of these reinvested profits.
If an enterprise regularly earns $12 per share and pays out only $5 in
cash, the stockholders would benefit greatly by receiving each year a stock
dividend representing a good part of the $7 added to their company’s
resources. In theory, of course, the additional stock certificate gives him
nothing that he would not own without it; in other words, without a stock
dividend his old certificate would still fully represent the ownership of the
added $7 per share. But in actuality the payment of periodic stock dividends produces important advantages. Among them are the following:
1. The stockholder can sell the stock-dividend certificate, so that at
his option he can have either cash or more stock to represent the reinvested earnings. Without a stock dividend he might in theory accomplish
the same end by selling a small part of the shares represented by his old
certificate, but in practice this is difficult to calculate and inconvenient
in execution.
2. He is likely to receive larger cash dividends as a result of such a policy, because the established cash rate will usually be continued on the
increased number of shares. For example, if a company earning $12 pays
out $5 in cash and 5% in stock, in the next year it will most probably pay
$5 in cash on the new capitalization, equivalent to $5.25 on the previous
holdings. Without the stock dividend, it would probably continue the $5
rate unchanged.4
3. By adding the reinvested profits to the stated capital (instead of to
surplus) the management is placed under a direct obligation to earn
money and pay dividends on these added resources. No such accountability exists with respect to the profit and loss surplus. The stock-divi-

4 For examples of this sequence see: Cities Service Company, which paid 6% in cash and 6%
in stock between Mar. 1, 1925 and June 1, 1932; Sears, Roebuck and Company which paid
$2.50 per share in cash and 4% in stock (annual rates) from the middle of 1928 through the
first quarter of 1931; Auburn Automobile Company which paid $1 in cash and 2% in stock
(quarterly) from January 1928 to July 1931; R. H. Macy and Company, Inc., which during
1928–1932 paid annual stock dividends of 5% along with increasing cash dividends.

30_Graham_Dodd

[398]

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 398

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

dend procedure will serve not only as a challenge to the efficiency of the
management but also as a proper test of the wisdom of reinvesting the
sums involved.
4. Issues paying periodic stock dividends enjoy a higher market value
than similar common stocks not paying such dividends.

Variations in the Practice of Periodic Stock-dividend Payment.
The practice of disbursing periodic stock dividends developed fairly rapidly from about 1923 until the subsequent depression. Three variations
of the idea were resorted to:
1. The standard method was to pay a stock dividend in addition to the
regular cash dividend. These stock dividends were paid either monthly,5
quarterly,6 semiannually7 or annually.8
2. Sometimes a periodic stock dividend was offered in lieu of the regular cash dividend. This took the form of an option to the stockholder to
take a certain amount of either cash or stock.
Example: The Seagrave Corporation paid a dividend quarterly at the
annual rate of either $1.20 in cash or 10% in stock between 1925 and
1929, inclusive.9
3. In a few cases stock dividends only were paid, with no cash disbursement or option. The most prominent exponent of periodic stock
dividends, the North American Company, followed this procedure
by paying dividends of 21/2% in stock, quarterly, between 1923 and 1933,
in which latter year the payment was reduced to 2% quarterly. (In 1935
the company gave up the stock-dividend policy and returned to a cashdividend basis.)

5 Cities Service Company, from July 1, 1929 to June 1, 1932; Gas and Electric Securities
Company between 1926 and 1931.
6 Sears, Roebuck and Company between 1928 and 1931; Auburn Automobile Company
between 1928 and 1931; Federal Light and Traction Company between 1925 and 1932.
7 American Water Works and Electric Company between 1927 and 1930; American Gas
and Electric Company between 1914 and 1932, with additional sporadic stock dividends;
American Power and Light Company between 1923 and 1931, with extras in stock.
8 Continental Can Company in 1924 and 1925; R. H. Macy and Company, Inc., between

1928 and 1932; Truscon Steel Company between 1926 and 1931; General Electric Company
between 1922 and 1925 (5% in special stock).
9 Compare this arrangement with the optional dividend or interest payments on preferred
stocks and bonds, mentioned on p. 289n in sixth edition text.

30_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 399

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[399]

Objectionable Feature of Periodic Stock Dividends. Nearly every
financial practice is open to abuse, and periodic stock dividends have
proved no exception. The objectionable feature in this case has been to
establish a regular stock-dividend rate exceeding in market value the
amount of the earnings carried to surplus. This practice makes the issue
appear unduly attractive to the unintelligent buyer, who is deceived by
the high cash value of the current payments in stock. It requires some
insight into corporate accounting methods to realize the true significance
of such stock-dividend payments.
Let us use the outstanding North American Company case as an illustration. As we have stated, this company paid continuous stock dividends
on the common shares at the rate of 10% annually for ten years. During
most of this period the 10% stock dividend represented a payment of only
$1 per share, as far as its books were concerned. This followed from the
fact that prior to 1927 the par value of the stock was $10 and that after the
shares were made no-par they were still given a “stated value” on the books
at $10 per share. Hence 10% of either the par or the stated value amounted
to only $1 per share. But from the investor’s viewpoint he was receiving
dividends worth much more than $1 per share, because the market price
of North American common far exceeded its par or stated value.
The facts will appear from the table shown on page 400.
It will be noted that beginning with the third quarterly payment in
1931, the amount charged against earnings for the stock dividend was
advanced from $1 to $1.468 per share annually. This followed a request
from the New York Stock Exchange that the charge against earnings or
earned surplus covering the stock dividends reflect the interest of the new
shares in the capital surplus as well as in the stated capital. Even after this
change was made, however, there remained a wide discrepancy between
the amount at which the dividends were valued on the books and the
value given these dividends by the stock market, and presumably by the
stockholders, until the quotation suffered a further severe decline.
Danger of Vicious Circle Developing. An arrangement of this kind is
likely to develop into a vicious circle. The higher the market price the
greater the apparent value of the stock dividends, which in turn will seem
to justify a still higher market price. (With a 10% stock dividend the
dividend return obviously remains at 10% regardless of how high the
market price may climb.) Such a result is deceptive and supplies an
unwholesome impetus to riotous speculation as well as to thoughtless

30_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 400

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[400]

investment. In effect it is the opposite of the practice followed many years
ago by such companies as American Can and National Biscuit, when the
market price was kept far below the true value of the shares by an unduly
“conservative” dividend policy. It is fully as objectionable, of course, to
pursue a policy calculated to create a market price higher than that warranted by the earnings and other value factors. Such an unjustified price
must necessarily be of temporary duration and is likely to result (as does
all improper accounting) in giving the initiated an unfair advantage over
the investing public.10
Value of the 10% stock dividend

Year

Earnings
per share*

Range of
market price

1932
1931
1930
1929
1928
1927
1926
1925
1924
1923

$2.01
3.41
4.53
5.03
4.68
4.06
4.05
3.74
3.32
3.59

43–14
90–26
133–57
187–67
97–56
65–46
67–42
75–41
45–22
24–18

To the
stockholders
Per company’s (average market
books
value)
$1.47
1.23†
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00

$ 2.85
5.80
9.50
12.70
7.65
5.55
5.45
5.80
3.35
2.10

* Based on the average number of shares outstanding during the year.
† First two quarterly dividends in 1931 were booked at $1 and last two at $1 to capital stock and 46.8 cents to capital surplus.

10 The North American Company has an excellent reputation, and its policy was clearly not

devised with any such sinister purpose in view. The company took pains to justify its stockdividend payments in communications to its shareholders. Its arguments centered, however,
on the advantages of reinvesting earnings and on the propriety of issuing additional common
shares to represent these added resources. The discrepancy between the book value and the
market value of these stock dividends, and the misconceptions that might arise therefrom,
were hardly touched upon. It was particularly unfortunate that a company of high standing
should have adopted this questionable practice, since its example was all too readily followed
and exploited by other enterprises less scrupulously managed.

30_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 401

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[401]

Historical Development. From the historical standpoint it is interesting to note that the North American Company began its stock-dividend policy at about the same time that the first protagonist of the idea
had decided to abandon it. This was the American Light and Traction
Company, which during 1910–1919 had paid dividends at the annual rate
of both $10 in cash and 10% in stock. During 1916 when the stock sold
at about 400, the stockholders were receiving dividends with a realizable
value of some $50 annually, although the earnings were only about $25
per share. Such a dividend policy could be permanently successful only
if the company could continuously reinvest in its business ever-increasing amounts of profits, upon which in turn it could realize 20% annually.
The law of diminishing returns (and the voracious growth of compound
interest) would clearly outlaw such a possibility. In the depression of
1920–1921 American Light and Traction found it necessary to reduce its
dividend rate sharply. The market quotation fell below 80, an astounding
decline for an investment stock during that period. (The price range of
Atchison during the years 1916–1921 was between 109 and 76.) This
experience led the directors to give up the periodic stock-dividend idea
in 1925, at the very time when it was coming into general favor among
other public-utility holding companies. The abandonment of stock dividends by North American Company ten years later is a striking illustration of the way in which financial history repeats itself.

Example of Vicious Pyramiding on Stock Dividends. During
the boom years periodic stock dividends were made the medium of an
especially vicious pyramiding of reported profits. An operating company
would pay out stock dividends with a market value more than its current
earnings, and in turn an investment trust or holding company would
report these stock dividends as income in an amount equal to the market value. For example, Central States Electric Corporation, which is a
large holder of North American Company common stock, reported a
total income in 1928 (exclusive of profits on the sale of securities) of
$7,188,178. Of this sum, $6,396,225 was represented by stock of North
American received during the year and taken on the recipient’s books at
the market value for North American immediately following the date of
record for each quarterly dividend. The average price at which these stock
dividends were taken on the books as income was $74 per share, or $7.40

30_Graham_Dodd

[402]

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 402

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

for the 10% dividend, in a year in which North American earned $4.68
per share on the average number of shares outstanding. Nevertheless, the
stock market capitalized these artificial earnings of Central States Electric Corporation to arrive at its valuation of that company’s shares.11

Market Price of Shares Should Be Recognized in Stock-dividend
Payments. The New York Stock Exchange finally adopted a new listing
requirement under which corporations agree not to take into their income
accounts stock dividends received, at a valuation greater than the amount
at which such stock dividends were charged “against earnings, earned
surplus or undivided profits by the issuing company in relation thereto.”
Although this regulation was properly conceived, it does not go to the
heart of the matter. The abuses of the periodic stock-dividend procedure
may be readily prevented by the simple rule that stock dividends at market value must not exceed the earnings available for dividends. Declarations might well be made in the following form: “A stock dividend of 5%
is hereby declared. The market value of this dividend is approximately $6
per share, and it represents the capitalization of $7 per share retained in
the business out of current earnings of $10 per share.”

Advantages of Stock Dividends Payable in Preferred Stock. Dividends may be paid in preferred stock instead of common stock. The chief
exemplar of this method is General Electric Company, which distributed
extra dividends of 5% annually between 1922 and 1925, in addition to the
regular payment of $8 in cash. These extra dividends were paid in 6% special stock, par value $10, which was in reality a preferred stock. A similar
procedure was followed by S. H. Kress Company and by Hartman Corporation. The theoretical advantage of this method is that the amount of the
dividend paid is clearly fixed at the effective par value12 of the preferred
11 Middle West Utilities followed a similar practice between 1928 and April 1932 with
respect to stock dividends received both from subsidiaries and from other companies. The
receivers subsequently wrote down the corporate surplus to correct the overvaluation of
these stock dividends received from subsidiaries.
12 If payment is made in a convertible preferred stock the danger of overvaluation is, of
course, not fully eliminated. For example, Columbia Gas and Electric Corporation during
1932 paid $1.125 to common stockholders in 5% Convertible Preference Stock (par $100)
which was convertible into common in the ratio of one share of preference to five shares of
common. The preference stock sold as high as 108 during 1932 and 138 in 1933, or at equivalents substantially in excess of the earnings of the company on its common stock during
those years.

30_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 403

Theory of Common-stock Investment. The Dividend Factor

[403]

shares issued, thus obviating the complication presented by differences
between book value and market value. Where the company has no senior
securities, or only a small amount, the issuance of preferred stock to represent reinvested earnings will not weaken the capital structure.
In 1934 General Electric Company determined that its working-capital position was so comfortable as to permit the retirement of the entire
issue of special stock, which was accordingly redeemed in April 1935.
This may be said to represent the ideal arrangement from the stockholder’s standpoint in dealing with undistributed earnings. The two steps
involved are as follows:
1. In prosperous years earnings are retained for expansion or added
working capital, but the stockholders receive preferred shares periodically to represent a portion thereof.
2. If subsequent business developments show that the additional capital is no longer needed, it is paid out to the stockholders through the
redemption of their preferred shares.

The Foregoing Summarized. Our conception of suitable dividend
policies, discussed at length in this and the preceding chapter, may be
summed up in the following three statements:13
1. Withholding and reinvestment of a substantial part of the earnings
must be clearly justified to the stockholders on the grounds of concrete
benefits therefrom exceeding the value of the cash if paid to the stockholders. Such withholding should be specifically approved by the stockholders.
2. If retention of profits is in any sense a matter of necessity rather than
choice, the stockholders should be advised of this fact, and the amounts
involved should be designated as “reserves” instead of as “surplus profits.”
3. Earnings voluntarily retained in the business should be capitalized
in good part by the periodic issuance of additional stock, with current
market value not exceeding such reinvested earnings. If the additional
capital is subsequently found no longer to be needed in the business, it
should be distributed to the shareholders against the retirement of the
stock previously issued to represent it.

13 For some interesting legal aspects of the power to declare or withhold dividends see
A. A. Berle and G. C. Means, The Modern Corporation and Private Property, pp. 260–263,
New York, 1932.

30_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:40 AM

Page 404

35_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:41 AM

Page 470

Chapter 35

PUBLIC-UTILITY
DEPRECIATION POLICIES

Omission of Depreciation Charges. In no field does the question of
proper depreciation policy have such practical importance as in the public-utility group. Yet nowhere have there been wider variations in both theory and practice. Some years ago there were instances—notably that of
Cities Service Company—of complete failure to make any deduction for
depreciation (and depletion) in the annual reports, with a resultant gross
misstatement of the earnings for the stock.1 The argument has often been
advanced that depreciation charges may properly be ignored because they
are mere bookkeeping entries and do not represent a real outlay of cash.
This is a highly inaccurate statement of the case. Depreciation is not a mere
bookeeping conception, because for the most part it registers an actual
diminution of capital values, for which adequate provision must be made
if creditors or owners are to avoid deceiving themselves.2
Moreover, in the majority of cases the depreciation charges are consumed or offset over a period of time by even larger cash expenditures
made for replacements or extensions. More often than not, therefore,
depreciation charges are eventually found to be related to actual cash outlays and turn out to be as truly an expense of the business as wages or
rents. Minority cases are fairly numerous in which a good part of the
1 In 1925, for example, the company reported earnings of $11,497,000 “for common stock
and reserves,” said to amount to $3.05 per share. But the depreciation and depletion charges
must have amounted to more than this balance, leaving actually nothing earned for the
stock. Yet in that year it sold as high as 43.
2 In answer to the frequent argument that a depreciation allowance is unnecessary because
liberal repairs keep the assets good, we may quote Hatfield’s classic sentence: “All machinery
is on an irresistible march to the junk heap, and its progress, while it may be delayed, cannot
be prevented by repairs.” Henry R. Hatfield, Accounting: Its Principles and Problems, p. 130,
New York, 1928.

[470]

35_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:41 AM

Page 471

Analysis of the Income Account

[471]

depreciation reserve remains unexpended over a long period of time. In
these instances a reduction of the annual charges may sometimes be justified in the investor’s calculations, as we shall later explain. The broad
principle remains, however, that an adequate depreciation allowance is
essential in arriving at a fair statement of earnings.

Other Misleading Practices. Another fairly prevalent practice was
the deduction of only part of the depreciation charge from earnings, the
balance being taken out of the surplus account. In some instances the
amounts charged to income were based on the so-called “indenture minima”—a percentage of gross earnings for maintenance and depreciation
combined required to be deducted under the terms of a bond issue. When
these indenture minima were less than the depreciation actually needed
and taken, we find that requirements ostensibly set up for the protection
of investors were actually used to mislead them.3
It is unfortunate that something resembling this practice has been
resorted to at times by conservatively managed companies. Note the following in the reports of the Detroit Edison Company for 1931 and 1930.
Item
Gross
Net before depreciation
Depreciation
(Per cent of gross)
Fixed charges
Balance for common
Earned per share
Additional depreciation charged to surplus
Earned per share after charge to surplus

1931

1930

$49,233,000
21,421,000
4,000,000
8.1%
5,992,000
11,429,000
$8.98
1,500,000
$7.80

$53,707,000
24,041,000
6,900,000
12.8%
6,024,000
11,117,000
$8.75
$8.75

Although Detroit Edison’s depreciation charges have been unusually
liberal by comparison with the average for the industry, the accounting
method employed for 1931 (and also in 1934) might well be criticized for
two reasons. In the first place its effect, if not its purpose, was to disguise
3 In the case of Cities Service Power and Light, these understatements of depreciation

appeared both in the annual reports and in the bond-offering circulars. For the data relating
to 1925 see the discussion on p. 177 in Chap. 12.

35_Graham_Dodd

[472]

11/15/08

10:41 AM

Page 472

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

the actual decline in earnings from the previous year. Secondly, because
of the high reputation of the company, this device was likely to be imitated by other enterprises, and thus it might furnish an unwholesome
stimulus to the new practice of overstating earnings by the transfer of
charges to the surplus account.

An Illustration of Tricky Accounting. An extraordinary example
of tricky accounting is displayed by Iowa Public Service Company. For
1929 this company reported a property account of $25,200,000, gross
earnings of $4,200,000 and a depreciation charge of only $78,000. The
inadequacy of this figure is patent. In succeeding years the depreciation
allowance was gradually increased, reaching $220,000 in 1932, which was
still a somewhat subnormal figure. In 1932, the company made formal
confession of the insufficiency of its past depreciation charges, by the following unique procedure:
1. It reduced the stated value of its common stock by $1,587,000 and transferred this sum to capital surplus.
2. It immediately used up this capital surplus by charging against it
$1,500,000 for additional depreciation and $87,000 for contingencies.

In this case we see a good part of the necessary depreciation charge
excluded from the income statements over a period of years and finally
allowed for by reducing the amount at which the common stock is valued. An incidental effect of this mischievous accounting was to permit
the parent company (American Electric Power Corporation) to take
out in dividends a sum exceeding the true earnings and the initial surplus combined, to the serious prejudice of the bondholders and the first
preferred stockholders.4

Inadequate Depreciation Revealed by Transfers from Surplus
and Reserves. Example: The case of Brooklyn Union Gas is perhaps
the most impressive example of the failure of the income account to
reflect the necessary deductions for amortization. The extent of the consequent overstatement of earnings has been glaringly revealed by the huge
transfers required to be made from surplus and contingency reserves. The
story may be summarized as follows, as regards the ten years 1929–1938:
4 For examples of other methods by which depreciation and depletion charges are excluded

from the income account, and for comment on their implications, see Appendix Note 52, p. 788.

35_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:41 AM

Page 473

Analysis of the Income Account

[473]

BROOKLYN UNION GAS COMPANY

A. Annual average 1929–1938:
Gross revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Depreciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Depreciation, per cent of gross . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Depreciation, per cent of ﬁxed capital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reported earnings for common . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dividends paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Indicated balance to surplus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$23,389,000
729,000
3.1
0.67
$ 3,791,000
2,918,000
$873,000

B. Ten-year period 1929–1938:
Surplus and contingency reserve, Dec. 31, 1928 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Surplus and contingency reserve, Dec. 31, 1938 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Decrease for period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Indicated increase per income account above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Discrepancy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Average earnings per share of common per income account . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Average earnings per share of common per balance sheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$29,161,000
9,840,000
$19,321,000
8,730,000
$28,051,000
$5.13
$1.36

C. Explanation of discrepancy:
Transferred from surplus, etc., to:
Reserve for depreciation or retirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Write-off of appraisal expense, 1937 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miscellaneous charges (net) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total charges to surplus, etc., 1929–1938 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$25,300,000
1,781,000
970,000
$28,051,000

D. Retirement reserve “used up” 1929–1938:
Retirement reserve, Dec. 31, 1928 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Additions from income, 1929–1938 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Additions from surplus and contingency reserve . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Balance (depreciation reserve), Dec. 31, 1938 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reserve consumed by actual retirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 1,565,000
7,290,000*
25,300,000
$34,155,000
7,270,000
$26,885,000

* In addition there were indicated appropriations from income of about $130,000 per annum for coke-oven relining and
replacement reserves, which in 1938 were combined with the depreciation reserve in the balance sheet. If these are regarded
as the equivalent of depreciation, then both the depreciation allowance and the “reserve consumed” would be increased by
about $1,300,000 for the ten-year period.

The foregoing figures are given in considerable detail, since they disclose a complicated but significant state of affairs bearing on the true
earning power of the company. The reader will note the following points:

35_Graham_Dodd

[474]

11/15/08

10:41 AM

Page 474

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

1. The average reported earnings of $5.13 per share were computed
after deduction of a “retirement reserve” of very small size in relation to
both gross earnings and plant account.
2. These charges for retirements against income proved woefully inadequate to cover the actual retirements taking place during the period. To
meet these charges the company had to exhaust a large contingency reserve5
($13,800,000 at the end of 1928) and to draw heavily on surplus besides.
3. Although the company reported to stockholders that it had earned
an aggregate of $51 per share during the period, paid dividends of $40
and carried $11 per share to surplus, its surplus and contingency reserve
had really decreased about $26 per share. Hence the earnings as indicated
by the balance sheet had averaged only $1.36 per share instead of $5.13
per share as reported in the income account.6
4. The actual retirements of property during this period averaged
$2,688,000 per annum, or 11% of gross, as compared with the charge to
income of $729,000, or 3.1% of gross. In the year 1938 the company stated
that, in accordance with the new requirements of the Public Service Commission of New York, it was adopting a depreciation policy, that the details
had not yet been worked out and that provisionally it was charging
$1,200,000 per annum for the purpose. Judging from the facts stated and
our previous discussion, there would seem to be grounds for doubt if even
this amount, although much larger than former charges, is adequate.7

A Variety of Depreciation Policies. The foregoing discussion of
failure to reflect full depreciation charges in the income account leads
us into a broader topic, viz., the basis used by a company in making its
5 This contingency reserve had itself developed out of an “accrued amortization” account
which ended in 1916. Since that date the successor contingency reserve appeared to be
equivalent to surplus.
6 If the company is given credit for the increase in the depreciation reserve at the end of 1938
as compared with Dec. 31, 1928, the indicated adjusted earnings would average about $2 per
share. During most of this period the company calculated the earnings per share in its
annual reports on the basis of its inadequate retirement allowances and in 1934–1936 also
computed even larger earnings per share, including therein income tied up in rate litigation,
most of which was later returned to customers.
7 Note that the stock sold as high as 248 in 1929, at 129 as late as 1931 and as low as 10 in

1938. In 1939 it advanced to 30 on reported earnings of $3.07 per share for the 12 months
ended June 30. But a depreciation allowance of 11% of gross would have reduced the earnings to $1.30 per share.

35_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:41 AM

Page 475

Analysis of the Income Account

[475]

depreciation allowance. The methods employed reveal an extraordinary
variety, no less than seven calling for description, as follows:
A. Depreciation Proper.
1. Straight-line Method. Each class of depreciable property is written
down to salvage value by equal annual charges during the period of its
estimated life. This is the standard method of calculating depreciation,
permitted by the revenue acts and generally followed by all companies in
their income tax returns. Surprisingly few electric and gas companies,
however, have employed this method in their published income accounts.
Example: Union Electric Company of Missouri, a subsidiary of North
American Company, has used the straight-line method for a number of
years. But even here the company’s reported allowance is less than that
claimed on its income tax return ($3,899,205 vs. $5,549,109 in 1937) the
difference being due apparently to assuming a shorter life for tax purposes than for annual report purposes.
As will be pointed out later, recent regulations adopted by state commissions and by the Federal Power Commission are now necessitating a
change-over by many companies to the straight-line or standard method
in their reported earnings.
2. Sinking-fund Method. Allowance is here made for the fact that
amounts set aside for depreciation will earn interest until the property is
retired. The effect of this method is to make the deductions somewhat
smaller in the earlier years and correspondingly higher in the later years.
It is generally used by California utility corporations under agreements
with the Railroad Commission of the state, the rate of interest allowed
being 6%. (Examples: Pacific Gas and Electric, San Diego Consolidated
Gas and Electric.) Even here the companies take the straight-line basis in
their tax returns.
3. The Over-all Method. This applies a single annual percentage to the
entire depreciable property account, instead of varying rates to different
classes of assets. The object, presumably, is to arrive at a simple approximation of the actual depreciation.
Example: Commonwealth Edison deducts 3% of the average book
value of depreciable property.
B. Retirement Reserve Methods. The distinguishing feature of a retirement reserve is that it does not seek to measure the depreciation during a
given period caused by wear and tear or obsolescence. Instead it is
supposed to provide funds that, in the opinion of the management, will

35_Graham_Dodd

[476]

11/15/08

10:41 AM

Page 476

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

be adequate to take care of retirements of property when and as they occur.
Over any long period of time, proper depreciation and proper retirement
allowances should total the same amount. But a retirement reserve policy
apparently permits arbitrary annual variations, to reflect good or bad earnings or the expected near term need for actual retirements. In reality, as
will be seen, the majority of retirement reserve policies operate simply to
understate the current loss of property value and thus to overstate the
earnings. Various bases of calculating retirement reserves are as follows:
4. Percentage of Gross. This method would tend to approximate a regular depreciation rate if the percentage taken were adequate. Generally
this is not the case.
Example: Duquesne Lighting Company deducts 8% of gross. On the
other hand, its income tax deduction for 1932–1934 equaled no less than
30% of gross.
5. Fixed Rate per Unit of Product. This method clearly resembles the
preceding and is subject to the same criticism.
Examples: In 1932 Brooklyn Union Gas Company stated that it was
reserving 3 cents per thousand cubic feet for retirements. (This policy has
since been changed.) Cincinnati Gas and Electric Company stated in 1937
that it was making provision for retirement reserve at the rate of 5 cents
per thousand cubic feet of gas sold and $2.70 per thousand kilowatt-hours
of electricity sold.
6. Over-all Percentage of Gross for Maintenance and Depreciation Combined. By this method the larger the amount spent for maintenance the
less is reserved for depreciation.8
Examples: Third Avenue Railway used a 20% deduction for maintenance and depreciation combined for the years 1912–1918. Tidewater
Power Company uses varying total rates for different services, viz. (in
1936): Gas and Electric, 15%; Water, 12%; Railway; 30%.
7. Discretionary Deductions. The majority of companies following the
retirement reserve method have been bound by no mathematical formula
but have based the annual deduction largely on the judgment of the
management.

8 Although this policy is not generally followed by companies in their own accounting, it is
frequently met in the minimum requirements imposed by bond indentures and also in those
imposed by the S.E.C. as a condition to the approval of new bond issues under the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.

35_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:41 AM

Page 477

Analysis of the Income Account

[477]

Examples: a. Amounts varying year by year: Detroit Edison, Philadelphia Electric, American Water Works and Electric, American Power
and Light.
b. Unchanged annual round amount: Tampa Electric charged $430,000
per annum from 1933 through 1939.
c. Allowance made equal to actual retirements during year: Western
Union Telegraph Company in 1932–1936. The depreciation charge of
$5,631,000 in its income account for 1936 compares with a provision
of $11,190,000 in the tax return. The difference would account for most
of the $7,199,000 reported as earned for the common stock that year. The
inadequacy of past allowances for depreciation was shown by the transfer in 1937 of $30,000,000 from surplus to depreciation reserve.

Double Accounting Policies on Depreciation. We have already
stated that, regardless of what method is followed in the annual reports,
practically every company follows the straight-line basis of depreciation
in computing its income tax.9 The investor is thus confronted with a dual
situation and a pressing problem. In many cases it is of vital importance
to know which basis of depreciation is correct, since bond-interest coverage and common-stock earnings which may appear adequate as
reported in the company’s annual statements would turn out to be entirely
insufficient if the income tax figures are accepted.
Example: The existence of this disparity was unknown to investors generally until brought out into the open in one of the first prospectuses published under the terms of the 1933 act, viz., that describing the American
Water Works and Electric Company Convertible 5s, due 1944. This document revealed that in 1932 “tax-return amortization” had been taken at
$7,023,000, as against “income-account amortization” of only $2,747,000.
At that time there was a tendency in Wall Street to minimize the significance of these divergences, on the ground that depreciation was a highly
technical and controversial matter and there was just as much reason to
accept the income-account basis as the tax-return basis.
Reasons for Accepting, in General, the Income Tax Base. We have always
been convinced that this heedlessness was dangerously unsound. Develop9 Prior to 1934 Consolidated Edison apparently used the same retirement allowance in tax
returns and annual reports, but has since taken advantage of the higher depreciation rates in
calculating its tax. Interim reports for 1939 suggest a swing back to the former practice.

35_Graham_Dodd

[478]

11/15/08

10:41 AM

Page 478

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

ments since 1934 have strongly but-tressed our opinion, so that we now can
advance no less than five major reasons for accepting, in general, the income
tax figure rather than the income-account basis of depreciation. These are:
1. The straight-line basis follows a definite and logical accounting theory. If it resulted in an excessive deduction the Treasury Department
would not accept it. The various retirement-reserve bases are either
entirely arbitrary or technically unsound.
2. The inadequacy of the “retirement reserve” idea in general has been
shown by the necessity in many cases of making large transfers from surplus to bolster the retirement account. Example: See Brooklyn Union Gas
exhibit on pages 473–474.
3. Since 1934 there has been an almost universal increase in the retirement allowances—both absolutely and percentagewise. This may be considered a virtual confession of past inadequacy. The extent of these
increases is indicated by our table on page 480, which supplies information concerning depreciation or retirement allowances, as well as maintenance charges, covering the years 1930 and 1938 for a number of utility
companies. It is to be noted that in the earlier year the companies using
the retirement basis generally made lower charges than those using the
depreciation basis. Observe, also, that a number of the companies previously using the retirement method have since switched to a depreciation
basis. Moreover, a considerable number of the companies that used the
retirement basis in 1938 were on the verge of a transfer to a depreciation
basis under the impetus of requirements of the Federal Power Commission and of various state commissions.
4. A number of state commissions and the Federal Power Commission have now ordered companies within their jurisdictions to follow a
regular depreciation basis in all their accounts.
Examples: Pennsylvania, Michigan and New York.10 Some important
companies are perforce switching over to the income tax basis in their
10 After endeavoring in 1934 to impose a strict straight-line depreciation policy upon New
York utilities and having met with reversals in court, the New York Public Service Commission promulgated a new rule which requires each utility company to record the estimated
amount of depreciation accrued each month. Depreciation is defined as “the net loss in service value not restored by current maintenance, incurred in connection with the consumption
or prospective retirement of plant in the course of service from causes which are known to
be in current operation and against which the utility is not protected by insurance.” This is
undoubtedly a move in the direction of straight-line depreciation accounting.

35_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:41 AM

Page 479

Analysis of the Income Account

[479]

annual statements. For example, Consolidated Edison Company of New
York for the calendar year 1938 charged $18,829,000 for retirement
reserve in its report to shareholders and charged about $26,800,000 for
depreciation on a straight-line basis in its income tax return. For the 12
months ending September 30, 1939, the company charged $24,217,000
for depreciation in its interim report to shareholders as against a charge
of only $17,737,000 in its report for the corresponding period ending September 30, 1938. Gross operating revenues for the latter two periods were
$248,666,000 and $239,413,000, respectively.
5. Where any real alternative exists, the investor in fixed-value securities must invariably apply the more stringent test of soundness.
Examples: The practical significance of our fifth reason is shown by
two examples—one current as this is written, the other taken from the
securities market of 1930.
It is difficult to understand from the foregoing figures how the
investor could justify to himself the purchase of Pennsylvania Power and
Light $5 Preferred at a price to yield only 5.26%. On the basis of the company’s own report the margin above fixed charges and preferred dividends was entirely inadequate; on the income tax basis for depreciation
this is cut by more than half; on the basis of the percentage of gross
applied by Southern California Edison, the margin practically disappears.
If we examine a very similar situation existing in 1930, as shown in
the table at the bottom on p. 481, we shall see how important it was for
the investor to recognize the implication of the figures.
In this case we had three factors that militated against the investment
merit of American Power and Light Preferred Stock: (1) The coverage as
stated was entirely insufficient for real safety. (2) The depreciation rate
taken was far too low. An adjustment to the Pacific Lighting basis would
have sharply reduced the margin above preferred requirements. (3) These
requirements were temporarily understated by about $2,000,000, because
a large preferred issue was then entitled to only $3 in dividends, the rate
advancing gradually to $5 in 1933.
The decline in the market price of the $6 preferred in 1938 was due
to reductions in the dividend beginning in 1933, brought about in turn
by lower net earnings which absorbed the small margin above preferred
requirements existing in 1929. Recovery in reported earnings after 1933
was held back, in part, by the necessity of stepping up the depreciation
allowance gradually to bring it in line with realities.

Kansas City Power & Light Co.
Paciﬁc Lighting Corp.
Detroit Edison Co.
Southern California Edison Co.
Paciﬁc Gas & Electric Co.
North American Co.
Engineers Public Service Co.
American Gas & Electric Co.
International Hydro-Electric System
Public Service Corp. of N.J.
Columbia Gas & Electric Corp.
Commonwealth Edison Co.
Electric Power & Light Corp.
Duquesne Light Co.
Northern States Power Co. (Del.)
American Water Works & Electric Co.
United Gas Improvement Co.
Consolidated Gas, etc., of Baltimore
National Power & Light Co.
Commonwealth & Southern Corp.
Detroit City Gas Co.‡
Public Service Co. of Northern III.
Peoples Gas Light & Coke Co.
American Power & Light Co.
Consolidated Edison Co. (N.Y.)
Illinois Power & Light Corp.§
Niagara Hudson Power Corp.
Associated Gas & Electric Co.
Penna. Power & Light Co.
American & Foreign Power Co.
Brooklyn Union Gas Co.

$2,036D
6,784D
6,900R
5,014D
8,866D
14,274D
4,905R
5,898D
3,970R
11,904D
8,138R†
7,109R
6,165R†
2,294R
2,560R
4,105R
8,040R
2,075R
5,901R
9,548R
1,271D
2,400R
2,584R
5,556R
15,033R
2,239R
4,753R
4,849R
1,500R
3,437R
669R

14.0
13.9
12.8
12.2
11.6
10.7
9.2
8.6
8.6
8.6
8.5
8.5
8.2
8.0
7.7
7.6
7.4
7.3
7.3
6.9
6.8
6.8
6.5
6.4
6.3
6.0
6.0
5.8
4.8
4.4
2.6

$ ?
?
3,199
1,180
3,796
?
3,446
?
3,321
12,881
?
?
?
1,410
1,778
4,252
5,586
1,389
?
?
1,199
2,013
?
?
17,047
3,628
?
?
2,464
?
2,034

Maintenance
(000
omitted)

[480]
7.9

7.9

7.1
9.7

6.5
5.7

4.9
5.3
7.9
5.2
4.9

7.2
9.3

6.5

6.0
2.9
5.0

Ratio of
maintenance
to gross, %
3.2
3.1
3.3
1.5
1.7
2.0
1.7
1.4
1.0
1.9
1.4
2.4
0.8
1.4
1.1
1.1
1.4
1.7
1.2
0.9
2.0
1.8
1.6
0.9
1.3
1.1
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.5
0.6

$ 16,365
45,501
54,813
42,997
101,425
116,572
52,716
72,502
61,217
126,821
92,968
139,545
104,233
30,072
35,616
50,004
107,249
34,557
84,686
145,915
20,038
39,648
41,390
96,884
240,896
24,938
82,371
129,323
39,237
59,809
22,489

Gross (000
omitted)
$ 2,321D
5,755D
7,371R
6,235D
14,378D
14,908D
5,718R
10,607D
5,525R&D
10,284D
10,059R†
16,868D
16,016R†
2,948R
3,093R&D
4,759R†
9,214R&D
3,345R
7,403R
16,266R
929R&D
4,240D
3,093D
9,633R†
18,829R
2,815R
10,977D
11,982R
2,934R
5,370R
1,200D

Depreciation D
or retirement
reserve R (000
omitted)
14.2
12.6
13.5
14.5
14.1
12.8
10.8
14.6
9.0
8.1
10.8
12.1
15.3
9.8
8.7
9.5
8.6
9.7
8.8
10.9
4.6
10.8
7.5
10.0
7.8
11.3
13.3
9.2
7.5
9.0
5.3

Ratio of D
or R to
gross, %
$ 760
1,569
3,828
1,841
4,604
7,515
3,587
4,155
3,979
10,095
6,005
7,915
?
2,314
1,771
3,759
5,930
1,767
6,006
9,562
1,218
2,247
1,653
4,738
16,328
1,514
4,956
8,139
2,847
?
1,656

Maintenance
(000
omitted)

1938

7.3

7.9
5.0
7.5
5.5
5.1
7.1
6.4
6.1
5.7
4.0
4.9
6.8
6.1
6.0
6.3
7.3

4.6
3.4
7.0
4.3
4.5
6.4
6.8
5.7
6.5
8.4
6.5
5.7

2.8
3.2
2.3
1.8
2.0
2.1
1.7
2.4
1.0
1.6
1.6
2.6
2.4
1.5
1.4
1.3
1.5
2.4
1.6
1.5
1.2
2.6
2.0
1.3
1.5
2.2
2.0
1.3
1.3
0.5
1.1

Ratio of year’s
depreciation
or retirement
reserve to
Ratio of
average
maintenance
property
to gross, %
account, %

10:41 AM

* See 1939 ﬁgures on p. 479. †This ﬁgure includes depletion. ‡Now Michigan Consolidated Gas Company. § Now Illinois Iowa Power Company.

$14,504
48,838
53,707
41,129
76,578
133,751
53,042
68,601
46,414
138,162
96,130
84,004
75,048
28,676
33,272
54,067
108,374
28,582
80,376
137,752
18,446
35,405
39,881
87,088
238,758
37,123
78,834
84,219
31,006
78,656
25,698

Company

Ratio of D
or R to
gross, %

Ratio of year’s
depreciation
or retirement
reserve to
average
property
account, %

11/15/08

Gross (000
omitted)

Depreciation
D or retirement reserve
R (000
omitted)

1930

COMPARATIVE DEPRECIATION OR RETIREMENT ALLOWANCES OF PUBLIC UTILITIES, 1930 AND 1938

35_Graham_Dodd
Page 480

35_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:41 AM

Page 481

Analysis of the Income Account

[481]

Pennsylvania
Power & Light

Southern California
Edison Co. (added
for comparison)

Item
Gross
Depreciation
Percentage of gross
Balance for charges
Charges and pfd. dividends
Times earned
Balance for common
Price of pfd. stock July 1939
Yield on pfd
Depreciation on income tax basis
(1938)
Percentage of gross
Charges and preferred dividends
earned, income tax basis

Results for year ended June 30, 1939
$39,232,000
2,815,000
7.2%
13,985,000
10,171,000
1.38 times
3,814,000
95 for $5 div. issue
5.26%
4,947,000
12.6%
1.17 times
American Power
& Light

Item
Gross
Depreciation
Percentage of gross
Balance for charges
Fixed charges and pfd. dividends
Times earned
Balance for common
High price of $6 pfd. in 1930
Low price in 1938

$44,421,000
6,872,000
15.5%
19,349,000
11,891,000
1.63 times
7,458,000
29 for $1.50 div. issue
5.17%

Paciﬁc Lighting (added
for comparison)

Results for calendar year 1929
$88,222,000
5,317,000
6.0%
44,349,000
32,762,000
1.36 times
11,587,000
107
19

$43,275,000
5,525,000
12.9%
14,257,000
7,623,000
1.87 times
6,634,000
106
99

Instances When Income Tax Basis Should Be Rejected or Questioned.
The reader may note that we have counseled acceptance of the income
tax basis “in general.” The suggestion is qualified because there may at
times be reasons either to accept the annual report figures or even to seek
a third basis of amortization.

35_Graham_Dodd

[482]

11/15/08

10:41 AM

Page 482

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The Pacific Lighting case, used for comparison in the last example,
illustrates our first exception. The figures for 1929 were taken from the
annual report and are based on the “sinking-fund” depreciation method
generally followed by agreement between the California Commission and
California utility companies. It appears that the deductions for depreciation taken by the company average lower than the straight-line deduction
taken on the tax returns. Nevertheless, in this case the company’s reported
figures might well be accepted, first, because they result from applying an
admissible accounting method and, second, because the amounts appear
to be liberal in relation both to the property account and to the gross earnings. The same reasoning would apply to all the California utilities.
There is another large group of companies that have taken depreciation allowances that appear liberal in themselves but are still substantially
less than the income tax deductions.
Examples: In 1938 Detroit Edison charged 13.5% of gross on its report
to shareholders, vs. 18.2% of gross on its tax return for that year. Corresponding figures for North American Company for 1937 were 12.8 and
14.8%, respectively.
In these instances the investor—and particularly the common-stock
buyer—may argue that the income tax basis is unduly severe. It is difficult to pronounce judgment on this point in the absence of detailed
knowledge of the properties themselves and a better familiarity with public-utility engineering details than we possess. We are inclined to advance
the compromise suggestion that when the tax figure exceeds, say, 121/2%
of gross, the latter rate be used provisionally for purposes of analysis.11 It
11 The 121/2% rate is about midway between the average figure taken by companies on their
tax returns and on their reports to shareholders and is fairly close to the average depreciation
rate on the sinking-fund basis as currently reported. A study published by Goodbody and
Company, members of the New York Stock Exchange, in May 1938, which covered about
two-thirds of the light and power industry, indicated that the industry as a whole had
deducted 10.46% of gross for depreciation or retirements in its reports to stockholders for the
year 1937 and had claimed 14.78% of gross for depreciation on its tax returns. A detailed
computation published by the S.E.C. in July 1939, covering 177 operating gas and electric
utilities in holding-company systems, showed that for 1938 the depreciation or retirement
allowances taken in their income accounts averaged 10.30% of gross operating revenues. A
study by the Federal Power Commission of the 1937 results for 385 utilities, representing 90%
of the electric utility industry as measured by assets, showed an average depreciation charge
of 10% of electric utility operating revenues and 9.2% of total utility operating revenues. See
Statistics of Electric Utilities for the Year Ended December 31, 1937, Vols. I and II, 1939.

35_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:41 AM

Page 483

Analysis of the Income Account

[483]

may be pointed out that several years ago it appeared that 10 to 12% of
gross constituted a comparatively liberal deduction.

Practical Effect of Varying Depreciation Policies. The reader
may consider this discussion of utility depreciation policies to be highly
technical and uninteresting, but the fact remains that it has a bearing of
the greatest practical importance on the selection of public-utility stocks
and on their market behavior. The companies that charged inadequate
depreciation prior to 1934 were generally overvalued in the stock market, because investors gave equally inadequate attention to this point. A
careful analyst would have found many occasions to suggest transfers
from less conservative to more conservative companies. Since in the following years there has been a tendency for the former group to step up
their charges substantially, their reported earnings have been correspondingly held down, and their market prices also. The following example will
illustrate this development:
Example:

AMERICAN WATER WORKS AND ELECTRIC VS. PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC1

Average 5 years
1927–1932

Year ended
June 30, 1939

Item

Amer. Water
Works & El.

Paciﬁc Gas
& El.

Amer. Water
Works & El.

Paciﬁc
Gas & El.

Gross earnings
Depreciation
Percentage of gross
Available for ﬁxed charges
Interest and preferred dividends
Balance for common
Earned per share
Earned per share adjusted2

$50,260
3,665
7.3%
20,998
16,290
4,708
2.69
1.47

$72,175
8,330
11.6%
30,717
18,785
11,932
2.67
2.67

$51,791
5,278
10.2%
17,898
16,768
1,130
0.48
def.

$104,529
14,679
14.0%
37,416
20,198
17,218
2.75
2.75

Year 1933
Average price

27

July 1939
231/2

1 Dollar ﬁgures are in thousands, except those per share.
2 Allowing for depreciation at per cent of gross taken by Paciﬁc Gas and Electric.

101/4

313/4

35_Graham_Dodd

[484]

11/15/08

10:41 AM

Page 484

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The price of American Water Works common in 1933 was apparently
based on the reported earnings for previous years, without allowance for
the fact that the retirement allowance was definitely inadequate. A good
part of the decline in the amount available for the common seven years
later was due to the necessity for increasing the retirement allowance in
line with the general tendency.
The Pacific Gas and Electric exhibit is appended to demonstrate that
the public-utility stock buyer could have obtained much more for his
money in 1933 had he been willing to scrutinize depreciation policies
with care.

36_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 485

Chapter 36

AMORTIZATION CHARGES FROM
THE INVESTOR’S STANDPOINT

WE HAVE ALREADY MADE several references to the point that a depreciation or depletion charge that is technically proper from the accounting
standpoint may fail to reflect the situation properly as it concerns the
buyer of the company’s stock at a given price.

Problem Indicated by Hypothetical Example. The point at issue
may be more readily comprehended by the use at the outset of a simplified and therefore hypothetical example.
Let us assume that companies A, B and C are all engaged in the trucking business. Each has a single truck; each is capitalized at 100 shares of
stock, no par, and each earns $2,000 per annum before depreciation.
Company A paid $10,000 for its truck.
Company B paid $5,000 for its truck.
Company C paid $5,000 for its truck but followed “an ultra conservative
policy” and wrote its value down to $1.

Assume that A’s purchase of a dearer truck was an accident and that
in fact the managements of the three companies are equally capable and
their general situation dentical.
The accountants give these trucks a depreciable life of four years. On
this basis the income accounts of the three corporations are as follows:
Item

Company A

Company B

Company C

Net before depreciation
Depreciation (at 25%)

$2,000
2,500

$2,000
1,250

$2,000
0

750
$7.50

2,000
$20

Balance for common stock
Earned per share

500(d)
0
[485]

36_Graham_Dodd

[486]

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 486

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Typical Market Appraisals. According to these audited statements, A
is losing money, B is earning 15% on its capital and C is doing very well
indeed. An “investor,” steeped in the recent wisdom of stock-exchange
valuations, would consider the shares of Company A practically worthless—$5 per share, perhaps, being a generous appraisal. On the other
hand he might value the shares of B and C at about ten times the earnings, which would produce $75 per share for B stock and no less than
$200 per share for C stock. Such a procedure would result in the following total valuations for the three enterprises:
Company A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$ 500
Company B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7,500
Company C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20,000

The absurdity of these valuations should be too patent for argument.
Nevertheless they represent merely a faithful application of current
accounting methods and the established Wall Street reasoning. The
results are, first, that a company with a less valuable asset is for that very
reason declared to be worth more than a company with a more valuable
asset; and, second, that by the single gesture of writing down its assets
to zero, a company has been able to increase enormously the market
price of its shares.
Irrationality of These Valuations Disclosed by the Balance Sheet. The
irrationality of these conclusions would be even more glaring if the balance sheets are examined. Assume that the companies have been in business three years and (for simplicity) that they started with no working
capital. Company A, having lost money steadily, has of course paid no dividends; Company B has paid out two-thirds of its earnings, i.e. $5 per share
annually, and Company C has paid out three-fourths of its profits, or $15
per share. The balance sheets would then read as shown in the table on
page 487.
Although Company A has a profit-and-loss deficit, it has accumulated
the largest amount of cash, presumably “ear-marked” as a depreciation
fund. Company C, which has shown the largest earnings, has by far the
smallest cash holdings. The suggested market value of $5 per share for
Company A would amount to only one-twelfth of its cash, whereas the
price of $200 for Company C shares would equal more than twelve times
the cash behind them.

36_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 487

Analysis of the Income Account

[487]

A More Rational Approach. These are the Alice-in-Wonderland
results to which the accepted logic of the stock market would lead us. Let
us now ask a more sensible question, viz., “How would a business man
determine the reasonable value of these three enterprises?” Common
sense would tell him immediately that all three businesses as such, independent of their assets, are of equal value. As a practical business matter
he would be inclined to place a somewhat higher valuation on the more
expensive vehicle owned by Company A than upon the cheaper truck of
Companies B and C. Nor is there the slightest doubt that this business
man will give full weight to the relative cash holdings of each company.
Item
Assets:
Truck
Cash
Total
Liabilities:
Capital stock
Depreciation reserve
Proﬁt and loss
Total

Company A

Company B

Company C

$10,000
6,000

$5,000
4,500

$ 1
1,500

$16,000

$9,500

$1,501

$10,000
7,500
1,500(d)

$5,000
3,750
750

$

$16,000

$9,500

$1,501

1

1,500

His reasoning would therefore run somewhat as follows: Each business is worth, in the first instance, the amount of its cash plus the fair
market value of its truck. Something might properly be paid also for the
good-will, because the earnings on the average capital required for the
business, after allowing for necessary depreciation, would be quite substantial. This good-will value would be the same for all three enterprises.
Item

Company A

Company B

Company C

Cash
Truck (estimated)
Good-will (estimated)

$6,000
1,500
2,000

$4,500
1,000
2,000

$1,500
1,000
2,000

Total value

$9,500

$7,500

$4,500

36_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 488

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[488]

What is the relation of the companies’ depreciation charges to these valuations? The answer is that the charge made by Company B might well
be accepted as relevant because it corresponds fairly well with the conditions of the business. Partly by coincidence, this fact results in making the
business-man’s valuation of Company B identical with that reached by
the Wall Street method. But in the case of Company A and Company C,
the depreciation charges made by the managements are entirely out of
line with the realities of the business. In the one case they have been made
far too high because of the excessive cost of the fixed assets. Such an error
should be corrected by writing down the property account (and the capital account) to a fair going-value, against which a businesslike depreciation charge will accrue. In the case of Company C the assets have been
deliberately undervalued for the purpose of suppressing a depreciation
charge that must be allowed for out of earnings because the owner’s
investment is actually depreciating. If the business man or the investor is
going to pay anything for the truck (or for the business itself that requires
a truck), he cannot avoid allowing for depreciation on the amount so paid
by merely making believe that there is no such investment.

Practical Application of Foregoing Reasoning. Let us consider
now how the foregoing reasoning may be applied to actual situations that
confront the security buyer.
Examples: As an initial example, we shall present the exhibit of the
Eureka Pipe Line Company for the three years 1924–1926.

Year
1924
1925
1926
3-year average
Per share of common
(on 50,000 shares)

Gross
revenues

Net before
depreciation

Depreciation

Balance for
stock

$1,999,000
2,102,000
1,982,000
2,028,000

$300,000
541,000
486,000
442,000

$314,000
498,000
500,000
437,000

$14,000(d)
43,000
14,000(d)
5,000

$8.84

$8.74

$0.10

The final column would imply that during the three years under
review there was practically no earning power for the shares, so that presumably the stock would have no value on a going-concern basis. But

36_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 489

Analysis of the Income Account

[489]

would such a conclusion be justified from a business standpoint? The
question will turn, as in our hypothetical examples, upon the correctness
of the depreciation charges. The following data will throw additional light
upon this aspect of the Eureka Pipe Line’s record (figures in thousands):

Year

Actually
expended
Depreciation
for plant
Depreciation
charged
replacements,
charge
for year
etc.
unspent

Earnings
after
depreciation

Surplus
adjustments

Total cash
available
from year’s Dividend
operations
paid

Added to
net quick
assets

1924

$314

$ 75

$239

$14(d)

cr. $38

$263

$350

$ 87(d)

1925

498

cr. 51

549

43

dr. 43

549

200

349

1926

500

194

306

14(d)

292

200

92

3-year average

407

73

365

5

368

250

118

dr. 2

We find that the expenditures on property account averaged only
$73,000 per annum, so that there was available in actual cash the sum of
$368,000 per annum to be added to working capital or used for dividends
(which were charged against previously accumulated surplus). It is clear
that this business had been a producer of cash income for the owners,
and for that reason it had substantial going-concern value, although the
high depreciation charges made it appear that there was none.
How to Determine the Proper Depreciation Charge. In this case, therefore, as in our hypothetical example, the investor or the analyst must
reject the company’s basis for depreciation and endeavor to establish
some other basis more consonant with the actual conditions of the business. How can the proper charge be determined? The answer was given
without difficulty for the trucking companies, because we knew just what
depreciation had to be allowed for in order to maintain these enterprises
in operation. But in practice such exact knowledge is hardly ever available. We do not know how long the Eureka Pipe Line’s fixed assets will
last or how much it would cost to replace them. The best we can do is to
formulate some rough estimates based on the discoverable facts. The only
virtue of these estimates may be that they are in all probability closer to
the mark than the company’s figures, which we realize are untenable.
Concept of “Expended Depreciation.” Taking a business attitude
towards the Eureka Pipe Line’s exhibit, it is evident at the start that the
depreciation allowance should be not less than the average expenditures
made on the property. The primary reason for reducing the company’s

36_Graham_Dodd

[490]

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 490

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

depreciation charges is that they do not properly reflect the cash available from operations. The expenditures on property account, including
new fixed assets, represent in effect the portion of the depreciation reserve
that is not available in cash, and that portion should hence be considered
as the minimum amount of depreciation that must be allowed for in conducting the business. We may call this item the Expended Depreciation
Charge. (If the increase in the property account exceeds the year’s depreciation, then all of the latter must be considered as “expended.”) In the
case of Eureka Pipe Line, such expenditures averaged $73,000 for the
three years 1924–1926. This period is much too short upon which to base
conclusions. But it happens that about the same results are shown by
Eureka over a much longer period, so that the 1924–1926 figure may here
be used as a basis of calculation.1 We must warn the student against deriving any notion as to the normal expended depreciation from examination of a short period, e.g., less than ten years, unless he knows that the
nature of the business is such as to warrant a conclusion therefrom.
Long-term Depreciation a Form of Obsolescence. The second question
is what amount should be provided as a reserve to take care of the eventual wearing out of the entire property—in other words, for the major
replacements that may have to be made at some distant date. This is the
leading function of the depreciation charge in most theoretical discussions of the subject, and our trucking company examples were based on
a simple application of this idea (the total fixed-asset account having to
be replaced at the end of four years). But we must recognize that in practice such complete wearing-out and replacement are of exceedingly rare
occurrence. The typical corporation does not accumulate a large cash
fund over a stretch of years which is finally employed to replace the plant
in its entirety at the end of its useful life. Factories do not actually wear
out; they become obsolete. In nine cases out of ten, plants are given up
because of changes in the character of the industry or in the status of the
1 The “expended depreciation” is calculated as follows: Deduct from the year’s depreciation
charge the year’s decrease in net plant account (plant less depreciation on the balance sheet).
Example: Eureka Pipe Line net plant account, Dec. 31,

1923 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $6,122,000
1924 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,883,000
(1) Net decrease . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 239,000
(2) Depreciation charge, 1924 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 314,000
Expended depreciation: (2) minus (1) ⫽ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 75,000

36_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 491

Analysis of the Income Account

[491]

corporation or in the locality where the plant is situated or for other reasons not related to actual depreciation.
These developments represent business hazards, the extent of which is
not susceptible of any engineering or accounting measurement. Stated differently, the long-term depreciation factor is in reality overshadowed and
absorbed by the obsolescence hazard.2 This risk is essentially an investment
problem and not an accounting problem. It should not operate to reduce
the earnings (as does a depreciation charge) but rather to reduce the price
to be paid for an earning power subject to such a business risk.
Application of Foregoing in Determining Earning Power. Let us
endeavor to relate these conclusions to the Eureka Pipe Line example. The
Expended Depreciation Charge has been found to average about $75,000
per annum. There are no indications that the entire plant will have to be
replaced at any predictable date. On the contrary, the line appears to have
an indefinite life, due to continuous expenditures on maintenance, repairs
and renewals. In this respect the enterprise resembles a railroad far more
than it does a trucking company. According to our reasoning only the
expended depreciation charge should be deducted from earnings. The
remainder of the depreciation factor is actually the obsolescence hazard,
which is related to the possible exhaustion of the tributary oil fields. This
should be considered after the earnings are arrived at and not before. A
proper statement of the case would appear as follows:
EUREKA PIPE LINE (1924–1926 BASIS)

Item

Total

Per share

Earnings before depreciation
Expended depreciation charge, estimated

$442,000
75,000

$8.84
1.50

Balance: Earning Power, subject to business
hazards, including obsolescence

$367,000

$7.34

2 Companies rarely make special provision in their accounts for obsolescence. The income

tax law permits an obsolescence deduction only after a definitely ascertainable loss of value
from this cause has taken place. In a few instances the amortization charge is labeled in the
income account “Depreciation (Depletion) and Obsolescence.” Example: Allied Chemical
and Dye Corporation.
For a special allowance for obsolescence, made out of earnings because of a specific development, see the Southern Pacific Golden Gate Ferries, Ltd., reports in 1934–1936. Construction of
the San Francisco bridges was expected to make the ferries largely obsolete at the end of 1936.

36_Graham_Dodd

[492]

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 492

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Problem of Valuing the Earning Power. The company’s figures showed
no earning power for the period. Our figures show an earning power of
over $7 per share, which clearly indicates substantial value for the enterprise. The price that may properly be paid for this earning power is subject to whatever considerations enter into buying a going business. This
includes on the one hand the possibilities of increased profit and, on the
other hand, all the multitudinous risks of loss, of which obsolescence of
the fixed assets is only one. If, for example, it seemed conservative to
require earnings of 20% on the investment to cover these hazards adequately, then the indicated value of Eureka Pipe Line stock on the above
showing would be about $35 per share. A detailed discussion of this point
must be postponed, however, until we reach the topic of valuation of common stocks. For the purpose of this chapter it should suffice to point out
that in the actual case of Eureka Pipe Line, as in the hypothetical case of
Trucking Company A, it was both necessary and feasible for the investor
to establish a depreciation allowance significantly different from that
employed by the company itself.3

Depreciation on Apartment and Office Buildings. In actual
investment practice the foregoing reasoning finds its widest application
in the field of real estate securities. What is the true function of the depreciation charge in the analysis of the numerous bond issues secured by a
lien on apartments or office buildings? Clearly the deduction for depreciation is an accounting rather than an investment calculation. It is based
on the assumption that the original cost is being used up by wear and tear
in equal morsels over, typically, a fifty-year period. But it would be an
extremely rare coincidence for this arithmetic to correspond to the investment facts. Buildings of steel and stone do not actually wear out in fifty
years. They become obsolete and are torn down, after a life that depends
for its length not on wear and tear but on real estate conditions. Furthermore, in the case of the huge number of real estate bonds that can be
bought at large discounts from face value, the investor’s write-off for both
depreciation and obsolescence would be based on a cost to him much
3 That the official depreciation charges could stand revision in this case is evident from the
fact that the corporation itself made several quite arbitrary changes in its methods of computation from year to year. In 1929, for example, the depreciation allowance was suddenly
cut to $176,000. (Data given in reports to the Interstate Commerce Commission.)

36_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 493

Analysis of the Income Account

[493]

lower than the book value which is subject to the conventional depreciation. The concept of “expended depreciation” may be useful in this field,
because the average expenditures for replacements must be considered
as the equivalent of a cash operating expense. (Parenthetically it may be
pointed out this is an important factor in the analysis of hotel bonds. But
it is even more important to warn the investor that hotel bonds should
be viewed as obligations of a special type of business enterprise and not
as a form of real estate security.)
Example: A brief analysis of the first-mortgage bonds of 1088 Park
Avenue Corporation, owning a large apartment building in New York
City, will illustrate the points that we have been making.
There are $1,851,000 of this issue outstanding bearing fixed interest
of 23/4% and contingent interest, depending on the amount of bonds
retired, up to 21/4% additional. All the stock of the corporation is attached
to the bond issue. The average price in 1939 was about 35. Total market
value of all securities, $653,000.
CONDENSED INCOME ACCOUNT FOR YEAR ENDED FEBRUARY 28, 1939

Gross income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$251,900
Operating expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104,300
Real estate taxes (assessed value—$2,150,000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63,000
Depreciation (2% on $2,566,000, book-value of building) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51,000
Balance for interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33,600
Earned on bonds before depreciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4.57%
Earned on bonds after depreciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1.82
The maximum permissible annual allowance for capital expenditures is 6% of gross, or
about $15,000. The only provision for such expenditures actually made since 1934
was $7000 reserved in the February 1939 year.

Our analysis would suggest the following:
1. Assuming that 1938 revenues and expenditures are representative
of the future and also that the reserve for capital expenditures made in
that year is representative, there would be an indicated cash income for
the bonds of $84,600 less $7000 or $77,600. This would be 4.3% of par
and 11.9% of the market price.
2. This percentage must be taken not only as applicable to a return on
the investment but also as an allowance for the obsolescence accruing
against the building, which was constructed in 1925. But this obsolescence

36_Graham_Dodd

[494]

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 494

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

is governed not only by age but also by changes in character of neighborhood, building styles, etc.—factors that are almost indistinguishable from
general business risks.
3. The investor may assume that out of the ample cash income he will
receive fixed interest of 23/4% of par, or 7.86% of the market price. The
balance, amounting to 4% of the market price, will be used by the company partly as a sinking fund to reduce the bond issue and partly for additional interest. What this really means is that the loss of value through
obsolescence will be offset by cutting down the debt. The investor’s judgment must decide whether or not (a) the interest return is attractive as
compared with the chances both of higher and of lower net earnings and
(b) the sinking-fund operations will amply take care of the obsolescence
factor. If his answer is decidedly “yes,” he would be warranted in regarding the issue as an attractive investment—not in spite of its low price but
because of its low price.4
4. There is the possibility that obsolescence may be offset by appreciation due to a rise in real estate values—cyclical, secular or inflationary.
Reliance on such appreciation in the past has led many investors to ignore
depreciation and obsolescence in their real estate purchases. We suggest
that such possibilities must be viewed as speculative, that they do not cancel obsolescence but merely offer an offsetting attraction, and that an
investment commitment in the bonds must be justified without including any such rosy expectation.

Inadequate Allowance for Depreciation. Let us now consider
examples involving the opposite type of situation, viz., the use of accounting methods by corporations that give rise to inadequate allowances for
depreciation. Particular attention must be given to the vogue for drastic
write-offs of fixed assets for the admitted purposes of reducing the depreciation charges and thereby increasing the reported earnings. This prac4 A short cut to this possible conclusion could be availed of if the investor could satisfy himself that a savings bank or insurance company would be willing to lend more than the market value of the bond issue, in the form of an “institutional first mortgage” at a low interest
rate. If so, the present bond issue, carrying the common stock attached and representing the
entire ownership of the property, must necessarily be worth more than a shrewd mortgagee
would lend against it. But this quick conclusion must assume that the institution will make
as careful allowance for obsolescence and other business factors as the buyer of the present
bonds at a discount.

36_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 495

Analysis of the Income Account

[495]

tice had its inception during the 1927–1929 boom, but its widest development took place in the ensuing depression. Two typical cases are
selected for discussion.
EFFECT OF WRITING DOWN FIXED ASSETS (UNIT $1,000)

Safety Car Heating
& Lighting Co.
Item

U.S. Industrial
Alcohol Co.

Before
After
Before
After
write-downs write-downs write-downs write-downs

Plant account
Less depreciation

$ 9,578
6,862

$9,578
9,577

$29,116
9,815

$29,116
29,115

Plant account (net)
Intangible and misc. assets (net)
Investments in afﬁliates, etc
Net current assets

$ 2,716
5,016
2,330
4,379

$

1
167
2,330
4,379

$19,301
1,185
1,416
6,891

$

Total
Capital
Surplus
Contingency reserve

$14,441
$ 9,862*
4,362
217

$6,877
$4,931†
1,729
217

$28,793
$22,585‡
4,458
1,750

$ 9,493
$ 3,739
4,004
1,750

$14,441

$6,877

$28,793

$ 9,493

Total

1
1,185
1,416
6,891

* 98,620 shares par $100.
† 98,620 shares, no par.
‡ 373,846 shares, no par.

Examples: Early in 1933 the United States Industrial Alcohol Company and the Safety Car Heating and Lighting Company announced plans
under which the property account was written down to a net value of $1,
by means of a corresponding reduction in stated capital and surplus. The
transactions may be summarized in the condensed balance sheets shown
in the table on this page.
The United States Industrial Alcohol revision was accompanied by a
statement to the effect that by reducing the book value of fixed assets
to $1 the necessity for future charges for depreciation would be eliminated. It was proposed, however, to set up a Reserve for Replacements
account, by charges against income of amounts deemed sufficient to provide for the replacement of productive facilities. It was believed that for

36_Graham_Dodd

[496]

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 496

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

1933 an adequate amount of such charge would be $300,000, which might
be compared with approximately $900,000 charged against income for
depreciation in 1932.
The Safety Car announcement carried the idea even further. No provision for depreciation was made in 1932, so that a net profit was reported
for that year against a loss for 1931, although income before depreciation
was smaller in 1932. It was stated in the annual report of the company for
1932 that: “By the elimination of Depreciation on Fixed Assets as of
December 31, 1932, all profits above Operating Expense, and Depreciation on subsequently acquired Capital Assets, could be considered by
your Directors for distribution to the stockholders without any decrease
in the Company’s current assets.”
Earnings Manufactured from Depreciation Account. The procedure
followed by Safety Car is identical with that of our imaginary Trucking
Company C, which wrote down its truck to $1 and thereby avoided charging depreciation to earnings. We have already pointed out that if depreciation must be allowed for in fact, it cannot be eliminated by
bookkeeping entries. The Safety Car stockholder does not earn a dollar
more on his investment because his fixed assets have been written down
to nothing. Nor can necessary expenditures for plant upkeep or replacement be in any wise reduced by making believe that there no longer is
any plant. Let us examine the Safety Car Heating and Lighting exhibit in
somewhat the same manner as that of Eureka Pipe Line. Over a ten-year
period the expended depreciation charge averaged about $500,000 per
annum. The earnings record for the decade is approximately as shown in
the table at the top on p. 497.
If this company were analyzed amid the uncertainties of 1933, it
would be impossible to determine whether the long-term or the recent
figures are a better guide to the future. But whatever assumption is
made on this score, it is quite clear that a depreciation charge must be
allowed for. If no better than the 1932 results can be expected, then a
very small earning power at best would be indicated, since actual
expenditures on plant will no doubt come close to, if they do not
exceed, the reported “earnings” of $233,000. If by any chance the profits should return to their ten-year average, the complete elimination of
the former depreciation charge would result in a serious overstatement
of the true earning power.

36_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 497

Analysis of the Income Account

[497]

Annual average
1922–1931

Year 1931

Year 1932

Earnings before depreciation
Depreciation charged
Earnings as reported

$ 1,721,000
669,000
1,052,000

$336,000
442,000
106,000(d)

$233,000
None
233,000

“Depreciation expended” (approximate)
Cash earnings available for the stock

$ 500,000
1,221,000

$130,000
206,000

$190,000
43,000

Item

Sequel, 1933–1938. During this period the company reported average earnings of $590,000, or $6 per share, after charging average depreciation of only $18,000. Had the 1922–1931 basis of depreciation been
maintained, there would have been no earnings per share for the six-year
period and a substantial profit only in the year 1937. In that year the
earnings as reported reached $19.72 per share, and the price rose to 141,
only to fall as low as 48 in 1938. The advance in 1937 might be ascribed
to a twofold miscalculation of the market by (1) considering the large
volume of air-conditioning installation done in that year as if it were fully
recurring and (2) ignoring the necessity for a depreciation charge substantially higher than the company’s meaningless figure, if such a volume were to continue.
The United States Industrial Alcohol Company write-off did not result
in the complete elimination of depreciation charges against earnings, but
in lieu thereof it was proposed to set up a “replacement reserve” to be
determined arbitrarily by the directors. For 1933 the amount was fixed
at $300,000. A study of the approximate figures for the preceding five
years would warrant grave doubts as to the adequacy of such a charge for
replacements under normal conditions.

Item

Average 1928–1932
as reported*

Average 1928–1932,
based on proposed 1933
replacement reserve

Net before depreciation
Depreciation charged
Balance for common
Earned per share

$2,090,000
1,350,000
740,000
$
2

$2,090,000
300,000
1,790,000
$
5

* After deducting from earnings certain items charged by the company to surplus.

36_Graham_Dodd

[498]

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 498

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

In this case the Net Plant account (Gross Plant less Depreciation)
increased $500,000 during the five-year period (i.e., from $18,800,000 at the
end of 1927 to $19,300,000 at the end of 1932). In other words the money
spent for property extensions and replacements somewhat exceeded the
total depreciation allowance of $6,750,000. This development is characteristic of most of our large corporations, which tend to add to their facilities
as the years pass. In all such cases it must be assumed that the depreciation
charges based upon accepted accounting rules are the minimum necessary
for properly reflecting the conditions of the business. They cannot soundly
be reduced either by the corporation through arbitrary write-downs or by
the investor in his individual calculations. Hence if the United States Industrial Alcohol Company should regain its former profit-making ability, a
drastic reduction of the former depreciation reserves would in all probability result in a misleading overstatement of the true earning power.5
Other Examples of Elimination of Fixed Assets: Commercial Solvents
Company wrote down its plant account to $1 in 1932. May Department
Stores and Kaufmann Department Stores both wrote down their furniture and fixtures account to $1 in 1933 and 1929, respectively. Park and
Tilford Company wrote down its machinery and fixtures account to $1
in 1927. In all these cases subsequent depreciation charges were reduced
to less than a suitable figure.

Stock Watering Reversed. The new policy of writing off fixed assets
bears an interesting relationship to the recent conceptions of stock values. It is a direct outgrowth of the ignoring of asset values and the monopolizing of attention by the reported per-share earnings. A generation ago,
when investors consulted balance sheets to ascertain the net worth behind
their shares, this net worth was artificially inflated by writing up the book
value of the fixed assets far above their actual cost. This in turn permitted a corresponding overstatement of the capitalization at par. “Stock
watering,” as this practice was called, constituted at that time one of the
most severely criticized abuses of Wall Street.
It is a striking commentary on the change in our financial viewpoint
that the term “stock watering” has practically disappeared from the
investor’s vocabulary. By a strange paradox the same misleading results
that were obtained prior to 1914 by overstating property values are now
5 For later data regarding United States Industrial Alcohol see material on pp. 599–600 in
sixth edition text.

36_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 499

Analysis of the Income Account

[499]

sought by the opposite stratagem of understating these assets. Erase the
plant account; thereby eliminate the depreciation charge; thereby increase
the reported earnings; thereby enhance the value of the stock. The idea
that such sleight-of-hand could actually add to the value of a security is
nothing short of preposterous. Yet Wall Street solemnly accepts this topsyturvy reasoning, and corporate managements are naturally not disinclined
to improve their showing by so simple a maneuver.

Purchaser’s Amortization of Ore Reserves. The distinction
between the company’s and the investor’s allowance for amortization
appears most clearly in cases involving depletion of ore reserves. As
pointed out in Chap. 34 (see sixth edition text) the amounts charged
off by a mining company for depletion are based upon certain technical
considerations which are likely to be quite irrelevant to the stockholders’
situation.
Example: In the table on p. 500 a study of the showing of Homestake
Mining Company for the year 1925 and again for 1938 will illustrate
this point.
Superficially the price of 63 early in 1939 would seem to be somewhat
better justified by the past year’s earnings than the price of 50 in early
1926. But the reported earnings were based upon the company’s charges
for depreciation and depletion, which bear no relation to the price which
the purchaser of the shares is actually paying for the mine. It will again
be helpful to view the picture from the standpoint of a business man considering the purchase of the entire enterprise at the valuations indicated
by the market price of the stock.
In 1926 the valuation would be $12,500,000. For this sum he would
obtain about $2,500,000 in current assets (equivalent to cash), so that the
mine and plant would cost him only $10,000,000. It is this capital investment which he would have to amortize, i.e. recover out of earnings, together
with a suitable profit before the mine is exhausted. In 1926 the developed
ore reserves indicated a minimum life of 11 years for the property at the
current rate of production. Since new ore had continuously been developed
in amounts very nearly equal to the tonnage mined, there was good reason
to expect a life considerably longer than the minimum figure. It would not
be conservative, however, to count on more than 20 years. In a mining venture of this type the same amortization rate should ordinarily be applied to
the machinery and other equipment as to the mine proper, on the theory
that the plant will last as long as the mine and will then have to be scrapped.

36_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 500

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[500]

HOMESTAKE MINING COMPANY

1938
Item
Gross earnings
Net earnings before depreciation
and depletion
Depreciation and depletion
Balance for dividends
Market price (in March of following
year)
Market value of enterprise*
% earned on market value

1925

Amount

Per share

Amount

Per share

$ 19,496,000

$97.0

$ 6,080,000

$24.32

10,605,000
3,664,000
6,941,000

53.0
18.3
34.7

1,894,000
1,330,000
564,000

7.58
5.32
2.25

63
$126,000,000
5.5%

50
$12,500,000
4.5%

* 250,000 shares in 1925; 2,000,000 shares in 1938.

The Purchaser’s Amortization Calculation. The purchaser’s
amortization rate would therefore have to be somewhere between 5 and
9% annually on his $10,000,000 cost price for the mine. How this would
work out is shown in the table on p. 501, which includes a corresponding
analysis of the March 1939 situation. The same maximum and minimum
figures for expected life are used in both cases because the reported ore
reserves continued to show a life of at least 11 years.
From the business standpoint, the showing for 1925 (assuming it
could be expected to continue) would indicate a satisfactory return on
the investment at $50 per share. This is by no means true, so far as the
available facts are concerned, when dealing with the 1938 earnings and
the related price of about 63. The company’s amortization charges for 1925
were considerably higher than required by a purchase of the shares at 50;
but on the other hand the buyer at 63 could not be at all sure that the
company’s charges for 1938, even though increased over 1925, would be
adequate to amortize his investment.6
6 In the 1934 edition we used here the 1933 earnings of Homestake and its price of 360

in March 1934 (equivalent to 45 after the 8-for-1 split-up in 1937). The rise of
Homestake’s price between 1934 and 1939 was somewhat less than that of industrial
companies generally.

36_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 501

Analysis of the Income Account

[501]

HOMESTAKE MINING COMPANY BUYER’S AMORTIZATION CALCULATION

Item

1925 earnings
basis, price 50

1938 earnings
basis, price 63

Paid for entire company
Less net cash assets included

$12,500,000
2,500,000

$126,000,000
13,200,000

Paid for mining property
(Value of mining property on balance sheet)
Earnings before amortization
Earnings required on cash assets

$10,000,000
(20,960,000)
1,900,000
(5%)125,000

$112,800,000
(7,900,000)
10,600,000
(3%)400,000

Balance earned on mining investment
% earned before amortization
(Company’s amortization charge)
Investor’s amortization:
Maximum 9%
Minimum 5%
Earned on mining investment after amortization:
Minimum earnings
Maximum earnings
% earned on mining investment
Minimum
Maximum

$1,775,000
17.8%
($1,330,000)

$10,200,000
9.0%
($3,664,000)

900,000
500,000

10,200,000
5,670,000

875,000
1,275,000

Nil
4,530,000

8.8%
12.8%

Nil
4.0%

In the more frequent case where a mining company’s charge for depletion is not shown in its report, the same general approach must be used
in attempting an analysis. This means that where the life of a property is
limited, the stated depreciation charge should also be ignored and the
“investor’s amortization” charged against the earnings before depreciation. The three factors to be considered are (1) the price paid for the mining property (total price less cash assets), (2) the earnings before
depreciation and depletion, and (3) the minimum life of the mine, and,
alternatively, its probable life.

Purchaser’s Amortization of Oil Reserves. The application of this
principle to the oil industry is shown most readily by selecting a company such as Texas Gulf Producing Company, which is solely a produc-

36_Graham_Dodd

[502]

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 502

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

ing enterprise and has clearly stated the oil reserves on which the purchase of the stock must be based. It is true, of course, that the company’s
undeveloped leases may turn out to possess important additional quantities of oil, but that would be true of any large leaseholdings and cannot
give them for the present any more than the nominal value represented
by the cost of acquisition.
Example: Texas Gulf Producing Company in 1937.
1. The Situation. The significant facts relative to this company’s
amortization charges are relatively simple. The company is a producing
enterprise solely. Most of its oil comes from a single field in Texas. Its
depreciation and depletion charge per barrel is found by dividing the
estimated remaining oil reserves into the net value of the properties on
the books.
In 1937 the oil reserves averaged about 26 million barrels, and the
net property account about $9.5 millions, resulting in an amortization
charge of 36.05 cents per barrel, or $689,000 for the year’s production.
Of this amount, however, only $397,000 was charged to earnings, the
remainder being deducted from “surplus arising from appraisal” on the
balance sheet.
Earnings per share equaled $1.13 per share before amortization, 68
cents per share as reported (on the basis of amortization charged to earnings) and only 35 cents per share after full amortization including the
portion charged to surplus.
Book value of the stock was about $10 per share. The market price in
1937 ranged between 95/8 and 2.
2. The Investor’s Calculation. Omitting the possibility of new discoveries or developments—a nonmeasurable, speculative factor—the purchaser of these shares would count on about 13 years of life remaining
in the properties and would therefore deduct about 8% of his purchase
price for annual amortization. Hence at the high price of 95/8 in 1937, his
amortization would about equal the company’s total charge, and thus
the remaining earnings would amount to only 4% on the price paid. At
the year’s average price of about 53/4 his allowance would approximate the
company’s charge to earnings; and at the low price of 2 it would need only
16 cents and hence have left an indicated annual profit of 97 cents, or
about 50% on the price paid.

36_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 503

Analysis of the Income Account

[503]

Purchaser’s Amortization of Patents. A large number of important
manufacturing companies own patents that are carried on their books at
$1 or else at their cost—which is generally a relatively small amount. It is
standard accounting practice to write off such cost by equal annual
charges to earnings during the life of the patent, which is 17 years from
the date it is granted. But the investor’s viewpoint requires an entirely different approach. The question for him is how much is he paying for the
patent when he buys the stock at a given price—and it is this amount that
he must write off against the subsequent earnings.
General Rule: A little thought will show that in the typical case no such
calculation is practicable. The investor cannot tell what part of the price
of the stock represents the current valuation of the patents, for he is in
no position to gage accurately the effect of the expiration of the company’s patents upon its earnings. If we take concerns like General Electric or Radio Corporation of America, we know that their patents bulk
large in the picture; but only the most exhaustive investigation could give
us any idea at all as to how to allocate the current market value of the
enterprise as between the innumerable patents and the other very real
assets. Even when the situation appears much simpler, because a single
important patent is at stake, it is easy to miscalculate its true importance
to the enterprise.
Examples: In the case of Gillette Safety Razor Company the expiration of the basic patents was followed unexpectedly by a number of years
of largely increased earnings and by an enormous advance in the market
value of the shares. The opposite development occurred in the case of
American Arch Company, which supplied patented arch brick for locomotives to nearly all the railroads of the United States. Because of the
technical nature of its business and its strong trade position, those identified with this company were confident that it would hold its customers
after its patents expired in 1926. But immediately thereafter competition
compelled a drastic cut in prices, the earnings dwindled, and the price of
the stock collapsed.
Our conclusion from all the foregoing must be that patents should not
be valued as a quantitative factor, when the investor is dealing with the
ordinary manufacturing business. Patent ownership must be considered
as part of the company’s trade position, reflecting itself in one’s general

36_Graham_Dodd

[504]

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 504

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

view of the future of the enterprise. It follows that the $1 valuation of
patents is the soundest for the investor’s purpose; that amortization of
patents can be added back to earnings if the amount is substantial7; and
hence, if such amortization is charged to surplus instead of income,8 it is
not necessary to correct the earnings figure.
Special Cases. When a company’s business consists primarily in collecting royalties on a patent or group of patents, it is possible to make a
more definite provision for amortizing the investment therein. It should
be obvious that such provision must be related to the price paid by the
investor for his interest in the patent, rather than to the company’s book
cost of the patent on which its own amortization charge is based. The following three examples illustrate this point; but they also emphasize a
more significant factor which is present in all analyses applied to common stocks, viz., that calculations based on the present and the past can
readily be upset by the unpredictable events of the future.

EXAMPLE A: CENTRIFUGAL PIPE CORPORATION
IN 1929 (CONCLUSION VINDICATED)
1. The Situation. This company controlled American and foreign
patents on the De Lavaud process for making metal pipe. Exclusive
license to manufacture pipe under this process was given, on a royalty
basis, to United States Cast Iron Pipe Company. The agreement extended
to 1938, although the basic patents apparently expired in 1934. Various
foreign licenses were also granted, expiring in 1934–1936.
In 1929 the price of the stock varied between 41/4 and 13. Earnings
both for 1928 and for 1924–1928 had been $1.05 per share on 432,000
shares, before allowing for amortization of patents, which the company
was taking at the annual rate of $1.72 per share. (This was derived from
an initial valuation of $7,000,000 given the chief patents at the end of
7 Example: Prior to 1933 United States Hoffman Machinery Company charged earnings with

over $200,000 per annum, or about $1 per share of common, for amortization of patents.
The analyst should have increased the reported earnings by this amount and then subjected
them to careful scrutiny because of the patent situation and other matters (e.g. large receivables) affecting the future of the business. In 1933 the company retraced its steps by writing
the patents down to $1, reducing the stated capital and restoring to earned surplus about
$1,500,000 previously charged off for amortization of patents.
8 Example: American Laundry Machinery Company regularly charges a small amount
against surplus to write down its patent account.

36_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 505

Analysis of the Income Account

[505]

1923, at which time they had 11 years to run.) On this basis the company
showed a loss after amortization.
2. The Investor’s Calculation. An analysis made in 1929 might have
suggested earnings of about $1 per share for the ten years ending with
1938, following which no additional profits could be counted on with
assurance. The investor’s annual amortization charges would thus vary
between 43 cents and $1.30, corresponding to a purchase price between
41/4 and 13. Obviously, at $13 per share there could be no earnings on the
investment unless profits were greater than in the past. At $5 per share,
on the other hand, the $1 estimate would yield an annual profit of 10%
after allowance of 50 cents for amortization.
3. The Sequel. Strangely enough, the results indicated at the beginning of 1929 were exactly realized in the following ten years. In this
period the company earned $10 per share, of which it paid $6 in dividends. In 1939 it practically wound up its affairs by distributing $3.80 in
cash plus a residual stock worth about 50 cents per share.

EXAMPLE B: HAZELTINE CORPORATION
IN 1937 (CALCULATION AFFECTED BY
NEW DEVELOPMENTS)
1. The Situation. This company was organized in 1924 and controlled
the Neutrodyne patents for radio receivers, which apparently expired in
1936. Other patents were also acquired.
In the ensuing thirteen years its results fluctuated widely, but it earned
an average of about $2.40 per share, from which it reserved $1.50 per
annum to amortize its patent account. Dividends were paid irregularly,
averaging $1.70 per annum, mainly out of the reserve for amortization
of patents. In 1936 alone earnings before amortization were $3.70 per
share. In 1937 the stock sold as low as $7 (which was about equal to the
accumulated cash assets) and as high as 181/2.
2. The Investor’s Calculation. If the investor assumed that the company’s chief revenue was derived from its Neutrodyne patents, he would
have concluded that the stock was too high at 181/2, since expiration of
those patents in the near future would apparently severely reduce the
future earning power. At 7, on the other hand, the stock could still appear
cheap, in view of the substantial cash assets and the prospects of some
earnings from the remaining patents. Actually this would have been a

36_Graham_Dodd

[506]

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 506

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

superficial analysis, since the record showed that the company controlled
hundreds of patents of various sorts. Hence nothing short of a careful
inquiry into the details of Hazeltine’s business would have warranted a
conclusion as to the relative value of the expiring and continuing patents.
3. The Sequel. The company’s earnings proved to be fully as high in
1937–1938 as they had been in 1936. A new patent covering a coupling
system used in most receiving sets was issued to it in 1938 and gave it as
strong a position in the field as it had formerly held. The price of the stock
advanced to 30 in 1938 and to 36 in 1939.

EXAMPLE C: INTERNATIONAL CIGAR MACHINERY
COMPANY IN 1939 (A CURRENT ANALYSIS)
1. The Situation. This company’s chief patents give it control over the
manufacture of cigars by machine. It also owns other patents of less importance in the field. The original cigar-machinery patents have apparently
expired, but new improvements have maintained the company’s position.
Earnings have come mainly from royalties and sales of licenses. In the
10 years 1929–1938 they varied between $2.08 and $3.33 per share and
amounted to $2.28 in 1938, on 600,000 shares. These figures are after relatively small “depreciation and amortization charges” of about 30 cents
per share annually. The company’s balance sheet at the end of 1938
lumped all intangibles together at $14,000,000 gross, of which amortizable patents must have represented a relatively small amount, and nonamortizable good-will the major portion. Net working capital and other
tangible assets amounted to only $2 per share. In 1939 the price of the
stock ranged between 20 and 24.
2. The Investor’s Calculation. If the company’s business were thought
to be largely dependent on any single set of patents, an average price of
22 could not be justified. For in that case it would be unlikely that future
earnings up to the expiry of the patents would be sufficient to pay back
the investment in full plus suitable earnings thereon. In other words, any
conservative amortization charge would condemn the purchase if based
on the current patent situation alone.
On the other hand, the market price may be justified if in the future
the company can maintain its patent and license control of the industry
by means of improvements in the art. This it has been able to do in the
past. It may be benefited also by an increased use of machinery as against

36_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 507

Analysis of the Income Account

[507]

hand manufacture, due to constantly lower selling prices for cigars. Obviously, therefore, the evaluation of this issue is essentially a matter for
industry analysis and forecasting, and not for the application of investment-accounting technique to a definite state of facts.

Rules Summarized. Our lengthy discussion of amortization policies
may be summarized in the following rules:
Rule 1: The company’s amortization charges are to be accepted in
analysis whenever (both):
a. They are based on regular accounting rules applied to fair valuations of
the fixed assets, and
b. The net plant account has not decreased over a period of years.

Rule 2: The company’s charges may be reduced in the analyst’s calculations if they regularly exceed the cash expenditures on the property. In
such a case the average cash expenditures may be deducted from earnings as a provisional depreciation charge and the balance of depreciation
included as part of the obsolescence hazard, which tends to reduce the
valuation of the average cash earning power. The obsolescence allowance
will be based upon the price paid for the enterprise by the investor and
not upon either the book value or the reproduction cost of the fixed
assets.
Rule 3: The company’s charges must be increased in the analyst’s calculations if they are both less than the average cash expenditures on the
property and less than the reserve required by ordinary accounting rules
applied to the fair value of the fixed assets used in the business.

Contingency and Similar Reserves. Conservatively managed companies in former days were wont to charge certain arbitrary amounts against
the earnings of good years to absorb any special losses that might later arise,
usually in a bad year. The intent of this policy was to equalize the earnings
in prosperity and depression. In this respect it resembled the use of accumulated earnings of subsidiary companies discussed in Chap. 33 (see sixth
edition text). Experience has shown that such devices for artificially modifying the actual earnings are too readily open to abuse. Intelligent financial
opinion—as represented by the New York Stock Exchange—insists, therefore, that the management disclose the true results of each year and leave all
equalization and averaging to be done by the stockholders.

36_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 508

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[508]

Examples: The annual report of the Coca-Cola Company for 1928
stated that “The Company’s position has been greatly strengthened during the last five years by setting aside a reserve for contingencies of approximately $5,000,000.00.” Reports for the preceding five years showed that
the reserve had been accumulated by charges against income in varying
amounts and for a miscellany of purposes. In the years 1929–1939 the policy was continued except in 1933 and 1934, with the result that the
“Reserve for contingencies and miscellaneous operations” set up by
charges against income amounted to $13,011,479 at the end of 1939.
In 1939 Continental Steel Company deducted $300,000 as a reserve
for contingencies from its reported earnings for the second half-year,
reducing the earnings per share from $4.62 to $3.13.
AMERICAN COMMERCIAL ALCOHOL COMPANY

Item

Total

Per share

1931 net loss
1932 net proﬁt

$597,000
586,000

$3.18(d)*
3.01

Two years’ net loss

$ 11,000

$0.17(d)

* Adjusted to $20 par-value basis.

Use of Contingency and Similar Reserves to Distort the Earnings Picture. During the years 1931 and 1932, however, contingency and similar
reserves were resorted to by many companies with the effect of greatly
obscuring and confusing their annual statements. These reserves were
created for a threefold purpose: (1) to permit losses to be charged against
surplus instead of against income, (2) to gloss over the actual taking of
the loss, and (3) in some cases to lay the groundwork for inflated earnings in subsequent years. A detailed analysis of the reports of American
Commercial Alcohol Corporation for 1931 and 1932 may serve to make
these points clearer to the reader.
The results for the two years as given by the company in its annual
statements were as shown in the table above.
From these figures it would appear that the company had about broken even during the two depression years taken together and that it had
realized substantial earnings during 1932. But the balance sheets covering this period, which are presented in condensed form below, point

36_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 509

Analysis of the Income Account

[509]

to an entirely different conclusion. (Note that no dividends were paid
during this time.)
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL ALCOHOL CORPORATION,
1930–1932 (UNIT $1,000)

Item

Dec. 31,
1930

Dec. 31,
1931

Dec. 31,
1932

Current assets
Less current liabilities

$2,657
294

$2,329
1,225

$2,588
1,327

Net working capital
Fixed and miscellaneous assets
less depreciation

$2,363

$1,104

$1,261

6,440

6,126

6,220

Total net resources

$8,803

$7,230

$7,481

Capital
Miscellaneous reserves
Surplus

$3,775*
256
4,772

$3,764
416
3,050

$3,895
413
3,173

Total

$8,803

$7,230

$7,481

* Adjusted to $20 par value (report showed capital of $8,500,698 and surplus of $46,484).

These balance sheets show that instead of a merely nominal loss of
$11,000 for the two years together, there was an actual shrinkage of
$1,600,000 in the company’s surplus, the greater part of which was represented by an increase in current debt.
The extraordinary discrepancy between these two exhibits was
brought about by the exclusion from the income account of numerous
losses and deductions, which were charged against surplus instead. This
simple device was made more complicated —and therefore not so readily intelligible to stockholders—by the use of three stages of accounting
procedure, viz.:
1. The transfer of a large amount from Capital to Capital Surplus.
2. The transfer of various sums from Capital Surplus to Reserves.
3. The charging of various losses against these Reserves, and of other losses
directly against Surplus.

36_Graham_Dodd

[510]

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 510

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

At the end of 1931 American Commercial Alcohol transferred the
sum of $4,875,000 from Capital to Capital Surplus. It then used $576,000
of this Capital Surplus to cancel the accumulated profit-and-loss deficit.
The entries in the surplus account for 1931 and 1932 show the following
remarkable assortment of extraordinary losses and adjustments.
Reduction of inventory value under previous year’s contracts . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 145,000
Losses due to trading in corn options . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
88,000
Reduction in the value of ﬁxed assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 157,000
Losses due to revaluation of containers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 213,000
Balance of organization expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
73,000
Income tax for prior years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
54,000
Excess cost of raw materials 1932 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255,000
Payment under salary contract . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
40,000
Loss on sale of treasury stock, etc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
46,000
Miscellaneous items (10 debits and 1 credit) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117,000
Reserve for contingencies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400,000
Charges to surplus, 1931–1932 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1,588,000
Loss for two years, per income account . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
11,000
Total reduction in surplus, 1931–1932 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$1,599,000

It is evident that a substantial part of these charges against Surplus
actually represented operating losses, which were responsible in turn for
the large increase in current liabilities. It should be noted furthermore
that the company carried forward into 1933 a new contingency reserve
of $400,000, against which might be charged future losses that properly
should reflect themselves in the income account.
Hence the accounting procedure of this company—as well as of many
others—in 1931 and 1932 not only concealed the true extent of the losses
suffered but also was calculated to understate the losses or to overstate
the profits of succeeding years.9
A particular and frequent type of contingency reserve is a reserve for
future inventory decline. In our discussion of various permissible methods
of figuring inventory (in Chap. 32, which can be found in sixth edition text)
9 A Senate Investigating Committee (on Banking and Currency, investigating “Stock

Exchange Practices”) in February 1934 elicited the fact that there had been continuous pool
activities in American Commercial Alcohol stock between February 1932 and July 1933.

36_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:44 AM

Page 511

Analysis of the Income Account

[511]

we pointed out that the Normal Stock Method aims to mark down the basic
stock to so low a figure that no drop in price will require a further charge
against earnings. This method involves, in essence, the use of a contingency
reserve for future inventory decline, calculated in accordance with a definite and continuing policy. On the whole we must regard a device of this
kind as meriting praise rather than criticism. But it is essential that the analyst allow for the use of such reserves when studying a single year’s results
and particularly when comparing several companies in the same field. Let
us further remind the reader that the setting up of an inventory reserve out
of surplus, whatever the theory behind it, almost invariably results in overstating the reported profits over a period of years.

46_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:42 AM

Page 641

PART VII

ADDITIONAL
ASPECTS OF
SECURITY
ANALYSIS.
DISCREPANCIES
BETWEEN PRICE
AND VALUE

46_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:42 AM

Page 642

46_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:42 AM

Page 643

Chapter 46

STOCK-OPTION WARRANTS

DURING THE LAST TWO DECADES the use of stock-option warrants has passed
through an extraordinary development. They were devised originally as a
form of participating privilege for bonds and preferred stocks to which
they were attached. In this form they were commonly regarded only as a
feature of the senior security, similar to a conversion right, and the warrants themselves had little significance in relation to the company’s capitalization structure. Later the idea was hit upon of creating stock-option
warrants separately from other securities and delivering them as compensation to underwriters, promoters and executives. From this point the
inevitable next development was the issuance, through sale or exchange,
of separate option warrants to the general public in the same manner as
common stocks. They thus attained full stature as an independent form
of “security,” as an important part of the financial set-up of many corporations and as a popular and prominent medium of speculative activity.
In a previous chapter we considered the technical aspects of option
warrants as an adjunct of senior securities. In this chapter we shall discuss the more important role of option warrants as a separate financial
instrument. Our treatment falls into three sections: (1) description, (2)
technical characteristics of warrants as a vehicle of speculation, (3) their
significance as a part of the financial structure.

DESCRIPTIVE SUMMARY
A (detachable) option warrant is a transferable right to buy stock, originally running for a considerable period of time. (Warrants attached to a
debenture bond issue are sometimes called “Debenture Rights.” A third
name for the same thing is “Stock-purchase Warrant.”) Its terms include:
(1) the kind of stock, (2) the amount, (3) the price, (4) the method of payment, (5) the duration of the privilege, and (6) antidilution provisions.
(The last were described in Chap. 25.)
[643]

46_Graham_Dodd

[644]

11/15/08

10:42 AM

Page 644

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Kind of Stock Covered by the Privilege. Nearly all option warrants
call for common stock of the issuing company. In rare instances they
apply to preferred stock (e.g., American Locker Company, Inc.), or to
stock of some other concern (e.g., warrants attached to Central States
Electric Corporation Preferred called for North American Company
stock and warrants attached to Solvay American Investment Corporation
preferred stock called for Allied Chemical and Dye Corporation stock).
Warrants have no right to receive interest, dividends or payments on
account of principal, nor have they the right to cast any vote.

Resemblance to Subscription “Rights.” Option warrants bear some
resemblance to the “subscription rights” that are issued by corporations to
their stockholders in connection with the sale of additional stock. There
are two significant differences, however, between warrants and rights.
Warrants run for a long period, and the stock-purchase price is almost
always set higher than the quotation at the time of their issuance. Moreover, the price is frequently varied in accordance with the terms of the warrant. Subscription rights run for a short time and call for a fixed price,
usually under the market at the time of their authorization. Subscription
rights are devised, therefore, with the intent of assuring their exercise and
the prompt receipt of funds by the company. Option warrants generally
have no relation to the financial needs of the company, and they are not
expected to be exercised in short order. Stated in a different way (and referring to the usual situation at the time of issuance) a subscription right will
be exercised unless the market declines substantially before they expire;
option warrants will not be exercised unless the market price advances
substantially in the near or distant future.1 Subscription rights generally
run for about sixty days; the original duration of option warrants is rarely,
if ever, less than a year, and many of them are perpetual.

Method of Payment. Most option warrants require payment of the
subscription price in cash. Those originally attached to bonds or preferred
1 The Remington-Rand rights, issued in 1936, were a somewhat overingenious combination
of the subscription-right and the warrant forms. If the holder exercised part of his subscription right promptly (at an indicated market loss, as it happened), he would then have a further right to buy more stock up to a year later, and so on. In our view elaborate devices of
this kind either create unnecessary speculative situations or give the adroit and the wellinformed an undue advantage over the ordinary stockholder.

46_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:42 AM

Page 645

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[645]

shares may permit payment either in cash or by tender of the senior security which is accepted at its face value. This alternative may be of considerable practical importance.
Example: Electric Power and Light Warrants are a perpetual call on
common stock at $25 per share. Payment may be made either in cash or
by tendering second preferred stock at $100 per share. In November 1939
the common stock sold at 8, and the second preferred at 17. Because of
the very low price of the senior issue, the warrants had an “exercizable
value,” even though the common was selling 17 points below the option
price. The calculation is as follows:
One warrant plus 1/4 share of second preferred ⫽ 1 share of common
Value of option warrant ⫽ 8—1/4 (17) ⫽ 33/4

Basis of Trading in Warrants. Option warrants are bought and sold
in the market in the same way as common stocks. Up to the end of 1939
only two issues of warrants had been separately listed on the New York
Stock Exchange,2 but many were actively dealt in on the New York Curb
Exchange and other exchanges. The basis of trading in these instruments
is somewhat eccentric, and at times conducive to serious error. Under the
standard rule, “one warrant” means the right to buy one share of stock,
and not the right originally attached to one share of stock.
Examples: Walgreen (Drug) Company preferred stock was sold with
warrants entitling the holder to buy two shares of common for each preferred share. Under the regular rule of trading, “one Walgreen warrant”
meant the right to buy one share of common, i.e., each share of preferred
was said to carry “two warrants.”
Similarly, Consolidated Cigar Corporation 61/2% Preferred Stock was
issued with a warrant attached to each share calling for the purchase of
one-half share of common. These warrants were also traded in on the
basis that one warrant was the right to buy one share of common; i.e.,
each share of 61/2% preferred was said to carry “half a warrant.”
But the exceptions to this standard rule are numerous.
Examples: Commercial Investment Trust Corporation 61/2% Preferred carried warrants to buy one-half share of common for each share
2 Commercial Investment Trust warrants were the only issue in which active trading took

place. Warrants of Havana Electric Railway were listed on the New York Stock Exchange
between 1926 and 1934 but the trading in them was negligible.

46_Graham_Dodd

[646]

11/15/08

10:42 AM

Page 646

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

of preferred (the same ratio as in the case of Consolidated Cigar Preferred). But the unit of trading on the New York Stock Exchange was the
warrant originally attached to one share of preferred, i.e., it called for
half a share of common. Similar departures were made in the rules of
trading for Niagara Hudson Power Corporation B Warrants; Loew’s, Inc.,
Preferred Warrants; Safeway Stores, Inc., “Old Series” Warrants, etc.
When a change is made in the number of shares called for by the warrant, the customary procedure is to continue to trade in “one old warrant” as “one warrant.”
Example: “One Loew’s Bond warrant” originally called for one share
of common at $55. It represented the warrant attached to $200 of Loew’s
6% Debentures, due 1941. When a 25% stock dividend was paid in 1928,
the antidilution provision required that an additional quarter share be
given free with each share subscribed for under the warrant. “One Loew’s
Bond warrant” remained physically unchanged and thereafter represented the right to purchase 11/4 shares for $55. Similarly in the case of
Commercial Investment Trust warrants when the common stock was split
21/2 for 1. One warrant thereafter represented the right to buy 11/4 new
shares instead of 1/2 an old share.
But the opposite practice is sometimes followed.
Example: Niagara Hudson Power A warrants. These called for one
share of common at $35. The company recapitalized in 1932 and issued
1 new share for 3 old. Hence what was formerly “one warrant” now called
for 1/3 of a new share for $35, i.e., at $105 per share. The New York Curb
Exchange thereupon redefined “one A warrant” as representing the right
to buy one new share. Hence three old warrants became one new warrant.
These technical details are given here because they are not available
in standard descriptive textbooks. Those buying or selling a particular
option warrant are cautioned to make careful inquiry into the basis of
trading therein.3

Examples of Warrants Issued for Various Purposes. A. Attached
to Senior Securities. Perhaps the earliest instance is the issue of American
Power and Light notes in 1911. By far the most prominent is the sale
3 Subscription rights are invariably dealt in in New York on the basis of “one right” meaning

the right received by the owner of one share of stock. This is the opposite idea from that
ordinarily followed in option warrants. See Appendix Note 63, p. 816, for a rapid method of
calculating the value of subscription rights.

46_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:42 AM

Page 647

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[647]

by American and Foreign Power Company of $270,000,000 of Second
Preferred stock carrying warrants for no less than 7,100,000 shares of
common.
B. As Compensation to Underwriters. The first important case seems
to have been the $25,000,000 Barnsdall Corporation 6% bond issue of
1926. Here the bankers received, as part of their compensation, warrants
for 500,000 shares of common. At the subsequent high price these warrants would have been worth $13,000,000. National Fund, Inc., an openend investment trust, issued warrants to the sponsors in 1936 in lieu of
the customary loading charge. Many flotations of smaller companies now
include large amounts of warrants in addition to cash compensation
for bankers. Examples: Aeronautical Corporation of America (1939);
Triumph Explosives, Inc. (1939); Howard Aircraft Corporation (1939).
C. As Compensation to Promoters and Management. A striking case
was the formation of Petroleum Corporation of America in January 1929.
The public was offered 3,250,000 shares of stock at $34 per share. Fiveyear warrants to buy 1,625,000 shares at 34 were issued to the promoters
and management.
D. Issued in a Merger or Reorganization Plan, in Exchange for Other
Securities. Commonwealth and Southern Corporation issued about
17,500,000 warrants, together with 34,000,000 shares of common and
1,500,000 shares of preferred, mainly in exchange for securities of six constituent companies. It is interesting to note that it issued common stock
and warrants in exchange for Penn-Ohio Edison Company and Southeastern Power and Light Company option warrants.
In the 1937 reorganization of Baldwin Locomotive Works the old preferred and common were both exchanged for new common and warrants.
In the Colorado Fuel and Iron reorganization of 1936 only warrants were
given for the old preferred and common. The reorganization plan for Erie
Railroad, presented in 1938 in behalf of insurance companies holding
bonds, was unique in that it gave old stockholders warrants to buy new
common from the old creditors instead of from the company.
E. Attached to an Original Issue of Common Stock. Public Utility
Holding Corporation of America sold 2,500,000 shares of common stock,
carrying warrants to buy an equal number of shares of additional common. In addition, the organizing interests purchased 500,000 shares of
Class A stock (with voting control) together with warrants to buy
1,000,000 shares of either Class A or common stock.

46_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

[648]

10:42 AM

Page 648

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

F. Sold Separately for Cash. In 1929 Fourth National Investors Corporation sold to its parent company 750,000 option warrants for $3,000,000.
In 1936 Phillips Packing Company sold warrants to bankers for cash.

WARRANTS AS A VEHICLE OF SPECULATION
In a broad sense, option warrants possess the same general characteristics as low-priced common stocks, the theory of which was discussed in
Chap. 41 (see sixth edition text). Warrants are in name and in form, as
low-priced stocks frequently are in essence, a long-term call upon the
future of a business.4 It is true also that the relationship between a warrant and its common stock is roughly similar to that between a common
stock and a speculative senior security of the same company.

The Qualitative Element. As with all other speculative commitments, the attractiveness of a given warrant depends upon two entirely
dissimilar factors: the qualitative element, being the nature of the enterprise, in relation particularly to its supposed chance of great improvement; and the quantitative element, being the terms on which the warrant
is offered, including its price and the price of the common stock it calls
for. Security analysis cannot be counted upon to reveal those businesses
which are most likely to forge ahead in the years to come. There is not
much we can say, therefore, about the qualitative element in selecting
warrants for speculation. Since ordinarily a warrant can attain tangible
value only through an increase in earnings, emphasis must be laid upon
the prospects of change rather than upon stability. Public-utility warrants,
for example, became extremely popular in 1928–1929 not because of the
superior stability of utility enterprises but because the market was convinced that their earnings would continue to expand indefinitely.
As far as the arithmetical chance of a large price advance is concerned,
we have already shown that this is most likely to be found in the common
stock of speculatively capitalized enterprises (e.g., A. E. Staley Company
and American Water Works and Electric, discussed in Chap. 40, which
can be found in sixth edition text). Hence warrants to buy common stocks
of this kind may also be said to have a special speculative advantage.
4 In a few cases warrants are issued to run for a comparatively short time. In such a case they

are more a call on the future of the stock market than of the business. Example: The warrants
of Phillips Packing Company referred to above ran for only two years.

46_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:42 AM

Page 649

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[649]

But this is at bottom a quantitative rather than a qualitative matter. In our
view, it is rarely possible to say with assurance that the long-term prospects
of a particular line of business are so much better than the average as to
make warrants connected with that field more attractive than any others.
But if the individual speculator has definite opinions and preferences on
this score, it is perfectly logical for him to follow them.

Quantitative Considerations: Importance of Low Price. It is an
easier matter to point out the elements that govern the relative attractiveness of warrants from a quantitative standpoint. The desirable qualities
are: first, a low price; second, a long duration; and thirdly, an option (or
purchase) price close to the market. From the standpoint of speculative
theory, the most important of the three no doubt is a low price for the
warrant. This may be brought out by a comparison of the situation existing in the Sinclair Oil and Refining Corporation Warrants in 1917 and
Niagara Hudson Power Corporation B Warrants in 1929.
Examples: The warrant attached to each $1,000 Sinclair Oil and Refining Corporation note, issued in 1917, entitled the holder to buy 25 shares
of stock at $45 per share until August 1, 1918; at 471/2 until August 1, 1919;
and at 50 until February 1, 1920. In December 1917 the stock had declined
to 251/4, and a warrant for 25 shares could be bought at $20, i.e., at a cost
of only 80 cents per share. Here the market price of the stock was far below
the option price, but the option could be acquired at a very low cost per
share. The sequel was quite characteristic of speculative markets. In less
than 18 months Sinclair Oil stock rose to 693/4 giving a warrant for 25
shares a realizable value of over $550. An increase of 175% in the price of
the stock produced an increase of 2,680% in the price of the warrant.
The Niagara Hudson Power Corporation B Warrants entitled the
holder to buy 31/2 shares of common for $50, i.e., at $14.285 per share.
When the warrants were admitted to trading on the New York Curb in
1929, they sold at 60—equivalent to 17 for a one-share warrant—while
the stock was selling at 221/2. In this case the speculator was paying nearly
as much per share for the warrants as for the stock. When the latter
advanced to its high of 31 later in the year, the warrants rose by a much
smaller percentage, to 21. Still later in the same year, the price of the stock
broke to 111/4, and then the warrants collapsed to a low of 2. These comparative figures show that at the equivalent of 17 the Niagara Hudson B
Warrants were selling at an extraordinarily unattractive price.

46_Graham_Dodd

[650]

11/15/08

10:42 AM

Page 650

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Low Relative Price Important. It is technically desirable that the price
of a warrant be low not only in itself but also in relation to the price of
the common stock. This point may be shown by a comparison of Commercial Investment Trust Corporation Warrants in 1928 with American
and Foreign Power Company Warrants in 1933.
Examples: Commercial Investment Trust Corporation Warrants sold
at $6 each in August 1928. They entitled the holder to buy 1/2 share of
common at $90 per share until the end of 1929 and at 100 thereafter until
January 1, 1931. The common was then selling at about 70. The warrant
for 1 share thus represented a commitment of $12, or about 1/6 the current value of the stock. Despite the relatively high purchase price specified in the warrant, the latter might be considered as having a speculative
advantage over the stock because of the much smaller money cost
involved. (As it happened, the price of the warrants advanced elevenfold
in 1928–1929 as against a threefold rise in the common.) As shown on
page 651 in sixth edition text, in November 1933, warrants for one share
of American and Foreign Power could be bought at 7, representing exact
parity with the common. But the fact that the common was itself selling
at only 10 removed any special speculative advantage from the warrants
at 7. As we shall see later, it throws the stock and the warrants together
into the category of “pseudo” low-priced speculations, of the kind discussed at the beginning of Chap. 41 (see sixth edition text).
The foregoing discussion leads to the conclusion that a given option
warrant has speculative attractiveness, in a technical sense, only if it constitutes a low-cost, long-term right to purchase a stock at a price not too
remote from the current market.5
Examples: The Sinclair Oil and Commercial Investment Trust Warrants, referred to above, are examples that met these requirements. An
unusual example is furnished by the Barnsdall Oil warrants in 1927.
These were a call on the stock at 25. When the shares were selling at 31,
the warrants sold at 6, exactly at parity. In this case, any rise in the value
of the stock would have meant—and later did mean—a much larger proportionate rise in the price of the warrants.

5 See Dewing, Arthur S., A Study of Corporation Securities, pp. 404–405, New York, 1934,

for a study of the relative attractiveness of warrants and their related common stocks as
speculative vehicles.

46_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:42 AM

Page 651

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[651]

Technical Advantages Often Absent. During 1928–1929, when trading
in warrants was most active, there was a tendency for these instruments
to sell at high levels, both relatively and absolutely, so that they could not
be said to possess any technical advantage over the typical common stock.
During the ensuing depression many warrant issues were obtainable at
very low prices, but here again the related common shares were also
quoted so low as to call into question the comparative attractiveness of
the warrant. The situation at the close of 1939 may be illustrated by the
representative list of warrants shown in the table below.
It is to be noted that the warrants carrying the right to make payment
by turning in a bond or preferred issue at par were generally selling at an
interesting price in relation to the common stock. (The Electric Power and
Light warrants were actually quoted below parity.) The other low-priced
warrants seemed too far away from realizable value to merit attention. The
Baldwin Locomotive and New York City Omnibus price relationships are
typical of their respective stages in the scale of market values.6

Name of corporation
issuing warrant
American & Foreign
Power
Atlas Corp.
Baldwin Locomotive Co.
Electric Power & Light
Corp.
Manati Sugar Co.
Merritt-Chapman &
Scott Corp.
N.Y. City Omnibus Corp.
Scullin Steel Co.
Tri-Continental Corp.
United Corp.

Duration

Purchase price
of stock named Market price Market price
in warrant
of stock
of warrant

3/8

Perpetual
Perpetual
To Sept. 1, 1945

25 or 15/8*
25 or 235/8*
15

17/8
85/8
171/4

73/8

Perpetual
To Nov. 5, 1947

25 or 4*
121/2 or 5*

67/8
37/8

25/8
5/8

Perpetual
To Mar. 1, 1947
To May 1, 1942
Perpetual
Perpetual

30
171/2
10 or 61/2*
221/2
25

41/2
323/4
83/4
23/4
23/8

1/2

7/8

171/4
31/2†
1/2
1/4

* Cost in terms of current price of senior securities tenderable in lieu of cash.
† Market price of 4 warrants, equivalent to 1 share of common.
6 For an effort towards a mathematical formulation of the value of warrants see John B.
Williams, The Theory of Investment Value, pp. 172–178, Harvard University Press, 1938.

46_Graham_Dodd

[652]

11/15/08

10:42 AM

Page 652

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

WARRANTS AS PART OF THE
CAPITALIZATION STRUCTURE
Option warrants are essentially a device to give separate embodiment to
the element of future prospects. But the right to benefit from future
improvement or enhancement belongs inherently to the common stockholder. It is one of the important considerations that he receives in return
for putting up his money and taking the “first risk” of loss. The basic fact
about an option warrant, therefore, is that it represents something that has
been taken away from the common stock. The equation is a simple one:
Value of common stock ⫹ value of warrants ⫽ value of common stock alone
(i.e., if there were no warrants).

Warrants Represent a Subtraction from the Related Stock.
Example: This point may be illustrated concretely by reference to the
effect of the issuance of the Barnsdall warrants upon the value of the
stock. The earnings reported for 1926 were $6,077,000, or $5.34 per share
on 1,140,000 shares outstanding. However, there were also in existence
warrants to buy 1,000,000 shares at $25, the proceeds to be applied to
retire $25,000,000 of 6% bonds. The analyst should have assumed exercise of the warrants, thus reducing the 1926 earnings from $5.34 to $3.54
per share. In 1929, the warrants having actually been exercised, the earnings were $3.25 per share, as against $4.76 if there had been no warrants
created. The average price of 35 for the year was equivalent to a value of
10 for the warrants. This meant, substantially, that about $8 per share had
been taken away from the value of the common stock (which otherwise
would have been worth 43) by the creation of the warrants.
This illustration shows clearly that the effect of the creation of warrants is to diminish the benefits realized by the common from a large
increase in the earnings or in the value of the business. Warrants to buy
stock, even at a price above the market, therefore detract from the present value of the common stock, because part of this present value is based
upon the right to benefit from future improvement.

A Dangerous Device for Diluting Stock Values. The option warrant is a fundamentally dangerous and objectionable device because it
effects an indirect and usually unrecognized dilution of common-stock
values. The stockholders view the issuance of warrants with indifference,
failing to realize that part of their equity in the future is being taken from

46_Graham_Dodd

11/15/08

10:42 AM

Page 653

Additional Aspects of Security Analysis

[653]

them. The stock market, with its usual heedlessness, applies the same
basis of valuation to common shares whether warrants are outstanding
or not. Hence warrants may be availed of to pay unreasonable bonuses to
promoters or other insiders without fear of comprehension and criticism
by the rank and file of stockholders. Furthermore, the warrant device
facilitates the establishment of an artificially high aggregate market valuation for a company’s securities, because (with a little manipulation)
large values can be established for a huge issue of warrants without reducing the quotation of the common shares.
Stock-option warrants have proved a convenient and appealing instrument in corporate reorganizations, because they have enabled the reorganizers to give the old stockholders a sop of some kind while ostensibly
turning the company over entirely to the creditors. The S.E.C., however,
has taken a stand against this practice, contending that if the old stockholders really have no equity they are not even entitled to warrants.7
A Reductio ad Absurdum. The public’s failure to comprehend that all
the value of option warrants is derived at the expense of the common
stock has led to a practice that would be ridiculous if it were not so mischievous. We refer to the original sale of common stock carrying warrants to buy additional common stock. This arrangement gives nothing
to the stockholders that they would not have without the warrant, and it
violates an obvious rule of sound corporate financing. A properly managed business sells additional stock only when new capital is needed, and
in that event the stockholders are usually entitled to subscribe pro rata to
the offering.8 To give subscription rights to stockholders when the money
is not needed is nonsensical from all viewpoints except that of deceiving
people into believing that something attractive is being offered them. It
resembles the practice, sometimes indulged in, of declaring dividends in
“scrip” which is redeemable at the pleasure of the directors. This “scrip”
7 See their advisory opinion in the National Radiator case (in March 1939) which led to the
dropping of a warrant provision for old stockholders. In our opinion the broad objections to
the warrant device in principle may justify the rather Draconian stand of the S.E.C. But a
warrant arrangement under which old stockholders can buy out old creditors at a price that
will pay them off, e.g., the Erie plan, dated January 1939, has much more to recommend it.
8 It has become fashionable to insert charter provisions that deprive stockholders of this
so-called “preemptive right.” It is claimed that the surrender of this right is necessary in
order to give the directors more flexible powers in making corporate deals involving
issuance of stock. We are very sceptical of the soundness of this argument.

46_Graham_Dodd

[654]

11/15/08

10:42 AM

Page 654

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

is an unnecessary expression in separate form of a right that the common
stock possesses inherently, viz., to receive future dividends when the
directors see fit to pay them.9 Similarly these option warrants attached to
original issues of common stock are a superfluous expression of the stockholders’ inherent right to participate in future stock offerings.10
A further study of the unwholesome implications of the warrant device
is integrated with two broader lines of inquiry into financial practices—
the first relating to the price paid by the public for the financing and management of business; the second relating to that group of manipulative and
dangerous corporate practices referred to as “pyramiding.” These aspects
of security analysis will be considered in the ensuing chapters.

9 Cities Service Company paid dividends in scrip of this kind between 1921 and 1925,

redeeming it in the latter year. Since its value depended almost entirely on the whim of the
directors, it was the sort of speculative medium that gives an enormous advantage to insiders. Gas Securities Company, a subsidiary of Cities Service, paid dividends in scrip of this
kind during 1933.
10 For a recent example of this species of financing see offering of Berkey and Gay Furniture
Company common stock and warrants in January 1936.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 733

APPENDIX

NOTE 1 (PAGE 14 OF TEXT)
ABBOTT LABORATORIES
Price of stock1
Year

High

Low

Earned per share1

Paid per share1

1929
1930
1931
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939

12
11
9
8
10
14
40
55
53
58
72

9
9
6
4
5
10
19
31
34
34
53

$1.17
0.80
0.67
0.50
0.90
1.48
1.77
2.10
2.38
2.31
2.61*

$0.36
0.57
0.60
0.54
0.48
0.56
0.95
1.97
2.00
1.62
2.05

1 Figures adjusted to reﬂect situation at end of 1939 by allowing for 331/3%, 200% and 5% stock dividends paid in 1935, 1936
and 1939, respectively.
* Earnings on average number of shares outstanding in 1939 were about $2.90 per share.

AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS CORPORATION
Price of stock
Year

High

Low

Earned per share

Paid per share

1929
1930
1931
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939

86
70
64
51
43
36
38
52
52
46
60

40
47
37
25
25
26
29
37
32
31
42

$5.47
5.49
5.52
3.93
2.97
3.02
2.57
3.81
3.88
3.75
5.23

$3.55
4.20
4.20
4.20
3.25
2.40
2.40
2.50
2.60
2.40
2.65

[733]

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 734

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[734]

THE LAMBERT COMPANY
Price of stock
Year

High

Low

Earned per share

Paid per share

1926

72

40

$4.58

$1.75

1927

89

66

6.98

6.00

1928

136

80

8.92

6.50

1929

157

80

10.04

7.75

1930

113

71

9.52

8.00

1931

88

40

8.23

8.00

1932

57

25

5.08

7.00

1933

41

19

2.99

4.00

1934

31

22

2.96

3.00

1935

29

21

2.03

2.75

1936

27

16

1.70

2.00

1937

24

10

1.54

2.00

1938

17

9

1.71

1.50

1939

18

14

1.69

1.50

NOTE 2 (PAGE 22 OF TEXT)
The ’Frisco 6% Preferred declined to 41/2 in 1931 and to $1 per share in 1932,
the year in which the road went into receivership. The issue is to be wiped out
under the I.C.C. examiner’s plan of reorganization for the road.
The Owens-Illinois Glass Co. bonds were called the very next year (July
1933) at 1011/4.
Wright Aeronautical stock rose to 323/8 in 1925 and spectacularly to 299 in
1929 prior to a 100% stock-dividend payment in that year. The new stock collapsed to 37/8 in 1932 (equivalent to 73/4 on the old basis). It recovered in a manner suggestive of manipulation to 1403/4 in 1936 (equivalent to 2811/2 on the old
basis), a price that it proved unable to regain in 1939 despite greatly increased
earnings due to war orders. A sharply rising trend of earnings for the years
1935–1939, coupled with booked and prospective war business, may account for
the fact that the stock at the end of 1939 was selling at thirty-five times the average earnings for 1935–1939.
In the ensuing six years the I.R.T. Notes received 7% annually on account of
interest and almost 1.7% annually applied against principal. In 1939 the city of
New York contracted to purchase the I.R.T. properties on terms to realize 871/2%

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 735

Appendix

[735]

of the unpaid principal for the noteholders and 821/2% of the principal of the 5%
bondholders, payable in 3% New York City bonds (Corporate Stock). In our view
the ample collateral behind the notes entitled them to repayment at par. Nevertheless, the buyer of the 7s in 1933 would have fared substantially better than a
purchaser of the 5s at the same price. Assuming payment in New York City bonds
worth par, the total received by the noteholders, including interest, would be
about $1,340 per $1,000 note against about $1,125 per 5% bond.
Paramount Pictures paid $12 of accumulated dividends on the First Preferred
in December 1936. It has continued to pay dividends regularly on that issue since,
but paid no dividends on the common until 1939. Early in 1937 both the First
Preferred and common enjoyed a substantial rise in price, but later in the year
the Preferred sold at a substantial premium over the common—a condition that
has generally prevailed since then.

NOTE 3 (PAGE 30 OF TEXT)
“CHEAP STOCKS” vs. “DEAR STOCKS”
An effort was made in 1936 and 1938 under the direction of the authors to test the
relative performance of stocks selling at a high multiple of the previous year’s earnings and those selling at a low multiple of such earnings. Eight separate studies were
made, as of March 1 in each year from 1924 through 1931. All the industrial shares
listed on the New York Stock Exchange were arranged in order of the ratio of the
March 1 price to the previous year’s earnings. (Companies with fiscal years not ending on December 31 and those earning less than $1 per share in the previous year
were excluded.) Of the remaining companies the top and bottom quartiles were
then taken for subsequent comparison. On the average, the top quartile sold originally about three times as high in relation to earnings as did the bottom quartile.
The factors studied included later changes in market price and the ensuing
record of earnings and dividend payments. We sought to determine whether the
buyer of the high-multiple (“dear”) or low-multiple (“cheap”) stocks would fare
better with respect to (1) future price changes plus dividend receipts and (2)
future earnings in relation to price paid. Tests were made as of March 1 of each
year following the initial date selected.
To save space the detailed results of our study are not given here. On the
whole they are inconclusive, in that they do not point to a consistent advantage
enjoyed by one group or the other. Such inferences as can be drawn favor the
stocks selling at the low multiple of the previous year’s earnings. Although the
dear stocks later improved their earnings and dividends as against the cheaper

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[736]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 736

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

group—which was to be expected—this improvement does not seem to be great
enough (over an eight-year period) to offset the initial premium paid for these
issues. Nor was their better showing sufficiently sustained, in good and bad years,
to make certain that they would eventually prove cheaper than the cheap stocks.
Acknowledgments are due Mr. Irving Kahn for his aid in this study.

NOTE 4 (PAGE 71 OF TEXT)
A part of the financial history of the U.S. Express Co. shows how the conversion
of an interest in property from the stock form to the bond form obtained buyers for the new securities which were both less safe and less profitable than the
stock issue.
In 1918 the sole assets of the company consisted of a building at 2 Rector
Street, New York City, and miscellaneous real estate of relatively slight value.
Ownership of these assets was represented by 100,000 shares of stock selling at
$15 per share. The following year the Rector Street building was sold for
$3,725,000, the buyer financing the purchase in part by the sale at par of
$3,000,000 first-mortgage bonds secured by a lien on the building. After disposing of its other assets, U. S. Express Co. paid liquidating dividends to its shareholders of $39.25 per share.
There is a striking contrast between the essential merits of the U. S. Express
Co. stock at 15 and of these bonds at par. Buyers of the former were paying the
equivalent of $1,500,000 for complete ownership of the Rector Street property, plus
the other assets. Buyers of the latter were paying $3,000,000 for a limited interest
in the Rector Street property alone. Obviously the stock at 15 was both a safer and
a more attractive commitment than the bonds were at par. Apparently the public
regarded the stock as a speculation and the bonds, representing only a part interest in the assets behind the stock, as an investment. A part of the explanation of
this anomaly probably lay in the magic influence of the title “bond.”
For a more detailed statement of this example, with source references, see
pp. 617–618 of the 1934 edition of this work.
A more recent illustration of this principle is afforded by the history of the
Court-Livingston Office Building in Brooklyn. After foreclosure of the original
first mortgage, ownership of the property (except as to certain leased land) was
represented by 3,880 shares of stock. Early in 1939 the stock was quoted at $30 per
share, indicating a total value of $116,400 for the company’s assets. At that time,
however, it held about $180,000 in cash. In April 1939 the property was sold for
$250,000, and the stockholders later received about $110 per share in liquidation

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 737

Appendix

[737]

of their interest. The buyer placed a mortgage of $285,000 with a savings bank,
covering the entire property including the land formerly leased. The rental obligation existing with respect to part of the plot makes this example less clear-cut
than the U. S. Express building case. But the fact that the Court-Livingston stock
sold for much less than the applicable cash holdings shows the extraordinary
undervaluation resulting from the use of the stock form under conditions in which
the bond form is the usual and expected medium of financing.

NOTE 5 (PAGE 76 OF TEXT)
“American Certificates” representing $5.36 par value (at then current rates of
exchange) of Kreuger and Toll Co. Participating 5% Debentures, due optionally
in 2003, were sold in the American market at $28.14 each. The following features justified classification of the issue as of the commonstock type:
1. The underlying Debentures bore interest at 5%, payable annually, and were
entitled to additional interest at the rate of 1% for each 1% by which the dividend paid or declared on the ordinary shares in any fiscal year exceeded 5%.
2. The issue price of the “American Certificates” was 51/4 times the par value
of the related Debentures. At the regular (i.e., the nonparticipating) interest rate
of 5% the yield on the offering price would be less than 1%.
3. The owner was dependent for a reasonable income upon the participating
feature of the Debentures, and this in turn was governed by the dividend paid
on the stock. Only about one-fifth of the income and principal value of this security could be ascribed to the bond contract; the remaining four-fifths had all of
the contingent and variable features of a common-stock commitment. This division may be set forth as follows:
(PER UNIT OF 20 KRONER)
Item

Bond component

Stock component

Total

Principal

$5.36

$22.78

$28.14

Income in 1928

0.27

1.07

1.34

These certificates sold as high as 463/8 in 1929 and at 1/2 cent in 1934.

NOTE 6 (PAGE 81 OF TEXT)
Convincing evidence of the investment character of National Biscuit Co. Preferred is found in the price history and dividend record of the issue. The annual
dividend of $7 per share has been paid regularly since organization of the

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[738]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 738

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

company in 1898. The issue has not sold below par ($100) since 1907. The average of the annual high and low prices for 1908–1939 was 140.6, on which the
annual dividend of $7 has yielded 5%. A similar average for the entire history
of the issue on the New York Stock Exchange (1899–1939) is 132.75 and a yield
of 5.27%. This average covers a range of 791/2 in 1900 and 175 in 1939. In only
five out of the forty-one years since the issue was first listed has it sold at a price
below par.

NOTE 7 (PAGE 85 OF TEXT)
Twenty-five million dollars of Seaboard-All Florida Railway First Mortgage 6%
Gold Bonds, Series A, due Aug. 1, 1935, were originally offered in 1925 at 981/2
and interest. The bonds were joint and several obligations of the Seaboard-All
Florida Ry., Florida Western & Northern R.R. Co., and the East & West Coast Ry.
They were further secured by an unconditional guarantee with respect to both
principal and interest, through endorsement by the Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co.,
which leased the properties of the several roads at a minimum annual net rental
equal to the annual interest charges on all bonds outstanding under the mortgage.
The proceeds from the sale of these bonds were used mainly to redeem outstanding first-mortgage obligations of the lessor roads and to construct about
217 miles of new trackage along the east and west coasts of Florida. Thus the
bonds had a first lien on approximately 475 miles of newly constructed and
established lines.
The Seaboard-All Florida Ry. went into the hands of receivers on Feb. 2, 1931,
following receivership for the Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. and a default in interest due on these bonds.
Although the buyers of these bonds provided $24,625,000 to defray the cost
of acquiring and constructing Florida railway properties, by December 1931 their
bonds were selling as low as 1 cent on the dollar, the market appraising the value
of their investment at only $250,000. At the end of 1939 the appraisal had risen
to $940,000, or 3.875 cents on the dollar.

NOTE 8 (PAGE 86 OF TEXT)
Interest was defaulted on Bush Terminal Co. First Mortgage 4s, due 1952, and
on the company’s Consolidated Mortgage 5s, due 1955, in 1933. There were also
defaults on sinking fund payments. All defaults were remedied during the reorganization proceedings, and the issues emerged undisturbed. Several other
examples of this comparatively rare treatment of defaulted issues are given on
pp. 637–638 of the 1934 edition of this work.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 739

Appendix

[739]

NOTE 9 (PAGE 86 OF TEXT)
Principal and interest were defaulted on Chicago & Eastern Illinois R.R. Co.,
First Consolidated 6s, due Oct. 1, 1934, in 1934 and 1935, respectively. The plan
of reorganization consummated in 1940 provided for their payment in cash at
par and interest at 4% to date of payment.
Price Bros. Co., Ltd., First Mortgage 6s due 1943 were defaulted as to interest in 1932. In 1937 the holders received par and accrued interest to the date
of payment.
Other examples are given on p. 638 of the 1934 edition of this work.

NOTE 10 (PAGE 87 OF TEXT)
The Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Company went into the hands of receivers in
1915. Prior thereto the First 4s of 1990 had sold as high as 1041/4 in 1905 and as
late as 1914 had sold at 917/8. Before the financial difficulties leading to the 1915
receivership, the record of this issue was distinctly that of a high-grade, investment bond. During the eleven years 1903 to 1912, inclusive, the lowest price at
which it sold was 981/2 (in the panic year 1907).
During the protracted receivership interest payments were deferred and the
bonds were traded “flat” in the market. Although technical default was avoided,
the investment status of the issue disappeared, the bonds selling as low as 521/8
during the receivership. In 1921 when the plan of reorganization was announced,
the bonds sold as low as 56, and it was not until 1927 that they regained a semblance of their former prestige as an investment issue by selling above 90. Thus
the first lien did not protect the holder from a substantial market decline during
the period of financial difficulty.
The same sort of picture is presented by the record of Brooklyn Union Elevated
R.R. First 5s, due in 1950, described in Chap. 2 of the text. This was an underlying
lien on essential parts of the elevated lines of the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Co. which
went into the hands of receivers on Dec. 31, 1918 and was reorganized as the Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit Corp. in 1923. The issue ranked as a first-grade investment
from 1903 to 1917 and never sold below 90 during this period, except in the panic
of 1907 when it dropped to 85, and in 1917 when the receivership appeared imminent. Although the issue was not disturbed by the reorganization, it sold as low as
55 in 1920, while the receivership was still in effect, and did not regain its former
standing until 1926, three years after the termination of the receivership.
Choctaw & Memphis R.R. First Mortgage 5s, due 1949, defaulted as to interest on July 1, 1934. In 1938 and 1939 the low bids were 21 and 32, respectively.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 740

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[740]

But the reorganization plan for the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. provides substantially for their emergence undisturbed as a small underlying issue
of the system. (See discussion of this issue on p. 706.)

NOTE 11 (PAGE 99 AND 278 OF TEXT)
PRICE PERFORMANCE OF RAILROAD AND PUBLIC-UTILITY
BONDS IN 1937–1938 AS RELATED TO EARNINGS
COVERAGE IN 1936
A. Railroad Bonds:
The bonds of 37 railroads listed on the New York Stock Exchange and not in
receivership in January 1937 were classified according as they earned their fixed
charges more than 21/2 times or less than twice in 1936. (Only the Atchison and
Bangor & Aroostook earned their charges between 2 and 21/2 times.) For each
road an active issue was taken representing the most junior lien. The following
table reflects the average performance of the bonds falling in three categories:

Average per $1,000 bond
1937–1938
Item

Total interest
earned in 1936

Coupon
rate

High
price

Low
price

4.68 times

4.04%

1121/2

1003/4

1.50 times

4.56%

105 3/4

64

1.17 times

4.44%

933/4

291/2

Class I:
7 dividend-paying roads,
interest earned over 21/2 times
Class II:
12 dividend-paying roads,
interest earned less than twice
Class III:
18 nondividend roads, interest
earned less than twice

Only one bond issue in Class I declined more than 10%. (It was the Chesapeake & Ohio General 41/2s, due 1992, which later recovered nearly all
its loss.)

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 741

Appendix

[741]

B. Public-utility Bonds:
All the solvent public-utility companies with bonds listed on the New York Stock
Exchange were classified according as 1936 fixed charges were covered less than
11/2 times, between 11/2 times and twice, and more than twice. The following
compilation shows the comparative performance of the companies in the first
and third classes, each company being represented by one important bond issue.
Average per $1,000 bond
1937–1938
Item

Total interest
earned in 1936

Coupon
rate

High
price

Low
price

3.67 times

3.93%

1081/4

1023/4

1.29 times

5.16%

907/8

611/4

Class I:
42 companies earning 1936
interest more than twice
Class II:
11 companies earning 1936
interest less than 11/2 times

Of the 42 issues in Class I, only 5 declined more than 10%. All these later
recovered to within three points of their 1937 high, or better. Of the 11 issues in
Class II only 1 failed to decline more than 10%. This was the obligation of Saguenay Power Co., which is controlled by Aluminum Ltd. of Canada and enjoys certain guarantees by the powerful Aluminum Co. of America.

NOTE 12 (PAGE 99 OF TEXT)
For more complete details concerning the following examples see pp. 640–641
of the 1934 edition of this work.
1. Gulf States Steel Co., which sold an issue of 51/2% Debentures in 1927 at
983/4 and further bonds of the same issue in 1930, covered the 1929 charges
thereon an average of 4.88 times in 1922–1929. The minimum coverage during
that period was 31/2 times in 1926. But the company operated at a deficit before
interest charges in 1930–1932, and the bonds declined to a low of 21 in 1932.
2. Marion Steam Shovel Co., which in 1927 sold an issue of First 6s, due 1947,
at 991/2, covered the charges thereon an average of 4.11 times in 1922–1929. The
minimum coverage during that period was 2.78 times in 1928. But in seven of

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 742

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[742]

the ensuing nine years the company operated at a deficit before interest charges,
and the bonds sold as low as 20 cents on the dollar.
3. McCrory Stores Corp., which sold an issue of Debenture 51/2s at 98 in 1926,
covered all its 1931 fixed charges an average of 5.32 times in the decade
1922–1931. Earnings declined sharply thereafter, and the company failed to earn
its charges. In 1933 the company was petitioned into bankruptcy, and the bonds
sold as low as 215/8.
All three of these issues, however, recovered all or most of their price decline
in subsequent years.

NOTE 13 (PAGES 100 AND 278 OF TEXT)
PRICE PERFORMANCE OF INDUSTRIAL BONDS IN 1937–1938,
AS RELATED TO EARNINGS FOR A PERIOD OF YEARS
ENDED IN 1936
This study is similar to the one described in Appendix Note 11, with the following modifications: All the industrial bonds listed on the New York Stock
Exchange were examined with respect to average earnings coverage for as many
years as possible through 1936 (not more than 10). In Group A were placed all
the companies (27 in number) that showed a coverage of better than three times
interest charges. In Group B were placed the 37 companies that covered charges
less than 21/2 times.
Average results for the two groups were as follows:
Price range
1937–1938
Item

Number of issues

Median1 interest
coverage

Coupon rate

High

Low

Group A

27

4.00 times

4.07%

1071/2

971/2

Group B

37

1.45 times

5.00%

95

70

1 Median ﬁgure used, since average would be nonrepresentative.

Only eight issues in Group A lost more than 10% of their maximum market
price, and only nine issues in Group B failed to suffer this percentage decline. Of
these eight bonds in Group A, all but two (Gotham Silk Hosiery 5s and Jones &
Laughlin 4 1/4s) later recovered to within four points of the 1937 high. Of the nine
bonds in Group B that maintained their price, all but two (Houston Oil 5 1/2s and

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 743

Appendix

[743]

Koppers Co. 4s) had earned their interest better than three times in the single
year 1936.

NOTE 14 (PAGE 100 OF TEXT)
See pp. 641–643 of the 1934 edition of this work for fuller details concerning the
following examples of predepression collapses in earnings power:
1. Botany Consolidated Mills, Inc., First 6 1/2s, due 1934, were issued in 1924.
Net available for the charges thereon in that year and in the seven preceding years
averaged close to 5 3/4 times the charges, and the bonds sold at fixed-value prices
until 1926 when the company suffered an operating deficit. Thereafter (with an
insignificant exception in 1927) large and growing operating deficits were shown
until receivership overtook the company in 1932. In the latter year the bonds
sold at 5 cents on the dollar. They had sold as low as 59 and 40, respectively, in
the prosperous years 1928 and 1929.
2. R. Hoe & Co. First 61/2s, due 1934, were issued in 1924. Average earnings
in the preceding three years were 3.2 times the sum of interest charges on the
new bonds and other fixed charges, without allowance for any earnings from the
new capital raised by the issue. Earnings declined in 1924 and continued to
decline in the ensuing years with the exception of 1929. Nonetheless, the bonds
continued to sell close to par, despite inadequate coverage, until 1928. Thereafter
they declined to as low as 75 in 1929. In 1932 receivership intervened, and the
bonds sold as low as 61/8.
3. Long-Bell Lumber Corp. showed an almost uninterrupted decline in net
earnings for the period 1922–1932. When Long-Bell Lumber Co. (a subsidiary)
sold First Mortgage 6s in 1926, average coverage was well above the minimum
required for industrial exhibits. But average coverage for 1926–1929 was only
1.37 times, and the company exhibited operating deficits thereafter until default
on the bonds in 1932.
4. National Radiator Corp. Debenture 61/2s, due 1947, were offered at par in
1927. Available earnings in 1922–1926 had averaged 3.5 times the charges on the
bonds, without allowing for additional earnings on the new capital. Coverage of
fixed charges was adequate in 1927; but operating deficits were encountered in
the ensuing three years, and receivers were appointed in 1931.

NOTE 15 (PAGE 116 OF TEXT)
For earlier examples note: Mexican Light & Power Co. First 5s, due in 1940, were
not in default in June 1933 and were selling at 50, whereas the issues of the

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[744]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 744

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Republic of Mexico listed on the New York Stock Exchange were all in default
and were selling at from 4 to 6 cents on the dollar at that time; Chile Copper Co.
Debenture 5s, due in 1947, were selling at 67 in June 1933, whereas the Republic of Chile 6s were in default since 1931 and were selling at prices ranging from
11 to 12 cents on the dollar; Rio de Janeiro Tramway, Light & Power Co. First 5s,
due in 1935, were at 87 in June 1933, whereas the bonds of the City of Rio de
Janeiro were in default since 1931 and were selling at 22, having sold below
10 cents on the dollar earlier in the year; Pirelli Co. of Italy Sinking Fund Convertible 7s, due 1952, were selling above par in June 1933, whereas the Kingdom
of Italy External Sinking Fund 7s, due in 1951, were selling at 95, neither issue
being in default.
At the end of 1939 the Mexican Light & Power Co. issue was still paying its
interest charges and selling at 21–25, whereas the Mexico Government issues
were in default and selling at 3/4 cent on the dollar. Note also that in September
1939 Rhine-Westphalia Electric Power Corp. called at par and interest the small
balance of 7% Secured (dollar) Notes when the German Republic External 7s
were selling in the New York market at less than 10% of par. In November 1939
Pirelli Co. of Italy called for payment at 105 and interest the entire issue of its 7%
convertible (dollar) bonds, due in 1952. Concurrently Kingdom of Italy External 7s, due 1951, were selling at 65.

NOTE 16 (PAGE 116 OF TEXT)
For example, the Sept. 1, 1932 coupon on Alpine-Montan Steel Corp. First 7s, due
in 1955, was not paid because of foreign exchange restrictions imposed by the
Austrian government, although the corporation possessed sufficient domestic
funds to make the payment. The Aug. 1, 1932 coupon on Rima Steel Corp. First
7s, due 1955, was not paid owing to a decree of the Hungarian government suspending payments abroad in foreign currencies on Hungarian financial obligations, from and after Dec. 23, 1931. The principal of Deutsche Bank 6% Notes,
due Sept. 1, 1932, was not paid at maturity owing to exchange restrictions imposed
by the German government. Holders were offered immediate payment in marks
to be left in Germany or payment on Sept. 1, 1935 in dollars with an immediate
payment of a cash premium of 2% in dollars. A similar compromise was worked
out with respect to Saxon Public Works, Inc., 5% Notes due July 15, 1932.

NOTE 17 (PAGE 138 OF TEXT)
For a detailed treatment of the investment qualities and record of equipment-trust
obligations the student is referred to Kenneth Duncan, Equipment Obligations,

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 745

Appendix

[745]

Chap. VII, New York, 1924. A case history of defaults on equipment obligations
and their treatment in railroad reorganizations since 1900 will be found at pp.
229–239 of this excellent treatise. To quote briefly from Duncan, writing in 1924
(pp. 199–200), “In only three instances has it been necessary for the holders of
equipment securities to accept a compromise in the form of receiving other securities instead of cash, in only two instances did they have to retake the equipment
and sell it, and in no case did payment finally fail to be made, either in cash or in
other securities which could later have been sold for as much as the principal of
the equipment obligations on which default has occurred.” See also A.S. Dewing,
A Study of Corporation Securities, Chap. IX, New York, 1934.
A briefer but more recent synopsis of the treatment of equipment obligations
in railroad receiverships is reproduced below from a study by Freeman & Co.,
specialists in equipment obligations, which was published on Jan. 9, 1940.

RECORD OF EQUIPMENT TRUST ISSUES IN RAILROAD
RECEIVERSHIPS FROM 1886 TO DATE
1886—Denver Rio Grande R.R. Notes exchanged with bondholders consent for mortgage
bonds and preferred stock which later were worth forty per cent more than Equipment Trust.
1888—Chesapeake & Ohio. Equipments undisturbed—interest rates on other securities
reduced.
1892—Central Railroad & Banking Co. of Georgia. Undisturbed—paid in full.
1892—Savannah, Americus & Montgomery. Undisturbed—paid in full.
1892—Toledo St. Louis & Kansas City R.R. Undisturbed—paid in full.
1895—Atchison Topeka & Santa Fe. Receiver reserved $1,200 mortgage bond to retire
each $1,000 Equipment at maturity.
1895—New York, Lake Erie & Western. Receiver certificates issued to pay Equipments.
1895—Union Pacific. Undisturbed—mortgage bonds reserved to pay Equipments at
maturity.
1896—Philadelphia & Reading. Equipments paid—partly by assessment.
1896—Northern Pacific. Undisturbed—paid regularly.
1899—Columbus Hocking Valley & Toledo Ry. Interest paid promptly and 10 per cent of
principal retired regularly in accordance with new agreement.
1900—Kansas City, Pittsburgh & Gulf. New first mortgage bonds issued to pay Equipments.
1905—Cincinnati, Hamilton & Dayton. Undisturbed.
1905—Pere Marquette. Undisturbed—sold additional Equipment Trusts during receivership to yield 6%.
1908—Seaboard Air Line. Receivers certificates sold to pay off maturing Equipments.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

[746]

Page 746

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

1908—Detroit, Toledo & Ironton. Full recovery of principal except for deduction of legal
fees and expenses.
1910—Buffalo & Susquehanna. Equipment sold; no loss.
1915—Wabash Railroad. Option of cash or 6% Equipment Trusts.
1916—Minneapolis & St. Louis. Paid in full—undisturbed.
1916—Missouri Pacific Paid in full—undisturbed.
1916—New Orleans Texas & Mexico. Paid in full—undisturbed.
1916—St. Louis-San Francisco. Paid in full—undisturbed.
1916—Western Pacific. Paid in full—undisturbed.
1916—Wheeling Lake Erie. Paid in full—undisturbed.
1917—Wabash Pittsburgh Terminal. Paid in full—undisturbed.
1918—Chicago Peoria & St. Louis. Temporary default; payment resumed in 1919.
1920—Washington Virginia R.R. New management paid all arrears.
1921—Missouri Kansas Texas. Paid in full—undisturbed.
1921—Atlanta Birmingham & Atlantic. Cash offering in settlement.
1922—Chicago & Alton. Paid in full—undisturbed.
1923—Minneapolis & St. Louis. Still in receivership—full payment being made.
1927—Chicago Milwaukee & St. Paul. Paid in full—undisturbed.
1931—Wabash Railway. After a 3-year extension to certain maturities, interest having
been paid in full, in 1939 R.F.C. loan provided for retirement by purchase of all the
then outstanding certificates maturing up to 1944.
1931—Florida East Coast Railway. After extension of certain maturities, all equipment
trust certificates and interest have been paid in full to current date. Exception: Series
“D” lease disaffirmed.
1931—Seaboard Air Line Railway. All Equipment Trust Certificates exchanged for
Receivers Certificates due February 1, 1945, having an interest rate of 2% to February 1, 1938, 3% to February 1, 1940, and thereafter 31/2% to maturity. Recent issues
of equipment trust certificates being regularly serviced by Receivers.
1931—Ann Arbor. Principal and interest paid in full.
1932—Mobile & Ohio. Principal and interest being paid in full.
1932—Central of Georgia. Principal and interest being paid in full.
1932—St. Louis-San Francisco. Principal and interest being paid in full.
1932—Norfolk Southern. Principal and interest being paid in full.
1932—Wisconsin Central. Principal and interest being paid in full.
1933—Missouri Pacific. Principal and interest being paid in full.
1933—New Orleans Texas & Mexico. Principal and interest being paid in full.
1933—International-Great Northern. Principal and interest being paid in full.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 747

Appendix

[747]

1933—Akron, Canton & Youngstown. Principal and interest being paid in full.
1933—Chicago & Eastern Illinois. Principal and interest being paid in full.
1933—Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific. All outstanding Equipment Trust Certificates prior
to July 1, 1937, exchanged for 31/2% Sinking Fund Trustee’s Certificate due July 1,
1947. The Sinking Fund is calculated to retire all the Certificates by maturity. Equipment Trust 31/2% Certificates, Series R issued by Trustees, being paid in full principal and interest.
1935—Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul & Pacific R.R. Principal payments made to March 2,
1935. Under the plan now operative, principals maturing between April 1, 1935 and
December 31, 1940, will be paid $200 each year until paid in full. All payments of
principal and interest under the plan have been paid to date. Recent issues of Equipment Trust Certificates being regularly serviced by Trustees.
1935—Chicago & North Western Railway. Principal and interest being paid in full.
1935—Chicago Great Western Railroad. Principal and interest being paid in full.
1935—Denver & Rio Grande Western R.R. Principal and interest being paid in full.
1935—New York, New Haven & Hartford. Principal and interest being paid in full.
1935—St. Louis Southwestern Railway. Principal and interest being paid in full.
1935—Western Pacific Railroad. Principal and interest being paid in full.
1937—New York, Ontario & Western. Principal and interest being paid in full.
1937—New York, Susquehanna & Western. Principal and interest being paid in full.
1938—Erie Railroad. Principal and interest being paid in full.
1938—Rutland Railroad. Principal payments in full to May 31, 1938. Certain holders
of 1938 and 1939 maturities consented to a voluntary extension to June 1, 1941. Interest paid in full to date.

It should be noted that the exchange of Receivers Certificates or Trustees
Certificates in some of the aforementioned cases resulted in a reduction of the
rate of payment to holders and that the disaffirmance of the Florida East Coast
Ry. Series D lease resulted in a sale of the equipment at a price to net the certificate holders only 43 cents on the dollar of their obligations. The latter case occupies a unique position in the history of railway equipment trust obligations issued
under the lease plan.

NOTE 18 (PAGE 139 OF TEXT)
Considering their investment record, equipment-trust obligations sold at unduly
high yields in 1932–1933—an opinion expressed in the 1934 edition of this work.
Yields obtainable from this class of security in June 1933 and at the close of 1939
are indicated in the following table.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 748

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[748]

Current basis, %
June 1933

December 1939

Road and series

Bid

Asked

Bid

Asked

Atlantic Coast Line “E”
Baltimore & Ohio R.R.“D”
Central of Georgia Ry.“Q”
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry.“W”
Chicago & North Western Ry.“U”
Chicago Great Western R.R.“A”
Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul & Paciﬁc R.R.“L”
Erie R.R. Co.“NN”
Illinois Central R.R.“P”
Long Island R.R.“I”
Missouri Paciﬁc R.R.“D”
New York Central R.R.“41/2—1929”
New York, New Haven & Hartford R.R.“41/2—1930”
Northern Paciﬁc Ry.“41/2—1925”
05.0Pere Marquette Ry.“41/2—1930”
Reading Company “41/2—1930”
05.1Southern Paciﬁc Co.“M”
Southern Ry.“CC”

5.50
6.75
14.00
4.50
12.00
12.00
14.00
8.75
7.00
4.75
12.50
6.50
6.50
6.00
12.00
4.65
5.50
11.00

4.50
5.50
9.00
3.75
8.00
9.00
9.00
7.25
6.00
4.00
9.00
5.50
5.50
5.00
9.00
4.00
4.75
8.50

2.00
3.25
4.50
2.10
3.00
4.46
4.49
2.00
2.50
2.50
5.00
2.15
3.10
1.25
2.45
2.00
2.25
2.10

1.50
2.00
3.75
1.50

1.75
1.50
1.25
2.50
0.50
1.00
1.50
1.60
1.50

NOTE 19 (PAGE 142 OF TEXT)
An Interim Report of the Real Estate Securities Committee of the Investment
Bankers Association of America (dated May 12, 1931 and printed in full in
Investment Banking, June 1931, at pp. 7–10) estimated the total volume of real
estate bonds outstanding at $10,000,000,000, divided into classes as follows:
Class 1.

Loans less than 75% of present revaluation in good standing, with good record . . . . . . .$2,000,000,000

Class 2.

Loans that have had no evidence of trouble but are over 75% of present value of

Class 3.

Loans generally in excess of 75% of present value of security where

Class 4.

Items which when originally made were 80 to 100% loans. Such

security and appear to be able to work out without foreclosure or loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2,000,000,000
foreclosure or workout with small loss is probable (losses 10 to 25%) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2,500,000,000
loans are now 125 to 150% items, with losses from 25 to 60% when
foreclosure and sale are completed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3,000,000,000
Class 5.

In this group are the gross errors of judgment. Incompleted,
ill-conceived and misplaced buildings, including many leasehold
and second-mortgage bond issues. Losses in this class will run
from 60 to 100% and items should often be entirely abandoned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .500,000,000

Total

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$10,000,000,000

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 749

Appendix

[749]

In its Annual Report, rendered in November 1931 before the Twentieth
Annual Convention of the Investment Bankers Association of America, the
Committee revised the foregoing estimates as follows: “The exact amount of outstanding real-estate bonds is difficult to ascertain due to the large number of
small issues of which no record has been kept. The Federal Reserve Board at
Washington estimates that there may be a present maximum volume outstanding of $6,000,000,000. This figure is considerably lower than the one estimated
in our May report. We believe, however, $6,000,000,000 is approximately correct. It is the liquidation of this volume of real-estate bonds which presents one
of the major problems confronting real estate.
“Due to the decline in urban real-estate values, it is estimated that approximately 60% of the outstanding real estate-bond issues are more or less in distress” (Proceedings of the Twelfth Annual Convention of the Investment Bankers
Association of America, 1931, p. 130).
The character of the distress above referred to was indicated by the chairman
of the committee in his introductory remarks when submitting the report. He
said: “Now, it is estimated that about 60% of the realestate bonds which have
been issued are more or less in distress. Some only show slight trouble, either in
temporary default or nonpayment of taxes; others are under the process of reorganization or are in foreclosure” (ibid., p. 128).
The growth and later decline in the volume of real estate bonds actually in
default with respect to interest and/or principal payments is shown by the following compilation1 by Dow, Jones & Co., Inc., as of Nov. 1 in the respective
years. Only issues sold to and held by the public are included.
1928

$36,229,000

1929

59,755,000

1930

137,463,000

1931

327,968,000

1932

739,326,000

1933

995,017,000

1934

647,945,000

1936

408,738,000

1938

223,534,000

1 The Wall Street Journal, Dec. 27, 1933, and Feb. 15, 1939.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[750]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 750

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

NOTE 20 (PAGE 144 OF TEXT)
A harrowing example of this kind is furnished by the “Hudson Towers” at 72d
Street and West End Avenue in New York City. This 27-story building was erected
as a hotel, sanitarium, and hospital, catering to patients and their families. It was
thus a specialized type of structure. The land actually cost $395,000, and engineers
estimated that the building would cost $1,300,000 to construct. In order to facilitate the sale of $1,650,000 of first-mortgage bonds, the land and building combined were “appraised” at $2,600,000, thus making the bonds “legal for trust funds”
under the New York law. This occurred in 1923. Subsequently the building passed
through various hands by sale and resale, prior to its completion, and in 1927 second-mortgage bonds amounting to $1,150,000 were sold to the public.
The project was never completed; and in August 1932 the property was sold
for $200,000 on foreclosure of the first mortgage. The outcome from the standpoint of the nonassenting first-mortgage bondholder is indicated by the
announcement of the Irving Trust Co. in June 1933 that it was prepared to pay
$8.14 on account of each $1,000 principal amount of undeposited first-mortgage
bonds. Thus, less than 1 cent on the dollar was realized on liquidation. Depositing bondholders received only $3.84 per $1,000 bond, after deduction of protective committee expenses, etc.

NOTE 21 (PAGE 145 OF TEXT)
Note the following comment by the Industrial Securities Committee of the
Investment Bankers Association of America in its 1928 report (Proceedings of the
Investment Bankers Association of America, 1928, p. 91).
“Several circulars were examined in which an offering of preferred stock was
made based upon a business housed in a building on leasehold property. The reference to the fact of a leasehold rental being a prior charge was made in very small
type and in a most inconspicuous way. The investor glancing at the circular could
easily derive the impression that the dividend on the preferred stock was a first
charge on the earnings. Unfortunately, investors, as a rule, do not read circulars
carefully, and the average investor would scarcely have noticed the mention made
of the leasehold charge. In our opinion these figures should be set forth in just
the same manner in which an interest charge on bonds would be placed.”
The argument is equally valid, of course, in the case of a bond issue which is
preceded by leasehold rental charges.
A leading example of a leasehold issue which encountered difficulty
on account of the ground rental is presented by the Waldorf-Astoria Corp.
(New York) First Mortgage Leasehold 7s, due in 1954.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 751

Appendix

[751]

Of the Waldorf issue $11,000,000 were sold to the public in October 1929.
The ground rental began at $300,000 a year, but jumped to $600,000 at the end
of two years and was graduated upward thereafter to a maximum of $800,000 per
year. In addition there were certain building and sinking-fund rentals required to
be treated as operating expenses, although they were fixed and determinable in
amount. The statement in the offering circular that the fixed charges on the First
Leasehold 7s were covered over 4.5 times (according to an estimated income
account) was therefore misleading, as the rental charges were soon to exceed the
interest on the bonds and were lumped in with the operating expenses in such a
way as to conceal their true character and effect. If the buyer of the First Leasehold 7s had capitalized the prior charges at 6%, he would have discovered that the
$11,000,000 issue was junior to about $23,000,000 of prior claims.
Early in 1932 it became necessary to negotiate with the landlord (a subsidiary
of the New York Central R.R.) with respect to the ground-rental payments which
were in default. A plan of readjustment was completed in 1937 whereby the landlord made certain concessions with respect to the order and amounts in which
ground rentals are to be payable in the future, and in return the bondholders
assented to a modification of the indenture whereby their holdings were transformed into common stock and income bonds carrying contingent charges. The
bonds in this case declined to a low price of 3 1/4 in 1932.
A very similar situation developed with respect to the Hotel Pierre issue. The
original bonds sold in this case at a low price of 1 cent on the dollar in 1932 and
1933. A reorganization in 1932 gave the holders of the old First Leasehold 6 1/4s a
drastically reduced principal amount of new Income Debentures of 2 East 61st Street
Corp. and a small amount of stock. In April 1939 the enterprise again encountered
difficulties with its rental obligations and filed a voluntary petition in bankruptcy.
Tower Building Company (Chicago) First Leasehold 61/2s were offered to the
public in 1926 at par. The amount was $1,900,000. The leasehold called for
annual payment of a ground rent starting at $190,000 (and increasing thereafter).
These heavy leasehold payments were subsequently defaulted; the lease was forfeited in 1931, and the bonds lost all value.
A similar disastrous fate befell the holders of 170 Broadway Corporation
(New York) First Leasehold 6 1/2s, due 1949.

NOTE 22 (PAGE 151 OF TEXT)
The student will find it interesting to compare our suggested minimum quantitative standards for bond selection with the Bond Quality Yardsticks prepared in
(Text continues on p. 755.)

6

[752]
6

Non-ferrous metal fabricators*

11
11

11

6

6

7

6

5

4

Meat packing*

Miscellaneous food products
Special Inventory Situations:
Auto tires*

Baking and dairy

24

24

24

20

16

24
24
24

24

24

24

9

71/2

11
10
11

Ofﬁce equipment

6
6
6

6

6

Household products

20

61/2

10

5

Chemicals

24

9

24

81/2
91/2

24%

24

10

6

6

Paper (non-newsprint)
Extractive Industries:
Coal
Non-ferrous metal producers
Oil
Food Products Companies:

6

Auto accessories

6

Building supplies

Miscellaneous Manufacturing Lines:

Machinery

4

1

4

6

4

8
12
8

7

10

5

15

6

5

6

7%

Net
income
to gross
revs.
Better
than

90

971/2

90

88

91

81
74
79

84

83

90

73

87

89

88

84%

Operating
ratio.4
Less than

50
331/2
40

50

15

40

75

50

662/3
50

100
300
133

100

100

50

125

100

50

60

100%

Net
property
to gross
revs. (B).
Less than

40
20
30

35

50

50

75

30

50

50

35%

Fixed
debt to
net
property (C).
Less than

200

200

200

100

75

150
100
150

200

150

150

100

125

150

250

150%

200

200

400
350
300

400

350

350

300

400

350

400

400%

Working
capital
Curr. assets
to ﬁxed
to curr.
debt (C).
liabs. (C).
Better than Better than

8:07 PM

Heavy Manufacturing Lines:
Steel

Income
avail. for
F. C. to
par value of
funded debt.
Better than

Asset protection (A)

7/1/08

Bef. depr.,
Net.2 depl., etc.3
Better
Better
than
than

Times ﬁxed
charges earned1

Earnings protection (B)

TABLE I.—BOND QUALITY RATIOS
Intended as helpful guides, not as inflexible standards nor as exclusive tests

53_Graham_Dodd_App
Page 752

16
16

66

4
4

12
13
10
13

23/48
38
28
38
311

259
209
159

259

199

9
9

8
15

21/2
1 1/2

55

74
86

86
77

95
97

50
60
50

60

60

40
755

50

50
605

70010
35010

50010

200

80

25

200

150

300

400

250

8:07 PM

[753]

* Supplemental ratios for these groups are given in Table II.
1 Based on actual ﬁxed charges reported in previous years, not upon present charges.
2 After taxes.
3 Most of these guide ratios are based on the recorded experience of the better situated companies within the various industries.
4 Ratio of operating expenses, excluding depreciation, depletion and federal income taxes, to gross revenues.
5 Fixed debt to net property plus inventories.
6 Times ﬁxed charges earned before depreciation, less equipment trust maturities.
7 For systems where at least 75% of revenues is derived from electricity.
8 With last year’s result at least as good as six-year average.
9 Net income to operating revenues.
10 Net property to operating revenues.
11 With minimum for any one year no less than two times.
Source: Tables I and II are reproduced from the December 4, 1939 issue of Barron’s, The National Financial Weekly.
(A) The following additional guide ratios relating to asset protection are recommended for all industrial groups (C); Cash and equivalent to current liabilities—100% or more. Fixed debt to market value of total
capitalization (taking bonds at par, preferred stock at the lower of par or market, and common stock at market; year-end prices)—not over 25% Guide ratios (C) should be applied especially to a company’s latest reported ﬁgures but some consideration should also be given to ﬁgures for earlier years and to their trend. (B) All guide ratios relating to earnings protection should be applied to a company’s average ﬁgures for the last six years. This also applies to the ratio of net property to gross revenues.

12

23/48

31/26

24
24

24

8
7

9
71/2

6
6

6
5

7/1/08

Steam-electric operating
companies7*
Hydro-electric operating
companies (retail)7*
Hydro-electric operating
companies (wholesale)7*
Water companies*
Telephone companies*
Railroads*

Miscellaneous Special Situations:
Motion pictures
Printing and publishing*
Rail equipment-car leasing
companies
Tobacco products
Public Utilities:

Department stores*
Grocery chains*

Retail Outlets:

53_Graham_Dodd_App
Page 753

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[754]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 754

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

TABLE II.—OTHER RATIOS FOR PARTICULAR GROUPS2
Auto Tires, Meat Packing, Non-Ferrous Metal Fabricators
Net working capital excluding inventories to ﬁxed debt—100% or more.

Department Stores
Inventory turnover—eight times a year or more.
Grocery Chains
Inventory turnover—12 times a year or more. Current assets excluding inventories to current liabilities—100% or more. (This ratio is suggested for grocery chains instead of the ratio of cash
and equivalent to current liabilities used for all other industrial groups.)
Printing and Publishing
Fixed debt to net property plus good-will—50% or less(a). Index of circulation—trend (1929 
100) should be as favorable as that of the national average(b).
[(a) In using the item of good-will, press membership, circulation, franchises, advertising patronage, etc., as a factor of asset protection for bonds, it is essential to determine the reasonableness
of the stated ﬁgures.As a rough guide, a representative group of newspaper companies evaluate
their “good-will” on a basis of around $30,000 per 1,000 circulation. (b) Index of national average: 1929—100; 1930—100.4; 1931—98.2; 1932—92.3; 1933—89.1; 1934—93.0; 1935—96.8;
1936—102.0; 1937—104.8; and 1938—100.3.]
Public Utilities
Depreciation and maintenance to operating revenues—15% for steam-electric operating companies, 13% for hydro-electric operating companies, 12% for water companies, 25% for telephone
companies. Net operating income to net property—around 7% for all groups. Net property to
operating revenues, and operating expenses to operating revenues—in the case of hydro-electric operating companies it is important that these ratios should be considered together but no
standards can be set because each situation must be appraised in the light of its own territorial
problems. Operating revenues per telephone station—$50 or more.
Railroads
Coverage of ﬁxed charges from railway operations, average for last six years—two times or more.
Net working capital (including government obligations with current assets and accrued taxes with
current liabilities) to ﬁxed charges—200% or more.Maintenance of way and structure plus maintenance of equipment (including depreciation) to gross revenues —25% or more during past
several years. Transportation expense to gross revenues—steady or declining trend. Gross ton
miles per freight train hour—steadily upward trend. Fixed debt to market value of total capitalization (taking bonds at par, preferred stock at the lower of par or market, and common stock at
market; year-end prices)—not over 50% (See text.)

2 Tables I and II are reproduced from the December 4, 1939 issue of Barron’s, The National Financial
Weekly.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 755

Appendix

[755]

1939 jointly by Standard Statistics Company and the Bond Portfolio Committee
of the New York State Bankers Association. Their proposed ratios for various
groupings (except municipals) are summarized in the appended Tables I and II,
reproduced by permission from an article entitled “How to Test Your Bonds,” by
E. Sherman Adams, which appeared in the Dec. 4, 1939, issue of Barron’s.
An adequate critique of these ratios would require too much space. It is obvious that we consider nearly all of them either unnecessary or excessively severe,
since otherwise we should have revised our own suggestions accordingly. It
should be pointed out that the yardsticks presented in these tables “are not
offered as a standard below which banks never should go” but seem rather to
represent something between “an additional working tool” and a counsel of perfection. In our view the multiplicity of the standards proposed detracts greatly
from the practical utility of these yardsticks. If all these tests must be met, the
field of eligible bond investment is narrowed almost intolerably. If some may be
waived, the investor is left pretty much at sea as to which are most important and
how much latitude he may safely allow himself.
The actual application of these yardsticks to typical bond portfolios of savings banks or insurance companies would constitute a useful exercise in security
analysis and would also shed some light on the practical implications of the tests
suggested. Standard Corporation Records now compiles these ratios on leading
companies.

NOTE 23 (PAGE 165 OF TEXT)
Ratios of railroad maintenance expenditures to gross operating revenues for
Class I railroads, based on the five-year period 1926–1930, inclusive, and for
1937, are as follows by geographical divisions:3
1926–1930

Region
Entire United States
New England
Great Lakes
Central Eastern
Pocahontas
Southern
Northwestern
Central Western
Southwestern

MainteMaintenance of
nance of way, % equipment, %
13.7
15.3
12.5
12.5
13.4
14.5
14.5
14.0
15.9

19.5
17.8
20.9
20.7
20.0
20.0
18.3
18.1
18.0

1937

Total,%

Maintenance
of way, %

33.2
33.1
33.4
33.2
33.4
34.5
32.8
32.1
33.8

11.9
13.7
10.7
10.4
10.2
11.6
13.8
13.1
14.0

Maintenance of
equipment,% Total, %
19.9
17.6
20.9
21.0
18.3
21.0
19.0
19.5
18.3

3 Statistics of Railways in the United States, Interstate Commerce Commission, Washington.

31.8
31.3
31.6
31.4
30.5
31.7
32.8
32.6
32.3

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 756

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[756]

The variations as between the different regions, as indicated above, are distinctly smaller than they were prior to 1920. The maintenance expenditures of
numerous roads fell conspicuously below the above standards during 1931 and
1932. For example, the Illinois Central ratios for 1932 were as follows: maintenance of way, 8.36%; maintenance of equipment, 19.48%.
Sharp differences as between roads in the same geographical district also
developed, as is indicated by the following:
Maintenance
of way, %
of gross

Maintenance
of equipment,
% of gross

Total, %
of gross

15.85

17.97

33.82

1929

15.79

18.13

33.92

1932

11.52

23.69

35.21

1929

19.97

16.26

36.24

1932

14.65

16.87

31.52

1929

12.63

17.46

30.09

1932

11.86

18.57

30.43

Year and road
1926–1930 average for
Southwestern region
Atchison:

St. Louis—Southwestern:

Southern Paciﬁc:

The following study contrasts the trend of maintenance for various groups
of roads classified in accordance with their financial situation:
Total maintenance ratio, %
Item

1928

1934

1938

17 roads paying dividends in 1938

34.5

32.2

32.0

23 solvent roads not paying dividends in 1938

32.2

30.0

29.8

21 roads insolvent in 1938

32.6

32.3

33.0

All Class I roads

32.8

30.7

30.7

This comparison shows, first, that dividend-paying roads tend to be more
liberal with maintenance than nondividend payers struggling to remain solvent
and, second, that roads falling into trusteeship tend to increase their maintenance ratios even while the others are cutting down.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 757

Appendix

[757]

NOTE 24 (PAGE 166 OF TEXT)
The Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. between the years 1921–1929 furnishes an
example of unusually heavy maintenance expenditures. This is reflected in the
following figures, which may be compared with the standard maintenance ratios
for the Pocahontas region given in the preceding note.

Year

Ratio of maintenance
of way to gross, %

Ratio of maintenance
of equipment to gross, %

Total, %

1921
1922
1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929
1930
1931

14.51
12.70
12.60
14.40
15.20
14.23
14.37
13.47
14.39
13.55
12.88

23.87
27.01
28.10
27.90
25.30
22.89
22.38
22.29
22.36
19.55
18.99

38.38
39.71
40.70
42.30
40.05
37.12
36.75
35.76
36.75
33.10
31.87

The existence in the past of large current earnings of subsidiaries not paid
over to the parent company is illustrated by the following figures with reference
to Louisville & Nashville R.R. Co., 51% of whose common shares are owned by
Atlantic Coast Line R.R. Co.
Atlantic Coast Line’s
equity in L. & N.’s
undistributed
earnings

Year

Earned
per share

Paid
per share

Balance after
common
dividends

1922

$14.72

$7.00

$5,558,019

$2,834,590

1923

11.54

5.00

7,648,935

3,900,957

1924

12.08

6.00

7,112,794

3,627,525

1925

15.98

6.00

11,680,711

5,957,163

1926

16.60

7.00

11,232,111

5,728,377

1927

14.29

7.00

8,536,241

4,353,483

1928

12.24

7.00

6,133,220

3,127,942

1929

11.73

7.00

5,536,543

2,823,636

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[758]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 758

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

A similar though less striking picture is presented by the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy, which during the years 1922 to 1929, inclusive, earned substantially more than it paid out in dividends. This was especially true in the years 1924,
1928, and 1929, although the situation was reversed and dividends in excess of
earnings were paid in 1930, 1931, and 1932. The Great Northern Ry. Co. and the
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. each owns about 48% of the Burlington common.

NOTE 25 (PAGE 173 OF TEXT)
For examples of enterprises wholly or partially industrial in character but masquerading under the “public utility” title see: United Public Service Co., organized
in 1927 and engaged in the electric light and power, natural and artificial gas, ice
plant and cold storage businesses; Southern Ice & Utilities Co., organized in 1916
and engaged in the ice, ice cream, creamery, and cold storage warehouse businesses;
The Utilities Service Co., organized in 1928 to acquire and operate 20 telephone
companies in small towns and four ice companies in large towns or cities; Central
Atlantic States Service Corp., organized in 1928 and engaged in the ice, coal, and
cold storage businesses; Westchester Service Corp., organized in 1928 and engaged
in the coal, ice, fuel oil, and building-supply businesses; National Service Cos.,
organized in 1928 as a holding company for enterprises of the Westchester Service
Corp. type, engaged in the ice, fuel, and allied industries. Examination will reveal
that these companies had capital structures of the public-utility type despite the
fact that their operations were largely or wholly industrial in character.
Some of these companies are still in existence in substantially their original
form, but most of them have encountered financial difficulty and been reorganized. United Public Service Co. was reorganized in 1934 as United Public Service Corp. Southern Ice & Utilities Co. changed its name in 1938 to Southern Ice
Co. Utilities Service Co. entered receivership in 1930 and was reorganized in
1933 under a plan whereby the telephone business was segregated from the
industrial divisions. Central Atlantic States Service Corp. was reorganized in
1934, and its properties taken over by Cassco Corp. Westchester Service Corp.
was reorganized in 1936 under Section 77B of the Bankruptcy Act. National Service Cos. has preserved its original identity.

NOTE 26 (PAGE 174 OF TEXT)
At various times the Investment Bankers Association of America has commented
through its several committees upon the impropriety of bond circulars which
either omit reference to depreciation entirely, or else conceal the actual amount

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 759

Appendix

[759]

of the depreciation charge through including it in some blanket item in the
income account. The following quotations will serve to illustrate:
“There are many honest differences of opinion about depreciation and about
the proper policy to provide for it, but whatever policy is adopted, the investor
is entitled to know what it is. A circular of a corporation issue which does not
mention depreciation leaves out an important factor in the affairs of the company in which the investor is asked to place his funds” (“Report of Special Committee on the Preparation and Use of Bond Circulars,” printed in the Proceedings
of the Investment Bankers Association of America, 1925, p. 274).
“The attention of our membership is particularly directed to the treating of the
subject of depreciation. Some few circulars omit the balance sheet entirely, but in
most instances this occurs in circulars where it is not particularly vital. However,
the practice is quite common to show earnings before depreciation and taxes and
then say nothing about the amount of depreciation taken. Inasmuch as it is our
endeavor to present to the investor as complete a picture as is possible in an ordinary circular, it would seem that unless the earnings before depreciation are given,
the amount of depreciation taken, and amount remaining for bond interest and
taxes, leaving the balance to go to surplus, the investor has not all of the facts in the
case. If the investor understands a balance sheet and is at all familiar with manufacturing, the manner in which depreciation is taken and its amount will tell him quite
a story as to the management of the concern in question. Some circulars show earnings after depreciation and taxes but no earnings before such deductions. It is the
opinion of both the Industrial Securities and Business Conduct Committee Chairman that the ideal picture to the investor would be presented if the circular showed
earnings before depreciation, the amount of depreciation and the earnings after
depreciation, as separate items” (Interim Report of the Business Conduct Committee
of the Investment Bankers Association of America Bulletin, March 1927, p. 3).

NOTE 27 (PAGE 181 OF TEXT)
EXAMPLE OF TREATMENT OF MINORITY INTEREST IN
COMPUTING INTEREST COVERAGE FOR PUBLIC-UTILITY
HOLDING-COMPANY BONDS
The report of the United Light & Railways Co. (Del.) for 1938 included the
results of American Light & Traction Co. of which it owned 54.69% of the common stock. The earnings applicable to the 45% minority were about $1,851,000.
This minority interest may be treated in three ways, viz.:

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 760

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[760]

Method A (which is the customary method). The minority interest is
deducted after the parent company’s interest charges. Under this method the
minority item does not affect the bond-interest coverage in any way.
Method B (which is accurate, but a little complicated). Subsidiary earnings
and charges are included only to the extent of the parent company’s ownership.
In other words, both the earnings and the fixed charges are reduced by the percentage applicable to the minority holdings of common stock.
Method C (which is recommended). The minority interest is deducted from
net earnings (in the same way as an expense item) before figuring the interest
coverage. This will result in a smaller interest coverage than under Method B,
but the understatement will be moderate.
The three methods applied to United Light & Railways Co. report for 1938
will give the following results:

Item
Gross operating revenues
Net earnings
Minority interest
Balance for ﬁxed charges
Fixed charges1
Minority interest
Balance for parent company stocks
Number of times ﬁxed charges earned

Method A
(customary)

Method B
(accurate)

Method C
(conservative)

$77,351,000
21,352,000

$59,221,000*
17,072,000*

21,352,000
14,927,000
1,851,000
4,574,000
1.43

17,072,000*
12,498,000*

$77,351,000
21,352,000
1,851,000
19,501,000
14,927,000

4,574,000
1.37

4,574,000
1.31

1 Subsidiary interest and preferred dividends and parent-company interest.
* Excluding minority interest (45.31%) in American Light & Traction ﬁgures.

Note that the only additional calculation needed to apply Method B is to find
the amount of subsidiary fixed charges applicable to the minority interest. The
adjusted fixed charges divided into the balance for parent-company shares will
give the coverage less 1. Note also that although Method C always gives a smaller
result than the other two, Method B will give a higher or lower coverage than
Method A depending on whether the subsidiary earned its charges with a smaller
or larger margin than the combined system.

NOTE 28 (PAGE 199 OF TEXT)
Calculation of the margin of safety protecting preferred dividends has received
relatively scant attention at the hands of most writers of textbooks on investment.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 761

Appendix

[761]

In some cases this is due to the exclusion of preferred stocks from the category of
investment (e.g., the writings of Lawrence Chamberlain), but in most instances
no such explanation can be offered. The exceedingly large volume of preferred
stock outstanding in recent decades suggests that some discriminating point of
view and technique must have been developed for choosing between issues of this
type, and it is surprising that more attention has not been given to the matter by
those who write books on the “science” of security selection.
In most instances in which the subject receives attention the prior-deductions method of calculation is either explicitly recommended or implicit in the
discussion. For example, Carl Kraft and Louis P. Starkweather in their Analysis
of Industrial Securities, New York, 1930, use this misleading method of calculation in their rather extensive illustrative analysis of Jones Bros. Tea Co. without
examining the resultant ratios critically. See p. 127, ratio 20-(b), and pp. 130–132,
162, especially the 1926 and 1927 exhibits.
J. E. Kirshman in his revised Principles of Investment, New York, 1933, refers
to the coverage on Federal Water Service Corp. Preferred as having been earned
“several times over within the past few years,” which is a correct statement only
in case the prior-deductions method of calculation is used. The combined fixed
charges and preferred dividends were never covered more than 1.37 times during the years 1928–1932, inclusive (see pp. 155–156, 437). Likewise, D. F. Jordan
repeatedly states the desired margin of safety for preferred stocks in terms of the
number of times the preferred dividends alone are earned. See his Investments,
3d rev. ed., pp. 157, 160, 162, 167, 185, 192, New York, 1936. Curiously enough,
he sees the fallacy of this method in the case of preferred stocks of public-utility holding companies and recommends the total deductions (over-all) method
of calculation (see p. 169).
Floyd F. Burtchett in his Investments and Investment Policy, New York, 1938,
also embraces the prior-deductions idea (see p. 263, 287, and 325).
Badger and Guthmann, Herschel and Prime, on the other hand, forcefully
call attention to the fallacy of the prior-deductions method of calculating coverage for preferred dividends and recommend the total-deductions calculation as
standard procedure. See R. E. Badger and H. C. Guthmann, Investment Principles and Practices, pp. 348–350, 465–467, New York, 1936; A. H. Herschel, The
Selection and Care of Sound Investments, pp. 217–222, New York, 1925; John H.
Prime, Analysis of Industrial Securities, p. 292, New York, 1935.

NOTE 29 (PAGE 215 OF TEXT)
See Appendix Note 27 in the 1934 edition of this work.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 762

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[762]

NOTE 30 (PAGE 219 OF TEXT)
The statements in the text may be verified by a detailed examination of the price
records from which the following have been drawn as illustrations. On Oct. 31,
1929, the Kansas City Terminal 4s, due 1960, sold at 861/4 to yield 4.9%, whereas,
on the same day the General 4s of the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry., due in
1988, sold at 90 to yield 4.5%. Four years later, on Nov. 22, 1933, the Kansas City
Terminal bonds sold at 86 1/4, although the Rock Island General 4s had declined
to 42, a price yielding about 10%. On Dec. 8, 1927, the Terminal bonds sold at 937/8
and the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. General 4s, due 1989, sold at 93 to yield
somewhat less than the former. On Feb. 24, 1933, the Terminal bonds were selling
at 90, to yield about 4.65%, whereas the St. Paul General 4s had declined to a price
of 38 and a yield of around 11%. Between Nov. 7, 1927 and June 15, 1932 the Terminal 4s declined from 93 to 823/4 (yields of 4.4% and 5.18%, respectively) while
Missouri-Kansas-Texas R.R. Prior Lien 4s, due 1962, declined from 93 to 311/8
(yields of 4.39% and over 15%, respectively).

Issue

Price range
1929–1939

Price
at close
of 1939

Yield
at close
of 1939

Kansas City Terminal 4s, due 1960
Chicago, Rock Island & Pacif. Ry. Gen. 4s, due 1988
Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Gen 4s, due 1989
Missouri-Kan.-Texas R.R. Prior Lien 4s, due 1962

1097/8–78
96–10
877/8–191/2
941/2–111/2

1073/4
137/8
243/4
145/8

3.45%
Default
Default
27.3%*

* Current yield, obviously subject to doubt concerning continuance.

Some features of the subsequent record of these issues are given in the table
above.

NOTE 31 (PAGE 229 OF TEXT)
The New York & Harlem R.R. situation presents some interesting aspects of
leases and guarantees.
1. The major part of the property is leased to the N.Y. Central for 401 years
at a rental equivalent to bond interest and $5 dividends on the preferred and
common stock. The bond interest and principal are both specifically guaranteed
by the N. Y. Central, but there is no specific guaranty of dividends. However, dividends have been paid regularly under the lease since 1873.
2. The street railway properties were leased separately to N.Y. Rys. Co. for a
rental equivalent to an additional $2 per share on both classes of stock. When

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 763

Appendix

[763]

N.Y. Rys. Co. became bankrupt, the lease was terminated and the traction lines
taken back and operated by the N.Y. & Harlem. In 1932 a new lease of these properties for 999 years was negotiated with N.Y. Rys. Corp. (successor to the former
lessee). The only consideration was a lump payment of $450,000, so that this
transaction appears virtually identical with a sale of the street railway lines for
the sum mentioned.
3. Some N.Y. & Harlem stockholders endeavored to obtain large additional
payments from the N.Y. Central on the ground that the valuable “air rights” (or
rights to build over the Harlem’s right-of-way) were not covered by the lease and
had to be paid for separately. The speculative glamor of this suit raised the price
of the shares to as high as 505 in 1928, representing less than a 1% dividend
return. The suit was dismissed in 1932, by which time the price had fallen to
821/4. (Price at the end of 1939 was 110.)
The Mobile & Ohio situation has some similar features of interest, viz.:
1. In 1901, Southern Ry. Co. issued “Mobile & Ohio Stock Trust Certificates”
in exchange for nearly all the Mobile & Ohio capital stock. It agreed to pay 4%
on these certificates in perpetuity.
2. Mobile & Ohio became prosperous and from 1908 to 1930 paid the Southern Ry. 140% in dividends. The Interstate Commerce Commission and the State
of Alabama endeavored to compel the Southern to give up control of the Mobile
on the ground that it violated antitrust laws. At the same time holders of Stock
Trust Certificates started action looking either to the return of the deposited
stock or to obtaining larger dividends on their certificates. The price of these
advanced to 1591/2 in 1928, in anticipation of the legal moves.
3. The collapse of earnings after 1929 forced Mobile & Ohio into receivership in 1932. Interest due Sept. 1 on its bonds was defaulted, but holders of the
stock trust certificates have nonetheless regularly received the 4% guaranteed by
Southern Ry. In 1932 the price of the certificates had fallen as low as 31/2, but this
reflected mistrust of Southern’s financial capacity rather than any question
regarding the legality of the obligation to pay the 4% dividend. Mobile & Ohio
was merged with Gulf, Mobile, Northern R.R. in 1940, but this development did
not affect the status of the guaranteed stock-trust certificates.

NOTE 32 (PAGE 245 OF TEXT)
INDUSTRIAL OFFICE BUILDING COMPANY REORGANIZATION
The history of this enterprise illustrates in striking fashion the difference between
the theoretical rights and the actual experience of a first-mortgage bondholder.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[764]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 764

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

In 1926 the company erected an office building in Newark, N.J. The cost of land
and building was apparently about $3,800,000, but the land value was marked
up from $300,000 to $2,000,000 through the familiar process of “appraisal.” The
cost of the building was defrayed through sale of the following securities:
6% ﬁrst-mortgage bonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$3,150,000
7% unsecured notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .450,000
Preferred stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .450,000
Common stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100,000

(The mark-up of the real estate gave the common stock a “book value” of about
$1,800,000.)
Following a period of poor earnings, interest was defaulted on June 1, 1932,
and a receiver was appointed. Shortly thereafter a reorganization plan was drawn
up, providing as follows:
1. The first-mortgage 6% bonds due 1947 were to be exchanged for firstmortgage 5% income bonds, also due 1947.
2. The 7% unsecured notes due 1937 were to be exchanged for 7% unsecured
income notes, due 1948.
3. The 8% preferred stock was to be exchanged for new 8% preferred.
4. The common stock was to be exchanged for new common.
5. All these exchanges were to be made par for par or share for share.
The plan was carried out by the purchase of the property at foreclosure sale
for $100,000 by the Reorganization Committee. First-mortgage bondholders who
did not accept the new securities received in cash only $56.43 per $1,000 bond.
In this readjustment the bondholders gave up their fixed claim to interest,
receiving no compensation of any kind therefore, while the stockholders gave up
nothing at all. (Dividends are to be postponed until after two-thirds of the bonds
have been retired, but such retirements inure to the benefit of the stockholders
and this provision does not really represent a sacrifice on their part.) This was
an extraordinarily one-sided composition or “compromise” —the more so since
the bondholders were clearly entitled to take direct possession of the property.
The Reorganization Committee defended their generosity to the stockholders
on the ground that it was desirable to retain the services (at a salary) of the largest
stockholder as manager of the property. In effect the real owners of the building
took a preferred-stock issue (i.e., income bonds) for their capital and gave up all
the junior equity to the management. This seems a staggering price to pay for
the supervision of an office building.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 765

Appendix

[765]

It may be objected that our criticism is somewhat far-fetched, since the building was unlikely to return more than the interest on the income bonds in any
case, so that the equity retained in full by the stockholders was scarcely worth
arguing about. But it is highly fallacious to measure the potential earnings by the
results shown in an unparalleled depression. Viewing the proposition over the
long-term future, there were several different kinds of possibilities which might
make the stock equity valuable. Among them were the following:
1. The return of prosperity and even of a new real estate boom.
2. Substantial inflation of the currency, which would reduce the burden of
the bonded debt.
3. Some special favorable development affecting the neighborhood or the
building. It happened that immediately after the Reorganization Plan was consummated, the New York Stock Exchange made every arrangement to transfer
its business to Newark, and this very office building was spoken of as the home
of the Curb Exchange. Had this actually come about, a large profit would have
been realized entirely by the old stockholders of this formerly bankrupt enterprise. This profit should properly have belonged to the bondholders, because
they took all the risk of future loss (as shown by the decline of the market price
of the issue to 4 in February 1933).
Attention should be called to the fact that this property, valued at $5,500,000,
was sold at foreclosure for $100,000, netting the undepositing bondholders about
5 cents on the dollar. (The issue had been floated at 100 in 1927.) That this was a
grossly inadequate price is clear from the fact that net earnings after taxes for the
first half of 1932 had been $67,000. In the writers’ view, the transfer of property at
a negligible price in pursuance of a reorganization scheme of this sort is more
inequitable than the “freezing out” of stockholders or other owners in the ordinary
bankruptcy proceeding. The right of the creditors to levy on the assets often works
great hardship, but it can scarcely be called unfair in the light of the specific terms
of the loan agreement and the original possibilities of profit to the stockholder
from the use of the borrowed funds. But in the Industrial Office Building example, the judicial process was availed of to deprive the individual bondholder of the
remedy which he had been assured he would have in the event of default—viz.,
either the taking over of the property on his behalf, or the distribution to him of
his share of the cash value of the property realized in a bona fide sale.
A later pronouncement of the United States Supreme Court concerning the
fairness of reorganization plans is definitely opposed to this type of adjustment of
creditors’ and stockholders’ interests. See Case vs. Los Angeles Lumber Products

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[766]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 766

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Company, Ltd., 308 U.S. 106 (decided Nov. 6, 1939). The court ruled that a plan of
reorganization under Section 77B was not “fair and equitable” where, with the corporation involved insolvent, the full value of the property available was not first
applied to claims of bondholders before stockholders were allowed to participate.

NOTE 33 (PAGE 246 OF TEXT)
FINANCIAL INVESTING COMPANY 5s DUE 1932 AND 1940
An example taken from the investment-trust field will show how the inclination
of the trustee to avoid positive action on its own initiative operates to deprive
the bondholder of the safeguards which he is apparently justified in counting on
when he makes his commitment.
Financial Investing Co. of New York sold two 5% collateral-trust issues, due
respectively in 1932 and 1940. These bonds were secured by deposit with the trustee
of listed securities, diversified in accordance with stringent requirements. The company covenanted to maintain such collateral at a value of at least 120% of the outstanding bonds. The trustee was empowered: (1) to give notice to the corporation
in the event the required margin was impaired; (2) to declare the principal due if
the deficiency was not remedied within 30 days; and (3) to sell the collateral in such
event and apply the proceeds to payment of principal and interest.
These covenants appeared to give the bondholders practically the same protection as is enjoyed by a bank making a collateral loan on marketable securities. If the stipulated margin became impaired and was not made good, the
collateral could be sold out to satisfy the loan. The only important difference
appeared to be the allowance in the bond indenture of a 30-day period to restore
the margin to the required percentage.
But the actual history of the Financial Investing issues was strikingly at variance with that of the typical collateral loan made by banks during the same
period. In October 1931 the margin fell below 20% and the trustee advised the
corporation of this “event of default.” The margin was not made good within
the thirty days, but the collateral was not sold. In August 1932 the bid price for
the bonds fell as low as 20. In October 1932 the principal of one issue matured
and was not paid. This event compelled action; the collateral securing both issues
was sold out; and in January 1933, 15 months after the “margin call,” the bondholders finally received about 65 cents on the dollar.
We see here a wide discrepancy between the apparently effectual safeguards
accorded the bondholders in their indenture and the highly unsatisfactory
results that they actually experienced—viz., a substantial loss, a long delay and a

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 767

Appendix

[767]

particularly harrowing shrinkage in market value during the interim. What is the
explanation? Was it inertia or carelessness on the part of the trustee? Superficially
it might well seem so; yet in fact the trustee gave much time and thought to this
situation. But its efforts were controlled—and vitiated—by the established principle of bond trusteeship, viz., “Never do anything that anyone might possibly
criticize, unless requested to do so by bondholders in the manner specified in the
indenture.” In the case of Financial Investing 5s, the trustee could be compelled
to act upon request in writing from the holders of 30% of the bonds, accompanied by the usual indemnities. The trustee hesitated to sell the collateral promptly
on its own initiative, because if the market recovered later, it might be accused
by the stockholders of having unwarrantably wiped them out. It appears also that
for a similar reason some of the bondholders were opposed to the sale of the
collateral after its value had fallen below the par amount of the issue.
It is not difficult to show that these objections to carrying out the protective
provisions of the indenture were basically unsound. In fact, if they were tenable,
there would be no excuse for having these provisions in the indenture. If we analyze this incident as a whole, we see that the unsatisfactory results flowed from
a combination of:
1. The lack of clearly established rules of procedure to enforce the terms of
an indenture.
2. A typical body of bondholders with little financial acumen and less
initiative.
3. A basis of trusteeship under which the trustees look to these inert and
unreasoning bondholders for guidance, instead of guiding them.

NOTE 34 (PAGES 259 AND 338 OF TEXT)
We believe that the two examples following should be preserved as a warning to
the analyst against excessive reliance upon (1) the protective covenants in the
indenture, and (2) the statistical exhibit, when selecting industrial bonds.
I. Willys Overland Co. Ten-year First 61/2s, due September 1933. Amount of
original issue, $10,000,000.
A. Protective provisions:
1. A direct first mortgage upon all the fixed assets now owned or hereafter
acquired (except for new purchase-money liens), and secured also by
pledge of all stocks owned in the principal subsidiary companies. The subsidiaries were prohibited from creating mortgages or funded debt unless
same were pledged to secure this issue.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[768]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 768

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

2. A sinking fund of 10% of the issue each year ($1,000,000 per annum) was
to retire 90% of the issue prior to maturity.
3. Net current assets must at all times equal at least 150% of the outstanding bonds.
4. Cash dividends were to be paid only out of earnings subsequent to Sept.
1, 1923, and only if the current assets after deducting such dividend are
no less than 200% of current liabilities, and net current assess are not less
than 200% of the outstanding bonds at par.
B. Statistical exhibit, Dec. 31, 1928:
1. Interest had been earned 12 times in 1928; an average of over 11 times in
1923–1928; and at least 3 1/2 times in each of the past six years.
2. The market value of the preferred and common stock on Dec. 31, 1928
was $110,000,000 or 22 times the bond issue of $5,000,000.
3. The consolidated net current assets on Dec. 31, 1928, were $28,700,000,
or more than five times the outstanding bonds.
4. The consolidated net tangible assets applicable to the bonds were over 14
times the amount of the issue.
C. History subsequent to 1928: In the four years 1929–1932 the consolidated
surplus decreased from $39,600,000 to $400,000. Of this shrinkage, $6,000,000
represented dividends paid and the balance was due to operating and other
losses. Coincidentally, the net current assets of $28,700,000 were converted into
a net excess of current liabilities amounting to $2,400,000, a total shrinkage of
over $30,000,000.
The operations of the sinking fund reduced the bond issue to only $2,000,000
at the end of 1931, but the sinking-fund installment due July 1932 was not met.
In February 1933 receivers were appointed. Interest on the bonds due March
1933 was defaulted, and the principal was also defaulted in September 1933.
The bonds, which had sold as high as 1011/2 in 1931 and at 92 in 1932,
declined to 24 at the end of 1933.
It is to be noted that no action was taken by the trustees or by the bondholders at the time of default in the sinking fund in July 1932, nor at the time the
working capital first declined below the stipulated minimum. Prompt defensive
measures then might have compelled payment of the relatively small bond issue.
A bondholders’ protective committee was formed after the receivership. Finding reorganization plans impracticable, it favored liquidation; but it then found
legal difficulties in the way of foreclosing on its lien.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 769

Appendix

[769]

The company was finally reorganized in 1936, the bondholders receiving
shares in a real estate realization corporation and either a block of convertible
preferred or a larger block of common stock in the reorganized company. Fortunately for the former bondholders these shares shortly became worth more
than par and defaulted interest on the old bonds.
II. Berkey and Gay Furniture Co. First 6s, due serially 1927–1941. Amount
of original issue $1,500,000.
A. Protective provisions:
1. Secured by a first lien on fixed property valued at some $4,400,000, or
over 290% of the original issue. Additional bonds could be issued up to
$1,000,000 against pledge of additional property, but at a rate not exceeding 50% of the cost thereof.
2. The net current assets were to be maintained at $2,000,000, and current
assets were required to equal twice current liabilities.
3. The serial maturity was equivalent to a sinking fund averaging $70,000
annually, which would retire two-thirds of the issue prior to maturity.
B. Statistical exhibit, Dec. 31, 1927.
1. Interest had been earned over three times in 1927; an average of about
41/2 times in 1922–1927; and not less than three times in any year of the
six-year period.
2. Net current assets were $3,698,000, or 21/2 times the $1,460,000 of bonds
outstanding.
3. Total tangible assets applicable to the issue were $8,500,000 or about
$6,000 per bond.
C. History subsequent to 1927: Between Jan. 1, 1929 and July 31, 1931, the company reported losses aggregating nearly $3,000,000. In 1930 alone the working
capital shrank from $2,900,000 to $650,000. By July 1931 an excess of current
liabilities was shown. Interest on the bonds was defaulted in November 1931.
Receivers were appointed in February 1932. The installment of the bonds due
May 1932 was defaulted. A decree directing foreclosure under the mortgage was
issued in April 1933. The bonds, which had sold at par in 1928 and as high as 65
in March 1931, were worth only one cent on the dollar at the end of 1933.
A protective committee was formed for the bond issue following the default
in bond interest. It is difficult to say whether or not prompter action on behalf
of the bondholders would have availed anything in this disastrous situation. But

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 770

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[770]

certainly they should have bestirred themselves at the end of 1930, when the
working capital covenant had been violated, and not stood idly by until the
default in interest payments nearly a year later.
The properties were sold at foreclosure in 1935, and in 1936 $522.50 per
$1,000 bond was distributed to the holders, largely from the proceeds of a damage suit against another company.

NOTE 35 (PAGES 287 AND 294 OF TEXT)
Evidence of the growth in financing through privileged issues and its late decline
is provided in the following figures for the total number of privileged issues outstanding as listed in Moody’s Manuals for the years indicated. Both bonds and
stocks are included.

Year

Total number
of privileged
issues outstanding

Convertible

Participating

With warrants

1925

434

434

(Not given)

(Not given)

1926

613

503

(Not given)

110

1927

1,129

537

410

182

1931

2,668

1,214

862

592

1935

1,705

860

630

215

1939

1,629

912

536

181

Statistical Series Releases Nos. 208, 243, 295 and 339 of the S.E.C. show the
characteristics of new issues sold for cash under the Securities Act of 1933, during the period from Apr. 1, 1937 through Sept. 30, 1939. The following data summarized from these releases indicate the trend of recent financing through
privileged senior issues.

NOTE 36 (PAGE 309 OF TEXT)
The application of the antidilution formula to the somewhat complicated case of
Chesapeake Corp. Convertible Collateral 5s, due 1947, is based on the following
state of facts. The bonds, issued in May 1927, were secured by the pledge of Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. common stock, into which they were made convertible after
May 15, 1932. The indenture contained the customary antidilution provisions and
stated that for the purpose of computing new conversion prices 1,190,049 shares
of Chesapeake & Ohio common were to be deemed to be outstanding as of the
date of issuance of the bonds.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 771

Appendix

[771]

Number
of issues

% of
total

Gross proceeds
to issuer
(000 omitted)

% of total

Total senior issues sold

439

100.00

$3,359,177

100.00

Privileged issues sold

191

43.51

658,020

19.60

Total preferred stocks

214

100.00

$470,423

100.00

139

65.00

247,259

52.50

Convertible

89

41.60

210,243

44.70

Participating

40

18.70

23,637

5.00

With warrants

10

4.70

13,379

2.80

135

100.00

$1,570,082

100.00

unsecured bonds

20

14.81

46,824

2.98

Convertible

12

8.89

41,822

2.66

8

5.92

$5,002

0.32

79

100.00

$1,312,213

100.00

Item

Total privileged issues

Total long-term secured bonds
Total privileged long-term

Participating
With warrants
Total long-term unsecured bonds
Total privileged long-term
unsecured bonds

31

39.24

363,193

27.68

Convertible

27

34.18

358,746

28.34

With warrants

4

5.06

$4,477

00.34

Total short-term bonds

11

100.00

$6,459

100.00

1

9.09

744

11.50

1

9.09

744

11.50

Participating

Total privileged short-term bonds
Convertible

Subsequently Chesapeake & Ohio issued new shares as follows:
(a) 296,222 shares at $100 per share to holders of record on Apr. 30, 1929.
(b) 46,066.5 shares issued in 1930 in exchange for Hocking Valley Ry. Co.
common stock. Working back from the company’s reports it appears that the
Hocking Valley stock was appraised at $7,076,710.18, or at the rate of $153.62
for the C & O stock issued in exchange.
(c) 382,211 shares at $100 per share to holders of record on June 12, 1930.
Finally, on July 31, 1930, the par value of Chesapeake & Ohio common was
reduced from $100 per share to $25 per share, and four new shares were issued
in exchange for each old share theretofore outstanding.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

[772]

8:07 PM

Page 772

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

On the basis of these facts the computation of the conversion price in the
early part of 1933 was as follows:
Base figure

Offer of 4 / 30 / 29

Hocking Valley

Offer of 6 / 12 / 30

(1,190,049 × $220)+(296,222 × $100) + (46,066.5 × 153.62) +(382,211 × $100)
1,190,049 + 296,222 + 46,066.5 +382,211
= $43.97
C' =
4 (due to 4 for 1 split on 7 / 31/ 30)

NOTE 37 (PAGE 310 OF TEXT)
Consolidated Textile Corp. Three-year 7% Convertible Debentures, due 1923,
had a conversion privilege of this type. The indenture provided that “The rate at
which common stock of the company shall be delivered on any such conversion
shall be upon the basis of 22 shares of such common stock for each $1,000 Note,
and eleven shares of such common stock for each $500 Note, or, if any additional
common stock of the company is at any time issued by it for less than $46 per
share, the rate of conversion shall be reduced to the price in money or in fair
value of property at or for which such common stock is issued … and if any further stock is subsequently issued at a lower price the conversion rate shall be still
further reduced, and so on from time to time, with a cash adjustment of interest and dividend accrued.”
These Debenture Notes were issued in April 1920. In November of that year
additional stock was offered to stockholders at $21 per share and the conversion
price was accordingly reduced to $21 per share from about $46 per share. The
privilege never attained a substantial value, the stock not having sold above 461/2
prior to November 1920 and failing to exceed 217/8 subsequent to the lowering of
the conversion price in November. The issue was called at 1021/2 in October 1921.

NOTE 38 (PAGES 310 AND 318 OF TEXT)
The $67,000,000 of American Telephone & Telegraph Co. Convertible 41/2s, due
1933, which were offered to shareholders in 1913, are an example of this comparatively rare condition. The bonds were convertible into common stock at $120
per share from Mar. 1, 1915 to Mar. 1, 1925. The indenture provided that the
stock obtainable on conversion was to be “part of the authorized capital stock of
the Telephone Company as such authorized capital stock shall be constituted at
the time of such conversion” and did not contain the usual antidilution clauses.
It is interesting to note that both the preceding and subsequent convertible issues
of American Telephone & Telegraph Co. did contain an antidilution clause. See,
for example, the indentures securing the convertible 4s issued in 1906 and the
convertible 41/2s issued in 1929.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 773

Appendix

[773]

Over half of the 41/2s, due 1933, were converted in 1915, the first year in
which the privilege was exercisable, and the balance was rapidly reduced thereafter through conversion. In 1925, when the privilege expired, $1,899,400
remained unconverted, and these were called at par in 1931. Meanwhile, prior
to 1925, several privileged subscriptions were offered to shareholders and this
may account for the rapid conversion of this issue unprotected against dilution
through shareholders’ “rights,” although the higher yield on the stock under an
$8 and $9 dividend rate doubtless was a factor.
Another example which is not quite so clearly in point is that of the Brooklyn
Union Gas Co. Convertible 51/2s, due 1936. These were offered in December 1925
with the right to convert into 20 shares of common stock on or after Jan. 1, 1929.
The indenture was somewhat ambiguously worded to the effect that “in the event
of a change in the character of the stock of the Company prior to the maturity of
the bonds, so as to increase or decrease the number of shares which the stockholders would be entitled to receive for their stock, then the number of shares which
the holders of these bonds shall receive upon conversion shall be correspondingly
increased or decreased.” This left the matter in doubt as to whether protection
against all forms of dilution was afforded or whether protection was given against
stock dividends, stock splits, and reverse split-ups only. It was perhaps for this reason that very large arbitrage spreads existed between the bonds and the stock prior
to Jan. 1, 1929, when actual conversion could occur, although here again the higher
yield from dividends on the equivalent amount of stock may have accounted in
part for the discrepancies. Relevant data are appended below.

Date

Price of common

Equivalent price
for bonds

Price of bonds

Spread in dollars
per $1,000 bond

3/19/26
9/17/26
6/17/27
9/23/27
3/30/28
9/28/28
12/28/28

711/2
91
115
142
153
166
1871/2

143
182
230
284
306
332
375

129
155
197
224
272
309
375

$140
270
330
600
340
210
0

NOTE 39 (PAGE 311 OF TEXT)
Dodge Brothers, Inc., Convertible Debenture 6s, due 1940, illustrate the increase
in conversion price which occurs when shares in the issuing corporation are
exchanged for a smaller number of shares in a merger with another corporation.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[774]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 774

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The bonds, issued in 1925, were convertible into Class A stock of Dodge Brothers, Inc., up to a maximum of $30,000,000 out of a total issue of $75,000,000.
Conversion was set at the rates fixed in the following schedule:
First $5,000,000 converted, 1 share of A stock for $30 of bonds at par.
Second $5,000,000 converted, 1 share of A stock for $35 of bonds at par.
Third $5,000,000 converted, 1 share of A stock for $40 of bonds at par.
Fourth $5,000,000 converted, 1 share of A stock for $50 of bonds at par.
Fifth $5,000,000 converted, 1 share of A stock for $60 of bonds at par.
Sixth $5,000,000 converted, 1 share of A stock for $70 of bonds at par.
The indenture provided that in case of merger or consolidation the purchaser
must assume the bonds and provide for their conversion into the same kind and
amount of shares as were issuable in the merger or consolidation with respect to
the number of shares of Class A stock to which the holder of the bond was entitled from time to time upon conversion.
The first $15,000,000 of the bonds were converted into Dodge Brothers Class
A stock prior to the merger of that company with Chrysler Corp. in July 1928,
and the assumption of the remaining bonds by the latter. In this acquisition five
shares of the Class A stock into which the bonds were convertible were
exchanged for one share of Chrysler Corp. common. Hence, in accordance with
the indenture provisions, the fourth $5,000,000 of bonds were thereafter convertible at the rate of four shares of Chrysler common for each $1,000 bond (a
conversion price of $250 per share for Chrysler). Likewise, the fifth and sixth
units were convertible into Chrysler common at $300 and $350 per share, respectively. On May 1, 1935 the entire outstanding balance of $30,150,500 of these
bonds was called for redemption.

NOTE 40 (PAGE 323 OF TEXT)
Spanish River Pulp & Paper Mills, Ltd., First Mortgage 6s, due in 1931, were
issued in 1911 as a straight bond without profit-sharing privileges. A default in
interest payments occurred in 1915–1916, resulting in a compromise between
the bondholders and the company. Under this agreement the overdue interest
payments of 1915–1916 were postponed until October 1922; sinking-fund payments were temporarily suspended; and the holders of these and certain bonds
of affiliated companies were given the right to receive during the life of their
bonds a pro rata share of 10% of the amount allocated in any year for dividends
on the preferred and common stocks of the Spanish River Co.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 775

Appendix

[775]

Year

Number of times
interest earned

Market range
for the bonds

1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
1928

2.62
3.03
4.39
2.39
3.46
4.37
3.85
3.96
3.36
Bonds called at 110

1051/2–97
971/2–93
87–861//4
115–931//4
105–95
104–97
1061/46–1061/4
108–105
1083/4–1081/2

As a result of this arrangement the bondholders not only received 10% of all
cash dividends paid on the Spanish River Co. Preferred and Common until the
bonds were retired in 1928, but they also received 10% of the Preference Stock issued
in July 1920 as a 42% stock dividend to liquidate accruals on the preferred stock.
The investment quality of these bonds subsequent to 1918 is indicated by the
figures shown above.

NOTE 41 (PAGE 330 OF TEXT)
The technique of an intermediate hedging operation is illustrated by the following transactions made in 1918–1919, involving the purchase of a $1,000 Pierce
Oil Corp. 6% Note, due 1920 and the sale of common stock against it. The Pierce
Oil note was convertible at any time into 50 shares of common stock. (Accrued
interest on the note is excluded.)
Date

Purchase

Range for month

Sale

Oct. 1918

1M 6% note at
1001/2  $1,008
25 common at
16  $ 403

991/2–1011/2

25 common
at 19  $ 470

161/4–191/8

25 common at
19  $ 470
25 common at
28  $ 696
1M note at
100  $1,000
$2,636

16–193/8

Dec. 1918

153/4–17

Jan. 1919
May 1919
Dec. 1919

Proﬁt

50 common at
171/2  $ 881
$2,292
$ 344

Range for month

17–205/8

243/4–28 5/8
Called at 100

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 776

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[776]

Low price for note, October 1918 to December 1919, was 991/2.
These five transactions may be analyzed as follows:
1. Purchase of note and sale of half of related stock against it, at price not far
from parity. This permitted a covering profit if the stock declined and a profit
through sale of the other half if the stock advanced.
2. A decline in the stock permitted the covering profit.
3. Recovery of the stock permitted the original position to be restored.
4. Advance of the stock permitted sale of second half at price to assure profit
on the operation.
5. Renewed decline in the stock permitted repurchase at profit of shares sold
while note was disposed of at par.
Because the near maturity of the note issue (coupled with the reasonably
strong financial condition of the company) could be counted upon fairly well to
keep its price up, it was not necessary to sell out the note at Step 2. It could be
held in the hope that the sale of the stock could be repeated.

NOTE 42 (PAGE 331 OF TEXT)
We have already indicated in Chap. 14 that 95% of all preferred stocks listed on
the New York Stock Exchange failed to maintain an investment price level in
1932. A study by Adolph H. Graetz of large samples of bonds for each of the years
1931–1934 indicates the following distribution of annual low prices:
CORPORATE BOND PRICES AT THEIR ANNUAL LOWS, 1931–1934
1931

1932

1933

1934

Class (by Num- Cumuprice range) ber lative %1

Number

Cumu- Num- Cumu- Numlative %1 ber lative %1 ber

Cumulative %1

0–9.9
10–19.9
20–29.9
30–39.9
40–49.9
50–59.9
60–69.9
70–79.9
80–89.9
90–99.9
100 and over
Total

623
562
419
388
364
426
384
417
406
450
68
4,507

13.82
26.29
35.59
44.20
52.28
61.73
70.25
79.50
88.51
98.49
100.00

12.28
22.57
30.63
38.02
45.40
53.46
60.86
70.04
79.79
92.61
100.00

245
334
335
380
296
319
377
461
571
835
152
4,305

5.69
13.45
21.23
30.06
36.94
44.35
53.10
63.81
77.07
96.47
100.00

683
507
438
418
403
381
384
405
399
467
137
4,622

14.78
25.75
35.23
44.28
53.00
61.24
69.55
78.31
86.94
97.04
100.00

555
459
370
333
331
372
340
409
435
568
334
4,506

1 Percentage of the total whose prices fell on or below the upper limit of the indicated class interval.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 777

Appendix

[777]

The current situation with respect to bonds selling at speculative levels (in
1939) is indicated by the fact that the average price of all U. S. corporate bonds
listed on the New York Stock Exchange at the end of 1939 was 74.60, a level suggesting that many issues were selling at very large discounts below par. The complete price record of all corporate bonds and certificates of deposit therefor that
were actually traded on the New York stock Exchange during 1939 reveals that
558, or 57%, of a total of 1,100 issues sold at prices below 70 at some time during
the year. A preponderant number of the low-priced issues were those of railroads.
See Commercial and Financial Chronicle, pp. 56–64, Jan. 6, 1940.

NOTE 43 (PAGE 338 OF TEXT)
SUBSEQUENT HISTORY OF BONDS IN THE TABLE
American Seating 6s, due 1936, were extended for ten years and sold as high as
104 in 1939.
Crucible Steel 5s, due 1940, rose to a price of 1041/2 in 1937 and were called
for payment at 101 in September 1938.
McKesson & Robbins 5 1/2s, due 1950, proved to be a profitable purchase at
25; but after selling above par in 1935–1938 they slumped to a price of 50 in late
1938 and early 1939 on news of fraudulent conduct by the management. Interest
payment was deferred in May 1939, but by April 1940 the bonds had recovered
to a price of 101.
Marion Steam Shovel 6s, due 1947, have exhibited the poorest record of the
list. However, the bonds gradually gained to a price level of par in 1936–1937
and sold as high as 87 in 1939.
Some holders of the National Acme 6s, due 1942, extended the maturity of
their bonds in 1936 to 1946 and consented to a reduction of the coupon rate to
41/2%. These bonds have consistently sold close to par since 1936. The unextended bonds were called at 102 1/2 in December 1936.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 778

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[778]

NOTE 44 (PAGE 362 OF TEXT)
Sequels to the three examples given in the text are indicated in the following table:
Electric Power
and Light

Bangor and
Aroostook

Chicago
Yellow Cab

1

91/2

6

Ratio of low to 1929 high

1.15%

9.51%

17.14%

High price after 1933

265/8 (1937)

491/2 (1936)

32 (1936)

Ratio of subsequent high to 1929 high

30.7%

54.7%

91.4%

1939 closing price

67/8

127/8

83/8

Item
Subsequent low price

Ratio of 1939 close to 1929 high price

7.9%

14.2%

23.9%

Average earnings per share, 1930–1939

$0.05(d)

$3.85

$1.21

Average dividends per share, 1930–1939

0.25

2.61

1.60

Earnings per share, 1939

0.39(d)

0.17

1.04

NOTE 45 (PAGE 374 OF TEXT)
SWIFT & COMPANY
In 1939 the stock of this company sold at an average price of about $21 per share.
Receiving $1.20 in dividends, its average yield was 5.70%. Net current assets
available for the stock, including interest in such assets of subsidiaries, were about
equal to the market price. Total tangible assets for the stock were just about double the market price.
The financial picture, in October 1939, may be summarized as follows:
Capitalization:
Bonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$36,000,000

Stock (5,920,000 sh. @ 21) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

124,000,000

Total selling price of company . . . . . . . . . . . .

$160,000,000

Net current assets1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

139,000,000

Net tangible assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

286,000,000

Sales, 1939 ﬁscal year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

757,000,000

Net for stock, 1939 ﬁscal year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

10,322,000

1 Excluding interest in non-consolidated subsidiaries.

Following is a condensed presentation of the company’s record since the
beginning of the century, as applied to the equivalent of the present $25 shares.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 779

Appendix

Year

Earned
Dividend
per share1 per share1

[779]

Total
stockholders’
investment
Net tangible
(including
asset value Market price
voluntary
per share1
per share1
reserves)

Fiscal years:

(millions)

1939

$1.74

$1.20

$41.40

21

$250

1900

2.19

1.67

22.45

(est) 21

22

1.36

1.20

40.60

201/4

244
233
120

Average of:
Decade 1930–1939
Decade 1920–1929

1.81

2.00

38.75

281/2

Decade 1910–1919

3.67

2.37

33.66

241/2

Decade 1900–1909

2.42

1.52

25.60

22

42

40 years, 1900–1939

2.32

1.78

34.65

233/4

160

1 All per-share ﬁgures prior to 1918 are adjusted for a 25% dividend paid in that year.

Discussion: This enterprise is the leading factor in one of the largest industries in the country. In fact, Swift & Co. has in some years reported a larger dollar volume of sales than any other American corporation. During the 42 years
1898–1939 it has paid a dividend in every year except 1937 and earned a net
profit in every year but three. Its stockholders’ equity has grown from
$15,000,000 in 1898 to $250,000,000 in 1939. Yet this company’s shares sold in
1939 (and on the average through 1930–1939) for less than half their tangible
investment, and for no more than their equity in net current assets alone, disregarding completely the manufacturing plants, the transportation equipment, the
trade names and good-will and other assets. What is wrong?
If we ask why Wall Street is not willing to pay so much for Swift & Co. as is
invested in the business, the answer is simple. Earnings on this invested capital
over the past decade have averaged less than 4%, and the trend of profits in the
past twenty years has been predominantly downward. But the real question is
why these unfavorable factors are sufficient to cut the value of Swift in half—
comparing market price with tangible assets—when all common stocks on the
New York Stock Exchange have been selling in the aggregate at 50% more than
book value (e.g., at the end of 1938). Collateral thereto is the question why the
price of Swift & Co. must be so low as to return an average yield of 6%, as against
only 4% returned in 1930–1939 by common stocks generally (cf. Moody’s Index
covering 200 leading issues).

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[780]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 780

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

The low price of Swift & Co.—in relation to the criteria of average earnings,
dividends and book value—is a spectacular illustration of the dominating influence of earnings-trend upon stock-market valuations. Clearly the market is going
farther here than merely registering a lack of enthusiasm for the company’s
prospects. Actually, it has been stating in explicit terms that it doubts the ability
of the company to earn as much in the future as even the reduced rate of the
1930–1939 decade, that it doubts the continuance of the $1.20 dividend rate, and
that it does not believe that the huge tangible investment is of any particular value
as an assurance of future earning power.
But we, in turn, must express doubt whether the market’s appraisal of Swift
actually represents any careful endeavor to weigh future probabilities or to balance the pros and cons in detail. The lack of an expanding demand for meat is a
drawback, certainly. But may it not be offset by such factors as (1) the underlying stability and permanence of the packing industry; (2) the tremendous prestige and financial strength of the Swift organization; (3) the consideration that
the meat industry has “taken its bath” of Government regulation and that its low
profit margin and small earnings on true investment may protect it from political dangers threatening more lucrative industries?
From this viewpoint the Swift example may be said to present a clean-cut test
of the validity of current investment attitudes. Our criticism is directed not so
much against Wall Street’s verdict—which the future may uphold or upset—as
against the foreshortening of its analysis. Suppose that Swift were selling at 7, as
it did in 1932 and 1933, the philosophy of Wall Street would still condemn its purchase as a commitment in a “declining industry.” But it cannot possibly be true
that all values disappear from a concern once it has ceased to expand. Hence at
some price a “bad” company like Swift must be a good investment just as at some
price a “good” company like Parke, Davis must be a bad investment. (A comparison of the two as of December 1939 should interest the student.) Hence, further,
the real business of Wall Street, as an appraiser and advisor on values, should be
to determine with care the relative weight of the growth factor in the total picture—instead of seeking merely a quick and easy classification of every company
on the Judgment-day basis of either eternally blessed or eternally damned.
On the other hand it should be pointed out that the ten-year market record of
Swift & Co. is a challenge to its management. It poses problems to be discussed
among the directors and with the stockholders. Certainly a management as capable
as that of Swift should not be satisfied unless it earns enough on the tangible investment alone to support a market value equal thereto. If conditions will not permit
this, on the average, then the underlying factors responsible for this disappointing

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 781

Appendix

[781]

result must be studied objectively, the possible remedies canvassed with thoroughness and the matter fully reported upon to the 59,000 owners of the business.

NOTE 46 (PAGE 383 OF TEXT)
The corporation statutes of most continental countries prescribe certain compulsory reserves, one of the functions of which is to facilitate maintenance of
regular dividends. These reserves are accumulated from annual profits but ordinarily do not reach large proportions. The power to declare dividends usually
resides in the stockholders assembled at the “general meeting” which is an annual
affair, although provision for interim dividends is also made.
In England the Companies Act does not limit the dividend-declaring function to the annual “general meeting” of the shareholders; but the recommended
form of by-laws (Table A of the statute) provides for this mode of declaration
and it is the general custom in framing articles of association to stipulate that
“the company in general meeting” or “the directors with the sanction of a general meeting,” may declare annual dividends. See First Schedule, Table A of the
Companies Act, 1929, 19 & 20 Geo. V., Chap. 23. A discussion of British dividend
law and policies is available in Palmer’s Company Law, 13th ed., pp. 222–223,
628, London, 1929.
The following statements summarize more detailed information concerning
dividend policies of certain foreign corporations, given on p. 669–670 of the 1934
edition of this work, as well as the subsequent record in each case:
1. Royal Dutch Co. for the Working of Petroleum Wells in the Netherlands
Indies, for the period 1920–1938, inclusive:
(a) Available for ordinary stock
Fl. 1,530,396,000
(b) Paid on ordinary stock
Fl. 1,497,293,000
(c) Percentage of earnings distributed in dividends
97.84
2. Siemens & Halske A. G., for the period 1925–1938, inclusive:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

Net profit
Dividends
Directors’ statutory bonus
Special reserves1
Balance

Rm. 150,893,000
124,419,000
3,458,000
25,550,000
2,534,000(d.)

1 Including 3,000,000 Rm. for welfare fund.

3. British-American Tobacco Co., Ltd., for fiscal years ending Sept. 30, 1921
to Sept. 30, 1938, inclusive:
(a) Net income available for ordinary stock

£91,934,000

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 782

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[782]

(b) Dividends on ordinary stock
(c) Percentage of earnings distributed

87,240,000
94.9

4. In the case of General Electric Co., Ltd., the American policy of retaining
a fair proportion of the earnings has apparently been followed. The greater part
of these surplus earnings, however, were carried to “Reserve Account.” The
following figures summarize the period 1925 through Mar. 31, 1939:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

Net income
Preferred dividends
Dividends on ordinary stock
Appropriation for reserves
Balance to surplus

£10,433,000
3,468,000
4,521,000
1,847,000
597,000

NOTE 47 (PAGE 416 OF TEXT)
The reader is referred to House Doc. No. 70, 76th Congress, 1st Session
(Washington, 1939), The Statistical Survey of Investment Trusts and Investment
Companies, especially to pp. 463–493, 833–937, for a more complete statement
concerning the results of the detailed examination by the S.E.C. staff of the performance of large management investment companies over the period
1927–1937. The method of analysis employed by the S.E.C. staff was, in general,
to compare fluctuations in net assets (without deduction of funded debt)4 of
investment companies with fluctuations in the Standard Statistics index of 90
common stocks, and with a combined security relative constructed to afford
greater comparability with investment trusts due to the fact that the latter do not
confine their commitments to common stocks entirely.
The following generalizations of the results of this study are quoted from pp.
904–906 of the House Document cited above:
“The analysis in this appendix indicates that large management investment
companies proper … typically performed like an index of common stocks with
but few companies bettering this performance. The only important tendency to
departure from the index would seem to have resulted from the investments
other than common stocks, and from the increase in the proportion of this type
of investment during years of declining stock prices and the decrease in these
investments during rising markets. There is no evidence that many companies
4 The effect of repurchases of the companies’ own securities at discounts below asset values was
eliminated. Adjustments were also made for distributions to shareholders by the investment companies and by the components of representative groups or averages with which the trusts’ performance
was compared.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 783

Appendix

[783]

were able consistently to perform better than the index year after year. The analysis indicates that the net result of the interplay of all performance determinants
was simply the performance of leading common stocks, as represented by an
index. Whether the performance of investment companies is simply the performance of listed common stocks selected at random cannot be answered by this
analysis. The typical performance of investment companies might well be better
than the performance of stocks obtained through strictly random selection,
although such a result would imply that the stocks represented in the index also
do better than stocks selected at random. …
“It can, then, be concluded with considerable assurance that the entire
group of management investment companies proper (as opposed to the sample here studied) failed to perform better than an index of leading common
stocks and probably performed somewhat worse than the index over the
1927–1935 period. …
“With respect to fixed and semifixed investment trusts … the typical performance over the 1930–1935 period was below the performance of the index,
although by a fairly small margin. Virtually all fixed and semifixed trusts invested
their assets in common stocks, and consequently their performance was worse
in years of declining stock prices and better in years of rising prices than investment companies proper. … All factors considered, it is doubtful that fixed trusts
performed much worse over the period 1930–1935 than the average management investment company proper.”
PERFORMANCE OF SIX LARGEST INVESTMENT COMPANIES 1934–1939 AND
1936–1939

Company

Atlas Corp.
Dividend Shares
Incorp. Investors
Lehman Corp.
Mass. Invest. Trust
State St. Investment
Standard Statistics 420
Stock Index
* Adjusted.

Asset value
per share Dec. 31
1933

1935

1939

$11.03
1.21
17.99
26.84
17.70
65.34

$15.25
1.56
20.86
37.10
24.03
92.30*

$12.80
1.28
16.34
32.72
20.98
71.81

71.0

96.8

94.3

Dividend paid

Over-all gain
in value, %

1934–
1939

1936–
1939

1934–
1939

1936–
1939

$2.90
0.54
9.93
9.72
6.39
39.30
(est.)
24.0

$2.60
0.39
6.66
8.00
4.91
36.00
(est.)
18.3

42.4
50.4
46.0
54.4
54.5
70.6

1.0
7.1
10.3
9.8
7.9
16.8

66.6

16.3

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 784

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[784]

The following table analyzes the performance of the six largest investment
companies (as of Dec. 31, 1939) for the 4- and 6-year periods ending on that
date. The over-all results are compared with the Standard Statistics 420-stock
index, which is the most comprehensive available. The dividend return on this
index is, somewhat arbitrarily, estimated as the same in percentage as that on the
Dow-Jones average of 30 industrial stocks.
The following brief tabulation compares the holdings of cash and government bonds by 12 investment companies on various dates in 1937–1939 with the
Dow-Jones industrial average on those dates. It will be observed that cash holdings move inversely with the average, suggesting that the companies tend to buy
in rising markets and sell in declining markets.

Date
Sept. 30, 1937
Mar. 31, 1938
Dec. 31, 1938
June 30, 1939
Sept. 30, 1939

Dow-Jones industrial
average
154.5
99.
154.8
130.6
152.5

Cash and U. S. Bonds held by
12 investment companies1
$35,057,000
82,796,000
27,093,000
35,858,000
23,775,000

1 The companies are: Adams Express, Blue Ridge, Equity Corp., General American, Incorporated Investors,
Lehman Corp., Niagara Share, Quarterly Income Shares, Selected Industries, Tri-Continental, U. S. & Foreign Securities, U. S. & International Securities.

NOTE 48 (PAGE 427 OF TEXT)
The difference between the standard and the “last-in, first-out” methods of computing cost of goods sold can be illustrated by the following simplified and hypothetical example:
A company starts with 10,000,000 pounds of copper, buys 10,000,000 pounds
each year for three years and sells 10,000,000 pounds a year at a 2 cent advance
above the market. The initial cost and market price is 10 cents; the average cost
and closing price is 15 cents the first year, 5 cents the second year and 10 cents
the third year.
Obviously the company ends up where it started in inventory and has made a
continuous profit of 2 cents per pound. Common sense would insist that the company has made (gross) $200,000 each year. But the standard accounting method
would show a profit of $700,000 the first year, a loss of $800,000 the second year
and a profit of $700,000 the third year. In the years prior to 1939, when no carryover of losses was permitted, the company would be subject to income tax on

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 785

Appendix

[785]

STANDARD METHOD
First year
Proceeds of goods sold

Second year

$1,700,000

Third year

$700,000

$1,200,000

Cost of goods sold:
Opening inventory

1,000,000

1,500,000

500,000

Purchases

1,500,000

500,000

1,000,000

2,500,000

2,000,000

1,500,000

Less closing inventory
(lower of cost or market)
Gross proﬁt

1,500,000

1,000,000

500,000 1,500,000 1,000,000

500,000

$700,000

Loss

$ 700,000

$800,000

LAST-IN, FIRST-OUT METHOD
Proceeds of goods sold

$1,700,000

$700,000

$1,200,000

1,500,000

500,000

1,000,000

$ 200,000

$200,000

$ 200,000

Cost of goods sold (same
as purchases during year)
Gross proﬁt

$1,400,000. Under the 1939 law, and using the standard method, taxable income
for the period would be $700,000 —the first year’s “profit”—and none thereafter.
However, by the last-in, first-out method, the profit would work out as $200,000
each year—the sensible figure—and income tax would be payable on this amount.
The calculations are as shown in the table above.

NOTE 49 (PAGE 428 OF TEXT)
ILLUSTRATION OF THE NORMAL-STOCK
METHOD OF INVENTORY
The working of various inventory-reserve methods is shown in the subjoined
figures covering the operations of Plymouth Cordage Co. in the ten years
1930–1939. Prior to 1932 a somewhat arbitrary policy was followed, under which
a substantial reserve appeared in 1929, which was absorbed the following year,
leaving no further reserve until 1933. For that year and the next a policy was
adopted of marking down the entire inventory to the 1932 low prices. In 1935
the reserve was kept intact although not entirely needed. Beginning with 1936
the company adopted the normal-stock method, applying a sufficient reserve
to reduce the minimum supply required for operation to the lowest price level
previously experienced.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 786

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[786]

PLYMOUTH CORDAGE COMPANY (000 OMITTED)
Inventory ﬁgures

Net earnings for year
After reserve adjustments

Date or year
ended
Sept. 30:

Before
reserve1

1929
$8,059
1930
6,008
1931
4,011
1932
3,150
1933
3,473
1934
5,144
1935
4,030
1936
5,191
1937
5,315
1938
4,849
1939
4,635
Average 10 years

After
company’s
reserve

After
normalstock
reserve2

$7,110
6,008
4,011
3,150
3,143
4,471
3,358
4,193
3,291
3,877
3,457

$4,297
4,367
3,292
3,102
3,238
4,722
3,503
4,193
3,291
3,877
3,457

Before
As required
reserve
As made
by normaladjustments by company stock method

$658(d)
25
233(d)
486
619
475
892
1,195
1,066(d)
336
$207

$288
25
233(d)
157
276
475
466
269
9(d)
130
$184

$1,463
943
444
294
432
370
320
269
9(d)
130
$466

1 At lower of cost or market.
2 1929–1935 ﬁgures supplied us by courtesy of Plymouth Cordage Co.

Our table indicates how the normal-stock method would have worked out if it
had been followed through the decade, as compared with the results actually
reported. The most significant fact is that the normal-stock technique would have
reduced the earnings fluctuations greatly and also have resulted in far higher aggregate earnings for the period. The reason for the latter point is that the results as published absorb a considerable shrinkage of the Sept. 30, 1929, inventory, in addition
to the reserve provided on that date. These figures suggest that Plymouth Cordage
would have made an excellent exhibit during the depression years 1930–1932 if the
normal-stock method had been in effect at that time. (Cf. our analysis on pp.
627–628, based on the published reports.) Note also the relatively small variation in
net inventory after normal-stock reserve, as compared with the unadjusted figures.

NOTE 50 (PAGE 430 OF TEXT)
Between Jan. 1, 1929, and Jan. 31, 1933, Interstate Department Stores, Inc.,
acquired 30,000 shares of its common stock at an average cost of $20.62 per
share. On the latter date it wrote this stock down to $5 per share on its books by

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 787

Appendix

[787]

a charge of $468,689 against earned surplus and reserved 20,000 of the shares to
compensate management in future years under agreements with respect thereto.
In the three fiscal years ended Jan. 31, 1937, it issued 12,432 of these shares to
management and charged the income accounts with the cost of these managerial services at the rate of $5 per share, although the stock had cost the company
considerably more and was selling in the market at prices substantially above $5
per share at the times of issuance.

Net income
reported1

Net income
on average
cost basis2

Net income
on market
value basis3

Net income
on cash compensation
basis4

1935

$468,350

$418,991

$442,675

$453,095

1936

446,650

402,445

423,718

432,080

1937

882,002

781,378

715,997

852,438

Fiscal year
ending
Jan. 31

1 After charging out the stock at $5 per share.
2 Charging income with the stock at its average original cost.
3 Charging income with the stock at its market value on the dates of distribution to management.
4 Charging income with the amount of cash compensation that the management had the option of taking in lieu of the stock.

The table above reveals the effect of these transactions on the income reported,
as disclosed in the prospectus of the company, dated May 13, 1937.

NOTE 51 (PAGE 435 OF TEXT)
Following is a condensed summary of the more important points of difference
that may arise between corporate income subject to income tax and the net earnings reported to the stockholders. These are based on the Revenue Act of 1939.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[788]

I.

Page 788

Items in reported income

Differences that will

Differences that will

increase the earnings

decrease the earnings

subject to income tax

subject to tax

Short-term capital loss for

account excluded from income
account for tax purposes

85% of domestic dividends

current year

received

Insurance paid on ofﬁcers’ lives

Interest received on government,

Mark-down of securities owned

state and municipal bonds

to market
II. Items generally shown in the

Proﬁt on sale of capital assets

surplus account, which are

Income received applicable to

included in the tax return

prior years

Long-term loss on sale of
capital assets
Certain development expenses to

Proﬁt on certain sales of
capital stock

be written off in future years
Premium and unamortized
discount on bonds retired
Loss on certain sales of
capital stock
Current year’s amortization of
bond discount previously
charged off in its entirety
against surplus

III. Items not appearing in the

(Certain) net losses carried over

reported income or surplus

from preceding or next

account for the current year

preceding year
(Certain) short-term capital
losses carried over from the
preceding year

IV. Other differences:
A. Depreciation and other amortization may be computed by different methods in the tax return and on the
published statement.
B. The amount of the tax may be reduced by reason of income and similar taxes paid outside the
United States.

NOTE 52 (PAGE 472 OF TEXT)
Following are three varying examples of the exclusion of part of the amortization allowance from the income account.
Example A: Pennsylvania-Dixie Cement Co. As of Jan. 1, 1937, this company
created a special reserve of $9,373,000 (by a charge to capital surplus) in order to
write down the value of its plant to a figure that eliminates a mark-up made at the

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 789

Appendix

[789]

time of the company’s formation in 1926. (The capital surplus had in turn been
created by arbitrarily writing down the capital liability of the $7-dividend no-par
preferred from $100 to $25.) In 1936 the amortization charge had been $1,367,661,
but in 1937 the company charged only $585,000 therefor against income and the
balance of $744,000 against the special reserve. The result of these entries was to
show fixed charges earned with a small margin in 1937 and 1938, whereas on the
old basis there would have been a deficit before interest deduction.
In this case the lower depreciation charge may seem justified, since it applies
to original cost of plant instead of to appreciated value. It would have been simpler
had the company merely written down the plant account and thereafter made a
single amortization charge on the lower basis. Retention of the higher plant figure
on the books, subject to the special reserve, may have been motivated by a desire
to justify the original heavy senior capitalization in bonds and preferred stock.
Example B: Symington-Gould Corp. In 1938 this company charged $168,000
against income for depreciation and an additional $165,000 against a “reserve
for reduction of plant values.” About the same was done in 1937. The original
reserve, set up at the beginning of 1937, was about $880,000, as against a gross
plant account of $7,500,000.
This arrangement differs from the Penn-Dixie Cement example because the
reserve is proportionately much smaller, being enough to cover extra amortization charges for about five years. By this device the net plant account was only
moderately reduced on the balance sheet, whereas on the other hand the depreciation charge against income was cut in half.
Example C: Climax Molybdenum Co. For 1938 this mining enterprise
charged only $20,000 for depletion against earnings (this being based on the cost
of the mine) and the large sum of $2,341,000 for depletion against “discovered
increment” on the balance sheet.
Obviously, the income-account charge for depletion is meaningless for the
investor. The charge against “discovered increment” is useful as an indication of
remaining life of the mine—about 29 years in 1938, subject to new developments.
Note that the company’s charge is calculated against an appraised value of about
72 millions for the mine, whereas the average price of about 47 for the stock in
1939 is equivalent to a valuation of about 111 millions for the mine. Hence the
analyst’s charge for depletion based on market values would be higher than that
made by the company against surplus.
It may be contended that in dealing with a 30-year life, allowance should be
made for compound interest, thus reducing substantially the annual depletion

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[790]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 790

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

provision. In view of the many uncertainties involved in a mining venture, it
would seem sensible to follow the simpler “straight-line” method, thus setting
up a certain margin of safety against future eventualities.

NOTE 53 (PAGE 519 OF TEXT)
In the 1934 edition of this work (page 434) we suggested at this point that in the
case of Company A the analyst “would consider the reasonable value in terms of
the $4 per-share average earnings multiplied by a coefficient which may be as
high as 16. This would result in a value of about 65.” Our present treatment marks
a significant departure from the earlier view in two respects: (1) by advancing
the multiplier from 16 to 20 and (2) by accepting in this case the most recent
year’s earnings in lieu of the average, as the measure of indicated earning power.
The advance in the multiplier follows naturally, we believe, from the persistence of much lower bond-interest rates than had been the rule prior to 1934. (The
average yield on Standard Statistics A1 bonds early in 1940 was 2.78% compared with 4.67% in 1933 and 4.78% in 1929. See Appendix Note 57, page 794,
for further discussion regarding the suggested new maximum multiplier of 20.)
In permitting the use at times of the most recent year’s earnings, rather than
the average, we have definitely shifted our viewpoint in a more liberal direction.
The reason is that on further reflection it appears to us that the current (or last)
year’s earnings are more relevant to the future, and therefore a more realistic
measure of earning power, in cases where (1) they are not aided by unusually
good general business conditions, (2) there has been a pronounced upward trend
and (3) long-term prospects appear favorable.

NOTE 54 (PAGE 522 OF TEXT)
At this point (page 437) in the 1934 edition we supplied the following illustration:
“Example: Let us take the situation presented by Mack Trucks, Inc., in 1933
when the shares were selling at an extremely low price in relation both to their
asset values and to their average earnings. At the time the annual report was
released early in March 1933 the common stock was selling at $15 per share. The
report exhibited net cash assets available for the common stock of $12 per share
and net current assets of $40 per share. The earnings exhibit is shown in the table
at the top of page 791.
“It will be observed from the above that the stock was selling in March 1933
at slightly in excess of one-third of the net current assets per share and at little
more than twice the average earnings per share.
“This company was the largest unit in an important industry, so that there
was every reason to expect that it would again be able to earn a reasonable profit

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 791

Appendix

[791]

on its invested capital. But the low price of Mack Trucks presented another
anomaly. The decline in the investment status of the railroads had been due
largely to the growth of motor-truck competition and to the pervading fear that
such competition would continue to attract traffic from the railways. On this
premise the long-term outlook for heavy truck manufacturers should have
seemed unusually good. Hence to the analyst the exceedingly subnormal price
of Mack Truck shares had an especially illogical appearance.”
Year

Available for common

Per share

Dividends paid

1932

$1,480,000(d)

$2.19(d)

$1.00

1931

2,150,000(d)*

2.90(d)*

2.25

1930

2,008,000

2.67

5.50

1929

6,841,000

9.05

6.00

1928

5,915,000

7.83

6.00

1927

4,707,000

6.60

6.00

1926

7,716,000

10.81

6.00

1925

8,331,000

13.64

6.00 and 50% in stock

1924

5,083,000

11.97†

6.00

1923

5,866,000

13.81†

5.00

Average

4,284,000

7.13

* Before extraordinary write-down of tools, etc., to $1.
† Adjusted for 50% stock dividend paid Dec. 31, 1925.

Sequel and Discussion: The subsequent developments in the Mack Truck situation may be summarized in the following table:

Year

Earned per share

Dividend paid

Price range

1933

1.42(d)

1.00

463/8–131/2

1934

0.03

1.00

413/4–22

1935

0.66(d)

1.00

303/4–185/8

1936

2.41

1.50

491/4–273/8

1937

2.15

1.25

621/4–173/8

1938

1.56(d)

0.25

321/2–16

1939

1.14

0.50

333/4–18

The expectation of a return of adequate earnings on invested capital has
clearly failed of realization. The reasons appear to be related, first, to a lack of

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 792

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[792]

sustained activity in capital goods industries generally, among which heavy-duty
truck production is to be included; and, second, to a falling off in the position
of Mack in its own field.
In view of the low level of stock prices prevailing in early 1933, it is not surprising, however, that a purchase of Mack Truck at 15 would have proved quite
profitable. We believe that a twofold moral may be drawn from this example: (1)
The analyst’s views as to a company’s future may prove erroneous, either because
of poor judgment or for other reasons. (2) It is part of the analyst’s approach to
guard as far as possible against the unexpected by requiring an ample current
margin of safety above the price paid for a common stock.

NOTE 55 (PAGE 526 AND 664 OF TEXT)
SUBSEQUENT PERFORMANCE OF BREWERY STOCKS
FLOATED IN 1933–1934
A study was made of all the brewery-stock flotations in 1933–1934 for which it
was possible to obtain offering prices and values as of the close of 1938. Most of
the initial offering data were taken from the Commercial and Financial Chronicle. Following is a summary of the results covering 72 companies. The aggregate
dollar values are derived from the number of shares offered in each instance and
not from the total capitalization outstanding.
Total value of shares offered1
Number
companies

At offering
price

At Dec. 31,
1938, price

Issues selling higher

9

$ 6,211

$12,555

Issues selling lower

62

30,533

5,918

Dec. 31, 1938 price vs. offering price

Issues selling at same price

1

346

346

72

$37,090

$18,819

1 000 omitted.

NOTE 56 (PAGE 534 OF TEXT)
A series of discrepancies in the relative prices of securities of the Interborough
Rapid Transit Co. (New York) securities, described herewith, will exemplify the
opportunities for analytical work of definite character which are recurrently presented in the securities markets.
1. In November 1919 the 41/2% bonds and the preferred stock of Interborough Consolidated Corp. both sold at 13. The bonds (called Interborough-

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 793

Appendix

[793]

Metropolitan 41/2s) were in default, and the company was in receivership. The
bondholders were entitled to claim all the assets, which had substantial value;
the stockholders were without equity of any sort. In the subsequent reorganization the preferred and common shares were extinguished completely, while the
41/2% bondholders received new securities eventually worth considerably more
than 13% of the face amount of the bonds.
2. In January 1920, Interborough Rapid Transit Co. 7% notes, due September
1921, sold at 641/2, while the same company’s First and Refunding 5s, due 1966,
sold at 531/4. Each 7% note was secured by deposit of about $1,562 of 5% bonds
and was convertible into about $1,144 of 5% bonds. At the relative prices the notes
were far more desirable than the bonds because: (a) the notes enjoyed better security; (b) they yielded a larger return; and (c) their conversion privilege permitted
the owner to benefit from any advance in the price of the 5% bonds.
The notes were extended for one year at 8%; and in 1922 the holders were
offered $100 in cash and $900 in 7% secured, convertible notes, due 1932. Those
not accepting either offer were able to compel payment in full. An exchange from
5s into 7s at the prices above indicated would have shown a substantial profit at
various times in 1921 and 1922.
3. In the early part of 1929, Interborough Rapid Transit Company capital
stock repeatedly sold at a higher price than Manhattan Ry. Co. “Modified Guaranty” stock (e.g., 551/2 for I.R.T. vs. 54 for Manhattan Mod. Gty. in March 1929).
This price relationship was illogical because:
a. “Manhattan Modified” was entitled to cumulative annual dividends of 5%,
and to payment of 61/4% accumulated, before Interborough stock received
anything.
b. “Manhattan Modified” was further entitled to receive a total of 7% in the
event that Interborough received 6%.
c. Interborough could not receive more than 7% prior to 1950.
d. Dividends of 5% were actually being paid on Manhattan, while Interborough was not receiving anything.
It should have been manifest that the Manhattan shareholders were certain
to receive at least as high a dividend as the Interborough shareholders for
the next 21 years. By August 1929, the price disparity was corrected, for the
“Manhattan Modified” stock sold 16 points higher than Interborough (391/4
against 23).
4. In October 1933, I.R.T. 5% bonds and 7% notes both sold at 65. This disparity was discussed in detail in Chap. 1 and referred to again in Chap. 51.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[794]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 794

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

5. In December 1932, Manhattan Ry. “Unmodified” shares sold at 18 while
the “Modified” shares sold at 65/8. The stock was originally entitled to dividends
of 7%, guaranteed unconditionally by Interborough. The modified shares were
subject to an agreement under which payment of dividends was contingent on
earnings. However, the Plan of Modification (adopted in 1922) provided that in
the event of defaults by the Interborough in the payment of taxes and bond interest under the Manhattan lease the original terms of the guaranty would be
restored with respect to the modified shares. The Interborough was in receivership, and default under the Manhattan lease was highly probable (and soon
actual). Hence the price relationship between the two classes of Manhattan stock
appeared unjustified in the light of the facts.
Under the Plan of Purchase by the city of New York, to be consummated in
1940, the unmodified shares were given $35 and the modified shares $19, respectively, in city bonds. As in the case of the I.R.T. 7s and 5s, it seems that legal rights
were sacrificed somewhat to expediency.

NOTE 57 (PAGE 538 OF TEXT)
In our 1934 edition we suggested that sixteen times average earnings should represent the maximum investment valuation of a common stock. The multiplier of
20, now suggested, reflects of course the much lower interest rates on long-term
borrowings. It may be objected that a drop in coupon rates from 41/2% to 23/4%
would justify a proportionate increase in the common-stock multiplier from sixteen to about twenty-five times.
We should like, however, to call attention to two particular dangers in raising price-earnings ratios pari passu with a decline in interest rates. The first is
that as the multiplier increases the greater becomes the number of years in the
future to which the investor must look before his purchase is completely vindicated. A buyer at ten-times earnings might reasonably envisage getting his money
back out of profits within not too long a period, after which he might consider
himself “operating on velvet.” This is a familiar approach to an ordinary business
venture, and it has a useful place in stock investment. But as the multiplier
advances, or the ratio of profits to price declines, this period lengthens out to a
span beyond both the investor’s patience to wait and his ability to foretell the
future. Thus he becomes basically dependent on the stock market to “keep him
whole” or else on increases in earnings to accelerate the paying-out process.
The second objection is based on the possible relationship between interest
rates and future earnings on invested capital. There is more than a fair chance that
if interest rates are to be permanently much lower than heretofore, the rate of

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 795

Appendix

[795]

profit on investment will eventually fall as well. A very liberal multiplier applied
to past earnings may thus prove to be unwise, because these earnings have not yet
reflected the full consequences of the fall in the long-term interest rate.

NOTE 58 (PAGE 541 OF TEXT)
We append herewith the tables used in our 1934 edition to illustrate various types
of common-stock purchases.
GROUP A: COMMON STOCKS SPECULATIVE IN JULY 1933 BECAUSE OF THEIR HIGH
PRICE (FIGURES ADJUSTED TO REFLECT CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION)
Item

National Biscuit

Air Reduction

Commercial Solvents

1932

$2.44

$2.73

$0.51

1931

2.86

4.54

0.84

1930

3.41

6.32

1.07

1929

3.28

7.75

1.45

1928

2.92

4.61

1.22

1927

2.84

3.58

0.84

1926

2.53

3.63

0.69

1925

2.32

3.33

0.37

1924

2.18

2.81

0.45

1923

2.02

4.14

0.02(d)

$2.68

$4.34

$0.74

Amount earned per
share of common:

10-yr. average
Pfd. stock

(248,000 sh. @ 140)

Common stock

(6,289,000 sh. @ 53)

(841,000 sh. @ 90)

(2,495,000 sh. @ 30)

333,000,000

$76,000,000

$75,000,000

$368,000,000

$76,000,000

$75,000,000

$129,000,000

$29,200,000

$ 8,700,000*

36,000,000

9,800,000

6,000,000

5.1%

4.8%

2.5%

6.4%

8.6%

4.8%

$35,000,000

Total capitalization
Net tangible assets,
12/31/32
Net current assets,
12/31/32
Average earnings on
common-stock price
Maximum earnings on
common-stock price

* To this should be added an allowance for the plant and equipment written down on the books to $1. In 1929 these ﬁxed
assets were valued at about $3,000,000, net.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 796

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[796]

GROUP B: COMMON STOCKS SPECULATIVE IN JULY 1933 BECAUSE OF THEIR
IRREGULAR RECORD
B. F, Goodrich
(Rubber)

Gulf States
Steel

Standard Oil of
Kansas

1932

$6.75(d)

$3.94(d)

$0.23†

1931

8.01(d)

5.89(d)

1.95(d)

1930

8.55(d)

4.84(d)

1.19

1929

4.53

5.93

4.73

1928

1.50

6.28

0.91

1927

17.11

4.93

2.59(d)

1926

4.15(d)

5.28

0.51

1925

23.99

7.17

1.54

1924

11.10

7.48

1.50(d)

1923

0.88(d)

12.79

0.88(d)
$0.22

Item
Earned per share of
common*:

10-yr. average
Bonds (at par)
Pfd. stock
Common stock

Total capitalization

$2.99

$3.52

$43,000,000

$5,200,000

(294,000 sh. @ 38)

(20,000 sh. @ 50)

11,200,000

1,000,000

(1,156,000 sh. @ 15)

(198,000 sh. @ 28)

(269,000 sh. @ 20)

17,300,000

5,600,000

$5,380,000

$71,500,000

$11,800,000

$5,380,000

105,300,000

27,000,000

5,290,000

43,700,000

2,230,000

3,980,000

19.9%

12.6%

1.1%

160%

45.7%

23.7%

Net tangible assets
12/31/32
Net current assets
12/31/32
Average earnings on
common-stock price
Maximum earnings on
common-stock price

* Adjusted in column 1 to reﬂect actual changes in inventory values.
† 9 months ended Dec. 31, 1932.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 797

Appendix

[797]

GROUP C: COMMON STOCKS MEETING INVESTMENT TESTS IN JULY 1933 FROM THE
QUANTITATIVE STANDPOINT*
Item

S. H. Kress

Island Creek Coal

Nash Motors

1932

$2.80

$1.30

$0.39

1931

4.19

2.28

1.78

1930

4.49

3.74

2.78

1929

5.92

5.05

6.60

1928

5.76

4.46

7.63

1927

5.26

5.64

8.30

1926

4.65

4.42

8.50

1925

4.12

3.22

5.57

1924

3.06

3.58

3.00

1923

3.39

4.08

2.96
$4.75

Earned per share
of common:

$4.36

$3.78

Preferred stock

10-yr. average

(372,000 sh. @ 10)

(27,000 sh. @ 90)

$3,700,000

$2,400,000

Common stock

(1,162,000 sh. @ 33)

(594,000 sh. @ 24)

(2,646,000 sh. @ 19)

38,300,000

14,300,000

$50,300,000

$42,000,000

$16,700,000

$50,300,000

58,300,000

18,900,000

41,000,000

15,200,000

7,500,000

33,000,000

13.2%

15.8%

25.0%

17.9%

23.5%

44.7%

Total capitalization
Net tangible assets,
12/31/32
Net current assets,
12/31/32
Average earnings on
common-stock
price
Maximum earnings
on common-stock
price

* Island Creek Coal and Nash Motors ﬁgures adjusted for stock dividends.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

[798]

Page 798

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Sequel. The following summarizes the experience of a purchaser of each of
the aforementioned groups, measured to the end of 1939 and assuming an equal
dollar commitment in each of the common stocks listed.
Result per $100 commitment
Price
Dec. 31,
1939

Total
dividend
paid per
share

Value
Dividends Dec. 31, Over-all
received
1939
change

National Biscuit

22 5/8

$10.80

$20.6

$42.9

 36.5%

Air Reduction

170 1/4*

35.50

39.2

189.0

 128.2

Com. Solvents

14

2.85

9.5

46.6

 43.9

$23.1

$92.8

 15.9%

Group A:

Average annual dividend return

3.85%

Group B:
Goodrich

191/2

Gulf States Steel

55†

Standard Oil of Kansas

48

2.00
10.00

Average per $100
Average annual dividend return

$131.0

 44.3%

196.4

 96.4

50.0

240.0

 190.0

$21.1

$189.1

 110.1%

$57.8

$173.5

 131.3%

$13.3

3.52%

Group C:
Kress

57 1/4*‡

19.10

Island Creek Coal

251/4*

12.50

52.1

105.2

 57.3

Nash Motors

6 5/8

3.88

20.5

34.9

 244.6

$43.5

$101.2

 44.7%

Average per $100
Average annual dividend return

7.25%

* Allowing for 3-for-1 split-up.
† Allowing for exchange into Republic Iron and Steel common.
‡ Allowing for 2-for-1 split-up.

The performance, as summarized above, suggests the following brief
observations:
1. The best over-all result was shown by Group B, an obviously speculative
selection. This must be considered an accidental outcome; another trio of such
stocks might have behaved entirely differently during this period.
2. By far the best dividend return was realized on Group C. This is likely to
be true generally for this type of issue as against the others.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 799

Appendix

[799]

3. The market-price changes in Groups A and C cannot be considered as
indicating any inherent qualities of these types, in view of the small sample taken.
The importance of qualitative factors in selecting Group C issues is brought
home by the poor performance of Nash Motors. This point is (and was) emphasized in our text by the sentence “But the actual purchase of any such issues (in
Group C) must require also that the purchaser be satisfied in his own mind that
the prospects of the enterprise are at least reasonably favorable.”

NOTE 59 (PAGE 554 OF TEXT)
For the operation of leverage in reverse fashion see the following with respect to
American Water Works & Electric Co.:
AMERICAN WATER WORKS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY1

Item
Gross revenues
Net for charges
Fixed charges and preferred dividends
Balance for common stock
Number of shares of common
Earned per share of common
High price for common
Minimum earnings per share of
common since 1929
Minimum price of common since 1929

1929

1938

Ratio of 1938
ﬁgures to
those for
1929, %

$54,119
22,776
16,154
6,622
1,657
$
4.00
199

$50,004
17,593
16,698
895
2,343
$ 0.38
16 1/8

92.40
77.20
103.37
13.52
141.41
9.50
8.10
$0.38 (1938)
6 (1938)

1 Figures in thousands, except those per share.

THE UNITED LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY1
Item
Gross revenues
Net for charges
Fixed charges
Surtax
Balance for preferred stock
Earned per share of preferred
1 Figures in thousands, except those per share.

1934

1937

$73,867
19,905
18,918

$89,531
23,404
17,932
289
5,183
$
8.64

$

987
1.64

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[800]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 800

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

For a speculative opportunity similar to that of American Water Works as
presented in the text, see the following:
In 1935 the $6 Cumulative Preferred stock of United Light & Power Co. sold
1
at 3 /2 per share, or a total valuation for the issue of $2,100,000, junior to funded
debt of the system and preferred stocks of subsidiaries totaling $329,422,455.
The magnitude of this heavily pyramided structure as measured by gross revenues and senior capitalization made it apparent that even a slight improvement
in net for charges would greatly enhance the earnings of the parent company
preferred stock. By 1937 the price of this issue had risen to 757/8 from the low of
31/2 in 1935. The high price for the preferred issue as early as 1936 was 68.

NOTE 60 (PAGE 563 OF TEXT)
The sequel to this example (presented as above in our 1934 edition) may be of
interest.
The rise in the price of gold advanced the sales of Wright-Hargreaves to
between 7 and 8 millions and increased the earnings before depletion to about
72 cents per share in each of the years 1934–1938. The stock rose to a high of
10.30 in 1934 and sold at 61/8 at the end of 1939.
Recovery from depression increased the sales of Barker Bros. to $14,314,000
in 1937. In 1936 net earnings reached $666,000, equal to $23.67 per share of preferred and $3.36 per share of common. After regular preferred dividends
adjusted to reflect the recapitalization of 1936 which disposed of accumulated
preferred dividends, these earnings were equivalent to $2.67 per share of common. The price of the preferred advanced to 131 in 1936 and to the equivalent
of 140 in 1937, and the common reached a high of 32 in 1937. At the end of 1939
the common sold at 81/8; the preferred at the equivalent of 80. Note that the preferred proved a much better speculation than the common—a characteristic
feature of low-priced senior issues in relation to their common stocks.

NOTE 61 (PAGES 567, 589, AND 618 OF TEXT)
PRICES, EARNINGS, AND ASSET VALUES OF INDUSTRIAL
COMMON STOCKS
A COMPREHENSIVE STUDY OF THE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LIST IN 1938
At the close of 1938 all the common stocks listed on the New York Stock
Exchange were selling for about 41 billion dollars. This value was just midway
between the high point of 55 billions in March 1937 and the low point of 27
billions recorded a year later. There has been apparently little disposition in

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 801

Appendix

[801]

Wall Street to regard the 1938 year-end price level as either too low or too high
in relation to intrinsic worth, and in fact the values a year later were very nearly
the same. Hence the common-stock market in December 1938 would seem to
lend itself quite well to a study of postdepression standards of value, or—in any
event—of the relationships existing at some not abnormal time between the
prices of various groups of common stocks and their earnings and asset
values. A survey of this kind, covering virtually all the industrial stocks listed
on the New York Stock Exchange, was made in early 1939 by students of
the Columbia University School of Business under the direction of the authors.
The results of their work are summarized and subjected to brief analysis in
this Note.5
The study dealt with 648 common stocks out of a total of 823 listed on the
Exchange on Dec. 31, 1938. Besides 71 railroad and 46 utility issues, there were
excluded the shares of 27 financial companies and 16 foreign companies as well
as 15 dormant or otherwise unsuitable enterprises. The industrial shares covered
by our analysis had an aggregate value of 32.4 billions at the close of 1938—or
nearly 80% of the value of all the listed common stocks. (It is interesting to note
that the value of all the railroad common shares, including holding companies,
was less than 6% of the 41.3 billion total.)

5 Cf. the interesting series of comparative analyses of industrial groups issued by the S.E.C. in

1938–1940, entitled Survey of American Listed Corporations. These are based on income account and
balance sheet items only and give no data relating to market values.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 802

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[802]

TABLE I.—TOTAL FIGURES IN MILLIONS COVERING 648 INDUSTRIAL COMPANIES
COMPARED WITH 30 LARGE COMPANIES IN DOW-JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE1

Item
Dec. 31, 1938:
Market value of common stock
Tangible assets for common
Net current assets for common
Bonds (at par) and preferred stock (at market)
Total capitalization
Year 1938:
Sales
Depreciation
Net before bond interest
Interest and preferred dividends
Balance for common
Common dividends paid
Balance for common-average 1936–1938
average 1934–1938
Market value of common at:
1937–1938 high
1937–1938 low
Total capitalization at:
1937–1938 high
1937–1938 low
Dec. 31, 1938:
Cash assets
Receivables
Inventories
Other current assets
Total current assets
Total current liabilities
Net current assets
Fixed and other assets
Ratios:
Dec. 31, 1938 market price of common to:
Tangible assets for common
Earnings for common 1938
Earnings for common 1936–1938 av
Earnings for common 1934–1938 av
Current assets to current liabilties
Depreciation to sales

648 companies

30 companies in
Dow-Jones
ind. average

$32,412
21,980
2,606
8,029
40,441

$14,771
7,922
811
2,727
17,498

27,460
1,198
1,595
442
1,153
1,109
1,953
1,642

7,896
433
652
116
536
435
850
722

48,216
19,898

20,364
9,299

56,774
26,862

23,065
11,552

4,359
3,195
6,073
13
13,640
2,694
10,946
about 20,000

1,528
785
2,165

147%
28.1 times
16.6 times
19.8 times
5.0 times
4.3%

4,478
926
3,552
8,236

186%
27.5 times
17.4 times
20.4 times
4.8 times
5.5%

1 The authors estimate that the aggregate market price of the 648 common stocks at the end of 1939 was about 3% lower than

at the end of 1938, or about $311/2 billions; and that earnings available for the common were about 1,830 millions. It thus
appears that industrial common stocks at the end of 1939 were selling in the aggregate at about 17.2 times their 1939 earnings and about 18.8 times their 1934–1939 average earnings.

Auto mfrs.
Truck mfrs.
Auto accessory mfg.
Steel
Iron
Heavy chemicals
Vegetable oils
Soap
Misc. chemicals
Fertilizer mfrs.
Glass mfrs.
Drug and cosmetic mfrs.
Heavy elect. equip. mfrs.
Light elec. equip. mfrs. (incl. household equip.)
Oil
Meats and ﬁsh

(1)
11
8
39
27
8
11
3
3
19
5
5
13
4
10
38
8

(2)
2,657.5
99.6
601.9
1,683.1
110.0
3,557.7
29.9
393.9
760.5
27.2
388.9
494.7
1,685.5
94.4
4,766.6
170.9

(3)
2,897.1
114.9
656.0
3,173.2
137.9
3,864.1
35.3
450.7
825.3
45.0
414.5
544.8
1,722.1
122.2
6,091.7
448.5

(4)
1,087.3
106.5
352.2
2,269.9
138.4
1,032.6
45.6
137.1
370.3
43.4
136.1
114.3
607.6
50.3
5,395.8
379.8

(5)
40.9
107.0
58.6
136.0
125.8
29.1
152.5
35.0
48.9
160.0
35.0
23.2
35.9
53.3
113.0
222.0

(6)
174.6
2.9
38.6
32.1
0.7
131.6
3.2
17.4
39.9
0.9
18.9
30.0
52.6
4.3
297.8
12.3

(7)

1934–
1938

208.8
3.6
41.4
54.5
2.4
144.3
2.7
16.4
42.6
1.0
20.3
31.5
66.2
5.0
389.9
5.1

(8)

1936–
1938

87.2
3.7(d)
2.8(d)
52.4(d)
0.9
94.5
0.8
16.9
30.5
0.2
12.3
29.5
40.0
1.9
271.2
17.3(d)

(9)

1938

6.6
2.9
6.3
1.9
0.6
3.7
10.5
4.4
5.3
3.3
4.8
6.1
3.1
4.5
6.2
7.2

7.9
3.6
6.9
3.2
2.2
4.1
9.0
4.2
5.6
3.7
5.2
6.4
3.9
5.3
8.2
3.0

3.3
(d)
(d)
(d)
0.8
2.7
2.6
4.3
4.0
0.6
3.2
6.0
2.4
2.0
5.7
(d)

(10) (11) (12)

16.1
2.7
10.9
1.4
0.5
12.7
7.1
12.7
10.8
2.1
13.8
26.2
8.7
8.5
5.5
3.2

(13)

[803]

(Continues)

14.1
1.5
10.2
2.9
2.5
10.4
6.8
11.9
9.9
3.2
12.2
19.6
8.7
7.4
5.1
4.4

(14)

8:07 PM

Industrial group

Ratio of
columns
5 to 3, %

%
earned
%
on
earned
tangible
on
assets
tangible
for
assets for
stocks
1934– 1936–
common and bonds
1938 1938 1938 1934–1938 1934–1938

% earned on 1938
price of common

7/1/08

Number Common
Total
Tangible
of com- stock at
capitali- assets for
panies in market
zation
common
group (millions) (millions) (millions)

Earnings for
common (millions)

TABLE II.—SUBTOTALS BY INDUSTRIAL GROUPS

53_Graham_Dodd_App
Page 803

Milk and milk products
Flour, cereals, bread
Sugar
Mineral waters and soft drinks
Groceries, canned goods, misc. foods
Fruits
Confections
Breweries and distillers
Hosiery
Other silk, rayon, etc. mfg.
Cotton mfrs.
Wool, worsted, carpets, rugs
Garment mfrs.
Misc. businesses
Railroad equip.
Farm machinery
Household products and supplies
Can mfg.

4
11
11
3
12
1
6
8
6
8
2
5
6
9
15
6
8
2

(2)
168.2
306.1
111.9
539.9
611.9
189.7
270.5
165.0
16.4
78.1
38.0
41.2
26.7
54.6
509.5
437.6
127.6
370.5

(3)
252.1
459.2
204.9
577.6
751.2
189.7
297.9
261.2
24.3
156.5
38.0
63.3
34.9
96.6
616.9
635.7
150.5
465.0

(4)
211.8
194.9
208.2
48.5
285.9
170.9
56.6
160.0
22.6
66.4
69.6
45.2
27.6
63.3
539.2
374.8
73.2
178.0

(5)
125.7
63.5
186.5
9.0
46.7
90.0
20.9
95.2
137.7
85.0
182.6
109.8
103.2
115.7
106.0
85.7
57.4
47.4

(6)
17.0
19.4
12.9
19.1
43.2
11.7
13.9
26.7
1.4
5.8
2.0
1.6(d)
1.3
1.7
8.4
29.3
8.7
23.4

(7)

1934–
1938

19.8
21.1
13.4
22.6
41.3
12.1
13.5
26.6
1.6
5.7
1.7
1.3(d)
1.4
3.0
17.0
43.1
11.2
21.4

(8)

1936–
1938

19.3
21.3
4.2
24.6
28.9
10.3
14.4
24.2
1.2
2.5
0.3(d)
9.7(d)
0.1
0.8
4.6(d)
24.6
4.6
17.0

(9)

1938

10.1 11.7
6.3 6.6
11.5 11.9
3.6 4.2
7.0 6.7
6.2 6.4
5.1 5.0
16.2 16.2
8.6 9.9
7.4 7.3
5.2 4.4
(d) (d)
4.8 5.3
3.0 5.5
1.7 3.3
6.7 9.8
6.8 8.8
6.2 5.7

11.5
6.9
3.7
4.6
4.7
5.4
5.3
14.7
7.2
3.2
(d)
(d)
0.3
1.5
(d)
5.6
3.6
4.6

(10) (11) (12)

8.0
9.8
6.2
39.4
15.1
6.9
24.6
16.7
6.2
8.6
2.8
(d)
4.7
2.6
1.6
7.8
11.9
13.1

(13)

7.4
8.6
6.5
39.8
11.4
6.9
18.2
13.6
6.6
6.6
2.9
1.5
5.2
4.2
22.4
6.7
11.3
9.8

(14)

8:07 PM

(1)

Industrial group

Ratio of
columns
5 to 3, %

%
earned
%
on
earned
tangible
on
assets
tangible
for
assets for
stocks
1934– 1936–
common and bonds
1938 1938 1938 1934–1938 1934–1938

% earned on 1938
price of common

7/1/08

Number Common
Total
Tangible
of com- stock at
capitali- assets for
panies in market
zation
common
group (millions) (millions) (millions)

Earnings for
common (millions)

TABLE II.—SUBTOTALS BY INDUSTRIAL GROUPS (CONTINUED)

53_Graham_Dodd_App
Page 804

[804]

37
19
3
10
14
15
6
15
16
7
7
10
6
2
7
24
4
6
13
9
5
7
8
5
7
3
3
5
4
21
4
6
5

444.9
444.0
99.8
268.8
24.9
1,578.0
270.1
1,298.0
185.2
42.6
113.7
791.1
29.4
30.7
236.4
291.2
704.0
71.1
523.8
389.5
5.9
36.8
261.0
1,300.7
27.7
117.5
18.2
29.9
91.1
889.5
38.5
157.8
11.2

571.5
485.3
169.1
517.6
160.7
1,721.2
270.1
1,431.0
454.2
97.8
145.2
861.9
40.4
40.9
245.0
559.3
755.9
165.8
559.1
448.8
41.1
69.9
663.7
1,507.3
44.1
132.5
28.2
58.6
108.2
1,020.3
53.5
171.7
19.8

215.2
231.0
19.2(d)
240.6
139.9
1,551.3
88.6
532.7
210.9
89.8
158.9
476.9
39.8
19.7
110.0
336.6
437.5
88.2
160.0
173.9
41.7
64.2
195.4
438.2
29.7
45.5
13.3
43.4
95.4
501.6
17.9
133.2
11.8

48.3
52.0
0
89.4
560.0
98.3
32.8
40.9
113.8
210.5
139.5
60.2
135.0
64.1
46.5
115.6
62.2
124.0
30.6
44.7
697.0
175.0
74.9
33.7
107.1
38.8
73.0
145.0
105.0
56.3
46.6
84.5
105.3

21.3
29.0
11.3
20.4
27.1
14.5
3.5
5.9
5.0
25.2
29.7
20.5
9.5(d) 12.8(d) 16.9(d)
81.9
108.3
73.7
18.7
18.6
18.2
55.2
68.4
53.3
9.7
17.2
9.3
0.9
0.9
2.5(d)
10.7
9.5
9.0
57.7
59.8
51.2
1.5
1.4
0.2
3.2
3.2
2.4
20.0
20.5
16.9
14.9
21.2
12.1
42.8
49.3
43.0
6.5
8.4
2.7
4.9
9.6
16.1
26.4
22.8
19.3
1.0(d)
1.4(d)
1.6(d)
0.9(d)
0.2(d)
0.2(d)
8.7
14.0
5.8
71.8
76.3
74.7
0.2
0.6
1.5
6.5
6.4
6.0
1.4
1.6
1.5
1.0(d)
1.0(d)
1.4(d)
2.0
4.0
3.0
26.1
34.1
8.7
0.6(d)
0.1(d) (d)
11.7
10.4
6.7
0.8(d)
0.8(d)
4.2(d)

4.8
4.6
3.5
9.4
(d)
5.2
6.9
4.3
5.2
2.2
9.4
7.3
5.2
10.4
8.5
5.1
6.1
9.1
0.9
6.8
(d)
(d)
3.3
5.5
0.6
5.6
7.8
(d)
2.2
2.9
(d)
7.4
(d)

6.5
6.1
5.9
11.1
(d)
6.9
6.8
5.3
9.3
2.0
8.3
7.5
4.9
10.4
8.7
7.3
7.0
11.9
1.8
5.9
(d)
(d)
5.3
5.9
2.2
5.5
8.5
(d)
4.4
3.8
(d)
6.6
(d)

2.5
3.3
5.0
7.6
(d)
4.7
6.7
4.1
5.0
(d
7.9
6.5
0.6
7.9
7.1
4.2
6.1
3.8
3.1
5.0
(d)
(d)
2.2
5.7
5.5
5.1
8.2
(d)
3.3
1.0
(d)
4.2
(d)

9.9
8.8
*
10.5
(d)
5.4
21.1
10.4
4.6
1.0
6.7
12.2
3.8
16.2
18.2
4.4
9.8
7.4
3.1
15.2
(d)
(d)
4.5
16.4
0.7
14.3
10.7
(d)
2.1
5.3
0.7
8.8
(d)

8:07 PM

[805]

8.6
(d)

8.9
8.4
11.5
8.2
(d)
5.2
21.1
10.6
5.4
7.0
6.7
11.1
3.5
12.2
18.0
5.1
9.0
6.3
4.6
11.7
3.2
1.4
5.3
13.4
6.3
12.9
9.8
2.4
3.9
5.1

7/1/08

* No tangible assets for common. Percentage earned on tangible assets for preferred and common was 11.5%.

Other light machinery and metal products
Heavy machinery and metal products
Radios, phonographs, pianos
Motion pictures, theaters, broadcasting
Coal mining
Copper mining
Gold mining
Other noncuprous metals (except iron)
Paper and card board mfrs.
Printing and publishing
Groceries
Variety, 5- and 10-cent stores, etc.
Restaurants
Drug stores
Misc. retailers
Dept. stores
Mail-order houses
Misc. distributors
Airplanes, airways, airports
Business and ofﬁce equip.
Shipping services
Shipbuilding and operating
Rubber and tires
Cigarette
Cigar
Snuff
Misc. tobacco
Land, realty and hotel
Cement
Other building material mfrs.
Engineering and building (construction)
Shoes
Leather

53_Graham_Dodd_App
Page 805

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 806

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[806]

TABLE III.—TOTALS DIVIDED ACCORDING TO SIZE OF COMPANY
A. SIZE MEASURED BY SELLING PRICE OF COMPANY AT END OF 1938
% earned on
% earned on 1938

Number

Common

Tangible

of com-

stock at

assets for

Ratio of

price of common

panies

market

common

columns 4

1934– 1936–

Size

in group

(millions)

(millions)

to 3, %

1938

1938

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

tangible
assets for

1938

common
1934–1938
(9)

Less than 10 millions

252

968.0

1,323.9

136.8

3.4

5.0

(d)

2.5

10–100 millions

309

7,292.4

5,575.4

76.4

5.3

2.9

2.9

6.9

100–1000 millions

82

17,016.1

11,368.4

66.7

5.3

6.2

4.5

7.9

Over a billion

5

7,135.9

3,712.4

52.0

4.6

5.5

2.9

8.9

B. SIZE MEASURED BY NET TANGIBLE ASSETS AT END OF 1938
% earned on
% earned on 1938

Number

Common

Tangible

of com-

stock at

assets for

Ratio of

price of common

panies

market

common

columns 4

1934– 1936–

Size

in group

(millions)

(millions)

to 3, %

1938

1938

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

Less than 10 millions

250

1,493.0

951.1

63.6

4.9

6.0

2.4

7.7

10–100 millions

331

10,454.5

6,761.4

64.4

4.9

5.8

3.0

7.6

100–1000 millions

64

16,303.5

11,321.6

69.4

5.1

6.0

4.2

7.3

Over a billion
All companies

1938

tangible
assets for
common
1934–1938

3

4,161.4

2,946.0

70.8

5.5

6.7

3.0

7.8

648

32,412.4

21,980.1

67.6

5.1

6.0

3.6

7.5

The two major factors covered by our study were the following:
1. Relation of market price to earnings for 1938, 1936–1938 and 1934–1938.
2. Relation of market price to 1938 tangible asset values and net current-asset
values.
In addition to these central elements we compiled data concerning:
3. The relation of 1938 sales (i.e., gross business) to common-stock prices
and earnings.
4. The working-capital ratio; the relation of working capital to sales; the division of current assets between cash assets, receivables and inventories.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 807

Appendix

[807]

TABLE VI.—RANGE OF 1934–1938 EARNINGS ON INVESTED CAPITAL1
WITHIN CERTAIN INDUSTRIAL GROUPS
% earned on invested capital

Industrial group

Number of
companies
in group

Individual members
of group
Maximum

Minimum Median Group total

Soft drinks

3

59.4

5.3

5.5

39.8

Gold mining
Drug mfrs.
Confections
Misc. retailers
Soaps
Mining (except gold,
iron and copper)
Light machinery
Misc. chemicals
Motion pictures
Trucks
Wool and carpet
Shipbuilding and operating
Engineering and building
Leather
Total of above

6
13
6
19
3

33.4
30.7
31.9
22.8
34.0

9.8
(d)
(d)
(d)
5.2

15.4
12.9
19.7
17.9
14.4

21.1
19.6
18.2
18.0
11.9

15
37
19
16
8
5
7
4
5
164

152.0
44.2
42.3
42.2
17.4
14.7
4.8
2.8
6.1

(d)
(d)
(d)
3.5
(d)
(d)
(d)
(d)
(d)

8.2
9.3
9.9
7.7
0.7
3.2
2.4
0.8
1.5

10.6
8.9
9.9
8.2
1.5
1.5
1.4
0.7
(d)

All companies

648

152.0

(d)

6.3

7.0

1 Invested capital is taken at the end of 1938 and represents net tangible assets available for bonds and stocks.

5. The amount of senior securities outstanding and the charges thereon.
6. Depreciation allowances in relation to sales and fixed assets.
In this Note the data collected have been grouped in accordance with two
principles of division. On the one hand, we have a separation by industries, as
in the tables supplied monthly in the New York Stock Exchange Bulletin. We have
found it advisable to modify the bulletin’s classifications somewhat, shifting a
few individual companies and subdividing a number of groups which otherwise
would be too inclusive to be really informing. We have also divided our total into

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[808]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 808

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

gradations of size, measuring the latter (1) by invested capital and alternatively
(2) by the total value of all outstanding securities.6 This grouping gives us four
classes; small companies, worth less than 10 millions; medium-sized companies,
worth between 10 and 100 millions; large companies, worth between 100 millions and 1 billion; and a few giants, worth over a billion dollars each.
Nearly all the information to be supplied in this paper is presented in the various Tables I to VI appended. In addition to the main body of data, which use
the Dec. 31, 1938 values as their base, we have also compiled the maximum and
minimum stock values during the 1937–1938 period. The wide spread between
these extremes—which were just 12 months apart in point of time—and the relationship that they presented to assets and earnings may throw an interesting light
upon the character of the stock market in recent years.
COMMENTS ON THE TOTALS FOR 648 COMPANIES
Perhaps the most striking figure in the entire study is the total tangible assets
available for common stock (Table I). This amounts to 22 billions compared with
32.4 billions of market value. Despite the general feeling that business has been
unsatisfactory on the whole since 1930, despite the definitely poor results of 1938
and despite the reputed lack of confidence that is widely given as the reason for
the failure of American business to attract new capital, investors were still willing to pay for industrial common stocks as a whole in 1938 and 1939—about
50% more than the tangible capital that they represented.
But this characteristic of the entire aggregation is by no means common to
the vast majority of individual companies. No less than 307 concerns—or 47%
of the total—were selling for less than tangible asset value. The same was true of
28 industrial subdivisions out of a total of 67.
When we study the groupings by size (Table III), we find that the small companies, measuring them by their market value, sell in the aggregate for much less
than tangible assets, whereas the larger categories sell at so much more than asset
value as to create the 50% premium for the grand total of all companies. It might
appear from these figures that the small company, as such, is definitely at a disadvantage or a discount. Curiously enough, such is not the case. The small companies, in terms of tangible assets, actually sell at a higher premium than the
others (Table IIIB). What has happened, in effect, is that the group selling for less
than $10,000,000 is heavily weighted by companies with fairly large tangible
6 In all these calculations common and preferred stocks have been valued at market price, but bonds

have been taken at par. Although market prices for bonds also would have furnished a more exact
measure, the difference at stake did not warrant the additional labor required.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 809

Appendix

[809]

assets which sell for little because they are unsuccessful. In other words, the
small-company group, in terms of market value, has a definite bias on the side
of poor earnings and consequent low market value in relation to assets. The correct explanation of the large over-all premium, in the face of so many companies selling at a discount, seems to be merely that the premium paid for the
typical successful company averages much higher than the discount registered
by the unpopular concerns.
It may be noted also that 54 individual companies, or 8% of the total, sold
for less than net current assets alone at the end of 1938. At the 1937–1938 lows
this was true of no less than 133 companies, or 1 out of 5. At the 1937–1938 highs
there was not a single company in this situation.
Our study of earnings covered the one, three and five years ending with 1938.
As far as any concept of a “normal,” or representative, period can be formed, the
five-year earnings appear most suitable—since 1938 alone was undoubtedly a
poor year, and the 1936–1938 triennium may be a little too heavily weighted by
prosperous conditions. On this point the reader must form his own conclusions.
In any event it will be seen that the listed industrial common stocks were valued
at the end of 1938 at 19.5 times their average earnings in the five years preceding (a 5.1% earnings basis) and at 16.6 times their three-year average (a 6% basis).
On the 1938 results alone the multiplier rises to 28 times, and the earnings yield
falls to 3.6%. But, again, analysis of the individual figures will show a tendency
for the liberal prices accorded the shares of the successful companies to obscure,
in the totals, a large number of concerns that were selling at very modest figures
in relation to their earnings record.
CHARACTERISTICS OF INDUSTRIAL GROUPS
The division of the 648 companies into industrial categories must necessarily be
in good part a matter of arbitrary choice. The New York Stock Exchange Bulletin
allocated these companies to 27 groups; we found it advisable to subdivide these
further into 67 families. Of these the largest, in terms of market value, was the
oil group—followed by heavy chemicals and automobiles. The top seven families, comprising 111 companies, were worth 19.3 billions, or 53% of the total.
Table II shows in detail the wide range of performance of the 67 subgroups.
The following supplementary classification may be of interest:

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 810

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[810]

TABLE IV.—INDUSTRIAL GROUPS DIVIDED ON BASIS OF RATIO OF
MARKET PRICE TO ASSET VALUE
Earned on 1938 market price, %
Market price
 asset value

Number of
groups

Number of
companies
in group

1934–1938

1936–1938

1938

Over 400%

4

25

4.7

5.2

5.2

200–400%

17

166

4.8

5.4

3.6

100–200%

22

189

5.9

7.0

4.4

50–100%

20

234

4.9

6.7

3.0

Less than 50%

4

34

1.1

def.

def.

Total

67

648

5.1

6.0

3.6

It will be noted that the very highest priced groups, in comparison with asset
values, were also priced higher than the average of all companies in terms of earnings, except for the results of 1938 alone. The ability of these companies to do better in the recent poor year than for the five-year average is undoubtedly the key
to their popularity. At the other end of the spectrum we find, of course, that the
companies selling at very low prices in relation to assets made a very poor earnings exhibit as a whole. On the other hand, the 20 groups selling at between 50
and 100% of asset value did not do appreciably worse from the profit viewpoint
than the divisions selling at premiums, unless especial emphasis is to be laid on
the 1938 performance. Peculiarly enough, the groups selling between two and
four times asset value made a poorer showing from the earnings standpoint, in
each period, than those selling between one and two times assets. Note that the
figures given in Table IV relate to group totals only. Each of these may include
individual companies that diverge widely from the characteristics of the total.
TREND OF EARNINGS
The variation in the results for the one-, three- and five-year period provides a
simple and rather persuasive test of earnings trends. Companies or groups meeting the formula 1938  1936–1938  1934–1938 would be exceptional on the
side of improvement, whereas those meeting the opposite formula 1938 
1936–1938  1934–1938 would stand out as retrogressing. When this criterion
is applied, we find the following candidates for special honors or dishonors:

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 811

Appendix

Groups with good trend

Groups with bad trend

Aviation
Cigars
Flour, bread, cereals
Soft drinks

Business and ofﬁce
equipment
Can manufacturing
Canned goods
Cotton goods
Meat
Rayon
Restaurant
Retail grocer
Shoes
Snuff
Vegetable oils
Distillers1
Gold1

[811]

Groups showing 3 deﬁcits
for common
Coal
Engineering and building
Land and hotel
Leather
Shipbuilding
Shipping services
Wool

1 Downward trend very slight.

Students of the market will recognize certain relatively popular groups in the
poor-trend list and two unpopular groups in the good-trend list. The chief value
of this type of study may be to generate a healthy scepticism as to the dependability of a mere arithmetical upward trend as a basis for bullish enthusiasm.
The following compilation (Table V) covers the five subgroups showing the
highest ratios of earnings to December 1938 price in each of the three test periods, as compared with those showing the lowest ratio of assets to price.
TABLE V.—”CHEAP” GROUPS (ON EARNINGS BASIS) COMPARED WITH “DEAR”
GROUPS (ON ASSET BASIS)
Ratio to 1938 common
stock value of

High earnings-ratio group1
Low asset-ratio group2

Number of
companies

Aggregate
common
stock value
(millions)

Assets,
%

1934–
1938

1936–
1938

1938

48
25

907.2
1,404.9

116.7
14.9

10.9
4.7

11.9
5.2

9.0
5.2

Earnings, %

1 Includes: brewers and distillers, milk, misc. tobacco, motion pictures, retail drugs, retail grocers, sugar, vegetable oils.
2 Includes: drug mfrs., confections, radios, etc., and soft drinks.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[812]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 812

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

It will be noted (from Table II) that none of the groups selling at cheap prices
in relation to average earnings did worse than the 648 company total in the poor
year 1938. Furthermore, their price was also low in comparison with asset values. There is thus a sharp contrast between this set of companies and those,
already mentioned, which were selling at more than four times tangible asset
value. The latter include radios (3 companies), drug manufacturing (13) confections (6) and soft drinks (3). Note that the “cheaper” stocks offer 8 times as much
in asset value, per dollar of price, 2.3 times as much in 1934–1938 earnings and
even 1.73 times as much in 1938 earnings, as do the low-asset stocks. Statistically, the sole advantage of the latter group is found in the 11% increase of 1938
earnings over the five-year average, as compared with a 17% decrease for the
other set. But it should be pointed out that the improvement shown by the “dear”
stocks was largely accounted for by one company (Coca-Cola) and also that the
1938 earnings of the “cheaper” group were relatively much better maintained
than those of the Stock Exchange list as a whole.
The contrast offered by these two groupings is accentuated by certain broad
similarities existing between the categories in one and in the other. Radios and
broadcasting invite comparison with motion pictures, drug manufacturing with
drug stores, confections with sugar, and soft drinks with both milk and liquor.
The outstanding contrast of all is presented by Coca-Cola on the one hand (dominating the soft-drink field) and all the other listed beverage companies, selling
milk, soft drinks, beer and whisky. These 14 common stocks, taken together,
were worth only two-thirds as much as Coca-Cola alone—but their 1938 sales
were 970 millions against 76 millions, their 1938 net for common 52.8 millions
against 23.8 millions, and their tangible assets for common stock 390 millions
against only 16 millions.
EARNINGS ON INVESTED CAPITAL
Study of price-earnings ratios may be supplemented by examination of the percentage earned on invested capital, i.e., tangible assets available either for the
common stock or for all capital securities. For this purpose we have taken average results for 1934–1938, as perhaps the most representative index, and compared them with the invested capital at the end of 1938, including therein the
funded debt. The results are summarized in Table II for the various industrial
groups and in Table IIIA and B for various divisions by size of company.
Certain aspects of these exhibits deserve comment. Since large earnings on
invested capital may be accepted as one of the best proofs of a prosperous business, it is natural to scrutinize that ratio for a clue to the relative profitableness

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 813

Appendix

[813]

of the several branches of industry. Taking the aggregate results of each of our
67 subdivisions, we find indeed wide variations, ranging from 39.8% on capital
for the soft-drink companies down to an actual deficit for the leather concerns.
But just as striking as this diversity are variations within the individual
groups. This point is brought out in Table VI, which lists the maximum, minimum and median percentages within, as well as the over-all figure for, those
groups which show the five largest percentages under each heading. (We give
similar figures covering the five lowest group totals.) It will be noted that many
of the divisions making the best showing as a whole include individual companies that earn nothing at all or very little—and, to some extent, the converse
is also true.
These divergences within industry groups should go far to temper the natural inclination for investors and analysts to attach dominant merit or demerit to
the line of business. That the type of industry is of great significance in judging
a common-stock issue goes without saying; but snap or extreme judgments based
on this factor alone may often prove unsound.
When the classification is made by size, some interesting facts develop. The
main point is that average earnings on capital (i.e., tangible assets available for
bonds and stocks) run almost identical for all five groupings, beginning with
companies smaller than 10 millions and running up to the giants which overpass a billion dollars. Furthermore, the smallest contingent actually sells at a
slightly higher price than the others in relation to asset values.
But if we apply the identical classifications to market values, instead of to
tangible asset values—as we do also in Table IIIA—an entirely different situation
develops. The small companies are found to be least profitable, although they
have proportionately far greater assets and sales. The reason is not far to seek.
Their market value is small because they are unprofitable, and not vice versa.
These two sets of comparisons suggest that the pressure on the smaller businesses
has not yet become so serious as to reduce their earning power on capital in the
aggregate below that of their larger competitors.7 But that the individual small
business is more vulnerable to adversity and that the widest range of performance is to be found in this class is hardly open to question.

7 See a detailed study by Simon N. Whitney, entitled “Statistics Disprove Assertion that Giant Companies Squeeze Out Small Rivals,” published in the Annalist, Dec. 28, 1939; his figures, leading to the
same conclusion as above, are based in part on census data and thus cover a wider range. For an
opposing viewpoint see E. V. Kennedy, Dividends to Pay, 1939.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 814

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[814]

NOTE 62 (PAGE 589 OF TEXT)
The following is a representative list of preferred and common stocks which sold
for less than their net current assets per share at their low prices during 1931
and the first four months of 1932. Most of these issues sold at still lower prices
later in 1932.
1931-April 1932

Company
Allis-Chalmers
Amer. Agric. Chem.
California Packing
Diamond Match
Endicott-Johnson
Liquid Carbonio
Mack Truck
Mid-Continent Petrol
Montgomery Ward
Nat’l Cash Register
U.S. Indus. Alcohol
U.S. Pipe & Foundry
Wesson Oil
Westinghouse Air Brake
Westinghouse Electric

1932–1933 low price

Current asset
Current asset
Low price Low price
value per
value per
Preferred Common share Preferred share Common Preferred Common

191/2
983/8

59

121/4
441/4
601/4

61/2
43/8
53/8
105/8
231/2
113/4
12
33/4
61/2
71/8
191/4
83/4
91/2
91/2
197/8

$48
276

462

26
74
1,164

$11
43
8
14
37
23
361/2
8
16
15
231/2
101/2
11
341/2

201/2
98

41

111/2
40
521/2

4
31/2
41/4
12
16
9
10
33/4
31/2
51/8
131/4
61/8
91/4
155/8

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 815

Appendix

[815]

A similar list of stocks which at their low price during the first five months
of 1932 sold at or below their cash assets per share (not deducting current liabilities) is given below.
Low price
Jan.-May 1932

Cash assets
per share

Current asset
value per share

Amer. Car & Foundry*

20

$50

$108

15

Amer. Locomotive*

301/4

41

63

171/8

Amer. Steel Foundries*

58

128

186

34

Amer. Woolen*

151/2

301/2

85

151/2

Congoleum-Nairn

7

7

12

61/2

Howe Sound

53/4

10

11

47/8

Hudson Motor

27/8

51/2

7

27/8

Hupp Motor

11/2

51/2

71/2

11/2

Lima Locomotive

81/2

19

36

81/2

Magma Copper

41/2

9

12

41/4

Marlin Rockwell

53/4

111/2

13

53/4

Motor Products

11

151/2

19

73/8

Munsingwear

10

17

34

5

Nash Motors

8

131/2

14

8

New York Air Brake

5

5

9

41/4

Oppenheim Collins

5

91/2

15

21/2

Reo Motor

11/2

3

51/2

13/8

Standard Oil of Kansas

7

81/2

14

7

Stewart Warner

17/8

31/2

7

17/8

White Motor

7

11

34

67/8

Company

1932–1933
low price

* Preferred stock.

These examples have been taken from several articles by one of the authors
dealing with this phenomenon. See Graham, Benjamin: “Inflated Treasuries and
Deflated Stockholders,” Forbes, June 1, 1932, p. 11; “Should Rich Corporations
Return Stockholders’ Cash,” Forbes, June 15, 1932, p. 21; “Should Rich but Losing Corporations Be Liquidated,” Forbes, July 1, 1932, p. 13. The 1932–1933 low
prices are added to complete the picture.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[816]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 816

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

NOTE 63 (PAGE 646 OF TEXT)
The analyst must frequently calculate the relative values of subscription rights
and the common stock covered thereby. To facilitate this calculation we append
two simple formulas.
Let R  value of right.
M  market price of stock.
S  subscription price of stock.
N  number of rights needed to subscribe to one share.
Formula A, applicable before stock sells “ex-rights” (i.e., the purchaser of the
stock will be entitled to receive the rights).
R

MS
N1

Formula B, applicable after the stock sells “ex-rights” (i.e., the purchaser of
the stock does not get the rights, which are retained by the holder of record).
R

MS
N

Example: Rights are given to buy one share of stock at 50 for each five shares
held. Stock is selling at 64 “with rights” (“rights on” or “cum rights”).
Value of right 

$64  $50
 $2.33
51

Example: Same offer; stock is selling “ex-rights” at 90.
Value of right 

$90  $50
 $8
5

These calculations are subject, however, to necessary refinements to reflect:
(1) any dividend to be received by the old stock but not on the new shares; and,
contrariwise, (2) any saving in interest by reason of not having to pay for the new
stock until the rights expire.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 817

Appendix

[817]

NOTE 64 (PAGE 666 OF TEXT)
TWO EXAMPLES OF CORPORATE PYRAMIDING
First Example: The essential character of the Insull pyramid may be brought out
by the following partial summary:
Liabilities senior to common
stock (Dec. 31, 1931)
Company 1
(Top Company)

Company 2

Company 3

Corporation Securities Co. An
investment company of specialized
character. Its chief holdings were in
Co. 2–$59,000,000 and Co. 3–$42,000,000,
out of total portfolio of $145,000,000.
Insull Utility Investments, Inc. Also a
specialized investment co. Its chief holdings
were in Co. 3 —$64,000,000 out of total
portfolio of $252,000,000. (It also held
$32,600,000 of stocks of Co. 1.)
Middle West Utilities Co. A public utility
holding company controlling a number of
subsystems. Gross business of system in
1931 was $173,000,000. Chief subsidiary
was Co. 4.

Company 4

National Electric Power Co. A public utility
holding company controlling several
subsystems. Gross business in 1931 was
$68,000,000. Chief subsidiary was Co. 5.

Company 5

National Public Service Corp. A public
utility holding company controlling four
subsystems. Gross business in 1931 was
$36,000,000. Chief subsidiary was Co. 6.

Company 6

Seaboard Public Service Co. A public
utility holding company controlling
six subsystems. Gross business in 1931
was $16,000,000. Chief subsidiary
was Co. 7.
Virginia Public Service Co. A public
utility operating and holding company.
Gross business in 1931 was $7,600,000.

Company 7

Bank loans, etc . . . . . . . .$33,000,000
Funded debt . . . . . . . . . . .24,000,000
Preferred stock . . . . . . . . .37,000,000

Bank loans, etc. . . . . . . . .$53,000,000
Funded debt . . . . . . . . . . .58,000,000
Preferred stock . . . . . . . . .46,000,000

Parent company:
Bank loans, etc. . . . . . . . .$35,000,000
Funded debt . . . . . . . . . . .40,000,000
Preferred stock . . . . . . . . .61,000,000
(Note: Public’s holdings of:
Subsid. bonds . . . . . .$283,000,000
Subsid. preferred . . . .152,000,000
Subsid. common . . . .10,000,000)
Parent company:
Bank loans, etc. . . . . . . .Not reported
separately
Funded debt . . . . . . . . . .$10,000,000
Pfd. & Class A stock . . . . .36,000,000
Parent company:
Bank loans, etc. . . . . . . .Not reported
separately
Funded debt . . . . . . . . . .$20,000,000
Pfd. & Class A stock . . . . .30,000,000
Parent Company:
Funded debt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .None
Preferred stock . . . . . . . . .$9,000,000

(

)

Funded debt . . . . . . . . . .$37,000,000
Preferred stock . . . . . . . . .10,000,000

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 818

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[818]

Note that a pyramided structure of six successive holding companies was
built above the various operating companies in this system. The complete collapse of this structure is shown by the fact that every one of these six superposed
holding companies was thrown into bankruptcy. For description, charts and discussion of the Insull Group see James C. Bonbright and Gardiner C. Means, The
Holding Company, pp. 108–113, New York, 1932.
Second Example: The United States and Foreign Securities Corp. set-up provides a fairly simple demonstration of the workings of a pyramided structure in
the general investment trust field.
This company was organized in 1924. The public bought $25,000,000 of $6
First Preferred at par (the company receiving $24,000,000), and the organizing
bankers bought $5,000,000 of $6 Second Preferred at par. The 1,000,000 shares
of Common Stock, representing a purely nominal investment (10 cents per
share), were divided: 25% to the public, and 75% to the organizers. Thus the latter supplied one-sixth of the capital, subordinated to the other five-sixths, and
received a three-quarters interest in the surplus profits. Toward the end of 1928,
the holding company form of pyramiding was utilized by the formation of a second company, U.S. & International Securities Corp., a $60,000,000 enterprise.
The public contributed $50,000,000 of the capital, receiving $5 First Preferred
Stock at 100, plus one-fifth of the Common. United States & Foreign Securities
Corp. contributed $10,000,000, receiving $5 Second Preferred at 100, plus fourfifths of the Common. This arrangement gave the organizers of the original company control over the additional funds subscribed without further investment
on their part. Because of a $30,000,000 appreciation in the resources of U.S. &
Foreign Securities Corp., the end of 1928 found the contributors of the original
$5,000,000 now controlling $110,000,000 of capital (including subscriptions
callable) and entitled to about 78% of the surplus profits or enhancement thereof.
A. PERIOD 1924–1928
Item

Total

Public’s

Organizers’

Original investment
Book value, December 1928
% increase in book value
Maximum market value of U.S. &
Foreign capitalization†
% Increase in market value

$30,000,000*
60,000,000
100%

$25,000,000
32,000,000
30%

$5,000,000
27,000,000
450%

100,000,000
233%

42,000,000
70%

57,000,000
1,040%

* Company received $29,000,000.
† First Preferred @ 100; Second Preferred estimated @ 80; Common @ 70.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 819

Appendix

[819]

B. PERIOD 1928–1939
Results are shown per $100 of original investment, because of decrease in First
Preferred Stock outstanding due to repurchases by the company.
Public’s
investment

Organizers’
investment

Dec. 31, 1928

$130*

$550

Dec. 31, 1932

100*

35

Dec. 31, 1933

100*

96†

Dec. 31, 1939

108*

215

Date
Book value:

* First Preferred at par, plus liquidating value of attached common.
† Exclusive of claim for accumulated Second Preferred Dividends.

Date

Public’s
investment*

Organizers’
investment*

1st Pfd.

2d Pfd. (est.)

Common

$170

$1,150

Market price:
High, 1929

100

80

70

Low, 1932

271/2

111/2

26

10

11/2

Dec., 1933

73

170

65

50

8

Dec., 1939

87

165

80

60

7

* Per $100.

The actual operation of this arrangement from the standpoint of both book
value (“break-up value”) and market quotations is shown by the preceding
tabulation.
These figures show typical results for a highly speculative capital structure
under both favorable and unfavorable developments. It will be noted that the
variations in book or break-up value were greatly intensified in the market by
the excessive optimism and pessimism of the public’s attitude toward investment
trust securities. It is significant to observe also that when a book value about
equal to the original investment per share was reestablished, in 1933, the market registered a substantial depreciation for the public’s part of the capital and a
corresponding premium for the organizers’ interest.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[820]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 820

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

NOTE 65 (PAGE 669 OF TEXT)
A few instances of control with relatively small investment are as follows:
1. An investment of less than $20,000,000 by the Van Sweringen interests
gave control of eight Class I railroads with combined assets of over
$2,000,000,000. Thus an investment of less than 1% controlled the entire system.
See F. I. Shaffner, The Problem of Investment, p. 38, New York, 1936. See also pp.
666–667 supra for further details of the Van Sweringen pyramid. Subsequently
Messrs. Ball and Tomlinson bought this control on a bankrupt basis for
$3,000,000.
2. Prior to 1935 Henry L. Doherty & Co. had 27% of the voting power of
Cities Service Co. through ownership of 1,000,000 shares of $1 par preferred
stock which had multiple voting rights as contrasted with the common stock.
This arrangement, plus a pyramided capital structure, enabled the $1,000,000 of
preferred stock to control a corporation with consolidated assets of over
$1,250,000,000. See James C. Bonbright and G. C. Means, The Holding Company,
pp. 113–114, New York, 1932.
3. Prior to 1930 the Standard Gas and Electric System with consolidated
assets of $1,200,000,000 was controlled by H. M. Byllesby & Co., mainly through
ownership of 1,000,000 shares of $1 par preferred stock similar to that of Cities
Service Co. (ibid, p. 115). Subsequently a reshuffling of the capital structure took
place, and thereafter an equity interest of $3,000,000 or less had a more complete
control over this $1,200,000,000 utility system (ibid, p. 116).
4. Stock having a book value of $8,000,000 and a still smaller market value
once controlled the billion-dollar Associated Gas & Electric system (ibid, p. 122).
During the course of the hearings preceding enactment of the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935 it was revealed that Messrs. H. C. Hopson and J.
I. Mange, occupying a position at the top of the heap of those in control of this
system, obtained through the pyramided holding company device an annual
average return during 1923–1929 of 60.82% applicable to their total investment
of $298,318. See Hearings on H. R. 5423, before the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, pt. 2, 74th Congress and 1st Session, pp.
1473–1476, Washington, D. C., 1935.
5. Through six layers of holding companies the Insull interests controlled the
Tide Water Power Co. by an investment of only 0.02% of the total investment in
the latter company, as measured by the book value of its outstanding securities.
This amounted to control of $5,000 on an investment of $1. Similarly, a $2.50
investment at the top by the Insull interests enabled them to control a $5,000

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 821

Appendix

[821]

investment at the bottom of the pyramid in Florida Power Corp. through six layers of holding companies. See Utility Corporations, Sen. Doc. 92, pt. 72-A, 70th
Congress and 1st Session, pp. 159–161, Washington, D. C., 1935.

NOTE 66 (PAGES 170, 680, AND 709 OF TEXT)
ANALYSIS OF CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE, ST. PAUL, AND
PACIFIC RAILWAY GENERAL MORTGAGE BONDS
(VARIOUS SERIES), DUE 1989
AVERAGE PRICE IN 1939 ABOUT 25
This issue, carrying various interest rates, totals $139,000,000, excluding pledged
bonds. At 25, the entire issue sells for about 35 millions. The bonds have a first
lien on 6,000 miles of road out of a system total of 11,000 miles; they also are
secured by equipment and other assets. Segregation of earnings of the system
(including the Terre Haute division) in accordance with the various mortgage
liens indicates that, after allowing for equipment-trust charges, about 60% of the
remaining earnings are applicable to this issue. Hence, briefly stated, we see that
a price of 25 for the general mortgage bonds is equivalent to a total value of some
60 millions for all properties of the St. Paul, subject to 29 millions of equipment
obligations valued by the market at par. (The junior liens not included in this
total would have at best a very small claim against the assets.)
This indicated value of about 90 millions for the St. Paul properties compares
with cost of reproduction less depreciation of no less than 660 millions; with total
capitalization, at par, of 739 millions; with average gross revenue in 1934–1938
of 99 millions; and average net available for interest in those five years of about
$8,100,000. If interest on equipment trusts is deducted (as equivalent to an operating charge), the balance of about $7,000,000 is equivalent to nearly 12% on the
market price of the various first-mortgage issues.
This summary view of the position of the General Mortgage bonds indicates
that, unless the future prospects of the St. Paul are bleak, they must be worth more
than 25 cents on the dollar. How much more? Two methods of appraisal are
available, and for each we shall use the 1934–1938 average as a measure of future
earning power.
Method A. General Valuation, Independent of a Specific Reorganization Plan.
We assume that net earnings of $8,000,000 will soundly support $4,000,000 of
fixed charges, equivalent to 100 millions of first-mortgage 4% bonds worth par.
The balance of $4,000,000 of earnings may be capitalized at 8%, to give

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[822]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 822

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

$50,000,000 of equity junior to the first mortgage. This results in a system value
of 150 millions, or 120 millions above the equipment-trust issues. In turn, this
means a value of 72 millions for the general mortgage, or 52% of face value, as
against a market price of 25.
This concise calculation is subject to the following questions and qualifications:
1. May the 8 million average net earnings properly be used as a measure of
future net? This figure is 2 millions more than was earned in 1938, but it is about
$1,400,000 less than the results for 1939. Estimates made in January 1938 of “normal earnings” for the future set them as high as $15,800,000. The results of the
past decade have varied between 30 millions in 1929 and less than 1 million in
1932. The maintenance ratio in 1934–1938 was well above the average of other
roads. On the whole, therefore, the $8,000,000 estimate must be considered conservative, although the future of railroad earnings is anything but certain.
2. Some of the value ascribed to the system must be allocated to junior issues
and thus deducted from the share of the general mortgage. Recent reorganization technique indicates that this diversion of value will be relatively small.
3. More important is the question whether 8 millions of earnings will justify
150 millions of market value in the manner we have calculated. A crucial point
here is the matter of future capital expenditures which may have to be financed
out of earnings, thus reducing the amount distributable to security holders. Various reorganization plans have suggested that between 21/2 and 5 millions be used
annually for this purpose, after providing 4 millions for senior fixed charges. If
this policy is followed, it is unlikely that 8 millions of total earnings will result
in a value of 50 millions for the junior securities, since little if anything could be
paid out in interest thereon.
Summarizing the foregoing, our appraisal may be found too liberal if large
provision for capital charges is necessary; on the other hand, it may well prove
to have been based on an unduly low estimate of future earnings.
Method B. Derived from a Specific Reorganization Plan. For this purpose we
shall use the plan of readjustment proposed in November 1938 by the I.C.C.
Examiner, and seek to evaluate the new securities allocated to the General Mortgage bonds. The plan provides $3,865,000 of fixed charges, based on present
equipment trusts plus 77 millions of new first 31/2s. Following is a deduction of
between 21/2 and 5 millions (as determined by the directors) for capital charges;
then $3,600,000 income-bond interest on Series A 41/2s; then $1,100,000 incomebond interest on Series B 41/2s; after which comes a sinking fund and then the
new preferred and common.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 823

Appendix

[823]

The General Mortgage bonds are to receive about $350 each in new first 31/2s
and Series A 41/2s and about $240 each in Series B 41/2s and preferred stock. After
seasoning, the 31/2s may deserve an ultimate market value of 90. Earnings of 8
millions will nominally cover full interest on the Series A 41/2s; but distribution
will depend on the capital-fund appropriation. Market prices of, say, 40 for the
Series A 41/2s, 20 for the Series B 41/2s, and 5 for the preferred seem reasonable,
the last two representing mainly speculative possibilities. These would indicate
a total value of 51 for the General Mortgage bonds, corresponding closely (as it
should) with the result reached by the first method.8
Conclusion. The St. Paul General Mortgage bonds are clearly undervalued at
25 unless the future of the railroads is so gloomy that practically all carrier securities are currently overvalued. In any event, these bonds should prove a better
holding than the junior obligations and preferred stocks of various solvent, but
not strongly entrenched, railroads.

A COMPARISON OF MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS, AND
ST. LOUIS-SAN FRANCISCO (Circular issued in January 1922)
Introduction. The new securities of the Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway
present a number of attractive opportunities for both the investor and the speculator. The pending Reorganization Plan, which has recently been declared operative, reduces the fixed charges of the system to a very conservative figure, so
that the bond interest should be regularly covered with a substantial margin. Furthermore, the road’s excellent exhibit under current adverse conditions gives
promise of a substantial earning power available for the junior securities.
The protracted receivership of the M. K. & T. will ultimately be found to have
strengthened the position of the new issues. For during this period large expenditures were made for the physical rehabilitation of every part of the system. The
resulting improvement in roadway and equipment has in turn led to greater
operating efficiency, so that its transportation costs during the past year have
been considerably lower than the average of other roads.

8 The “Final Reorganization Plan,” issued by the I.C.C. in February, 1940, contains a number of
departures from the Examiner’s plan, but the changes would not materially affect the conclusion
reached above.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 824

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[824]

TABLE I
St. Louis-San Francisco
Price
about

Yield, %

Rate, %

Due

Price
about Yield, %

1950

691/2

6.35

4

1970

65

6.35

5

1950

831/2

6.25

5

1970

78

6.50

6

1928

961/2

6.55

6

1932

92

7.15

8.16

5

1967

45

11.11*

10.81

Rate, % Due
Prior lien bonds

4

Adjustment bonds†

6

1955

731/2

Income bonds†

6

1960

551/2

Preferred stock

(6)

Common stock

Missouri, Kansas & Texas

38

(7)

251/2

211/2

81/4

* Assuming full interest paid.
† Straight yields given.

In analyzing the value of the new M. K. & T. securities, it is inevitable that
comparison be made with the St. Louis-San Francisco. The two systems are
highly similar in location, character of traffic, and financial structure. In fact the
reorganization of Missouri, Kansas & Texas has been closely patterned after that
of the ’Frisco, which was consummated in 1916.
The similarity of capitalization of the two roads is illustrated by Table I,
comparing the current price and yields of various issues:
In the following pages we discuss the general situation of the two companies,
with respect to capitalization and operating results, and then present a detailed
comparison of the corresponding security issues. Our analysis indicates that M. K.
& T. will possess two underlying advantages over the St. Louis-San Francisco:
I. Its fixed charges are lower in proportion to gross earnings.
II. Its operating efficiency is greater.
Through these important points of superiority, M. K. & T. should be enabled to
provide a larger degree of protection for its bonds, and a greater relative earning
power for its stocks. Basing our conclusions on a study of the two systems, we recommend the following exchanges to holders of St. Louis-San Francisco securities:
1. —From ’Frisco Prior Lien 4s, 5s and 6s into the corresponding M. K. &
T. Prior Lien issue, at their lower prices.
2. —from ’Frisco Income 6s at 551/2 into M. K. & T. Adjustment 5s at 45.
3. —From ’Frisco Common Stock at 211/2 into M. K. & T. Preferred Stock
at 251/2.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 825

Appendix

[825]

Moreover, judging the M. K. & T. issues on their individual merits, we regard
the prior Lien Bonds as well-secured high yielding investments; and the Adjustment Bonds, Preferred Stock and Common Stock as affording attractive speculative opportunities.
The Missouri, Kansas & Texas and the St. Louis-San Francisco operate chiefly
in the same states and at many points are in close competition.
Hence the character of traffic of the two systems is fairly similar, except that
the ’Frisco carries considerably more coal and lumber and proportionately less
oil. The rates per mile for both freight and passenger business are almost identical. M. K. & T. however averages a substantially heavier train load and longer haul.
TABLE II.—MILEAGE OPERATED DECEMBER 31, 1920

State

M. K. & T.

St. LouisSan Francisco

Missouri

544

1,720

Kansas

487

626

Texas

1,721

495

Oklahoma

1,036

1,517

Other States

19

898

Total

3,807

5,256

TABLE III.—CALENDAR YEAR 1920

Item

M. K. & T.

St. LouisSan Francisco

Average revenue train load

442 tons

398 tons

Average haul per revenue ton

248 miles

187 miles

These two advantages no doubt account in good part for the much lower
transportation costs of the M. K. & T. in 1921.

Capitalization. The security issues of the two companies will compare as
follows:

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 826

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[826]

TABLE IV.—COMPARATIVE CAPITALIZATION
Item

M. K. & T.

Equipment and underlying issues
Prior lien bonds
Adjustment bonds
Income bonds
Preferred stock
Common stock
Fixed interest charges
Contingent interest charges
Total interest charges

’Frisco

$ 7,248,000
93,073,000
57,500,000

$ 86,782,000
121,748,000
39,220,000
35,192,000
7,500,000
504,470 shares
(par $100)
9,248,374
4,750,912
$ 13,999,286

24,500,000
783,155 shares
(no par)
4,917,717
2,875,000
$ 7,792,717

The above figures for St. Louis-San Francisco are taken from the last available report, as of December 31st, 1920. Those for M. K. & T. are based on the
assumption that all the old securities are exchanged under the provisions of the
Reorganization Plan. It is probable, however, that some of the present senior
liens, especially the First 4s, due 1990, will still remain outstanding. In such event,
the amount of the underlying bonds, as stated above, would be increased and
that of Prior Lien issues decreased—the aggregate remaining practically
unchanged. The prospects are that the fixed interest charges will actually amount
to somewhat less than the total given in the Plan, since the company will save 1/2
of 1% annually on such of the $40,000,000 of 1st 4s as are not exchanged.
The “Contingent Interest Charges” represent the requirements of the Income
and Adjustment Bonds, which need be paid only if earned. This elastic provision is a source of strength for both roads, as it will enable them to reduce their
interest payments in critical years without financial disturbance.
TABLE V.—COMPARATIVE GROSS EARNINGS AND INTEREST
CHARGES PER MILE OPERATED
M. K. & T.

Gross earnings*
Fixed interest
Contingent interest
Total interest
* 1921 ﬁgure, December estimated.

’Frisco

Per mile

% of gross

Per mile

% of gross

$16,870
1,300
760
$ 2,060

100.0
7.7
4.5
12.2

$16,730
1,790
920
$ 2,710

100.0
10.7
5.5
16.2

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 827

Appendix

[827]

Table V indicates the advantage that will be gained by M. K. & T. through
the drastic scaling down in its fixed interest charges. The latter will require only
7.7c. out of each dollar of receipts, a ratio so low as to guarantee a large margin
of safety for the Prior Lien Bonds under ordinary conditions. In this respect
M. K. & T. is seen to enjoy an important advantage over St. Louis-San Francisco,
its interest charges—both fixed and contingent—being proportionately lower.

Earning Power. In comparing the earning power of two enterprises, it is customary to take the average of reports covering a number of years. In the present
case, however, the disturbing influence of federal control makes such a procedure impracticable. For the figures of earlier years are too remote, and those from
1917 to 1920 are too abnormal, to afford a sound basis for analysis. It is necessary, therefore, to lay chief emphasis upon the most recent operating results.
Statements for the eleven months ended November 30, 1921, have just been published. By adding one-eleventh to these figures the approximation to the full
year’s income account may be shown in Table VI.
TABLE VI.—INCOME ACCOUNT CALENDAR YEAR 1921 (ONE MONTH ESTIMATED)
M. K. & T.
Income
Mileage operated
Gross revenues

’Frisco

% of gross

Income

100.0

$86,521,000

3,784
$63,842,000

% of gross

5,165
100.0

Maintenance

24,635,000

38.6

26,874,000

31.1

Other operating expenses

25,072,000

39.3

37,275,000

43.1

Taxes

2,731,000

4.3

3,790,000

4.4

Rentals, etc., less other income

1,654,000

2.6

1,065,000*

1.2

Balance for interest

9,750,000

15.2

17,517,000

20.2

Fixed interest

4,918,000

7.7

9,248,000

10.7

Contingent interest

2,875,000

4.5

4,750,000

5.5

Balance for stocks

1,957,000

3.0

3,519,000

4.0

Pfd. div. requirements

1,715,000

2.7

450,000

.5

Balance for common

242,000

0.3

3,069,000

3.5

* 1920 ﬁgures partly used.

In analyzing the above figures, it is necessary to pay particular attention to
the much heavier expenditures for maintenance made by M. K. & T. Out of each
dollar of receipts, the latter road devoted 38.6c. to upkeep, against only 31.1c. in

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 828

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[828]

the case of ’Frisco. It is well understood that the amounts spent on maintenance
are largely a matter of arbitrary determination by the management and hence
afford a method for more or less artificially controlling the net earnings. As compared with other roads in the same territory, it would seem that ’Frisco has been
undermaintained and M. K. & T. overmaintained during the past year. The result
of this diverse policy has been to make St. Louis-San Francisco’s net earnings
appear considerably larger and those of “Katy” considerably smaller, than on a
normal basis of upkeep expenditure.
If in the case of both roads the latter had been taken at 35% of gross—apparently a reasonable figure—the net earnings of M. K. & T. would have been
$2,300,000 greater and those of ’Frisco $3,280,000 smaller than the results actually reported.
How radically such a revision would affect the position of the various securities is shown by the following analysis:
TABLE VII.—EARNING POWER 1921

Actual results
Item

M. K. & T.

’Frisco

Adjusted results (maintenance
ratio equalized at 35%)
M. K. & T.

’Frisco

Fixed interest earned

1.94 times

1.89 times

2.51 times

1.54 times

Total interest earned

1.25 times

1.25 times

1.55 times

1.02 times

Earned on preferred per share

$8.00

$46.92

$17.39

$3.19

Earned on common per share

0.30

6.08

3.25

Nil

The Prior Lien Bonds. Although the M. K. & T. Prior Lien issue are selling
several points lower than the corresponding ’Frisco bonds, the above table shows
that they are better secured. For, despite the much heavier maintenance expenditure of “Katy,” its fixed interest requirements were earned in 1921 with fully as
large a margin. If proper allowance is made for the difference in upkeep, then
the superior showing of M. K. & T. becomes very marked.

The Income and Adjustment Bonds. The interest on the M. K. & T. Adjustment 5s will be cumulative after 1925, while the St. Louis-San Francisco Income
6s are permanently noncumulative. During the next three years at least one-half
of the income available for the M. K. & T. Adjustments must be paid in interest.
On the base of the earnings of 1921, it is probable that the income bondholders
will receive the full 5% for this year.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 829

Appendix

[829]

These M. K. & T. and ’Frisco issues yield the same return, if full interest is
paid. The “Katy” bonds are closer to the rails, being directly junior to the Prior
Lien issues, while the ’Frisco Income 6s are subject also to the Adjustment
Mortgage. As indicated by Table VII, the M. K. & T. Adjustments should
have the benefit of a considerably larger earning power under normal operating conditions.

M. K. & T. 7% Preferred. (Cumulative after January 1, 1928). Because of
the similarity in market price, this issue is comparable with ’Frisco common rather
than ’Frisco Preferred. M. K. & T. Preferred makes an excellent exhibit in respect
to current earnings, and appears not only distinctly preferable to St. Louis-San
Francisco common, but also an independently attractive speculative purchase.

M. K. & T. Common. While dividends on the issue are doubtless very remote,
it should quickly reflect marketwise any improvement in the general railroad situation or in the position of Missouri, Kansas & Texas. At its present price of $81/4 per
share, it possesses unusual speculative opportunities as a low priced railroad issue.
A COMPARISON OF ATCHISON, SOUTHERN PACIFIC, AND
NEW YORK CENTRAL (Circular issued in April 1922)
Introduction. Recent weeks have witnessed a revival of interest in high-grade
railroad shares. This activity is of particular significance because it is based on
both investment and speculative considerations. The continued advance in the
bond list has first been followed by corresponding strength in the preferred
issues, and is now directing attention to the investment type of common stocks—
namely, those with long-established dividend records.
From the speculative standpoint also, railroad shares of the better class are
becoming increasingly attractive. Indications point clearly to a great improvement in net earnings during 1922, as compared with 1921. Already substantial
increases in car loadings are being reported, and the improvement should be
intensified by the industrial revival expected later in the year. Of even greater
importance is the continued reduction of operating expenses, which is gradually leading to a return of a normal ratio of net earnings to gross receipts.
The high-grade railroad common stocks therefore deserve consideration by
both investor and speculator. We present herewith the results of an examination
of the present status and recent record of three of the prominent issues of this
type—Atchison, Southern Pacific, and New York Central. Some of the most
important data are summarized in the following brief table:

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 830

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[830]

COMMON STOCK
Earnings per share

Road

Dividend
Price about rate, % Yield, %

Atchison

100

6

6.00

1921
$14.69

Fixed
Average
charges
1914–1921 earned 1921
$12.89

4.00 times

Southern Paciﬁc

90

6

6.67

7.25*

8.35*

2.13* times

New York Central

91

5

5.50

8.92

6.64

1.44 times

* Partly estimated. See text.

These figures indicate clearly the pre-eminence of Atchison from the standpoint of earning power and financial strength. As compared with New York Central, it shows a higher dividend return, larger earnings, and a much smaller
proportion of bonded debt. While Southern Pacific and Atchison both pay 6%
in dividends, Atchison has shown such pronounced superiority in earning power
as to justify fully its ten-point higher quotation.
In addition to its remarkable record of earnings the following features in
Atchison’s exhibit deserve special note:
1. Its wealth of cash assets.
2. Its valuable oil properties.
3. Its low and steadily decreasing funded debt.
The record of the three companies is analyzed in greater detail in the following pages. Based upon a careful study of the available data, we submit the following conclusions:
1. That Atchison should be purchased at the present time, either as an attractive investment or for conservative speculative profit.
2. That Atchison is intrinsically more desirable than Southern Pacific,
because of its substantially greater earning power.
3. That investment holdings of New York Central might well be exchanged
into Atchison, in order to obtain a higher dividend yield, larger average earning
power, and greater financial stability.
From the speculative standpoint, it is proper to point out that the small
amount of New York Central stock, in relation to its bonded debt and gross revenues, may result in a more rapid increase in profits per share under favorable
conditions. Conversely, however, a relatively small decline in net earnings can
seriously reduce the balance available for the stock.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 831

Appendix

[831]

Corporate Structure. In analyzing the position of a railroad company, it is
often necessary to consider not only its own operations, but also those of subsidiary or affiliated lines in which it has a substantial investment. Atchison and
Southern Pacific publish reports covering the results of the entire system, but
New York Central has large stock holdings in a number of important lines which
report their operations separately. The aggregate mileage of these controlled
companies actually exceeds that of the New York Central proper. Each year the
subsidiaries carry a substantial amount to surplus, a good part of which really
accrues to New York Central stock, but is not reflected in the parent company’s
return. To afford a proper basis for judging the value of New York Central shares,
we shall analyze its earning power as indicated both by its own statement and by
a consolidated report embracing all its subsidiaries. An added reason for using
the latter method is found in a recent statement that the New York Central
intends to acquire the outstanding minority shares of the controlled companies,
in order to merge their operations with its own.
The following table lists the separately operated subsidiaries of the New
York Central, together with their mileage and the percentage of stock held within
the system.
NEW YORK CENTRAL SYSTEM
Company
N.Y. Central R. R.

Mileage

% of stock owned

6,069

Cincinnati Northern

245

56.9

C. C. C. & St. Louis

2,421

50.1

Indiana Harbor Belt

120

60.0

Kanawha & Michigan

176

100.0

Lake Erie & Western

738

50.1

Michigan Central

1,865

89.8

Pittsburgh & Lake Erie

224

50.1

Toledo & Ohio Central

492

100.0

Total system

12,350

As regards Southern Pacific also, the exhibit of previous years must be
revised, in order to reflect the adjustments that have followed from the recent
segregation of the oil properties. Allowance is to be made for the elimination of
the former oil income, the exchange of convertible bonds into stock and the
receipt of $43,000,000 in cash through the sale of the Pacific Oil shares.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 832

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[832]

Earning Power. Particular interest attaches to the results during 1921 because
they are the most recent available and also because they represent the first full
year of independent operation. A summarized income account for 1921 follows.
INCOME ACCOUNT 1921 (IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)

Atchison

Southern
Paciﬁc

N. Y. Central
R. R.

N. Y. Central
System

Mileage
Gross revenue
Net after rents

11,678
$228,925
41,268

11,187
$269,494
39,823

6,077
$322,538
56,679

12,350
$535,821
90,615

Other income
Total income
Fixed charges, etc
Preferred dividends
Applicable to minority stock
Balance for common
Per share

11,082
$ 52,350
13,018
6,209

8,000*
$ 47,823
22,800*

15,665
$ 72,344
50,048

33,123
14.69

25,023
7.25

22,296
8.91

17,251
$107,866
71,519
500
4,302
31,545
12.62†

Item

* Estimated. See text.
† Per Share N. Y. Central Stock.

ANNUAL EARNINGS PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK 1914–1921

Atchison
Calendar
year
1921
1920
1919
1918
1917
1916
1915
1914
Average:
Operating basis
Guaranteed basis
* See text.
† Year ended June 30.

Operating
basis
$14.69
12.54
15.41
10.59
14.50
15.36
10.99
9.03

Guaranteed
basis

$13.98
16.55
9.98

Southern
Paciﬁc*
Operating
basis
$7.25
1.89
7.03
10.63
13.96
11.00
8.90
6.01†

Guaranteed
basis

$8.61
8.40
8.38

N. Y. Central
R. R.
Operating
basis
$8.92
12.34(d)
6.23
6.59
10.24
18.26
11.08
4.10

$12.89

$8.33

$6.64

$9.54

13.14

9.06

9.16

11.69

Guaranteed
basis

$5.49
7.97
7.16

N. Y. Central
System
Operating
basis
$12.62
14.65(d)
10.73
13.39
13.25
23.50
13.80
3.69

Guaranteed
basis

$9.68
8.62
8.34

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 833

Appendix

[833]

The fixed charges and nonoperating income of Southern Pacific are estimated on the basis of the 1920 report, as adjusted to reflect the segregation of
the oil lands.
It will be seen at once that Atchison makes the best exhibit, not alone in earnings per share, but especially in the small ratio of fixed charges to available
income. The combined income account of New York Central and its subsidiaries
indicates very substantial profits per share, but due consideration must be given
here to the large proportion of its total capitalization represented by bonds and
rental agreements.
The conclusions indicated by the 1921 figures are confirmed by a consideration of the record of each company since 1914. We give the annual earnings per
share during this period, as shown at the bottom of page 832. For 1918, 1919,
and 1920, two results are presented, based both on the actual operations and on
the government rental and guarantee. The Southern Pacific figures are adjusted
as indicated on page 832.
Not the least remarkable feature of the above exhibit is the regularity with
which Atchison’s net has been maintained at a high rate since 1915, despite the
unusual conditions affecting the carriers as a whole during a good part of this
period. The contrast with New York Central and Southern Pacific is especially
sharp in the transition year 1920.
Another significant feature is the substantial increase in Atchison’s nonoperating income, which rose from $4,311,000 in 1918 to $15,100,000 in 1919 and
$9,842,000 in 1920. A good part of these profits was derived from its oil properties, the importance of which seems to have been insufficiently recognized.

Operating Statistics. The superior earning power of Atchison as compared
with both Southern Pacific and New York Central, rests to some extent on a
smaller capitalization in relation to gross receipts, but more particularly upon
lower operating expenses. The appended table shows clearly the advantage
enjoyed by Atchison in the field of transportation costs:

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 834

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[834]

ANALYSIS OF OPERATING EXPENSE
Atchison

Southern Paciﬁc

N. Y. Central R. R.

Per cent of
gross receipts
expended for:

1921 1918–20 1913–17 1921 1918–20 1913–17 1921 1918–20 1913–17

Maintenance

36.9

36.0

30.1

33.9

34.3

25.4

31.9

36.3

29.9

Transportation, etc. 38.7

39.6

34.1

45.0

45.1

38.8

45.1

47.6

40.0

75.6

64.2

78.9

79.4

64.2

77.0

83.9

69.9

Total Operating
Expenses

75.6

It will be observed that Atchison has been consistently liberal in its maintenance expenditures. As compared with the similarly located Southern Pacific,
Atchison has regularly devoted a larger percentage of its revenues to upkeep, and
a much smaller percentage to transportation charges.

Capitalization Structure. The proportion of stocks to bonds is largest for Atchison and least for New York Central. The capitalization of the latter system appears
rather ill-balanced, so that relatively small changes in net income result in wide
fluctuations in the balance available for each share of stock. In prosperous years
this preponderance of bonded debt results in a large apparent earning power for
the stock, but in periods of depression it may constitute a serious burden.
SECURITIES HELD BY PUBLIC (THOUSANDS OMITTED)

Class of issue
Bonds and guaranteed
stocks
Preferred stocks
Minority stocks
Common stocks
Total

N. Y.
N. Y.
Southern
Central
Central
Atchison
% of
Paciﬁc
% of
Railroad % of
System
% of
(Dec. 31, ’21) total (Jan. 14, ’21) total (Dec. 31, ’20) total (Dec. 31, ’20) total

$289,888
124,173

45.3
19.4

$473,644

57.9

$840,110*

77.1

22.9

$1,156,261*
9,998
74,302
249,597

77.5
0.9
4.9
16.7

225,398

35.3

344,780

42.1

249,597

$639,459

100.0

$818,424

100.0

$1,089,707

100.0

$1,490,158

100.0

* Includes Securities of Leased Companies, and $66,700,000 for cash rentals capitalized at 5%.

Conclusion. The unique status of Atchison in the railroad field is perhaps best
illustrated by its treasury position. Despite the fact that the Company has sold
virtually no bonds during the past eight years, it held on December 31st last over
$52,700,000 in cash and government bonds, while its current liabilities totalled
$28,279,000.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 835

Appendix

[835]

The combination of large earning power and strong financial condition
justifies the expectation of an eventual increase in the dividend rate.

NOTE 67 (PAGES 151, 707, AND 712 OF TEXT)
The following is quoted from pages 594–595 of the 1934 edition of this work:
“A current Example. Fox Film Corporation, following large losses in
1931–1932, recapitalized as of April 1933 by persuading the holders of about 95%
of its debt to take common stock in exchange therefor. As a result its bank loans
were eliminated and its note issue, due April 1936, was reduced from $30,000,000
to less than $1,800,000. In December 1933 the 6% notes sold at 75, yielding over
20% to maturity. The market value of the common stock was about $35,000,000
and the net current assets were about $10,000,000. The quantitative signs certainly
pointed to the conclusion that the note issue was amply protected, and cheap in
consequence at 75.
“How dependable was this conclusion? It is certainly safe to say that either
the stock was not worth anywhere near $35,000,000 or else the $1,800,000 note
issue must be entirely safe. But a statement of this kind is less conclusive than it
sounds, because ordinarily there is no way of taking advantage of a discrepancy
between the relative prices of a highly speculative stock and a senior issue of
investment grade.9 The analyst must decide whether the issue is an attractive
purchase, considered by itself. If the business is highly unstable even an enormous junior equity might disappear entirely and the note issue fail to be paid off
despite its small size. In the case of Fox Film we have on the one hand a large
factor in an important industry, which should argue for sufficient stability at least
to assure discharge of this small obligation. On the other hand, the movingpicture business has been highly speculative and the record of Fox Film since
1930 has not been confidence-inspiring.
“Our conclusion must be, however, that the extraordinarily large quantitative backing for these notes in December 1933 reduced the risk of nonpayment
to very minor proportions. Emphasizing once again the element of diversification as a safeguard in all such operations, we express the view that a number of
purchases of this type will in all probability turn out quite satisfactorily in the
aggregate. That some losses will occur goes without saying, but the proportion
of such losses should undoubtedly be much lower in a reasonably normal period
such as 1923–1927 than in cataclysmic years like 1930–1933.”
9 “In the Fox Film case, the 6% notes were still exchangeable for stock on the basis of the recapitalization
plan, i.e., at $18.90 per share. If this were a contractual instead of merely a voluntary conversion privilege,
the Fox notes would have been demonstrably superior at 75 to the Fox stock at 14, from all standpoints.”

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[836]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 836

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

Sequel. The company covered its fixed charges nearly six times during the
balance of 1933, following the recapitalization. It covered its charges nearly five
times in 1934, nearly ten times in 1935 and over thirty-eight times in 1936. The
notes were paid off at par upon maturity on Apr. 4, 1936.

NOTE 68 (PAGE 718 OF TEXT)
MEMORANDUM FOR HOLDERS OF VICTORY BONDS
(Circular issued in May, 1921)
We desire to point out to owners of Victory 43/4s, due June 1, 1923, the advantage to be gained through their exchange at current prices into an equivalent
amount of Liberty Fourth 41/4s, due 1938.
At this writing the Victory 43/4s are selling at about $97.70, and the Liberty
1
4 /4s at about $87.20. The straight income return on both issues is the same—
4.86%. Differently stated, each $400 of Victory notes can be exchanged for $450
of Liberty Fourth 41/4s, on an even basis of both cost and income return.
But the Liberty bonds have a great advantage over the Victory Notes from the
standpoint of prospective market appreciation. The possible advance of the Victory
Notes is strictly limited to two points, since their near maturity (1923) precludes
their selling at any considerable premium. The Liberty bonds, however, are selling
at so substantial a discount from par (over 121/2%), that it is not only possible but
quite probable that there will be an important advance during the next few years.
To use perhaps an extreme example, if we suppose that by 1923 all Victory
and Liberty bonds have returned to par, the rise in the Fourth Liberty bonds
would amount to over twelve points against only two points for the Victories. By
making the proposed exchange, the investor would then realize $450 for each
$400 of Victory Notes now owned. In any event, the Liberty 41/4s need to advance
only two points in the next two years to make the suggested exchange profitable.
In this connection we would point out that all indications favor an impending advance in high grade bond prices. The tendency toward lower interest rates
is already apparent, as is evidenced by the reduction in the Federal rediscount
rate. For this reason, long term investments are now quite generally preferred
over short term notes, and consequently the income return to be obtained on
the former is considerably less than that on near maturities. But in the case of
the Victory issue, these short term notes can be exchanged for long term Liberty
bonds without any reduction in straight income return.
Liquidation in the Liberty issues has been drastic and until recently continuous, but this period now appears about ended. Bonds bought with borrowed

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 837

Appendix

[837]

money have for the most part been paid for or sold; weak holdings have been
nearly eliminated, and the Liberty issues may now be regarded as largely in the
hands of real investors. This greatly improved technical position should result
in a substantial advance in price, in response to any buying activity.
A further advantage to be gained from the proposed exchange lies in the
exemption of Liberty bonds (up to certain limits) from surtax as well as normal
tax; whereas, the Victory notes are exempt only from normal tax.
For these two important reasons—prospects of much greater price appreciation and superior tax exemption—we recommend that holdings of Victory
notes be now transferred into an equivalent amount of Liberty Fourth 41/4s.
We shall be glad to supply further information regarding this suggestion and
in particular to discuss with individual investors the current saving in taxes to
be gained from the exchange.

NOTE 69 (PAGE 721 OF TEXT)
The principal tenets of the Dow theory are:
1. There are three types of fluctuations manifested by the averages:
a. Primary movements, which are broad, basic trends of bull or bear variety,
extending over periods of less than a year to several years. Correct determination of such movements is the major objective of Dow theorists.
b. Secondary movements, lasting from three weeks to several months but
running counter to the primary trend.
c. Day-to-day fluctuations in either direction, of minor character and of
slight significance except in determining whether or not “lines” are being
formed. They must be charted and studied, however, since they make up
the longer term movements.
2. The industrial and railroad averages must corroborate each other if reliable inferences are to be drawn concerning the nature of the movement underway. Although, generally speaking, a bull market is one in which succeeding
highs in each average exceed the preceding highs, and successive lows are higher
than the preceding lows (and conversely for bear markets), each type of major
movement is subject to interruption by countermovements of a secondary character. These secondary movements are supposed generally to retrace from a third
to two-thirds of the primary price change in the averages since the preceding
secondary movement terminated. It is apparent that the problem of determining from day to day or week to week whether a movement apparently underway
is a secondary one or a reversal of a major trend presents a difficult task.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 838

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[838]

3. When movements of several weeks or longer are confined in both averages to a range of about 5%, a “line” is said to have been formed suggesting either
accumulation or distribution. If both averages break out above the line simultaneously, accumulation is deduced therefrom, and higher prices predicted. If the
averages break out below the line simultaneously, the reverse conclusions are
deduced. If one average breaks through a line without being confirmed by similar action by the other, the indication is negative in character.
4. An overbought market becomes dull on rallies and active on declines;
and oversold markets are dull on declines and active on rallies. Large volume
characterizes termination of a bull market, and bull markets begin with light
trading.
5. Active stocks tend to move in consonance with the averages, but individual issues may reflect conditions peculiar to them which will cause deviations
from the pattern of the averages.
The foregoing statement of the main tenets of the Dow theory necessarily
does not indicate many important details or the practical manner of operating
under the theory. For more complete statements of the theory and its applications see W. P. Hamilton, The Stock Market Barometer, New York, 1922; Robert
Rhea, The Dow Theory, New York, 1932; Charles A. Dice, The Stock Market, pp.
486–506, New York, 1926; Floyd F. Burtchett, Investments and Investment Policy,
pp. 672–688, New York, 1938. On the subject of chart reading generally, see R.
W. Schabacker, Stock Market Theory and Practice, pp. 591–692, New York, 1930.

NOTE 70 (PAGES 545 AND 727 OF TEXT)
“Investors Guide Stock Reports,” a department of Standard Statistics Co., Inc.,
issued the following two bulletins in October and December 1933.
B (N.Y.S.E.)

BALDWIN LOCOMOTIVE WORKS

Stock

Rating

Dividend

Price

Date

Common
$7 Preferred
Warrants

Hold II
Hold, P.S.*
Hold II

None
None

111/8
347/8
7

12/21/33

Yield
None
None

* P. S.  Preferred-Speculative.

COUNSEL: Constructive developments in sight serve to neutralize the adverse
effect in the COMMON of the eventual exercise of stock purchase warrants. The
PREFERRED has long term speculative attraction.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 839

Appendix

[839]

POSITION & PROSPECT: Although Baldwin’s operating expenses have been
held to a minimum, the lack of locomotive orders in 1933 is likely to be
reflected in another net loss for the year. Consolidated bookings have recently
exhibited moderate expansion and the 1934 outlook for the company has been
considerably improved by loans, which have been granted to a number of roads
by the PWA for the purchase of new equipment, including 30 locomotives.
Applications are now pending from other carriers for loans for equipment
which will include 133 locomotives. Thus, there are definite indications that a
start has been made by the carriers to modernize their tractive power, a program which is likely to be in full swing later in 1934. Baldwin, with its strong
trade position, may be expected to obtain a goodly share of the business. While
effective earnings on the common are still sometime off, especially since the
stock is subject to considerable dilution by the indicated eventual exercise of
warrants attached to the consolidated mortgage bonds permitting the purchase,
at $5 of 480,000 additional common shares, it appears that common per share
losses should show progressive abatement from now on. FINANCIAL POSITION is strong.
BACKGROUND: Baldwin Loco. Works is one of the two largest builders of
steam locomotives. It also manufactures forgings and castings, hydraulic and
special machinery, engines, air conditioning units, refrigeration equipment, etc.
The company has a stock interest in General Steel Castings and owns valuable
Philadelphia real estate.
CAPITALIZATION: Funded debt, $15,500,000. 7% cum. pfd. ($100 par) 200,000
shares, red. at $125. Common (no par) 843,000 shares. Preferred dividend accumulations total $17.50 per share at present.
Earnings

Dividends

Price range

Com.

Pfd.

Com.

Pfd.

Com.

Pfd.

1933

Est. $5.24(d)

Est. $15.50(d)

None

None

175/8–31/2

60–91/2

1932

6.50(d)

20.39(d)

None

None

12–2

35–8

$3.50

277/8–45/8

1041/2–15

7.00

38–193/8

116–84

1931

6.55(d)

20.61(d)

$0.871/2

1930

1.94

15.18

1.75

Caution—This information has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable but is not guaranteed.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 840

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[840]

BRY (N.Y.S.E.)

BEATRICE CREAMERY CO.

Stock

Rating

Dividend

Price

Date

Yield

Common

Switch

None

121/2

10/17/33

None

$7 Preferred

Switch

$7

72

9.9%

COUNSEL: In view of near term uncertainties, holdings of the COMMON and
PREFERRED shares should be switched to issues with more promising prospects.
POSITION & PROSPECTS: Dairy operations remain under the handicap of the
industry’s unfavorable statistical position. Milk production is well in excess of consumption requirements, and this situation not only has resulted in the building up of
record sized stocks of butter and cheese but also has prevented sustained price strength
in these commodities. Price advances on fluid milk, instigated mainly by state milk
control boards or AAA marketing agreements, have been passed on almost entirely
to farmers. In addition, earnings of the company for the six months ended August 31,
last, were adversely affected by increased costs under the NRA and by unsatisfactory
ice cream sales during the peak months of July and August. Share returns for the
period amounted to $4.47 on the preferred and $0.28 on the common, against $6.34
and $0.82, respectively, for the like interval a year earlier. Because of seasonal factors,
an even smaller profit is indicated for the final half. Recovery promises to be slow until
the excessive milk supplies are eliminated. FINANCIAL POSITION is strong.
BACKGROUND: Beatrice is the third largest unit in the dairy products industry. Formerly deriving the major portion of its earnings from butter, the company in recent years has considerably expanded its activities in ice cream and
milk; in addition, it distributes cheese, eggs, and poultry. Properties are located
mainly in the Middle West, but extension into eastern and Pacific Coast markets
also has been effected.
CAPITALIZATION: Funded debt, none. 7% cum. preferred ($100 par) 107,851
shares. Common ($25 par) 377,719 shares.
Earnings*

1933
1932
1931
1930

Dividends†

Price range†

Com.

Pfd.

Com.

Pfd.

Com.

Pfd.

$0.84(d)
3.54
7.12
7.31

$4.03
19.30
32.49
34.02

None
$2.50
4.00
4.00

7.00‡
7.00
7.00
7.00

27–7
431/2–101/2
81–37
92–62

85–45
95–62
111–90
1091/4–1011/4

* Years ended February 28.
† Calendar years.
‡ Continuance possible.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 841

Appendix

[841]

Caution—This information has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable but is not guaranteed.

INVESTOR’S GUIDE STOCK REPORTS
(Copyrighted and Published by Standard Statistics Co., Inc., 345 Hudson St., N.Y.)
OUR DISCUSSION IN THE 1934 EDITION
It is evident that the advice to hold Baldwin Locomotive and to sell Beatrice
Creamery shares was based predominantly upon the view that the prospects of
the locomotive business were good and those of the dairy industry were poor.
With respect to the former it is implied that the improvement will continue for a
number of years; in the case of Beatrice Creamery it is not clear whether the statement that “recovery promises to be slow” presages a delay of months or of years.
The approach of the securities analyst towards these two common issues, if
based upon the principles and technique developed in this book, would be quite
different from—in fact, almost the direct opposite of—that indicated in the
“Stock Reports” given above. The analyst’s initial reasoning as to Beatrice Creamery would run somewhat as follows: “Current conditions are known to be unfavorable and the near-term prospects are generally considered unfavorable also.
The price of the stock has declined substantially. Is it possible that the shares may
have intrinsic or permanent value considerably in excess of the current low price,
which is governed by the current situation?”
In the case of Baldwin Locomotive, his reasoning might well run in the contrary direction:
“The company’s prospects are decidedly better for 1934 than they were for
1933 and 1932. However, the stock is selling at five times the low price of 1932.
Are these prospects favorable enough and dependable enough to make the common stock attractive at its current price, in view of the very unsatisfactory record
for the past ten years?”
In developing the answer to these questions a statistical analysis somewhat
along the following lines would be in order. (These data are not presented as a
“comparison” of Baldwin and Beatrice in the ordinary sense, but rather as an aid
in arriving at separate analytical conclusions in respect to each issue.)

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 842

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

[842]

Item

Baldwin Locomotive

Beatrice Creamery

A. Capitalization:
Bonds at par

$15,500,000

Preferred stock at market
Total senior issues
Common stock at market

7,000,000

$ 7,750,000

$22,500,000

7,750,000

9,400,000

4,700,000

Warrants at market

3,400,000

Total common-stock issues

12,800,000

Total capitalization

35,300,000

12,450,000

B. Recent Income Account:

12 mo. ended Sept. 1933

12 mo. ended Aug. 1933

Sales

7,730,000

44,045,000

Net before depreciation and interest

1,000,000(d)

1,831,000

Depreciation

1,850,000

1,605,000

Interest

1,160,000

Preferred dividend requirement

1,400,000

750,000

Balance for common

5,410,000(d)

524,000(d)

C. Earning Record (000 omitted):*
Baldwin Locomotive
Earned
for
common

Beatrice Creamery

Year

Sales

Earned
on total
capital

Sales

Earned
on total
capital

Earned
for
common

Earned per
share of
common

1933

$ 7,730

$2,850(d)

$5,410(d)

$44,045

$ 226

$ 524 (d)

$ (d)

1932

10,579

2,941(d)

5,478(d)

46,264

434

323(d)

(d)

1931

20,436

2,982(d)

5,523(d)

54,059

2,101

1,363

$3.54

1930

49,872

4,202

1,637

82,811

3,354

2,626

7.12

1929

42,797

3,093

900

83,682

2,489

1,971

7.31

1928

37,214

600

1,104(d)

53,307

1,523

1,103

6.31

1927

49,011

3,400

1,685

52,744

1,223

890

6.66

1926

65,569

5,800

4,049

33,974

1,006

735

5.97

1925

27,876

500(d)

2,225(d)

35,050

1,003

760

6.18

* Baldwin: Year ended Sept. 30, 1933, and calendar years preceding. Figures are on a comparable basis, except those for 1925.
Figures for 1925–1928 are corrected to reﬂect the average depreciation of $1,022,000 per annum, as discussed in Chap. 34.
Earnings on total capital for 1928 are approximate.
Beatrice: 1933 means year ended Aug. 31, 1933. 1932 means year ended Feb. 28, 1933, and similarly for 1925–1931. Proﬁt of
$389,000 on sale of securities made by Beatrice in 1928 is excluded.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 843

Appendix

[843]

D. Results for “Normal Period” 1925–1930:
Average earnings for total capitalization of Baldwin
Locomotive works . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Average earnings for common stock and warrants
of Baldwin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Average earnings per share of Baldwin common (assuming
warrants exercised and 6% earned on the amount received
by the company) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Maximum earnings per share of Baldwin
common (as adjusted) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Average earnings per share of Beatrice
common . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

about $2,900,000

824,000

$0.73
$3.17
$6.59

Maximum earnings per share of Beatrice
common . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$7.31

Note: Owing to the continuous expansion of Beatrice Creamery between 1925 and 1932, involving the issuance
of additional shares, the earnings per share of common must be considered as more signiﬁcant than the amounts
earned for the common stock as a whole.

E. Balance Sheet Figures (Dec. 31, 1932):
Item

Baldwin

Beatrice

Current assets

$13,900,000

$9,410,000

Current liabilities

1,200,000

748,000

Net current assets

$12,700,000

$8,662,000

$26.50

$48.75

Tangible asset value per share of common

Note: Baldwin’s working capital figures are adjusted to exclude the interest
of the Midvalc Company minority stockholders. The asset value of Baldwin common is adjusted on the assumption that the warrants are exercised. The asset
value of Beatrice common has not been adjusted for a write-down of fixed assets
in 1933, the amount of which had not been reported.
A study of these quantitative exhibits yields no reason to believe that Baldwin
Locomotive common stock is intrinsically attractive at about $11 per share. The
only markedly favorable items are the earnings of the single year 1926, and the
book value; but neither of these may be considered particularly significant. Superficially, the issue appears to possess a factor of “leverage,” or speculative capitalization structure, based upon the presence of a large amount of senior securities.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[844]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 844

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

In fact, however, this leverage could become of real value only if the profits
exceeded any figure realized since 1926.
In the case of Beatrice Creamery the statistical showing is impressive on two
important counts. The first is the consistently large earnings per share in the six
years 1925–1930, amounting regularly to almost 50% on the current price of 121/2.
The second is the very large sales of the enterprise per dollar of common stock at
market. Even at the low prices of dairy products in 1933 there were nine dollars
of sales for each dollar of common stock. In 1929 the ratio was about eighteen to
one. Manifestly there is need of only a very small profit per dollar of business done
to yield a large percentage of earnings on the present price of the stock.
Certain other analytical features of the Beatrice exhibit are of interest, viz.:
1. The capitalization structure gives the common stock especially favorable
speculative possibilities from the technical point of view. All of the relatively large
senior capital is represented by preferred stock, which carries no danger of financial embarrassment.
2. The large tangible asset value in relation to the market price is not without significance. While this point must not be taken too seriously, it has a bearing on the question whether the company is likely to earn a reasonable amount
on the common shares over the long future. Although a write-down of the fixed
assets was in contemplation, this conclusion would hold also on the revised basis.
3. Assuming the write-down to be justified, it would imply that the depreciation charges in recent years had been larger than necessary. In the year ended
February 1934, the depreciation charge was reduced to about $1,400,000, compared with $1,900,000 in the previous year. Had this rate applied for the 12
months ended February 1933, the company would have shown some earnings
for its common stock in that year.
4. The working capital position is strong for this type of enterprise, and in
relation to the market price of its shares.

Qualitative Considerations. A. Baldwin Locomotive: It would appear difficult to form any dependable conclusion as to the long-term prospects, or the
normal earning power, of this enterprise. The industry is a basic one, and the
exceedingly low rate of locomotive buying for some years past would undoubtedly point to a large accumulated demand. Nevertheless, the business has shown
itself to be erratic in the extreme, and views as to its future performance must be
more in the nature of conjecture than intelligent prediction.
B. Beatrice Creamery: The business of this company would seem to possess an
underlying stability as well as permanence. The demand for dairy products is
certainly not subject to the variations existing in the demand for locomotives.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 845

Appendix

[845]

While periods of oversupply may affect selling prices drastically, the resultant
difficulties are not more serious than are found in countless other lines of business. There is reason to believe that the dairy industry will grow over the long
future as it has in the long past. The recession of demand during 1929–1933
was a natural phenomenon of deep depression, and it would hardly appear to
hold ominous significance for the years to come. Beatrice Creamery is not so
favorably situated as the two larger companies (Borden’s and National Dairy
Products), which enjoy greater diversification and a profitable business in trademarked brands. Yet the probabilities would point strongly to a recovery of the
earning power of Beatrice Creamery to somewhere near its former well-established level, when general conditions are once again propitious.
An individual prediction of this kind may go astray, for to some extent it
must be at the mercy of the future. But it is our view that conclusions based upon
this type of reasoning will yield more profitable results—on the average and over
the long pull—than the type of “market counsel” represented by the bulletins
quoted at the beginning of this final note.10

Sequel. Conditions developed for both companies very much as the analyst
might have anticipated (though not prophesied) at the end of 1933. In the case
of Baldwin, despite the supposed better outlook the loss for 1934 was practically
the same as in 1933, and deficits were reported each year until 1939. In 1935 the
company entered 77B proceedings, and the price of the common fell to 11/2. At
the end of 1939 it was selling at the equivalent of 3 in terms of the new securities received in reorganization.
Beatrice Creamery reported a profit for its common stock in the year ended
February 1935. Its earnings expanded steadily thereafter (with the exception of
one year) until they reached $3.81 per share of common for the 12 months ended
November 1939. At the close of that year the stock was selling at 271/2.

NOTE 71 (PAGES 334 AND 371 OF TEXT)
The thesis of Mead and Grodinsky may be summarized in the following paragraph:
All industries decline eventually, after expanding for a longer or shorter period.
Once decline begins, it is rarely reversed. At any one moment, all industries may
be divided into those expanding and those declining. The onset of decay may be
detected by the following symptoms: stationary demand, resort to betterments
10 Our criticism of certain individual methods followed by Standard Statistics Company, Inc., should
not be construed as reflecting upon the work of this outstanding organization in general. On the contrary, it deserves high praise for the accuracy and completeness of its reporting and for the enterprise
and open-mindedness it has always shown in developing its scope and technique.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

[846]

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 846

S ECURITY A NALYSIS

instead of to additions, endeavors to advance prices and the borrowing of money.
Sound investment must be strictly confined to expanding industries and preferably to companies showing progressive qualities through research activities. It must
necessarily include common stocks, since the supply of bonds and preferred stocks
in such groups is very limited. To allow for future retrogression, the investor must
set up amortization reserves out of his income and principal profits.
That this point of view reflects important truths underlying corporate affairs
and investment experience cannot be denied. But whether—in the form stated or
any approximation thereto—it supplies a sound and practicable pattern of investment is quite a different question. Some implications of this thesis may be noted:
1. Investments in growing industries and switches out of declining industries
are to be made regardless of current prices. If a large percentage of stock owners
followed this principle, the price of “good” stocks would advance sensationally,
whereas unpromising stocks would fall to almost nothing—regardless of their
earnings and assets. Neglect of the price factor in this theory must reflect the belief
either that the price makes no difference or that, on the average, investors do not
in fact have to pay too high a differential for good stocks. The first alternative is
clearly untenable; the second is more than doubtful. The behavior of the market
in the past decade already betrays the influence of this philosophy in the heavy
premiums being paid for growth stocks. Its further extension might work havoc.
2. The method prescribed is not nearly so simple as it sounds, except on the
side of avoidance. The investment accepted must meet both industry tests and a
number of requirements applicable to the individual company; the holder must
then be alert for the inevitable signs of impending decay and be ready to sell in
spite of satisfactory earnings or—conversely—of an unsatisfactory market level.
This general method involves the dilemma that either the number of eligible growth industries is so restricted that any large concentration of investment
therein becomes thoroughly impracticable, or else a generous bestowal of the
accolade will result in many mistakes or prompt reversals. Mead and Grodinsky
have had the courage to divide all industries into the expanding or the contracting category—listing 61 of the former and 50 of the latter. Certainly there must
be many borderline cases; in fact we should imagine that a very large middle
group would fall into the indecisive bracket and that confident statement would
be restricted to, say, the top and bottom quartiles.
More serious is the possibility that growth will cease without adequate warning and before the investor can reap his reward. A striking tendency for trend to
revise itself is found by comparing changes in the net earnings of industrial groups
from 1926 to 1930 (or 1928–1930) with the further change to 1936. Data for such

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 847

Appendix

[847]

a study may be found in the Mead and Grodinski tables or in the Standard Statistics Company’s compilations of net earnings of industrial groups for 1926 onward.
3. The counsel to avoid bonds of declining industries in favor of stocks of
expanding industries, given in amazingly categorical fashion,11 may be objected to
on additional grounds. The counselors are themselves at pains to point out (pages
461–462) that the sinking-fund device may retire the senior capital of nonexpanding enterprises before they are engulfed in the ultimate and inevitable collapse. Furthermore, to guard against the same tragic fate that awaits even the growing
company—but after a longer interval—Mead and Grodinsky insist (pages 465–467)
that the investor in its common stock must set up his own sinking fund out of dividends received or profits taken, so that only part thereof is really income. We should
think that the bonds of Swift & Co. (in a “declining industry”) deserve to be called
safe, for obvious quantitative reasons, even allowing for a reduced per capita consumption of meat in the future. But how the common stock of Johns Manville—a
leading issue in an “expanding industry”—can be called “safe,” regardless of whether
the investor bought at 155 in 1937 or 58 in 1938, passes our understanding.
4. The elaborate studies on which Mead and Grodinsky base their principle
of investment suggest other conclusions which should be of great value to stockholders. It may well be true that in many cases the onset of decline presages the
complete loss of earning power and the almost complete loss of stockholders’
equity and that management, however competent and resourceful, is powerless
to prevent the debacle. But if this is so, the owners of the business may have other
alternatives than merely to sell their shares in the open market for whatever they
will fetch. Would not exactly the same reasoning, which seeks to persuade the
individual holder to sell his stock, be more logically employed to persuade all
the stockholders to realize on their assets before they are dissipated?
We consider that The Ebb and Flow of Investment Values carries a powerful
argument in support of our own thesis (developed in Chaps. 43 and 44), viz., that
the persistence of market price below liquidating value is a signal that clamors to
be heeded; that it challenges the stockholders to find out whether their interest
requires the business to continue as before, to change its policies, to be sold or to
be partially or completely liquidated; and that, finally, the answer to this crucial
question should be sought not from the management—with its prejudices and
special interests—but from a competent and impartial outside agency.
11 “The record and the present situation show that, as far as safety is concerned, the common stocks
of the successful corporations of the expanding-industry groups which do not issue bonds are safer
than the bonds of the successful corporations in the declining-industry groups.” The Ebb and Flow of
Investment Values, p. 298, New York, 1939.

53_Graham_Dodd_App

7/1/08

8:07 PM

Page 848

Thank you for evaluating AnyBizSoft PDF
Merger! To remove this page, please
register your program!
Go to Purchase Now>>

AnyBizSoft

PDF Merger
 Merge multiple PDF files into one
 Select page range of PDF to merge

 Select specific page(s) to merge
 Extract page(s) from different PDF
files and merge into one

