Feeds Beta · Community 127K members · 2.3K online doll36312 Business Threads 1d It's Support Tuesday y'all! Let's connect and grow! Drop your business and contact information♥️♥️♥️
remotlale 7h Thriends,help me out. How do I explain to my family/friends that the fact that I own a business does not mean I always have lots of money? sociallyyourscollective 5h I
think a lot of entrepreneurial burnout comes from constantly feeling like you should be doing more danmartell 43m The fastest way to scale your company is to scale yourself. Most
"leadership problems" are unprocessed personal problems wearing a suit. prathipa_sara 1h Who else prefers Threads over other social media? 💁🏼‍♀️ hormozi 1h People will keep buying
from you if they’re rewarded by the purchase. garyvee 45m If your business is not good at social media, you're vulnerable to decline. lucy.shall Business Threads 7h Nobody warned
me that the hardest part of building a business wouldn’t be sales. It would be managing my own brain mose____ 8h Being SOCIAL on social media can open doors you’ve never imagined
for yourself. You can be as impactful as you want to be in this era. shopwithgabe 8h Entrepreneurship is like a fun version of hell. lucy.shall entrepreneur 9h The biggest lie in
entrepreneurship is that once you reach a certain level you’ll finally feel like you know what you’re doing taylorsmithonline 5h CALL FOR SPEAKERS & GUEST EXPERTS: who specialize
in personal branding, visibility, and thought leadership. If you work with founders and online business owners on becoming more recognizable online, we want you at Stand Out & Sell
Out. This is the topic this audience lives in. They need experts who can give specific, platform-relevant insight on what's working right now. Applications close June 15. Summit:
August 11–13. Want to speak?? Let me know ⬇️ chasehunterdimond 2h Marketing Rule: If they have to think, they won’t click. If they feel it instantly, they engage. Good marketing
feels obvious. zoesasha.co 8h Anyone else based in the UK building a business? 💃 dailyemailmarketing 1h Marketing Rule: If your content tries to impress, it might get likes. If it
tries to help, it gets customers. peterdiamandis 6h The cost of starting a company used to be $5 million. Then $500,000. Then $50,000. Now it is closer to $500. The only expensive
thing left is your unwillingness/fear to begin. dailymarketingtips 5h Marketing Tip: If you’re selling cakes, sell celebrations. If you’re selling cameras, sell memories. If you’re
selling music, sell escape. The product is secondary. The emotion is the hook. dotsokt 47m WORKERS: “CAN WE GET A SMALL RAISE?” CORPORATIONS: “NO.” ALSO CORPORATIONS: SPEND 10X
MORE ON CONSULTANTS TO FIGURE OUT WHY EMPLOYEES KEEP ASKING FOR A SMALL RAISE. matthgray 6h Hire people with: • High energy • High integrity • High work ethic • High intelligence
These 4 areas make up 80% of a great hire. iamjoshuaanthony Business Threads 20h Christian businesses wya let’s work! thecopywritingmama 5h I pray you land a dream client from the
next email you send. chriscox 3h A million businesses are now running our Business Agent tool on WhatsApp and Messenger to handle customer conversations and close sales. Today
we're making the agent available to businesses globally — and bringing it to Instagram. The early data shows this has been profoundly useful for many small business owners who
don’t have the time or budget to staff customer support teams, so we’re excited to bring this to much larger scale. nomad.copy 4h Today, I dare you to reply to a service provider's
email. Give 'em a compliment. It helps their deliverability and also helps with good ol' human connection. jadarhealyne Business Threads 13h If you’re an entrepreneur, you
literally cannot afford to not prioritize health & wellness. kamaraspice.xo Business Threads 23h I’m looking to rebrand my hair business. Please point me in right direction 🤗
themarcoscoppa 7h If you need to shrink yourself to fit in the room, CHANGE THE ROOM. irebammie Business Threads 10h Content that educates builds trust. Content that converts
solves buying problems. entrepreneurshipfacts 3h Luck gets far more credit than it deserves. People see the result and call it lucky. They never see the years of effort that made
the opportunity matter in the first place. The late nights. The setbacks. The sacrifices. The discipline to keep going when nothing seemed to be working. Opportunity shows up for
everyone at some point. The difference is that hard work makes you ready when it arrives. Luck might open the door. Effort is what gets you through it. coop.ecom 3h The harder you
work the luckier you get. 1 / 2 luxpointco Business Threads 7h One of the most common bookkeeping mistakes I see among creatives is recording Stripe deposits as income. Let's say
you invoice a client for $1,000. Stripe processes the payment and takes $29.30 in fees. The deposit that hits your bank account is $970.70. If you record the bank deposit as
income, your books will show $970.70 in revenue. But that's not what happened. You earned $1,000 in revenue and paid $29.30 in processing fees. 1 / 2 graphicsbakery 3h I just
checked my bank balance before paying the electric bill and felt proud the number was higher than the amount due. No celebration, just a quiet relief that used to be panic.
chesterbinalla 6h Well some opinions age differently once results show up… foundr 6h joanwestenberg 10h The 7 golden rules of not being a dick on the internet 1. No quote dunking.
If you disagree with someone, reply to them directly. Broadcasting their post to your audience with a snide caption turns a disagreement into a pile-on. Which is the entire point,
I know. But we're better than that, right? ...right? 1 / 7 _solanch_90 7h Creating false profiles online can lead to severe legal penalties—including fines, civil lawsuits, and
imprisonment—as well as permanent bans from social platforms. If the fake account is used to harass, defraud, or steal someone's identity, consequences escalate from account
suspension to felony criminal charges.The consequences of operating fake profiles vary depending on the intent and actions involved:Platform Bans: Social networks actively hunt for
bots and fake accounts. 1 / 4 batibott 6h Looking for a Social Media Manager for a restaurant in Makati our location is 22 Jupiter Bel Air Makati City (office near Salcedo
Village). If you're interested, feel free to send me a message. Thanks! itsbrittneycarter Business Threads 8h The older I get, the more I realize that proximity to me is a
privilege, not a right. I don’t owe unlimited access to people who consistently bring confusion, negativity, criticism, or scarcity into spaces I’ve worked so hard to create.
boardsbyveen Business Threads 17h If you’re looking for luxury charcuterie services in Los Angeles, I’m your girl 🙋🏾‍♀️ mayorofldn 2h Social media companies must be held
accountable for the harmful misogyny on their platforms. Bottom line: If these companies can’t guarantee children’s safety, then kids shouldn’t be on them. startupsbyindian 6h Ever
had tea in a Rolls Royce? This guy turned a simple tea business into a luxury experience, complete with a red carpet and a premium ride, and the results were incredible!
​#BusinessIdea #CreativeMarketing #LuxuryExperience #Innovation #EntrepreneurLife dr.riokashyap Business Threads 5h All the Daughters who are recovering from Narcissistic Family
Trauma while building a Business with a BIG vision, come park your a$$ right here really quickly: 1 / 5 millionoirexpo 4h 💧 This company gives away bottled water for free. How?
Brands pay to advertise on the bottle labels, covering the cost of production and distribution. Even better, part of the revenue helps fund clean water wells for communities in
need. 💡 A simple reminder that sometimes the biggest innovation isn't the product—it's the business model. #business #marketing #innovation #entrepreneurship USA themidlifewriter
Business Threads 7h I earned my Bachelor's of Business Administration in 1996. I distinctly remember the shift from, "the purpose of business is to solve problems and those
solutions generate profit" to "the purpose of business is to make money for shareholders" That shift creates a very different type of society. This shift was the takeover of the
Friedman doctrine which is a business ethics theory that ethical business practice is solely based in increasing profits. 1 / 6 themurchisonconsultinggroup Business Threads 6h
Everyone’s dunking on Allie Rose Co. this week. The more useful question is the one nobody’s asking. Allie Rose trademarked a phrase the book community built together, then asked
other small shops to pull their listings. Meanwhile the company’s own name sat unprotected. That’s the part actually worth studying. It’s a clean lesson in misplaced priorities. We
rush to fence off the thing that’s going viral and forget to protect the asset with our name on it. 1 / 2 itsbrittneycarter Business Threads 8h Because one misaligned person can
drain more energy than ten aligned people can restore. ldaviscreative Business Threads 21h I’m a business strategist / personal branding coach, but I don’t sell guarantees, hot
takes, hacks, and I’ll never promise you 874k months if you follow my framework. My goal is to live a purposeful meaningful life in part through a business I love. I only work with
people who want grounded, stable, growth themselves. They aren’t interested in being the loudest. They want sustainable work, confidence, peace between their ears as they build
what they love. (16+ years in biz doing it this way) 1/4 1 / 4 drawandcry.comic Business Threads 5h My first manga studio is gone. Two years chasing one dream with my closest
artist friends — publish our manga, make our films. One by one, they all left. I handed back the keys. What's left is just the memory. But I'm not done. That place taught me
everything. So I rebuilt it — smaller, at home, to survive. My wife, an artist too, is building it back with me. Starting over, out loud. Ever had to walk away from something you
built? What did it teach you? kerrietsystrategist Business Threads 12h I made £46,000 in my first year of business. £180,000 in the 3rd year. I’m not quite sure how I powered
myself through given I had a newborn / toddler for most of that 😅 matteopittalugaofficial 10h Iran is attacking again Kuwait and Bahrain, stay calm and look at the chessboard. #UAE
#Dubai #abudhabi Dubai, United Arab Emirates legalmiga Business Threads 1h Wondering why I’m in NYC this week? My second business venture, @thelegalmigalibrary , was accepted into
the Tory Burch Foundation Fellowship back in 2024. This year, the foundation has started its annual event for all the cohorts - 2016 through 2025. More wrap-ups to come but when
I’m going on and on about the rooms I somehow find myself in…these are the rooms. 🥹💚 itsbrittneycarter Business Threads 8h Become very clear on who is allowed in your ecosystem and
don’t be afraid to remove people who no longer align with where you’re headed. grantmitt Business Threads 23h A lot of success is just keeping your emotions intact. Don’t get too
high or too low. nadyamagdalenaa Business Threads 11h Hai haii Threads people! 👋😊 Currently aku lagi cari production team untuk support shooting interview session (full-day
production). Reference visual dan production quality yang dicari kurang lebih seperti video Julie Sweet dari Accenture (attached below) Feel free to share: • Portfolio / showreel •
Rate card atau budget range • Base location (preferably Jakarta, Tangerang, dan sekitarnya) Will review everything and reach out if it's a fit. Thank you and let’s collaborate!💻🫶🏻
here.she.stands Business Threads 17h We dont talk about rejection enough as entrepreneurs. I once DMd a content creator introducing myself and told her that I’d love to take her
photos as I do branding photography. She was in the building phase of her brand and I felt she could benefit from some branding photos. She responded saying she was definitely
interested because she had a podcast coming out and asked me to email her so we could chat more, so I did, but I never heard back from her. 🦗 1 / 2 buzz.indica feel_good_stories 8h
A woman travelling in a shared auto in Chennai found that the driver was a seven-time TEDx speaker who had addressed companies such as Google and Microsoft. A now-viral video
showed the auto stocked with newspapers, magazines, two working iPads and free Wi-Fi. The auto also carried a sign offering free rides to nurses, sanitary workers, teachers and
doctors. feel_good_stories terrancewilliams_ Business Threads 2h The Black Tulle Embroidered Duster 🖤🌸 1 / 2 apparelle_bcd Business Threads 5h more watches also at ₱250 each
xauusd_master_team001 Business Threads 6h @xauusd CONFIRM SELL 4458 TP4450 4440 4430 4420 SL4480 tinebagalacsa Business Threads 13h Hello! Curious lang ako, may mga young
entrepreneurs ba rito from Santa Rosa, Laguna? 😊 If meron, let’s connect! It would be awesome to build a community where we can exchange ideas, share experiences, discuss
challenges, and discover new opportunities together. And if you’re not an entrepreneur, you’re still very welcome! 1 / 2 mayrgrx Business Threads 13h Hello cebu! Esp. Minglanilla,
anyone diri into matcha? :( try our drinks we just opened weeks ago, mingawwww kaayo :( we're using ceremonial grade matcha btw :,> 📍Beside Minglanilla Jollibee 1 / 2 kenneeeeenng
Business Threads 15h Ano po ang dropshipping? Can someone help me to start po? jamardiggs Business Threads 17h My name is Jamar and I do entirely too much at one time, but I love
it 🤣 1. Working with @solution.integrators to leverage @dubsado in a fun way so I can strategically target a new niche audience. 2. I’m creating a new main lead magnet with
@natalietaylor.co that’s more aligned with the way I want to position my business and the impact we have on our members in the Low-Lift Club 3. Wrapped up a LinkedIn challenge with
@nicolemargueritegray and already received an inquiry from an agency owner! 1 / 2 builddiscipline_daily Business Threads 21h Self-awareness without action is just
self-entertainment. At some point, you have to do something with what you know. Follow @builddiscipline_daily for real discipline. © 2026 Threads Terms Privacy Policy Consumer
Health Privacy Policy Cookies PolicyFeeds Beta · Community 127K members · 2.3K online danmartell 44m The fastest way to scale your company is to scale yourself. Most "leadership
problems" are unprocessed personal problems wearing a suit. garyvee 46m If your business is not good at social media, you're vulnerable to decline. dotsokt 47m WORKERS: “CAN WE GET
A SMALL RAISE?” CORPORATIONS: “NO.” ALSO CORPORATIONS: SPEND 10X MORE ON CONSULTANTS TO FIGURE OUT WHY EMPLOYEES KEEP ASKING FOR A SMALL RAISE. prathipa_sara 1h Who else prefers
Threads over other social media? 💁🏼‍♀️ dailyemailmarketing 1h Marketing Rule: If your content tries to impress, it might get likes. If it tries to help, it gets customers. hormozi
1h People will keep buying from you if they’re rewarded by the purchase. legalmiga Business Threads 1h Wondering why I’m in NYC this week? My second business venture,
@thelegalmigalibrary , was accepted into the Tory Burch Foundation Fellowship back in 2024. This year, the foundation has started its annual event for all the cohorts - 2016
through 2025. More wrap-ups to come but when I’m going on and on about the rooms I somehow find myself in…these are the rooms. 🥹💚 chasehunterdimond 2h Marketing Rule: If they have
to think, they won’t click. If they feel it instantly, they engage. Good marketing feels obvious. mayorofldn 2h Social media companies must be held accountable for the harmful
misogyny on their platforms. Bottom line: If these companies can’t guarantee children’s safety, then kids shouldn’t be on them. terrancewilliams_ Business Threads 2h The Black
Tulle Embroidered Duster 🖤🌸 1 / 2 coop.ecom 3h The harder you work the luckier you get. 1 / 2 chriscox 3h A million businesses are now running our Business Agent tool on WhatsApp
and Messenger to handle customer conversations and close sales. Today we're making the agent available to businesses globally — and bringing it to Instagram. The early data shows
this has been profoundly useful for many small business owners who don’t have the time or budget to staff customer support teams, so we’re excited to bring this to much larger
scale. entrepreneurshipfacts 3h Luck gets far more credit than it deserves. People see the result and call it lucky. They never see the years of effort that made the opportunity
matter in the first place. The late nights. The setbacks. The sacrifices. The discipline to keep going when nothing seemed to be working. Opportunity shows up for everyone at some
point. The difference is that hard work makes you ready when it arrives. Luck might open the door. Effort is what gets you through it. graphicsbakery 3h I just checked my bank
balance before paying the electric bill and felt proud the number was higher than the amount due. No celebration, just a quiet relief that used to be panic. nomad.copy 4h Today, I
dare you to reply to a service provider's email. Give 'em a compliment. It helps their deliverability and also helps with good ol' human connection. millionoirexpo 4h 💧 This
company gives away bottled water for free. How? Brands pay to advertise on the bottle labels, covering the cost of production and distribution. Even better, part of the revenue
helps fund clean water wells for communities in need. 💡 A simple reminder that sometimes the biggest innovation isn't the product—it's the business model. #business #marketing
#innovation #entrepreneurship USA thecopywritingmama 5h I pray you land a dream client from the next email you send. taylorsmithonline 5h CALL FOR SPEAKERS & GUEST EXPERTS: who
specialize in personal branding, visibility, and thought leadership. If you work with founders and online business owners on becoming more recognizable online, we want you at Stand
Out & Sell Out. This is the topic this audience lives in. They need experts who can give specific, platform-relevant insight on what's working right now. Applications close June
15. Summit: August 11–13. Want to speak?? Let me know ⬇️ dr.riokashyap Business Threads 5h All the Daughters who are recovering from Narcissistic Family Trauma while building a
Business with a BIG vision, come park your a$$ right here really quickly: 1 / 5 drawandcry.comic Business Threads 5h My first manga studio is gone. Two years chasing one dream with
my closest artist friends — publish our manga, make our films. One by one, they all left. I handed back the keys. What's left is just the memory. But I'm not done. That place
taught me everything. So I rebuilt it — smaller, at home, to survive. My wife, an artist too, is building it back with me. Starting over, out loud. Ever had to walk away from
something you built? What did it teach you? © 2026 Threads Terms Privacy Policy Consumer Health Privacy Policy Cookies PolicyTo view keyboard shortcuts, press question mark View
keyboard shortcuts Business 14.2K posts See new posts Square profile picture and Opens profile photo Business @XBusiness Get better at X. Get better at business. business.x.com
Joined March 2010 369 Following 1.4M Followers Not followed by anyone you’re following Posts Replies Highlights Articles Media Business’s posts Square profile picture Business
@XBusiness · Mar 8 In honor of International Women’s Day, we are honoring the diverse and dynamic community of women on X. Image Square profile picture Business @XBusiness · Mar 8
From sports legends to pop culture icons, women creators on X are leading the way. Square profile picture Business @XBusiness · Mar 8 From real life to the timeline, women on X are
the driving force behind major conversations. Image Square profile picture Business @XBusiness · Mar 5 Article cover image X Introduces Creator Subscriptions 2.0, Content
Disclosures Today, X is introducing Creator Subscriptions 2.0, a significant revamp of our Subscriptions offering with new and improved features designed to help creators grow and
monetize their exclusive... Square profile picture Business @XBusiness · Mar 4 X is front row during the biggest global fashion moments of the year, fueling huge on-platform
numbers at the 2025 Met Gala. With the 2026 event around the corner, now is the time to launch your brand into the spotlight. Image Square profile picture Business @XBusiness · Mar
3 Quote Jon Shulkin @jon · Mar 3 Question for our enterprises. We are considering a free version of our Grok Enterprise product. Please send a reply or X Chat if interested.
Looking for enterprises with at least 50 employees. Square profile picture Business @XBusiness · Mar 3 Something big is coming soon... ⚽️🏆 --> 100 days From FIFA World Cup 0:00 /
0:38 Square profile picture Business @XBusiness · Mar 2 New from @XCreators 👇 You can now clearly disclose paid or incentivized with the “Paid Partnership” label. Quote Square
profile picture Creators @XCreators · Mar 1 We’re rolling out content disclosures to enhance transparency on the platform, starting with the “Paid Partnership” label. You can now
clearly disclose when organic content is paid for or incentivized by a third party, without having to include “ad” or “sponsored” in the copy. Square profile picture Business
@XBusiness · Feb 26 Article cover image X Enables Advertisers to Use Any Creative Ad Format Reuse Existing Social Media Creatives Directly on X – No Reformatting Required X today
announced expanded aspect ratio support for video and image ads, enabling advertisers to seamlessly reuse their... Square profile picture Business @XBusiness · Feb 24 From the
court to the timeline, @NBAAllStar Weekend was the main event! Basketball fans drove the conversation on X, generating: › 1.9M posts (+7% YoY) › 1.5B impressions › 189M video views
Square profile picture Business @XBusiness · Feb 23 Global moments come to life on X! @milanocortina26 took the world by storm, and sports fans flocked to the timeline—generating
massive numbers since the opening ceremony: › 4.2M posts › 10.5B impressions › 186M engagements Square profile picture Business @XBusiness · Feb 19 The Daytona 500 revved up the
timeline, fueling nonstop conversation on X: › 187M impressions › 29M video views › 3.5M engagements You might like Square profile picture Google @Google Square profile picture X
@X Square profile picture Forbes @Forbes Show more Trending now What’s happening Scary Movie In theatres this Friday Promoted by Scary Movie Politics · Trending Charlottesville
Business and finance · Trending #WhyIChime Sports · Trending Ryan Nemeth Show more Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy | Accessibility | Ads info | More © 2026 X
Corp. To view keyboard shortcuts, press question mark View keyboard shortcuts Top Latest People Media Lists See new posts Search timeline Noah @antibearthesis · May 31 The
Magnificent 7 has an imposter. Image Square profile picture NewsWire @NewsWire_US · Jun 1 Microsoft Bans Claude Code After AI Costs More Than The Humans It Replaced GREG ISENBERG
@gregisenberg · 23h There's probably $100+ billion up for grabs for people who build startup for AI agents Over the next 10 years you're going to have a market of billions of
customers (agents) with millions of wallets that want to use your services. TLDR; The internet was built for people: 1. Show more 0:00 / 14:00 Vlad Tenev @vladtenev · 3h The next
era of consumer finance is agentic. Quote Square profile picture Robinhood @RobinhoodApp · 4h What if your AI agent could purchase a domain, set up a website, and earn you 3% cash
back at the same time? The agentic credit card was built for intelligent, secure spending. Just connect an AI agent to the Robinhood Banking MCP server, select your preferences,
and you're all voided @voided · Jun 2 5 things I know at 28 that I wish I understood at 20: -Don’t finance a car -Open up a Roth IRA -How you spend you 5-9 is more important than
your 9-5 -Being kind costs $0 -Invest ASAP (even $10/week) ⚡︎ @_sorrengailll · May 28 Why are jobs paying $17 an hour when rent starts at like 2600 😭 Samrah @_Chemist1 · 4h Life
gets SIGNIFICANTLY better when you don’t tell people all of your business. Privacy is protection! Jelitics @Jelitics · Jun 1 Same bank account, 4 years apart. Image Image greg
@greg16676935420 · Jun 1 I bet the other 24 letters are pissed Quote Square profile picture WOLF @WOLF_Financial · Jun 1 Alphabet is raising $80 Billion by selling stock to invest
in AI Image siruotech @siruotech · 15h Replying to @siruotech 3 ways I'm rethinking content & growth systems: • Agents get full business context • Granular, pixel-level iteration •
Zero-cost app distribution K三 凯 @kaikaibtc · Jun 1 Translated from Chinese I distilled Serenity and Crux, these two U.S. stock maniacs, into an automated investment research Agent.
Last week, I scraped 1,073 tweets from Serenity ( @aleabitoreddit )—32x returns in 5 months. This time, I scraped the second guy—Crux Capital ( @crux_capital_ ), 647 original Show
more Image Image Kai @hqmank · 18h 🎁 Quick update: ChatGPT Business promo codes are showing up in multiple regions today. This is not free. It looks like a buy 1, get 1 style promo
for the 2-seat Business plan. UK, US, Germany, India, Canada, France, Switzerland, and UAE. Region matters. Your checkout country Show more Image Sonny @rawespresso · Apr 24 > get
a job - any job > put 10% of every paycheck into S&P 500 > cover your basics - rent, food, phone, transport > cut everything else > use your remaining time and money to learn a
skill the market actually pays for > use that skill to start an online business or land a higher Show more Quote Callum Lyon @CallumLyon · Apr 23 Being broke while working full
time has quietly become normal. You do everything right, show up, work hard, stay consistent, and still find yourself with nothing left just a couple of weeks after payday. Jason
Luongo @JasonL_Capital · 5h 10 stocks I will continue to buy more of for my long-term portfolio: 1. $NVDA - Nvidia Data center revenue $75.2B last quarter, up 92% YoY - now 92% of
total sales. Guided $91B next quarter. Blackwell is the fastest product ramp in their history. Targeting $1 trillion in Show more Kai @hqmank · Jun 2 🎁 Quick update: ChatGPT
Business promo code for Australia 🇦🇺 2 seats show A$25 due today after an A$45 promo discount. The discount shows for 48 months. Australia region only. Your checkout country + IP
need to match Australia. If no discount shows, don’t subscribe. Link 👇 Image Search filters People From anyone People you follow Location Anywhere Near you Advanced search Today’s
News Arrest Warrant Issued for 49ers' Brandon Aiyuk Over Speeding Video Trending now · Sports · 1,549 posts Mayor Criticizes Cop Who Quit for Love Island USA 4 hours ago ·
Entertainment · 6,950 posts Animation Reconstructs Final Moments of Italian Divers Lost in Maldives Cave Trending now · News · 218 posts Trending now What’s happening Scary Movie
In theatres this Friday Promoted by Scary Movie Politics · Trending Charlottesville Business and finance · Trending #WhyIChime Sports · Trending Ryan Nemeth Show more Who to follow
Square profile picture Fastlane @UseFastlane Remotion @Remotion Shams Charania @ShamsCharania Show more Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy | Accessibility | Ads info
| More © 2026 X Corp. Introduction 0:02 hey I'm Chris from cinti Studios and in 0:04 this video we'll look at how to import 0:06 and edit one of our characters in 0:07 blender in
unity we'll head to the Import FBX in to Blender 0:09 models folder and we'll look for the 0:11 characters model some of our packs may 0:12 have a folder for the fixed scale 0:14
characters if that's the case then we'll 0:15 use this one instead so we'll get the 0:17 location of the model 0:19 more open up blender then we'll import 0:21 the model file
import 0:24 fbx we'll paste in the folder of our 0:26 model 0:27 and we'll import now you'll find it'll 0:29 come in looking like a bit of a mess so 0:30 to fix that go to pose
mode pose clear 0:34 transform all and that'll reset the pose 0:36 of our character and we'll go back to 0:38 object mode now we'll want to apply the Applying the material to the
model 0:40 texture to our model under the shading 0:42 tab click on the model 0:44 open again we'll paste in that folder of 0:46 our character if we go back up a few 0:48
directories to the textures and I'll 0:50 bring in polygon sci-fi o1a Selecting a single character 0:53 that does still look quite messy to edit 0:55 and if we look under the
Armature it's 0:56 because it includes every character from 0:58 the pack in the one model if you're 1:00 wanting to keep all of these in the one 1:01 model and Export everything
out as it 1:03 was originally and we can turn off 1:05 everything under the Armature holding 1:06 shift press the I icon and let go of 1:09 shift turn it back on 1:11 and then we
can edit each character 1:12 individually 1:13 for the tutorial we'll be editing the 1:15 augmented mail and we'll just get rid of 1:17 the rest of these as I'll export just 1:19
the Single Character we won't get too in 1:21 depth with what we actually do with the Making some tweaks to the model 1:22 character as we've already done a few 1:24 blender
tutorials in the past and 1:25 everything we've done in those also 1:27 applies to the character I will make a 1:29 couple of little basic tweaks to the 1:30 model we'll also
change a few of the 1:32 colors and we'll apply additional 1:33 material slot to a few of the faces 1:35 let's start off we'll select our 1:37 character and go into edit mode
pressing 1:40 on the keyboard for vertex select select 1:42 just these parts of the face that's the 1:44 scale 1:45 climb on the sword 1:51 just to give us a slightly different
1:52 shape to the mouth and we'll look at 1:54 changing some of the colors so under the 1:55 UV editing tab zoom in on our character 1:58 and we'll just change to viewport 1:59
shading just so we can see the colors 2:02 three on our keyboard will take us back 2:04 into face select mode and hovering over 2:05 this little facial hair we can press L 2:07 on
the keyboard again 2:09 and we can reassign the color 2:11 do the same for the hair hover over here 2:13 press L on the keyboard to link select 2:15 select all the faces we want to
give him 2:18 some nice dark hair 2:21 and we'll do the same with his eyebrows 2:25 you can basically go through your entire 2:26 model just following that same principle 2:28
selecting your faces and then 2:30 reassigning the colors then the last 2:31 thing we'll do with this character is Assigning a second material slot 2:33 these faces here will
separate them out 2:35 to a separate material slot I'll change 2:37 it to an emissive part of the texture 2:39 and then we can control that in an 2:40 animation in unity so with
the model 2:42 selected tab to go to edit mode and this 2:44 part in here I'll just manually select 2:46 as if I hover over using L to do the 2:48 link select you can see it's
going to 2:50 give me the sides also I just want to 2:52 change the bottom part of this 2:54 if I hold control and it will just 2:56 follow around in a straight line 2:59 so with
that selected if we go to the 3:01 shading tab 3:02 and you can see here we have slot one 3:04 so we add an additional slot go back 3:07 into edit mode again we still have those
3:08 faces selected so in this drop down we 3:11 can assign them to the second slot then 3:13 with the second slot selected we'll just 3:15 assign the polygon material 3:17 now
we'll look at sending these faces to 3:19 the emissive color we'll get all of 3:20 these selected again 3:23 and we have all the remiss of colors 3:25 down here 3:26 we'll set
these to an emissive white Export from Blender to Unity 3:28 color and we'll export this back out 3:29 into Unity while export fbx export this 3:32 out directly into one of the
folders 3:34 that's part of our Unity project in this 3:36 case I'll call mine edited character and 3:37 press export now back in unity you can 3:40 see it's popped into our game
so with 3:41 the character selected go to rig add 3:43 this to humanoid and apply the materials 3:46 we'll just set these to none as we'll 3:47 apply these ourselves and we'll drag
him 3:50 into our scene back in our materials 3:51 folder we'll be using polygon Sapphire 3:53 01a and we'll duplicate that and for the 3:57 duplicate we'll call this 01a character
4:00 and back to our character you can now 4:02 see we have the two material slots so 4:04 for the first slot we'll drag in i1a for 4:07 the second slot we'll drag in a 1A 4:09
character 4:10 and then for the o1a character material 4:13 we set the Albedo to a darker color like 4:15 black 4:17 and then with our emission 4:20 we can just drive the emission
color in 4:22 our animation 4:23 you can check out the video here on 4:25 setting up an animation so we have our 4:27 editor character in our game ready to go Outro 4:30 I hope you
found the tutorial useful if 4:33 there is anything specific that you want 4:34 to see more of then let us know in the 4:36 comments subscribe to the channel to 4:38 keep up to
date with all of our newest 4:39 videos or check out our community 4:41 Discord the link is in the description All From the series From Synty Studios Video game development
BlendersInto and troubleshooting Unity terrains 0:00 Hello. Today we're in the Polygon Samurai Empire pack and I'm going to be showing you 0:04 a couple of things about setting up
and using the Unity terrains. First of all, 0:08 a couple of troubleshooting tips. If your terrain is shiny like you see here, then what you need 0:12 to do is go to the base
texture and change the compression from high quality to normal quality. 0:18 And if you've opened up Unity 6 and you've got this shadowy bug when you try to paint textures, 0:22
one of the things you can try to do is go to your project settings and change from DX12 to 0:27 DX11. As for setting up the terrain itself, what you want to do is create a 3D
object terrain and Create and configure a terrain 0:33 go to the terrain settings and change the scale a lot lower because it's quite big by default, 0:38 especially the height.
Then what I like to do is to change the terrain height because by default 0:43 it is at its lowest point. So what you want to do is raise it a little bit and then set 0:46 height.
You can shift click to get a sample of what height you want and then just cover the 0:50 whole terrain. Then as you can see here, you can raise the terrain up and also dig down.
This is 0:56 also now a good opportunity to test your maximum height and depth and tweak as necessary. Next, Terrain textures and layers 1:01 we need to add some terrain textures.
So, we're going to in your project window, create a terrain 1:07 layer, create a grass, for example, and then just select the texture and the normal map. And then 1:13 we're going
to come back to the terrain settings and add a new terrain layer. Add any extra layers 1:18 that you might need. And you can use the brushes tab to change how the tool paints 1:23
onto the terrain. Here I've grabbed a couple of buildings from the demo scene. And as you can see, Painting and blending a terrain 1:28 painting on a few different layers of
different textures really helps set it into the scene. You 1:32 can very quickly improve the look by adding in some ground prefabs like rocks and gravels and 1:37 tiles to add that
3D element that really sells it as part of the world. For trees, you can either Adding trees and grass to your terrain 1:42 manually place the prefabs or you can go to the tree tab
and add the prefabs and use the terrain 1:47 tools to quickly paint them in at different scales and rotations. For grass, you can either use the 1:52 same technique if you have
prefabs. Uh, in this case, I'm using a grass texture and using the 1:56 builtin Unity terrain grass system. It's best to paint a patch of grass first and then modify it 2:01 from
there before continuing to dress the rest of the scene. You can also add them as a detail mesh, 2:06 but it does not support LOD groups, so it can be a little heavier. For our
maps, we do manually place 2:11 all of our prefabs just to make sure it is in the exact spot that we want it to be. But if you are 2:15 making a bigger scene, it makes sense to use
some tools to help speed up the process. Final step to Adding post processing effects to your scene 2:20 improve the look is to add some camera post effects. If you're using the
universal render 2:24 pipeline, you need to add a global volume to your scene. And from there, you can add overrides. 2:29 And I'd recommend a baseline of bloom, color adjustments,
vignette, and lift gamma gain. That's Outro 2:35 all for today. I hope you have found this video helpful, and good luck with your world creation. All From the seriesIntro & Project
Setup 0:05 I'm Chris from cinti Studios and today 0:06 we'll be taking a look at how to get one 0:08 of our cinti polygon characters working 0:10 with our base Locomotion pack so
to get 0:12 started we need to import the new input 0:14 system these steps are generally the 0:15 same across all versions of unity that 0:17 the base Locomotion pack supports go
to 0:19 window package manager and we'll change 0:22 the filter to Unity 0:24 registry and in the search we'll type in 0:27 input and we'll install the input system 0:31 once this
finishes installing we'll be 0:32 prompted to restart Unity so we can 0:34 click yes now the unity is restarted 0:37 we'll bring in the base Locomotion 0:40 pack and press 0:43
import and we'll bring in some polygon 0:45 characters for the tutorial I'll be 0:46 using the ancient Egypt pack so we'll 0:49 import that in and again we'll click 0:53 import
with everything imported we'll 0:55 just prep this scene ready to start so 0:57 we'll delete the main camera and then 0:58 under game object 3D object we'll bring 1:01 in a plane
and we'll just make this a 1:03 little bit 1:04 bigger now this is where the steps will Unity 2022 and newer 1:06 differ a little depending on the version 1:08 of unity you're
using so first off we'll 1:10 cover Unity 2022 and newer we'll need to 1:13 bring in the base Locomotion character 1:15 prefab into our scene so under cinti 1:18 animation base
Locomotion samples 1:22 prefabs we'll bring in the PF 1:26 player then with our prefab selected 1:28 we'll click open 1:30 then we'll go down to the polygon CTI 1:32 character and
we'll click the padlock to 1:34 make it a little easier and we'll locate 1:36 the character that we want to use so 1:37 mine is in cinti polygon ancient Egypt 1:40 prefabs
characters and where you see the 1:43 prefab option here we'll drag one of our 1:45 characters in and we'll click replace 1:48 and keep over ODS we'll go back to our 1:50 scene
press 1:53 play and now our character is ready to 1:56 use and we'll cover that same process in Unity 2021 1:59 unity 20 21 we have the same scene so 2:02 we'll bring in the
character prefab 2:03 under cinti animation base Locomotion 2:06 samples 2:08 prefabs we'll drag in the PF uncore 2:10 player and right click prefab unpack 2:14 completely and
we'll open this up and 2:16 we'll find the character we want to use 2:18 so in our case it's cinti polygon 2:20 ancient Egypt prefabs characters we'll 2:24 bring in one of the
characters under PF 2:26 player and again we'll unpack the prefab 2:29 and we'll EXP span both of these under 2:31 the polygon Cent character we'll delete 2:34 the mesh and the RO
the FR new character 2:37 will bring in the mesh and the roote 2:39 underneath our polygon CTI 2:41 character and this one here we can now 2:43 delete then we need to set the
