and positioning a company. It’s important at the outset that you are clear about what you are trying to position. Startups generally start with just a single product. If that
product is successful, you may add another at some point in the future. It’s important to note that many companies become very successful and large with only one main offering.
Many of the software brands we love, including Slack, Basecamp, Twilio and Box, are all very large, single-product companies today. Outside of software, brands like Zippo and WD -
40 do hundreds of millions in revenue with a single product. Beyond those, most of the big brands we know spent a very long time selling only a single product before they added a
second. Crocs sold over a billion dollars of colorful foam shoes before they moved into other types of footwear. Salesforce was a single-product company for over ten years before
moving beyond their core CRM offering. In the early days of a company with a single product, positioning the product and the company as the same thing is the easiest path to
establishing a brand in the minds of customers, because there are simply fewer things to remember. It makes sense for single-product companies to have the same name, brand and
positioning for the company and the product, simply so customers don’t have to figure out two things versus a single thing. If you are a single-product company that currently has a
company brand and a product brand, I strongly recommend focusing on your product and putting your energy into marketing and selling that. Customers need to understand product
positioning in order to find and evaluate a product. They don’t need to know or understand that the company is something separate from that product, when it currently exists to
sell only one product. Companies that have multiple products in the market need to think about product positioning and company positioning as separate but highly linked things. If
sold individually, each product will have its own positioning that helps customers understand why they might consider buying it. Company positioning is a broader umbrella that
helps customers understand why they should consider multiple offerings from the company. I get asked a lot if a multi-product company should tackle individual-product positioning
or company positioning first. The answer depends partly on how much of your revenue comes from selling a single product versus multiple products and partly on your sales process.
If most customers first encounter your company through the purchase of a particular product, I would position that single product first. Sometimes, companies sell a product as a
way to start working with a customer and then will sell that same customer additional products to expand their business. In this case, I’d start by positioning the first product
because it’s the most important to the business. If the company mainly sells a group of products together, I would position the company first, and worry about how much to focus on
positioning products individually later. The positioning process outlined in this book can be used for a single product or for a company. For the most part I will assume you are
positioning a product, so if you are tasked with positioning a company you will need to replace “product” with “the entire portfolio of offerings.” Positioning Story: Wave expands
beyond “accounting” to “financial services” Near the end of 2010, Kirk Simpson and James Lochrie launched Wave Accounting, cloud-based accounting software targeted at small
business owners who were using spreadsheets, documents and shoeboxes to manage their finances. “We wanted to deliver accounting that was incredibly easy to use and get started
with,” Kirk explains. “To get these owners off the sidelines, we decided to offer Wave for free, and we could then make money through advertising and offers.” Customers loved it,
and by 2013, they had over 500,000 businesses using their solution. As the company grew, however, it became clear that even with hundreds of thousands of businesses, advertising
alone wasn’t going to get them to their revenue goals. At the same time, Wave started to see shifts in the markets around them. Customers were increasingly adopting digital
invoicing with embedded online payments, and were asking for services like payroll and other financial products. “We kept asking ourselves what a small business bank would look
like if you could design it from the ground up today,” says Kirk. “We started to see ourselves as much more of a financial services provider for small businesses and knew that if
we could seamlessly blend financial products into our core accounting software that small businesses would be better served.” That shift in company positioning set off a series of
changes across Wave. In 2013 they dropped “Accounting” from their name to simply become “Wave,” and their new messaging focused on “managing business finances.” Their business
model also shifted as they announced new services including payroll and payments that were available on a transaction fee basis, while the core accounting and invoicing remained,
as always, free. “When we were ‘accounting software,’ we sometimes had a hard time getting customers to understand that we provided other products like payroll or payments or now
even credit products. As that became more core to our business, it made sense to put that at the center of how we described what we do. Today we’re ‘financial software.’ Most of
our new customers still find us when they are looking for accounting or invoicing software, but it’s more obvious now that we can also provide them many of the financial products
they need to be successful, all deeply embedded into the software.” The shift in positioning has helped them grow to over 4 million customers in 2019, tracking more than $ 200
billion in income and expenses and processing billions of dollars through their platform. STEP 2 . Form a Positioning Team A positioning process works best when it’s a team effort,
ideally from across different functions within the company. Each team, from sales to marketing to customer success, can bring a unique point of view relative to how customers
perceive and experience the product. Assembling a team often exposes how different groups in your company hold certain assumptions about your attributes, value and target markets.
In your first meeting, you need to expose all of those ideas and work through a positioning exercise that aligns the whole team with the desired results. Your goal is to
effectively work toward developing a new position for your product that the entire company understands and agrees with. Who should be there? The person responsible for the business
of that particular product must be in the room and be seen as driving the positioning effort. Positioning is a business strategy exercise—the person who owns the business strategy
needs to fully support the positioning, or it’s unlikely to be adopted. In startups, the head is the CEO and/or the founders. In larger companies, the head is usually the division
or business unit leader and occasionally the head of marketing or head of product. A positioning exercise that is not a team effort driven by the business leader will fail. I’m
frequently asked if positioning is something that the marketing department should “own.” In my experience, the head of marketing is often the first to feel the pain of weak
positioning and therefore often kicks off a positioning discussion inside the company. But marketing can’t “own” positioning, in the same way marketing can’t “own” the overall
business strategy. It’s simply too broad and too important to live in one silo of the overall company. Positioning impacts every group in the organization. Consider these outputs
that all flow from positioning: Marketing: messaging, audience targeting and campaign development Sales and business development: target customer segmentation and account strategy
Customer success: onboarding and account expansion strategy Product and development: roadmaps and prioritization Positioning is intertwined with the overall business strategy and
therefore needs to be led by the business leader. Because positioning impacts the overall team in significant ways, the leaders of each business function must also agree with and
execute the positioning, so they should be involved in developing it. You will also want each group represented because they often hold very different perspectives on competitive
alternatives, unique features and the characteristics of a best-fit customer. Marketing, sales and customer success interact with customers at very different points in the buyer
journey. Product development may have less direct interaction with customers than other folks in the room, but they will have an important perspective on competitive
differentiators and what is and is not possible to do with the product. “It’s no use of talking unless people understand what you say.” ZORA NEALE HURSTON You want engagement from
every group because you need buy-in from every group. Although there is great value in having representation from different company functions, you also want to make sure you don’t
have too many people in the room. In my experience, having one or at most two senior folks from a functional group is enough. With too many people in the room, it’s hard to hear
from each group and you run the risk of having one or two groups dominate the discussion. I’ve seen positioning team meetings run well with as few as three people and as many as
twelve. Who will facilitate the discussion? I have run dozens of positioning workshops and I’m often brought in after internal attempts to tighten positioning have failed. I highly
recommend bringing in an experienced facilitator to guide the positioning discussion. Having someone from outside the company facilitate the discussion will make the exercise much
more productive and balanced. In the positioning workshops I run, I consistently hear that discussions about bigger strategic issues are difficult without someone from the outside
making sure everyone’s voice is heard. I also hear how helpful it is for the facilitator to gently challenge long-held assumptions that seem cast in stone and untouchable. STEP 3 .
Align Your Positioning Vocabulary and Let Go of Your Positioning Baggage In order to consider possible new ways to think about a product, we have to consciously set aside our old
ways of thinking about it. To do that, we need a common positioning vocabulary. For your team to develop a new position, they need a common understanding of the goal and expected
outcomes. Some team members might come with preconceived notions about what positioning is and how it should be done. If you have managed to gather the senior team to work on
strengthening a product’s positioning, the last thing you want is to spend half the day arguing about what the heck positioning is. In the workshops I run, I set aside the first
hour to go over positioning concepts and definitions with the team. At a minimum, the team needs to be on the same page regarding: What positioning means and why it is important
Which components make up a position and how we define each of those How market maturity and competitive landscape impact the style of positioning you choose fo r a product “We have
the power to imagine better.” J.K. Rowling Let go of your positioning baggage. The goal of the 10- Step Positioning Process is to find the best position for a product, one that
puts the product in the context of a market where it can easily win because the product has obvious benefits over alternatives. If we have always thought of our product in one
way—as competing in a particular market, or solving a particular problem—it’s hard to see it in any other way. The reality is that most products can be many things to many types of
buyers. There are lots of examples of products that have historically been sold for one purpose, but as markets shifted, they became better known in a completely different market.
Take, for example, Arm & Hammer baking soda. Invented in 1846, baking soda, as the name suggests, was used for baking. The inventors created it in their kitchen and sold it in
paper bags. It was wildly popular and the creators slowly grew the business, selling more and more baking soda until Arm & Hammer was truly a household name. Then, in the 1970s,
markets began to shift. As packaged food was on the rise and baking on the decline, sales of baking soda began to flatline. The inventors knew that another feature of baking soda
was its ability to absorb odors; indeed, some consumers were already putting open boxes of Arm & Hammer in the fridge to help control bad smells. The company could have decided
that odor control was not a market they wanted to be in. After all, would anyone really want to bake with a deodorant? But Arm & Hammer decided to let go of the past and focus on
markets where they could be successful in the future. They started advertising their current product as a deodorizer for refrigerators and later launched packaging specifically
designed for use in a fridge. Converted consumers were now buying a new box every thirty days. The repositioning drove product sales from $ 16 million in 1969 to over $ 318 million
by 1987. The repositioning led to other innovations as well—as Arm & Hammer became known as a deodorizer, the brand naturally extended to products for deodorizing everything from
cat litter to underarms. The starting point of this growth was Arm & Hammer’s willingness to let go of their old way of thinking about the product. Freeing your mind from patterns
of the past isn’t always easy. Thoughts about the evolution of a product, from its conception to launch, are often baked into the initial positioning. Customers don’t have the same
baggage—they know nothing about the history of the product when they first encounter it. Market confusion starts with our disconnect between understanding the product as product
creators, and understanding the product as customers first perceive it. The positioning team needs to understand the concept of “positioning baggage” before they can attempt to let
go of it. You might find that each team member has a different level of positioning baggage—founders and long-time employees might view the product from the full perspective of its
history, while newer employees do not. Start by calling out where your history appears in your current positioning. Is your current market the one identified when you imagined the
product? Do you use terminology and describe features in the same way as when you started? Being conscious of the presence of your history in your current position will help
everyone be open to alternatives. The most important part of this step is to get agreement from the team that, although the product was created with a certain market and audience
in mind, it may no longer be best positioned that way. The team needs to agree to suspend their opinions about the positioning of the product for the duration of the exercise so
they can be open to n ew ideas. Positioning Story: Clearpath Robotics steering robots toward autonomous vehicles Clearpath Robotics was founded by a group of friends with a shared
love of robots. The business began providing solutions that made it easier to do robotics research, a pain they felt themselves in university when messing around with robots in the
lab. They eventually came up with a new idea: a robot that could be used in industrial facilities to move around intelligently, picking up and delivering materials. Having
stretched the idea of what a robot could do in a manufacturing environment, Clearpath’s next challenge was to create context help their customers understand the robot. “Our systems
go way beyond those of a traditional manufacturing robot,” says director of product, Simon Drexler. “Traditional robotics are stationary and complete repetitive tasks. Our products
move around using mapping and mobile sensor technology. Concepts like ‘dispatch’ and ‘fleet management’ are not associated with stationary manufacturing robots.” In other words,
every time Clearpath started a conversation with a manufacturing prospect, they positioned their product as “a robot,” but then proceeded to explain why their robots were nothing
like the robots that manufacturers were used to. Positioning themselves in the robot category put them in direct comparison with other robot vendors whose solutions were nothing
like Clearpath’s offering. Confused customers were then left to try to figure out how a roving, intelligent, movement-and-delivery solution fit into their current set of
assumptions about robots’ capabilities. Clearpath needed to create a new way of thinking to help customers understand what was so special about their offering. Clearpath’s
innovation was their ability to autonomously navigate around a space in an intelligent and dynamic manner. To many people, that sounds like what a self-driving car does. Clearpath
decided there was a new way to think about what they do. They were creating self-driving vehicles for industrial uses. To drive home this positioning, they created a new division
called OTTO Motors and enhanced their industrial design to add white “headlights” and red “taillights” to their vehicles. Their website and sales materials look more like what you
would see from a car manufacturer than a robotics tech startup. This shift in thinking had a big impact on their business. It made their unique strengths—mobility, mapping,
dispatch, fleet management—central to their positioning and completely obvious to customers. Not only did their sales accelerate, but investors took notice and after their
repositioning, they raised $ 30 million to accelerate their growth. They even won Silver at the prestigious Edison Awards honoring innovations and innovators. STEP 4 . List Your
True Competitive Alternatives Customers don’t always see competitors the same way we do, and their opinion is the only one that matters for positioning. It’s natural for product
creators to start by looking at the product and its features to determine the best market, and then build a context around that. As product people, it’s often the place where we
feel most comfortable. After all, who knows more about our solution than us? But you need to look at those features from a customer’s point of view. The features of our product and
the value they provide are only unique, interesting and valuable when a customer perceives them in relation to alternatives. Although every component of positioning is related to
other components, the foundation is the problem your customers are trying to solve, and how they perceive your offering in comparison with other ways of solving the problem. If
problems are the root, why not start by asking customers what problems they’re trying to solve? Customers, although well-versed in their problems, are often terrible at describing
them in a way that gives product creators enough nuance to make decisions. For example, at one startup I worked at, we asked customers what problem they were trying to solve by
using our database product. Our users were generally database administrators, and their answers were typically quite specific and technical: “We just want to run a fast query” or
“We have to produce a report, so we need to retrieve data from a very large database very quickly.” From those answers, I could assume they viewed our database as one that can
quickly execute queries. But when we asked them what they would use if our database didn’t exist, none of them named another database; instead, they suggested business intelligence
tools or data warehouses. Understanding the customer’s problem wasn’t enough—to really understand how they perceived our strengths and weaknesses, we needed to understand the
alternatives to which they compared us. Customers always group solutions in categories, but talking to them about problems doesn’t necessarily reveal those categories. You need to
create a position that highlights the unique strengths of your product as customers perceive them. To do that, you need to understand who your real competitors are in the minds of
customers. Many companies have weak positioning precisely because they don’t clearly understand their true competitive alternatives in the minds of customers. Understand what a
customer might replace you with in order to understand how they categorize your solution. The best way to understand competitive alternatives is to answer the question, What would
our best customers do if we didn’t exist? The answer could be that they would use another product that looks like a direct competitor with you. But often that’s not the case. For
many new products, the answer is “use a pen and paper” or “hire an intern to do it.” Some of the startups I work with have ideas so innovative that customers don’t even understand
that they have a problem—if the product didn’t exist, they would simply “do nothing.” When I go through this exercise in workshops, teams will often want to create an exhaustive
list of every possible alter­native. That’s fine, but I encourage the team to (1) remain focused on the best-fit customer list and name only what those customers would see as an
alternative, and (2) rank the list from most common to least common. This way, the team focuses on the most common alternatives and won’t worry as much about rare ones. Focus on
your best customers and what they would identify as alternative solutions. You may have some edge-case customers who are aware of smaller companies or who have a unique reason for
considering an alternative, but you’re trying to focus on the general case for your best customers. Don’t forget that you are an expert in solutions in this space and quite likely
understand the real competitive landscape much better than customers do. If a competitor has a small number of customers, they are likely to have zero mindshare with prospects and
should not be listed as a real competitive alternative. Would a customer really use them if you didn’t exist? Probably not, since few of them are doing so today. What would the
majority of your best customers really do? The competitive alternatives often naturally cluster, and if so, it’s helpful to group them. For example, there might be a group called
“do it manually” that includes “hire an intern” and “do it myself with Excel” and another group called “use a small-business accounting solution” that includes QuickBooks,
FreshBooks, etcetera. Grouping the alternatives helps the team move to the next step. In my experience, teams usually end up with a minimum of two and a maximum of five groups of
alternatives. STEP 5 . Isolate Your Unique Attributes or Features Strong positioning is centered on what a product does best. Once you have a list of competitive alternatives, the
next step is to isolate what makes you different and better than those alternatives. In this step you need to stay focused on features and capabilities (also called attributes),
rather than the value that those features drive for customers (we will get to that in Step 6). I define features as something your product or company has or does. Some examples of
features: “a 15-megapixel camera,” “integrates with QuickBooks,” “one-click installation” and “metal construction.” In this step, list all of the capabilities you have that the
alternatives do not. List every attribute you can think of, even if it seems like it could be a negative to certain customers and even if you’re uncertain what its value might be.
For tech companies, patented features are an obvious place to start. Sometimes it is helpful to think about the feedback you get from customers when you ask them why they chose
your offering. You might be the only consulting business with a certain combination of skills and experience. You might be the only company with a certain technology or a certain
set of partnerships. You might be the only hat maker that sources materials from Canada or the only makeup that is made from herbs grown in your own organic garden. It’s OK to list
things here that some folks on the team might think of as negative. A software company in one of my workshops talked about how they were the only company on the market that
required a professional services team to come onsite to install the software. The head of sales felt that was a negative, because it took longer for a company to get up and running
with the software. The head of customer service saw it as a uniquely positive attribute, because certain customers wanted that type of customization and high-touch service. Your
opinion of your own strengths is irrelevant without proof. Some groups at this stage will list features that are either difficult to prove or really more of a benefit than a
feature. “We provide outstanding customer service” is probably the most common of these, followed by “very easy to use.” Focus on the characteristics of your product or company
that drives a potential benefit—ideally those features are based on objective facts and are provable. For example, I have yet to meet a company that believes they provide terrible
customer service. If you truly believe that your company is better at customer service, how would you go about proving that? Do you have more support people than your competitors
and can you prove it? Do your support people have certifications that others don’t? Ease of use is another “feature” that I believe is really a value. What is it about your product
that makes it easier to use and how do you prove it? Do your competitors’ products require training and your product doesn’t? Can you quantify how long it takes to become
proficient with your product versus alternative products? “We don’t know who discovered water, but we’re certain it wasn’t a fish.” John Culkin Third-party validation that your
product’s feature is better than the alternative counts as proof. If an independent reviewer or analyst stated that your product is easier to use, that’s a fact. If a customer says
in an approved quote that your customer service is much better than another company’s, that’s proof. Be broad and creative with the attributes you list. They could be a proprietary
process, expertise in a special area, distribution channels, partnerships or special skills. Tech companies usually think of features first, but it is helpful to dig deeper into
the full range of what makes the offering and the company unique. For service companies, the skills of the team are the obvious choice, but experience with a particular kind of
project or company can also be a powerful attribute. Concentrate on “consideration” rather than “retention” attributes. Consideration attributes are things that customers care
about when they are evaluating whether or not to make a purchase. Every product has features that you can connect directly to a goal the customer would like to accomplish right
now. Retention attributes are features that aren’t as important when a customer is making an initial purchase decision, but are very important when it comes time to renew. These
include how easy it is to do business with a company and the quality of customer support. I’m not saying that positioning doesn’t matter for retention—it absolutely does. Poorly
positioned products are often bought by customers who misunderstand the real value of a product; those customers often quickly abandon the product when they realize it doesn’t do
what they thought it did. However, customers who don’t see enough value to consider buying the product will never stick around long enough to experience retention attributes such
as your excellent customer service. List as many attributes as you like at this stage. You’ll group them as you move to the next stage in the process. Focus on capturing the
broader set without trying to decide what’s really important and what isn’t. STEP 6 . Map the Attributes to Value “Themes” Attributes or features are a starting point, but what
customers care about is what those features can do for them. Attributes like “15-megapixel camera” or “all-metal construction” enable benefits for customers such as “sharper
images” or “a stronger frame.” Articulating value takes the benefits one step further: putting benefits into the context of a goal the customer is trying to achieve. Value could be
“photos that are sharp even when printed or zoomed in,” “a frame that saves you money on replacements,” “every level of the organization knows the status of key metrics” or “help
is immediately available across every time zone.” Features enable benefits, which can be translated into value in unique customer terms. In this step, you’ll capture the value that
each of your unique attributes enables for customers. Each feature can have multiple value points, and a combination of features can provide value as well. In Step 7, we’ll
determine which customers find these valuable and how many of those customers there might be. Table 1. Features mapped to benefit and value Feature: Something your product does or
has Benefit: What the feature enables for customers Value: How this feature maps to a goal the customer is trying to achieve 15-megapixel camera Sharp photo images Images can be
zoomed in or printed in large format and still look sharp. All-metal construction A stronger frame that resists damage The frame lasts five times longer, allowing savings of $
50,000 per year on frame replacements. One-click reports Fast, easy report generation Every part of the organization can make better decisions based on accurate, up-to-date
metrics. 24-hour support Support that is always available Global operations have access to help across every time zone. Moving from “features” to “benefits” and then to “value”
often confuses people, particularly folks who come from a technical background. An engineer by training, I often viewed features and the benefits derived from those features as
interchangeable early in my career. For many consumer technical products, features are presented as valuable in their own right—but only because we do the translation to value
automatically in our heads. For example, phone makers have often represented the quality of their cameras by talking about the number of megapixels. Consumers have been trained to
translate megapixels to photo quality and therefore believe that cameras with more megapixels take better photos. Digging a bit deeper, the value of “better photos” for most
consumers means sharper, more detailed images when printed or zoomed in. For most of our products, however, we don’t have the luxury of letting customers figure out the value of
our features on their own. If I tell someone I have a “patented fuzzy logic algorithm” for my product, I would expect their response to be, So what? I explained the feature without
being explicit about why it matters. In this example, the benefit might be “faster response times.” Taking the question further, What does that mean for customers? What can they do
with a faster response time that they couldn’t with a slower response? The answer might be that they can use the system to respond to their own customers while a customer is on the
phone, rather than having to call them back, thereby decreasing support response times and increasing their customers’ sa tisfaction. Clustering the Value into “Themes” In your
list, you should see a handful of themes start to emerge and the value those features deliver to customers. Now we need to organize the list. To group points of value, you need to
take the perspective of a customer. What points would naturally be related in the minds of your customers and prospects? For example, if you have attributes like “works on any
mobile device” or “works without an internet connection,” those might both provide value to customers who would like to use the solution with field workers in remote locations or
locations with intermittent Wi-Fi or cell access. You could clump those attributes in a group called “supports remote environments.” Group attributes that provide similar value so
you can get down to a more reasonable number. The goal of this step is to see the patterns and shorten the list to one to four value clusters. It’s not uncommon for this exercise
to produce just a single value point. “The stone age didn’t end because they ran out of stones.” Unknown Remember: this positioning exercise is not about highlighting every little
feature and attribute that our customers love. In positioning a product, we’re taking the most critical things that make us special and worth considering, and bringing the
resulting unique value to the front a nd center. STEP 7 . Determine Who Cares a Lot Once you have a good understanding of the value that your product delivers versus other
alternatives, you can look at which customers really care a lot about that value. It’s important to remember that although you have unique attributes that deliver value to
customers, not all customers care about that value in exactly the same way. You might have a solution for invoicing that supports integration with an accounting package like
QuickBooks. This feature provides the value of saving time and reducing errors from manually entering data. For customers who don’t use QuickBooks, the value is irrelevant. Among
those who do, customers who send a large number of invoices will feel the pain of data entry more than customers who send only one or two invoices a day. The customers who send a
lot of invoices will care a lot about the value of reducing time and errors. Marketers call this step a “segmentation” exercise. In my experience, if there’s a marketing concept
more widely misunderstood than positioning, it’s segmentation. Most marketing courses talk about segmentation in a way that only makes sense to large companies who sell to
consumers. Segmentation examples are usually based on consumer demographics—for example, “this product is aimed at single men between the ages of 18 and 30.” Demographic thinking
often bleeds into the way people typically think of segmenting a market of businesses—for example, “small businesses” or “businesses with 100 to 2,000 employees.” A useful
segmentation, however, needs to go well beyond demographics or firmographics. An actionable segmentation captures a list of a person’s or company’s easily identifiable
characteristics that make them really care about what you do. For consumers, a segmentation could include combinations of things such as other brands they own or like, stores they
buy from, the job they hold or their music or entertainment preferences. For businesses, it could be the way they sell, other products they have invested in or the skills they have
or don’t have inside their company. In this step, you’ll determine what makes some prospects much more excited about your offerings than others—think of these as your “best-fit
prospects.” Best-fit customers are easiest to sell to and retain. Focusing on a best-fit prospect segment doesn’t always make sense to people who don’t have a marketing background.
If I wanted to increase my chances of landing a customer, wouldn’t I want to target as broad a market as possible? The reality is the exact opposite. The broader your focus, the
more difficult it is to connect with prospects and convince them that your solution is the best one for them above all others. Think about the difference between your best-fit
customers and your other customers. Your other customers think your product is OK for the price, but they will jump ship if a different company offers a cheaper or better version.
These customers are harder to close business with—they take their time making a purchase decision and frequently ask for a discount. In short, they like your product but they just
don’t love it. You can target your marketing and sales programs at them, but selling to them and keeping them happy isn’t going to be easy. Now think about your best customers.
Everything about doing business with them is different. They understood your product immediately and couldn’t wait to get their hands on it. They bought quickly and instead of
asking for a cheaper price, they might have told you your product should be priced higher. They tell their friends about your product, and not only do they not churn, they will
fight anyone who tries to take it away from them. They don’t just like your product, they loooooove it. Marketing and selling to these folks doesn’t take much effort once you’ve
found them—they are “buying” as much as you are “selling.” If you have limited marketing and sales resources (and let’s face it, almost all of us do, even if our business is
large), it makes sense to spend them on prospects that are most like your best-fit customers, provided there are enough of them to meet your sales objectives. Target as narrowly as
you can to meet your near-term sales objectives. You can broaden the targets later. I encourage teams not to get their positioning too far ahead of their business objectives. Think
about your sales targets for this year and how many sales you need to make to achieve them. Could you hit your targets by focusing on only your best-fit customers? If the answer is
no, you need to broaden your definition of “best-fit.” If the answer is yes, keeping your positioning focused on that segment is the most efficient use of your sales resources and
the fastest and easiest path to hitting your sales targets. Keep in mind that your product positioning will constantly be evolving. There is no need to make sure that your
positioning will fit perfectly with where you or your product will be in ten years or five years or even two years from now. Similarly, your target customers will also evolve over
time. Great positioning resonates with your best-fit customers right now, and will evolve with them over time. Many companies take a logical approach to this step, based on what
they already know about who values what. For example, companies in highly regulated markets have to care more about information security; managers with very large teams struggle
more with team communication and collaboration; smaller companies without in-house IT support need solutions that are easy to set up and run, etcetera. I’ve found that this step
tends to be either the easiest or the most difficult to work through. You are mapping the value that your product’s features deliver to a group of customers who have the highest
affinity for your product. You need to focus on the value points that you listed in the previous step and repeat the question, Who cares and why? For example, your unique feature
might be that your online appointment scheduling software supports scheduling across multiple locations and multiple service organizations. The value is that customers can book an
appointment at a location that is convenient for them and with a representative that can serve them best. What kind of business cares a lot about that? You might say businesses
with a lot of locations and many kinds of offerings. But not all businesses care about appointments. Drugstores have a lot of locations and many offerings, but they don’t care that
much about appointments. What sort of businesses do? You might list businesses that offer financial services and tax preparation services. A segment can be defined by narrowing the
set of buyers you are targeting. For example, you might focus the category of “accounting software” to “accounting software for freelancers or lawyers.” You might narrow down
“sporting goods” to “sporting goods for babies” or “for dogs” or “for octogenarians.” In general, the segment needs to meet at least two criteria to be worthy of focus: (1) it
