needs to be big enough that it’s possible to meet the goals of your business, and (2) it needs to have important, specific, unmet needs that are common to the segment. If you’re a
tennis racquet maker and decide to market a racquet for seniors, you need to figure out first if there are enough tennis-playing seniors who might need a racquet, and second if you
could fulfil an unmet need that seniors have in their r acquets. STEP 8 . Find a Market Frame of Reference That Puts Your Strengths at the Center and Determine How to Position in
It You now have a good handle on your ideal prospects, your product’s unique attributes and the value those attributes can deliver. The next step is to pick a market frame of
reference that makes your value obvious to the segments who care the most about that value. Picking a market that does this is harder than you might think. Chances are, when you
first conceived the offering, you had a market in mind. You were building an email system for lawyers, a bicycle that could give you directions, a robot that could move things
around a manufacturing plant. Baked in was the idea of the market—“database,” “bicycle” and “robot” are all markets that exist and mean something to customers. However, since your
offering evolved and the market itself evolved over time, the original market category may no longer be the best way to frame your unique strengths. Also, the customers most likely
to buy your product might have a very different point of view on markets than you do. In the context of this exercise, a “market” needs to be something that already exists in the
minds of customers (except in the very rare case where you make a conscious decision to create a new market—which we’ll discuss later in this step). We position our offering in a
market to trigger a set of assumptions—about competitors, features and pricing—that work to our advantage. By choosing to position within a specific market, you’re giving your
prospects clues about what products they should compare you with, your key features, your price and your benefits. Those comparisons help customers quickly figure out what your
product is all about and whether or not they should consider purchasing it. In Step 3, you let go of your “default” market—part of your positioning baggage—which was most likely
the place where you started. Now you are looking to deliberately choose a market frame of reference that makes your value obvious to the folks who care about it the most. There are
a few ways to go about this: Use abductive reasoning. The adage “if it looks like a duck, swims like a duck and quacks like a duck, then it probably is a duck” also applies to new
products. With abductive reasoning, you choose a market category by isolating your key features and their value, and asking yourself, What types of products typically have those
features? What category of products typically deliver that value? Examine adjacent (growing) markets. Another place to look for options is in the markets adjacent to the one in
which you have been positioning yourself. Frequently, there are overlaps or blurry lines between markets. As a product shifts over time, its features and value could look more at
home in a neighboring market. Especially in the tech space, it’s not unusual for lines between markets to shift or be redrawn as companies emerge, release new technology or come up
with new ideas. Looking at adjacent markets is a good way to find markets that might make your value more obvious to prospects. Pay particular attention to adjacent markets that
are growing quickly. Positioning yourself in a growing market has obvious benefits: a rising tide of customer interest, media focus and buzz, and the appearance of being new and
cool—who doesn’t want that? But be careful—simply wanting to belong in a market doesn’t make it the right one for you. Only choose a market if it makes your streng ths obvious. Ask
your customers (but be cautious). I’ve had folks ask me, “Can’t you just ask your customers what market you’re in?” My answer: “Sometimes.” If you have already positioned yourself
in a given market, your customers will have at least attempted to place you there, even if that attempt confused them. They will naturally try to put you in markets that are close
to that market. That was the case with our database—a customer described us as an analytics tool because he had been looking at analytics tools and was familiar with them. This
market was closely associated with the database market and therefore it wasn’t much of a leap for him to think of us that way. I would caution you to be extremely careful in
seeking feedback from customers and prospects about what market they see you in. Prospects may see things differently than those who have already tried to make sense of your
product one way and failed. Also, customers will only try to position you in markets that are frequently linked to their industry or job function. Customers aren’t positioning
experts, nor are they experts in how a market category works. Frequently they will attempt to position you in the most obvious market possible, and this market is often not the
best one for highlighting your strengths. Positioning Story: Wattpad transforms a story platform into an entertainment company In 2006 Allen Lau and Ivan Yuen shared a vision that
as mobile phones became more popular, people would want to read on them. This might seem obvious today, but phones of that era had tiny screens and most people didn’t even have
data plans. However, that year Motorola launched the Razr with a screen that was much bigger than the popular Nokia phones at the time, and Allen and Ivan predicted that screens
would soon be big enough to accommodate reading comfortably. They launched their social storytelling platform, Wattpad, in 2006 to give writers a way to create stories on the web
and share them with other people on their phones. The company grew slowly at first, until the launch of Apple’s iPhone forever changed how people use mobile screens. The iPhone’s
larger screen made reading and writing on a phone not just possible but convenient and comfortable. With the launch of Apple’s App Store in 2009, Wattpad began to take off. “When
we started we were in the early days of social media,” explains Allen, “but by 2010 people were increasingly sharing on the internet and we went through a period of extremely rapid
user growth.” Like with many social platforms, Wattpad’s founders deliberately decided not to focus on monetization and instead focused all of their efforts on growing a vibrant
community of writers and readers. Although advertising brought in revenue, Allen knew Wattpad could be something more. “Even as early as 2012 we knew that our platform was creating
a huge number of incredible, well-loved stories. We knew we could do more with them off the platform, potentially adapting stories for TV and movies. It dawned on me that we were
much more than a platform for writing and reading, and if we reached the right scale we could become an entertainment company,” says Allen. In 2014 Wattpad got an opportunity to
test what was possible when Allen and Ivan were approached by one of the largest TV stations in the Philippines about collaborating on a TV series. “Wattpad is incredibly popular
in the Philippines and the TV station wanted to produce a TV drama based on popular Wattpad stories. We saw this as an opportunity to test what we could do. Could we use our data
and insight into what readers love to create a better story for TV ? Could we help build the TV audience for a show by having a connection with Wattpad readers who were already
fans?” The experiment proved to be a major success and Wattpad Presents went on to increase the station’s viewership by a whopping 30%. The series was a smash hit in the
Philippines, running for four seasons and 250 episodes. In 2016 Wattpad unveiled Wattpad Studios and their new positioning as a global multi-platform entertainment company. “We are
now working with media brands like NBC , Sony, Hulu, iflix, eOne and many others,” says Allen. “We have 70 million monthly users. Our data can not only help media companies build
an audience and promote content, our insight into what audiences love helps find new IP that resonates with fans. We can bring a data-backed approach to developing TV shows and
film, using machine learning to guide how decisions get made in the adaptation process. We are completely changing the way the entertainment industry sources and produces content.”
There are different approaches for isolating, targeting and winning a market—and certain styles work better for some than others. Picking a market is like giving customers an
answer to the question, What are you? Frequently, however, we need to think a little bit deeper about how we intend to win in the market we have chosen. At a high level we can
either choose to enter an existing market or create a new market. If we choose to enter an existing market, we can either compete to win the entire market or position our product
to win a slice of it. The “style” of positioning you choose will depend on a set of factors including the competitive landscape and your business goals. Here’s my advice on how and
when to use each of them: Head to Head: Positioning to win an existing market You are aiming to be the leader in a market category that already exists in the minds of customers. If
there is an established leader, your goal is to beat them at their own game by convincing customers that you are the best at delivering the solution. Big Fish, Small Pond:
Positioning to win a subsegment of an existing market You are aiming to dominate a piece of an existing market category. Your goal is not to take on the overall market leaders
directly, but to win in a well-defined segment of the market. You do this by targeting buyers in a subsegment of the broader market who have different requirements that are not
being met by the current overall market leader. Create a New Game: Positioning to win a market you create You are aiming to create a new market category. Your goals are first to
prove to customers that a new market category deserves to exist, then to define the parameters of that market in the minds of customers, and lastly, to position yourself as the
leader within it. 1. Head to Head: Positioning to win an existing market You are competing directly against other established players in a well-defined market. For the most part,
customers are well educated about what solutions in this market can and cannot do. Prospects also understand the purchase criteria (what is important to consider when making a
purchase and what is not). “If you don’t like being a doormat, then get off the floor.” Anonymous You aren’t claiming to be better for a certain type of customer; you’re claiming
to be better for most, if not all, customers. You’re accepting the current way the market category is defined, as well as the current set of evaluation criteria. You aren’t trying
to change the game; you are winning—or attempting to win—at the game the way it is currently played. You don’t have to explain to prospects what the market is all about; they
already know what it is. For example, we know what cola is and we have a set of assumptions about what it’s like: brown, fizzy and sweet. Things that aren’t brown, fizzy and sweet
just aren’t cola at all. Well-defined markets also have generally accepted purchase criteria. If I’m buying a chocolate cake, I know what makes a good one: fresh, chocolatey,
generous frosting. When I’m buying a new laptop, I’m looking at screen size, weight, amount of memory and processor speed, and I’m weighing those features against how much I’m
willing to pay. When to use the Head to Head style If you are already the leader in the market, the status quo suits you. The way prospects define the market has worked well for
you (you are the leader here after all!), and you would like them to continue to define it that way. Similarly, the way they currently make decisions about what to buy seems to
your advantage. Prospects are comparing alternatives using a set of features where you come out on top. If you are launching a new product, particularly if you are a small business
just starting out, the Head to Head style is rarely a good choice. Trying to beat an established market leader at their own game is a bit like trying to out-cola Coke. It would be
foolish for a small company to ever try. A larger company might attempt to take on an established leader head to head, but only where the market sands are shifting in a way that
could put the leader at a disadvantage or a challenger at an advantage. A new breakthrough capability, a change in government regulations or a shift in economic factors might give
a strong challenger the opportunity they need to take down an established leader. Without a clear competitive advantage, however, even a large company will have to be prepared to
fight hard for every win and cross their fingers for the leader to make a mistake. The only case where a company might want to position a new product in a known category is when
the category itself is defined and understood by buyers, but a strong leader has not yet been established. In technology we see this in new and emerging market categories. For
example, “smart glasses” for consumers have been on the market for years and many people understand the basic functionality of smart glasses as being a sort of wearable display
and/or camera. Some folks can name a handful of vendors that sell them (Epson or North might come to mind), but most people would be hard-pressed to name a “leader” in this market.
In this case, North doesn’t need to create an entirely new category from scratch (although it certainly has the opportunity to shape the details of what customers expect from
products within it), and it can position itself to be the leader of the entire market, since no clear leader exists yet. The advantage of positioning in an existing market category
is that you don’t have to convince people the category needs to exist. You also benefit from the assumptions that the category brings to mind for prospects. The bonus is you get
all of that without having to fight directly with an established leader. To use this style of positioning, first you have to determine whether or not the category has indeed been
created in the minds of customers. You need data that tells you unequivocally that the market already exists in the minds of a critical mass of buyers or is emerging quickly enough
for you to meet your business goals. For technology companies in particular, we often assume our knowledge of technology and trends isn’t that far ahead of average buyers, when it
can be years ahead. That’s OK , as long as you’re comfortable knowing that enough buyers understand the market for you to sell to in order to hit your revenue targets. Second, take
note of your competition. Sure, you’ve managed to pick a market that doesn’t already have a strong leader that you have to take on, but that doesn’t mean you are alone here. The
fact that buyers understand what the market is all about means that there is market demand, and though the market feels uncrowded at the moment, it won’t stay that way for long. If
you choose to enter this market, you will have to commit to moving quickly to establish yourself as the leader before someone else does. For technology companies, this often means
committing to growing your customer base as quickly as you can, which can require outside funding (and the risks and potential headaches that come with that). If you are looking to
bootstrap your business, this may not be the way you want to enter the market. But if you have clear differentiators and are planning on raising money, this can be a path to
winning a very big market. The work of Head to Head If you are already the market leader, you need to continually reinforce to your buyers that the current way of thinking about
the market is the best one. This work includes reinforcing the current buying criteria and reiterating why you are the best to deliver those things. You need to quickly and
forcefully defend against competitors who attempt to convince buyers to pay attention to other, emerging criteria. You also need to continually demonstrate why you deliver on these
criteria better than anyone else in the market. If you are fighting to unseat a leader in an existing category using the currently established criteria, you’re in a battle to prove
that you can beat the leader at their own game. You have to clearly demonstrate to the market that you have a superior ability to deliver, and you need to support that claim with
hard evidence and undeniable facts. The good news: if you position yourself in an existing market, you don’t have to teach buyers too much about the category itself and you can
rely on what they already know. The bad news: if you rely on what buyers already know, you need to fit within their existing definition if you want to win. software can identify
people for security reasons or count people coming in and out of a venue; many would-be buyers of this software know about these solutions. There’s an assumption that you could
count people fast enough to handle a normal flow of traffic into a retail store or an office building. If your software doesn’t do that but is amazing at other things (e.g., at
identifying a person against a watch list), then your offering might be a good solution for a subset of the market (the Bigger Fish, Smaller Pond style that we will talk about
next) but not a potential winner across the entire market for facial-recognition solutions. If you choose to use the Head to Head style... Be prepared to battle against multiple
competitors who will be simultaneously trying to prove they are better than you are at the currently established buying criteria, as well as others who are trying to redefine the
purchase criteria to their advantage. Positioning Story: My startup transforms our crummy database into a kickass data warehouse In Part I, I outlined how my company repositioned
its main offering from a “database” to a “data warehouse.” Let’s examine that positioning shift through the lens of the Head to Head style. When the company was formed, we thought
of our product as a database, so we positioned it as a database. The market category of database, however, was very well established with a clear market leader (Oracle) and a clear
set of expected features and pricing. Unknowingly, by calling ourselves a “database” we were announcing to the world that we had the intention of beating Oracle in the overall
database market. It shouldn’t have been a surprise that the first question we got from every prospect was, So how are you better than Oracle? The expectation was that we sold a
database just like Oracle’s database, so if we were getting into this business we should have everything their database had, only better. We obviously didn’t have that! While we
believed we were better at Oracle for certain uses for certain buyers, we clearly weren’t a better general-purpose database than Oracle. As a startup, we could not credibly compete
in this market, let alone win it. Later, we focused on our real competitive differentiator, which was our patented way of doing analysis on a large amount of data. Thinking about
our ability to do analytics led us to reposition ourselves as a data warehouse—a completely different market from databases. The data warehousing market at the time was established
and most larger companies understood what a warehouse was. Few of them bought warehouses, however; many companies were still developing th em in-house because few commercial
warehouses existed. For us, this was good news: the demand and market existed but a clear leader did not. This shift in positioning immediately got us away from trying to compete
with Oracle, and it aligned with our strengths. It also had the side benefit of allowing us to raise our prices. Databases at the time were a commodity, but a data warehouse—with
fewer options on the market—commanded premium pricing. 2. Big Fish, Small Pond: Positioning to win a subsegment of an existing market If a market category already exists and there
is an existing leader, does that mean you can’t compete in that category? Of course not! You may not be able to compete with an established leader head on, but that doesn’t mean
there isn’t a way for you to get a foothold in a piece of the market. Once you do, you can keep expanding your patch until you’re established enough to take on a large category
leader. Many startups compete in established market categories and do so successfully by first breaking up the market into smaller pieces and focusing on one piece they can win. In
marketing, the process of splitting up an existing market is called subsegmenting. A market can be subsegmented by industry (manufacturing vs. retail), by geographic region (North
America vs. South America), company size and a myriad of other criteria. The goal of the Big Fish, Small Pond style of positioning is to carve off a piece of the market where the
rules are a little bit different—just enough to give your product an edge over the category leader. Like the Head to Head style of positioning, here you are leveraging what buyers
already know about the broader market category, but you are calling attention to the fact that some of the requirements for your chosen subsegments are different and not being met
by the overall category leader. You get the advantage of a well-defined category without the stiff competition. In Head to Head you are attempting to beat Coke in the cola market;
in Big Fish, Small Pond, you’re selling Coke for dogs. While your product is a lot like Coke (brown and fizzy), it does something that Coke doesn’t do and that dogs really, really
want (it tastes like bones). You are not trying to change the purchase criteria for the overall category; in fact, you will have to prove that you do a “good enough” job in those
areas when compared with the category leaders. Your focus is showing that there is a subsegment of the overall category with a specific set of needs that the current category
leaders are not addressing. Those needs are very important—so important that buyers may want to relax a bit on the overall category criteria to make sure that their subsegment
needs are met. Dominating a small piece of the market is generally much easier than attempting to directly take on a larger leader. From a marketing and sales perspective, smaller
subsegments are easier to reach and target, and gaining traction in a market that is more homogeneous is generally easier. List building is easier when you are targeting a
subsegment, as is getting in front of groups of prospects. Your value proposition can be highly targeted to these prospects and you will generally have an easier time making your
solution’s distinct advantages obvious to prospects. In my experience, one of the best advantages of this style is that once you begin to get traction with some customers, your
advantage in the subsegment tends to accelerate quickly. For example, if you are targeting law offices or banks, success with even a single customer is directly applicable to the
next customer and can help move the next deal along quickly. Communities also tend to cluster and share information with each other. As you close more business in a particular
subsegment, knowledge of your solution in the community will grow quickly because of the links between people in the segment. Word-of-mouth marketing happens most naturally in
tight market subsegments. A caution here is that the subsegment must represent a large enough opportunity that you can meet your business goals, at least in the short term.
Companies tend to shy away from this style because they are worried that moving from targeting the entire market to just a small piece of it will mean less opportunity. In reality
the opposite is frequently true: you are simply unselecting the part of the market that was never going to buy your product anyway in order to focus only on customers where you
have a distinct advantage. The best way to determine if your chosen subsegment is big enough is to determine how many sales you need to make in the next year to meet your revenue
goals. If you need to close thirty deals to make your number this year and your target segment has only one hundred businesses in it, you are going to have to look elsewhere. If,
on the other hand, you need to close thirty deals and there are thousands of businesses in your subsegment, it’s likely big enough for now. Just because your initial target market
is narrow doesn’t mean you will stay narrowly focused forever. Think back to the lessons in Step 7, about defining a subsegment of best-fit customers for now, and expand that group
as the segment and the market evolve. You might start out targeting a very narrow segment but once you have enough customers there, you can start going after adjacent markets where
the success you have built so far is relevant. For example, you could start out focusing on credit unions, then expand to retail banks more broadly and then on to other industries
like insurance. Once you are larger, you may be ready to take on the market leader head to head, or try to create a new market (more on this in the third style of positioning,
Create a New Game). When to use the Big Fish, Small Pond style First, this style requires that the category is well defined and there’s a clear market leader—and you’re not it.
People must understand what you mean when you talk about the category. We all know what a vacuum cleaner or a car or bubble gum is, and we understand the basic buying criteria in
these categories: vacuum cleaners should have good suction, cars should be reliable, bubble gum should be chewy and capable of blowing great bubbles. If the category is not well
understood, subsegmenting it is only going to result in further market confusion. Second, there needs to be clearly definable groups of customers with unique needs that are not
addressed by the market leader. These subsegments may be buyers in a particular industry (banking or legal) or geography (Germany, Latin America), or they may have particular
preferences (folks on a gluten-free diet, developers who are certified on Microsoft tools) or ecosystem characteristics (Mac users, marketers who use Eloqua, folks with low
internet speed). The subsegment needs to be easily identifiable—meaning if I had to create a list of prospective buyers, I could figure out a way to do that. For example, I can
easily make a list of companies that have more than 1,000 employees by searching the internet for company size info, or a list of Pokémon fans by looking at active users on fan
sites or email groups. I would have a much more difficult time creating a list of companies that value design or happy people. Last, it has to be possible to demonstrate that this
subsegment has a very specific and important unmet need. For example, you might be appealing to companies with workers in very remote places who can’t use a solution that requires
internet access, or banks in Europe that operate under a different regulatory environment and therefore have different privacy requirements than banks in the United States. Bic
writing itself out of the market The unmet need must be clearly definable and also important. When Bic launched a “Bic for Her” ballpoint pen that was essentially the same as their
other pens, only pink, women reacted first by writing hilarious Amazon reviews (one review starts with, “As a woman, I have been plagued with Man Pen issues for years...”), and
then by ignoring the product altogether until it was removed from market for clearly not meeting any specific need of the identified subsegment. You have the ability to meet the
special needs of the subsegment much better than the category leader. The need of the subsegment must be clearly identifiable, but even when it is, your ability to meet it must be
strong enough to convince buyers to go with you over the safer choice of the market leader. These buyers were getting along for the most part by buying a solution that didn’t do
everything but was likely “good enough” for their business. Convincing them to switch will require showing them that you have deeply understood their specific pain and have fully
solved the problem. The work of Big Fish, Small Pond This positioning style is often useful for smaller startups that are looking for a way to establish themselves in a market with
a strong market leader that they can’t take on directly. The work of this style is first to educate the targeted subsegment about how a general-purpose solution is not meeting
their needs. You need proof points that show there is a clear gap in value between the general-purpose solution offered by the market leader and your more-purpose-built solution.
You need to help the subsegment understand what’s in it for them if they do have those needs met. There should ideally be a way to quantify the value to them if they choose your
solution over the market leader’s more generic solution. You also have to show that you meet or exceed the existing category criteria (at least the ones that matter most to your
subsegment). Remember that you aren’t redefining the category, you are merely trying to capture a piece of it, so while you are leading with your defining features and value for
your subsegment, you still have to prove that you meet the underlying basic needs common to the overall market category. If you choose to use the Big Fish, Small Pond style...
Understand that the subsegment must have truly distinct needs not being met by the leader in the broader market. If you are trying to dominate a subsegment, be careful that the
market leader doesn’t turn their attention to the subsegment and try to offer a “good enough” solution with some features that at least partially meet the buyers’ needs. Large
category leaders will often acquire small companies to block a fast-growing competitor from gaining on them in a particular subsegment. Ideally your competitive advantage is
something that is difficult for the market leader to copy, either because you own the intellectual property, or (more commonly) because trying to match your functionality might
cause them damage in the broader market where they are winning. It would be difficult for Coke to make a product aimed at dogs without suffering some damage to the perception of
the brand among humans. Positioning Story: A niche CRM startup outpowers a global market leader I worked at a startup called Janna Systems in the CRM market. In its early days, the
company had attempted to sell a contact manager directly to consumers, but improvements to free contact managers from Microsoft, Apple and others quickly destroyed this market. The
company moved to selling a CRM solution to businesses and eventually settled on large enterprises as their target market—a very big market. A couple years after entering the CRM
market, Janna Systems was struggling to grow. The enterprise CRM market at that time was completely dominated by one large company, Siebel Systems, which had over $ 2 billion
annual revenue and hundreds of large enterprise customers. (Salesforce, which leads this market today, was a small company back then and focused only on small businesses, not large
enterprises—choosing to stick to a submarket rather than have a head-to-head battle against Siebel in the broader category.) Given Siebel’s complete dominance in the market, every
time we pitched our solution to a company, the first question we had to answer was, How are you better than Siebel? It was a question we struggled to answer. For the vast majority
of our prospects, our differentiators couldn’t make up for what Siebel had and we didn’t have: a proven solution used by a long list of Fortune 1000 clients; a product with
thousands of features that appealed to customers in a wide range of industries; and a famously successful CEO who wrote books, keynoted conferences and appeared regularly on
television. In contrast, our product was largely unproven, our feature list was much shorter and our scrappy little team in Toronto was utterly unknown. We charged less than Siebel
did, of course, but most large companies cared more about having a product that met their needs than getting a bargain. Once a senior technical manager at a large telco, after
listening to our pitch, summed up our positioning as a “cheaper, crappier Siebel.” Ouch. We did, however, have one feature that Siebel didn’t. Our CRM let us model relationships
between people in a way that Siebel (or any other CRM on the market) couldn’t. We always highlighted this feature and included a demonstration in our product demos. The problem was
that, in general, customers didn’t seem to care about it. We had a differentiator, but we struggled to map that differentiator to real value for a defined set of prospects. That
changed when we managed to get a sales meeting with the head of investment banking at a very large New York investment bank. Unlike many of our other prospects, he got really
excited when we showed him our special feature. We quickly closed a deal with the bank. In working with them, we began to understand that our little feature solved a serious
problem for investment bankers charged with driving business. By using our solution, they were able to unlock significant revenue. We wondered if other investment banks operated
the same way. It turned out they did, and the more we spoke to investment banks, the more we understood our product was valuable to them in a way it wasn’t for businesses that
weren’t as deeply driven by relationships. We began to have a conversation internally about repositioning ourselves away from “enterprise CRM ” to positioning ourselves as “ CRM
for investment banks.” At first this shift in positioning seemed risky. Some people on the team felt that moving from focusing on a very large market to a very small one would
stifle our growth. Our investors worried that the target market was simply too small for us and we would never grow to be the large company they needed us to be. At the same time,
there was good reason to reposition ourselves. Investment banks continued to call Siebel before they called us, because we still appeared to be delivering more or less the same
thing for the same very broad market. Our investment banking clients didn’t want their competitors knowing they used our solution, so as not to give them the upper hand, and they
refused to let us reference them by name in our marketing materials. Labeling ourselves as CRM for investment banking gave us a way to put all the attention on our key
differentiating feature and signal that we were, in fact, completely different from Siebel. Besides, it wasn’t like we were flooded with prospects anyway. We reasoned that even if
we positioned ourselves for banks in the short term, we could always expand it to include similar industries (insurance, retail banking) once we had done as much business as we
could do with the banks. We decided to give CRM for investment banks a try. The result was transformational. Our sales and marketing teams, focused only on investment banks and
began to deeply understand the nuances of the that segment’s needs. We used banking terms in our pitches, and our demo data looked like banking data. We were still compared with
Siebel, but we began to quickly eliminate them as a competitor as we demonstrated that even though they were the best CRM for enterprises, they weren’t the best CRM for investment
banks. We raised our prices and began to rapidly close very large deals with investment banks, first in the US and then globally in the UK , Switzerland and Australia, growing our
revenue from $ 2 million to over $ 70 million in eighteen months. As we started to expand beyond banking, Siebel began to see us as a legitimate competitive threat and we were
acquired for a staggering $ 1.7 billion, making us the largest acquisition of a Canadian software company at the time. Not bad for a “cheaper, crappier Siebel” and proof that
focusing on a niche doesn’t mean you can’t grow. 3. Create a New Game: Positioning to win a market you create Sometimes new technology or circumstances pave the way for a
completely new market. Other times a market can be created by combining one or more existing markets to form one with different buying criteria. Developing a new market comes with
its own distinct set of opportunities and challenges. When to use the Create a New Game style Because this style of positioning is so difficult, it should only be used when you
have evaluated every possible existing market category and concluded that you cannot position your offering there, because doing so would fail to put the focus on your true
differentiators and value. This style can also work if your company is large and powerful enough to capture the attention of customers, media and analysts to make a case for why
the new market category deserves to exist. You aren’t simply capturing demand that already exists; you have to spark some demand first. This style is usually only possible when
there has been a massive change with a big potential impact on what is possible or what is important in a market. These changes can include new technologies, economic changes,
political forces or a combination of these. We saw new markets emerge as cellular networks increased their speeds and coverage, making it possible to do things on a smartphone we
couldn’t before. Government regulations in privacy and security, particularly in banking and insurance, have driven a wave of data security and customer-­tracking software
innovation over the past two decades. Our shifting attitudes about privacy and community facilitated the rise of open social networks like Facebook and Twitter, and the backlash
against the unintended consequences of heavy use of those platforms has, in turn, begun to transform our attitudes and preferences around privacy and security. Often a category
emerges when an enabling technology, a shift in customer preferences and a supporting ecosystem manage to come together at once. If your product cannot be well positioned in any
existing category, this might be a good option for you. If your solution requires both a new way of thinking about the boundaries of an existing category and a new way of thinking
about purchase criteria, then it probably makes more sense to create an entirely new category rather than attempt to stretch existing categories along more than one dimension. The
work of Create a New Game Creating a new category is the most difficult style of positioning, even when the pre-existing conditions are aligned to support it, mainly because it
involves the greatest amount of “teaching” the customer. In the other positioning styles, you’re leveraging what folks already know about a category and building on that to create
a position in the mind of customers. In this style, you are starting with a blank canvas. Customers need to first understand why the category deserves to exist. Why is the problem
unique? Why do existing solutions in other categories fall short of solving that problem? While you are convincing the market that this category should exist, you are also teaching
folks how to best evaluate solutions in that category. And while you are busy with all of that, you need to teach people why you are unquestionably the best vendor to deliver
solutions in this category. To credibly create a new category, you need a product that is demonstrably, inarguably new and different from what exists in other market categories.
