Right up front, you set the context for what your product is all about. Your “default” position was cake. But when we think of what makes a better cake, we think of bigger slices,
better ingredients and more frosting. The qualities that make your product special aren’t qualities that you would normally associate with cake at all. Sticks do not belong in
cake. “Cake on a stick” doesn’t sound like better cake or innovative cake—it just sounds wrong. It sounds like cake doing things it wasn’t meant to do. You’ve created Frankencake.
Who would want to eat that? If I were the judge in a cake contest, I would choose cake over your new thing, because what you invented is fundamentally not cake. Let’s try this
again, except this time we’re going to deliberately position the product in the best context possible. You need to highlight the aspects of this product that make it really special
and in a way that puts those features at the very center of how you position it. Yes, your product contains cake, but it’s the stick and the shape that make it amazing. You need to
position your product so that the stick and the shape make sense. If you position your product as a lollipop, suddenly the stick and the ball belong. Of course it has a stick. Of
course it has a ball. Of course it’s a snack and not a dessert. But this isn’t just any lollipop, it’s a lollipop for grownups, so we made it out of cake. A cake pop is easy to
understand and, for coffee-drinking grownups on the go, it’s a big improvement over your run-of-the-mill lollipop intended for kids. We generally fail to consider other—potentially
better—ways to position our products because we simply aren’t positioning them deliberately. Cake is a pretty simple example, but we do the same thing with more complex
technologies. We decide the context within which our products operate, and in doing so we limit their reach. We don’t consider alternative contexts that could make the distinct
advantages of our product more obvious to customers. Positioning Story: From database to data warehouse Early in my career I worked at a startup founded by a group of folks with
PhDs in database technology. Our product was a special kind of database that could quickly find something in a very large collection of data, much faster than the popular databases
on the market at the time. We never questioned the way we thought about that product — we were database people and we had built a new kind of database — what else could it be? The
problem, of course, was that at that time the world didn’t know it needed a fancy new database. When we met with potential customers and started with “Hi, we’d love to show you our
database...,” they didn’t even let us get to the part where we explained how ours was special and different from the database they already had. They simply didn’t want something
new, another product to learn, another database to integrate into their existing database systems. Besides, the database they already had was good at a wide range of things beyond
analysis, which was our strength. Our sales meetings usually ended early with prospects politely (or sometimes not politely) getting rid of us before we had made it halfway through
our pitch. We spent half our time in every sales meeting trying to explain how our database was different from and better than the database they already had. Sound familiar? When
we tried to find investors for our company, they wouldn’t fund us for the same reason: the database market was mature and the big vendors were impossible to beat. There wasn’t a
need for something new, so how would we grow? Sure, we had one little thing that we were good at, but they didn’t believe that was enough for us to win against the existing
database companies. We broke out of this mess by changing our positioning. It started with a customer telling me he didn’t believe we were a database at all. “We aren’t?” I said,
completely baffled. “What the heck are we?” He went on to explain that in his eyes we were more of a business intelligence tool, or even more specifically, a data warehouse (a
specialized system used for data analysis). This wasn’t exactly true in our minds — we lacked some of the features associated with a data warehouse. We did, however, deliver value
that was much more clearly aligned with that category of solutions than it was with databases. In fact, in a side-by-side comparison, our database didn’t stack up that well against
the leading databases on the market, but it blew the doors off the other data warehouses on the market because our analysis capabilities were so superior. After repositioning our
product as a data warehouse, we immediately saw the difference in our first meetings with prospects. Instead of instantly telling us “no, thanks,” they now stopped to listen. They
stopped comparing us with the database they had already purchased. They intuitively understood the specific problem we could solve and the value to their business. Most
importantly, prospects stopped telling us to get lost, and they started buying our solution. The repositioning didn’t stop with marketing and sales — it changed the way we viewed
ourselves. We looked at the features we were planning to build in the future and adjusted them to fit our vision of a warehousing platform. We eventually revised our product
roadmap — how should our product reinforce the value we were delivering, and how would we evolve into a better data warehouse? Changing our context not only changed the way
customers viewed our product, it changed the way we saw ourselves . “Find out who you are and do it on purpose.” DOLLY PARTON Like Joshua Bell delivering a world-class performance
in a context that didn’t ascribe value, lousy positioning makes your prospects work harder to figure out if you are worth paying attention to. Even if you do manage to capture
their attention, ineffective positioning makes it hard for them to understand why they might want to buy what you’re selling. How you position your offerings is the underpinning of
your entire business strategy and can mean the difference between success and failure. OK , I’m Sold on Positioning. So How Do I Do It? Considering how important positioning is,
and how long the concept has been around, you would think there’s an accepted methodology for doing it. Surprisingly there isn’t. At least there isn’t one that makes any real
sense. (And for those of you wondering where positioning statements fit in all of this, in the next chapter we’ll discuss why you should share my intense hatred for positioning
statement exercises.) Great positioning takes into account all of the following: The customer’s point of view on the problem you solve and the alternative ways of solving that
problem. The ways you are uniquely different from those alternatives and why that’s meaningful for customers. The characteristics of a potential customer that really values what
you can uniquely deliver. The best market context for your product that makes your unique value obvious to those customers who are best suited to your product. Positioning can be a
big and somewhat complex concept. But don’t worry, we can make it easier by first breaking it down into its components and then working through each of those in a systematic way.
THE FIVE (PLUS ONE) COMPONENTS OF EFFECTIVE POSITIONING Positioning is an established concept, yet we have no established way of doing it. We need to start by breaking it down into
its components. We are terrible at positioning because we have never been taught how to do it, or we have been taught positioning through ineffective (and, I think, potentially
dangerous) means. Enter the positioning statement. Somewhere along the way, we have confused teaching people how to do positioning with teaching people how to write down
positioning. Why You Should Never Create a Positioning Statement While Ries and Trout did a great job of introducing positioning and explaining why it is important, the closest
they came to giving us a map of how to do positioning was to give us a few case studies. The positioning statement filled that gap between theory and practice. The positioning
statement is widely taught in marketing courses and business schools. It’s been referenced in many popular business books, including Crossing the Chasm , Geoffrey Moore’s book on
how to market high-tech products, considered the business book for entrepreneurs in the 1990s. Even today, companies will come to me having attempted to position their products
using the positioning statement and wondering why it’s not working. The first time I encountered the positioning statement as a tool for doing positioning, I was a newly hired
marketer at IBM . IBM had a very thorough and detailed release process for new products that included a step called “Positioning.” “Great,” I thought, “I’m finally going to learn
how this positioning stuff is done!” My excitement didn’t last long. I soon discovered that the entire positioning process consisted of filling in the blanks of a template that
looked something like this: THE TRADITIONAL POSITIONING STATEMENT FOR target buyers, your offering IS A market category WHICH PROVIDES competitor’s benefits UNLIKE primary
competitor WHICH PROVIDES competitor’s benefits I was marketing a database called DB 2 . DB 2 was best known as the leading database platform on a mainframe (that’s what we used to
call giant, powerful computers back in the olden days). My product was the version of the database that ran on regular computers, and our main differentiator from other databases
was that we were IBM —if you were already buying some stuff from us, we could sell you a non-mainframe database while we were at it. I didn’t understand how the positioning
statement template was going to help me, so at first I refused to fill it out. My boss politely reminded me that IBM was famous for its product release process and if I enjoyed
getting my IBM paycheck, then I should just fill in the darn thing. So I did, and here’s what I came up with: THE TRADITIONAL POSITIONING STATEMENT FOR people who want a
non-mainframe database, our non-mainframe database IS A non-mainframe database WHICH PROVIDES an IBM database that runs on platforms other than a mainframe UNLIKE all other
non-mainframe databases WHICH PROVIDES everything a non-mainframe database provides. Useful? Of course not. After I completed the exercise, I filed the statement away and never
looked at it again. (Aside: this is where I also first encountered the expression “malicious compliance,” meaning you have completed something that was requested of you, simply to
illustrate the stupidity of the request.) The fact that the output of the positioning statement exercise is a hilariously awkward statement of mumbo jumbo isn’t even the worst
part. The worst part of a positioning statement exercise is that it assumes you know the answers. You simply plug in your assumptions as they stand today, and voilà! If you’re a
baker trying to decide whether to sell cake or muffins, creating a positioning statement doesn’t solve your problem. If you’re selling a “diet muffin,” this exercise doesn’t give
you any clues that maybe you could reposition your product as a “gluten-free paleo snack.” Is my database better positioned as a database or something else? This exercise wouldn’t
even give me a hint that there are other potential options! This statement might pass for a way to capture aspects of your positioning, but great positioning is more than just
articulating your assumptions around your target market and value proposition. The traditional positioning statement fails in several critical ways: It assumes you know the best
way to fill in the blanks. It might do a good job of capturing your current thinking, but it doesn’t give you any clues about whether your positioning is good or bad. It reinforces
the status quo. Most offerings are not explicitly positioned because people believe there is only one possible “default” way to position their product. Rather than helping
companies think creatively about what they do, the positioning statement encourages them to look at the market the way they have always looked at it. Status quo thinking will
almost always put the existing market leaders at an advantage and leave you blind to potential shifts in the way your customers see your market. It doesn’t give you any hints about
what to do next. I’ve talked to dozens of companies that have gone through the exercise of documenting their positioning statement, and not one did anything useful with it once it
was completed. Did marketing refer to it when they created messaging? No. Did the product team use it to inform what features they should build? Nope. Did sales use it to figure
out what types of customers they should sell to? Never. What do you call an exercise that produces something that never gets used? A big waste of time, that’s what you call it.
It’s hard to remember. The structure of the positioning statement makes it difficult to parse or memorize, so even as a way of simply documenting your current thinking, the
positioning statement is a complete failure. As much as I like to complain about the positioning statement as a business tool, there are some things I do like about it. The blanks
in the positioning statement cover the aspects of positioning and give us a clue how to break it down into components. We can break down positioning into five components (plus an
optional bonus component) that come together to define what we do, why we are special, which customers we can best serve and the market we intend to win. These are the Five (Plus
One) Components of Effective Positioning: Competitive alternatives. What customers would do if your solution didn’t exist. Unique attributes. The features and capabilities that you
have and the alternatives lack. Value (and proof). The benefit that those features enable for customers. Target market characteristics. The characteristics of a group of buyers
that lead them to really care a lot about the value you deliver. Market category. The market you describe yourself as being part of, to help customers understand your value.
(Bonus) Relevant trends. Trends that your target customers understand and/or are interested in that can help make your product more relevant right now. “You cannot be everything to
everyone. If you decide to go north, you cannot go south at the same time.” JEROEN DE FLANDER 1. Competitive alternatives The positioning statement exercise includes a space for
defining a competitor or competing product. For many products, however, there can be several competitive alternatives and not all of them will be “products” per se. Alternatives to
your product can be “hire an intern to do it,” “use a spreadsheet” or even “suffer along with the problem and do nothing.” The competitive alternative is what your target customers
would “use” or “do” if your product didn’t exist. Our customers often do not know nearly as much about the universe of potential solutions to a problem as we do. As product
creators, we need to be experts in the different solutions that exist in a market, including the advantages and disadvantages of choosing them. Customers, however, have often never
purchased a solution like yours before. They are approaching the solution to their problem with a clean slate and little knowledge of what “state of the art” in your domain looks
like. You may worry a lot about an up-and-coming startup in your space, but your customers have likely never heard of them. In business software, the most common competitive
alternative is a combination of general-purpose business software (spreadsheets, documents, presentations) and manual processes. It’s important to really understand what customers
compare your solution with, because that’s the yardstick they use to define “better.” For example, your solution might be much easier to use than the product that other startups
are selling, but if the real alternative in the mind of a customer is Excel, you can’t say your product is easier to use unless it is easier to use than a sprea dsheet. 2. Unique
attributes Unique attributes are capabilities or features that your offering has that the competitive alternatives do not have. Your unique attributes are your secret sauce, the
things you can do that the alternatives can’t. It’s the list of capabilities that you have and the alternatives don’t. For technology companies, these are often technical features,
but unique attributes could also be things like your delivery model (such as installed on-premise vs. software as a service), your business model (think Rent the Runway upending
retail by leasing instead of selling special-occasion wear) or your specific expertise (perhaps you have a dozen international banks as clients and therefore understand their
business better than others in the market). In my database-turned-data-­warehouse example, our key unique attribute was our patented query algorithm. For service businesses—like
consultancies, agencies and custom-development shops—the unique attributes are often related to a combination of expertise and experience. For example, you might be the only design
and user experience ( UX ) agency with experience in training design for large enterprises. You could be the only group of Python developers that also has significant experience
with retail point-of-sale systems. Sometimes, traditional positioning statements try to capture this idea under the label “differentiator.” In general, you will have many
differentiators. The key is to make sure they are different when compared with the capabilities of the real competitive alternatives from a customer’s persp ective. 3. Value (and
proof) Value is the benefit you can deliver to customers because of your unique attributes. In my earlier example of the database, the value that mapped to our patented algorithm
was that companies could get answers from their data in minutes rather than hours, which helped them serve their customers better. If unique attributes are your secret sauce, then
value is the reason why someone might care about your secret sauce. Value should be as fact-based as possible. Qualitative value claims, such as “people enjoy well-designed user
interfaces,” are too subjective and customers won’t believe them. Your opinion of your value does not count as proof; the opinion of customers, reviewers and experts does. Data or
third-party opinions are difficult to refute. Your value needs to be provable in an objective and demonstrab le way. 4. Target market characteristics In most cases, the value you
provide is at least somewhat relevant to a wide variety of customers. However, if you are a small business you don’t have an unlimited marketing budget and a giant army of
salespeople. Your sales and marketing efforts have to be focused on the customers who are most likely to buy from you. Your positioning needs to clearly identify who those folks
are. And simply put, they are the customers who care the most about the value your product delivers. You need to identify what sets these folks apart. What is it about these
customers that makes them love your product more than others? How can we identify them? Your target market is the customers who buy quickly, rarely ask for discounts and tell their
friends about your offerings. For businesses, big-picture characteristics include things like industry, location and company size, but those are rarely enough to identify a
customer who is a great fit for your product. You might sell a solution for small business that greatly reduces the time and complexity of invoicing. Any small business could use
your product, but the ones that send a significant number of invoices every month will love you the most. Suppose your company was running out of cash and if the team didn’t close
a certain amount of business by the end of the month, very bad things were going to happen. What types of customers would you focus on and why? What are the characteristics of
those customers that make them more likely to buy? We originally thought about our database target market as “any company with a very, very large amount of data.” But that wasn’t
specific enough — loads of companies with a large amount of data only store it for backup and don’t care about fast analysis. Then we asked ourselves who cares a lot about getting
answers quickly from a large amount of data. One group was banks that had a very time-sensitive need to analyze data to quickly identify a potential security threat. This
specificity of positioning allowed us to be really targeted in our sales and marketing—instead of focusing our marketing on any company with a lot of data, we could specifically
target banks. 5. Market category Think of the market category as a frame of reference for your target customers, which helps them understand your unique value. Market categories
serve as a convenient shorthand that customers use to group similar products together. Declaring that your product exists in a market category triggers a set of powerful
assumptions. Customers need a way to make sense of the overwhelming number of products on the market. When they are presented with a new product, they will attempt to use what they
know to try to figure out what it’s all about. Market categories are one way that customers organize products in their minds. Declaring that your product exists in a certain market
category will set off a powerful set of assumptions in customers’ minds about who your competitors are, what the functionality of the product should be and what the pricing is
like. For example, if I describe my product as “a customer relationship management ( CRM ) tool,” you will assume my competition is Salesforce, because they are the leader in that
market. You would assume the features include basic CRM functionality such as keeping track of contacts, activities and opportunities. You would also naturally assume that my
pricing is similar to Salesforce, both in the pricing model (a monthly price per user) and the actual cost. Your market category can work for you or against you. If you choose your
category wisely, all the assumptions are working for you. You don’t have to tell customers who your competitors are. It’s assumed! You don’t have to list every feature, because
it’s assumed that all products in the category have basic category functions. However, a poor category choice can turn that power against a product. If the market category we
select triggers assumptions that do not apply to our product, then a good portion of our marketing and sales efforts are going to be spent battling those assumptions. Positioning
Story: An email-for-lawyers solution that isn’t really email I once received a call from a startup with a product that customers loved but prospects couldn’t figure out. The
founders were ex-lawyers who had set out to build “better email for lawyers,” and they walked me through a demo. I asked them to show me the calendar and they explained it didn’t
have one. I was surprised, since calendaring is assumed functionality for any email solution. Interestingly, their happy customers didn’t mind. They chose the product for its
ability to do secure, context-aware file sharing. Again, I was surprised. File sharing is a problem normally solved with team collaboration software, not email. The product was
positioned as “email” but didn’t have features we assume any email solution would have. Also, the key unique feature of the product was not expected or even particularly valued in
their market (“email”). Repositioning the product as “team collaboration software” made it easier for customers to intuitively understand what was valuable about it, and avoided
customers looking for functionality it didn’t have. Even though the product was developed with a certain market in mind, what the company built was a better fit in a completely
different market category. Market categories help customers use what they know to figure out what they don’t. A well-chosen market category will help make your unique value more
obvious to your target customers. 6. (Bonus) Relevant trends Positioning a product within an established market category will help customers quickly understand your product and
whether or not they should consider buying it. You should always make it easy for prospects to understand what market category you operate in. But there is another way to give your
customers additional context to help them understand why your product is valuable. Used carefully, trends can help customers understand why your offering is something they need to
pay attention to right now. It’s easy to confuse market categories and trends, but they are not the same thing. Market categories are a collection of products with similar
characteristics. Trends are more like a characteristic itself, but one that happens to be very new and noteworthy at a given point in time. Market categories help customers
understand what your offering is all about and why they should care. Trends help buyers understand why this product is important to them right now. Trends can help business buyers
understand how a product aligns with overall company priorities, making it a more strategic and urgent purchase. Trends are important because, as customers, we want to learn about
new, interesting and potentially disruptive technologies or approaches. Nobody wants to be left behind when a shift happens, so we’re constantly looking out for new developments
that might have an impact on us and our business. “Sit, walk or run, but don’t wobble.” Zen proverb Buyers are always interested in how the world is changing and that makes them
interested in trends. Media, blogs, magazines and books cover trends because they are new and interesting to read about. Buyers also worry about disruption and will often be
looking to understand new technology and capabilities that they might need to know about or take advantage of for competitive reasons. Trends can help customers understand why a
product is important right now. Every year, Pantone, inventors of the Pantone Color Matching System, selects a “color of the year.” In 2019, it’s “living coral” (or pink, for us
regular folks). Companies then create pink clothing, lipstick and furniture to be on trend. If you create a pink couch, you are still in the couch business (your market category)
but you used a trend (pink) to make it clear that your couch is cool in 2019. In technology, we can think of market categories as groups of solutions that are similar and compete
with each other. Accounting software, group chat, security systems, networking solutions—these are all market categories. Trends in technology can be applied to multiple market
categories. Blockchain technology, artificial intelligence ( AI ) and augmented reality are examples of trends that are relevant to multiple different markets. AI itself is not a
market category and tells customers little about what a product is. AI -empowered CRM , however, tells us what the product is ( CRM is the market category) and gives us a clue
about what makes it special right now (the use of AI ). Using a trend in positioning is optional (but often desirable). Position your product in a market category that puts your
offering’s strengths in their best context, and then look for relevant trends in your industry that can help customers understand why they should consider this product right now.
Positioning Story: Sampler highlights a trend to help consumer packaged goods companies understand the importance of improved product sampling Marie Chevrier Schwartz was part of a
marketing agency working with large consumer packaged goods companies on product sampling campaigns when she realized that brands were wasting their money. “North American brands
spend nearly $ 10 billion a year handing out product samples in pharmacies, grocery stores, retail stores and street corners,” Marie explains, “but they have no way to ensure their
samples get to the people most likely to buy, no way to go back to those consumers with offers, and no way to track who loved the product and purchased it later. I knew there had
to be a better way.” Marie started Sampler, a solution that lets brands target consumers based on age, interests and behaviors; delivers the samples; and tracks redemption rates
and customer insights. The market context for Sampler was obviously “product sampling” but helping customers understand what made Sampler different and better from their current
sampling programs proved to be a harder challenge. “When we started we thought of ourselves as ‘online product sampling,’ which left the brands confused about whether or not we
could handle physical product samples. We needed a way to position ourselves that would tie closely to what they already understood, while at the same time make our differentiated
value very clear.” There are several big trends impacting consumer brands. New brands like Dollar Shave Club that are skipping traditional retail and building their own
relationships with consumers are threatening traditional brands in categories they never thought possible. At the same time, while brands need to sell through Amazon because of its
reach with consumers, Amazon also poses a huge threat to them, because it has the power to move into a category armed with its consumer behavior data and quickly dominate it. In
response, big consumer brands are investing heavily in building out their own direct-to-consumer strategies that will allow them to build their own relationships with consumers.
“The value of our solution is really well aligned with direct-to-consumer initiatives,” Marie explains. “Our solution helps them rapidly build out a targeted buyer list and get
deeper insights about consumer behavior and preferences.” Sampler adjusted their positioning to describe themselves as “direct-to-consumer sampling” to make the link more explicit.
“When we started to describe ourselves as “direct-to-consumer sampling,” brands made Sampler a priority and deals closed faster. Now we can clearly communicate how we tie into one
of their most important initiatives—it really makes our solution more strategic to brands.” Sampler now works with brands like L’Oréal, Kimberly-Clark and Unilever for samples of
everything from moisturizers to granola bars. Each component has a relationship to the others. Attributes of your product are only “unique” when compared with competitive
alternatives. Those attributes drive the value, which determines who the best target customers are, which in turn highlights which market frame of reference is the best one to
highlight your value. Trends must be relevant to your target customers, and can be used in combination with your market category to make your product more relevant to your buyers
right now. Because these relationships flow from one another, the order in which you define the components is very important. I’ve seen teams start with defining key features,
without looking at competitive alternatives, and the resulting positioning doesn’t connect with how customers really evaluate a solution. Similarly, I’ve seen teams start with
value or a segmentation and end up with positioning that doesn’t click with customers. In the work I’ve done with startups, I’ve determined that it’s critical to start with
understanding what the customer sees as a competitive alternative, and then working through the rest of the components—attributes, value, characteristics, market category, relevant
trends—from there. The flow looks something like this: In Part II , I will give you a process for working through the components in the right order. Defining the Components and
Pulling Them Together Now that you understand each component of positioning, you can work to bring them together to own your market. Ready to learn the 10 - S tep Positioning
Process? Of course you are. STEP 1 . Understand the Customers Who Love Your Product When I started thinking about how to build a systematic approach to positioning, one of the
first obstacles I encountered was the interdependencies between the components. Our best market category depends on who our target customers are and what value we can deliver. The
value we deliver depends on our differentiators, which depend on what alternatives we compare our product to. But the market category also tells customers who our competitors are.
If everything depends on everything else, where on earth do we start in what seems to be a circular process? The answer hit me during a coffee meeting with a friend who, like me,
had been a VP of marketing at a series of successful startups. He had just joined a new startup and we were chatting about the best course of action to take in the first thirty
days at an impatient startup that’s looking for fast results from their new executive. We discovered that our philosophies were strikingly similar—we spent all our time looking for
things that work, and then deciphering why. What marketing campaigns brought in the most leads? Which pieces of content were consumed the most? What events had the most attendees?
Asking these questions led us to the happiest customers. Once we narrowed in on the happiest customers, we went looking for the reasons they were so satisfied while others were
not. What was it about our offering that made them so happy with it, and what was it about those customers that made them such a good fit for us? Answering these questions helped
us figure out what our value was, who it was resonating for and why—in other words, it helped us get a start on understanding what our positioning should be. Your best-fit
customers hold the key to understanding what your product is. Looking back at the first few times I repositioned a product, I kept coming back to our happiest customers and how
they thought about us. In one case, we tried to survey all of our customers to see why they loved us, and the results were muddy. There didn’t seem to be any patterns in why people
picked us. I wondered if the results would look different if I only surveyed the ecstatic fans and left the moderately happy customers out of it. Suddenly a clear pattern emerged:
all of our customers could look like these very happy ones if we focused our marketing and sales efforts on companies with characteristics similar to the ecstatic fans. “There is
only one thing stronger than all the armies of the world: and that is an idea whose time has come.” Victor Hugo We increased our growth by concentrating on our best-fit customers.
As I shifted to consulting work, I noticed the same pattern in the tech companies I worked with. Taken as a whole, the customer base often seemed very heterogenous and it was hard
to see a pattern in why they chose a product, who they viewed as competitors and what their favorite features were. However, if we sorted out just the best-fit customers, we could
clearly see patterns. The first step in the positioning exercise is to make a short list of your best customers. They understood your product quickly and bought from you quickly.
They became raving fans, referred you to other companies and acted as a reference for you. They represent the perfect type of customer you want to buy from you (at least in the
short term). Make a list of them. You will use this list as a reference point for the rest of the exercise. What if I don’t have any super-happy customers yet? This positioning
process assumes you have enough happy customers to see a pattern in who loves your product and why. Until you can see that, you will want to hold off on tightening up your
positioning. Time for a test. In the early days of a company, when you are still learning about what customers love and hate about your offering, you need to get your product in
front of a fairly wide set of potential customers. Test your offering on this diverse audience so you can see patterns emerge. Do bigger businesses love your product more than
smaller ones? Are businesses in a certain industry more drawn to your product than those in other industries? Are your happiest customers more likely to have certain
characteristics? We can guess who loves our product most and why, but frequently our guesses are incorrect. Until we have more experience with real customers, it’s better to keep
our minds open and our positioning loose, and see what happens. Think of your product as a fishing net. You have a theory that your net is good for catching grouper, but you
haven’t fished with it yet so you aren’t certain what you might catch. At first, you’ll want to go where there are lots of different fish and see what you pull up. If you notice
over time you’re pulling in a lot of tuna, not grouper, you can move to the tuna spot and do the same amount of work to get a lot more fish. If you had positioned your tuna net as
a grouper net in the beginning, you might never have figured out your best positioning. Positioning your net broadly as a “fish net” when you have little market experience is the
best way to keep your options open until you have enough customer experience to start seeing patterns. But I want to start with my product, not my customers! Your first instinct
might be to consider your product and its special features and position around them. Understandable! That’s the part you understand—and possibly enjoy—the most. But that’s a trap.
If we start by laying out our unique features, we are unconsciously comparing ourselves to a set of competitors. The trouble is, we frequently see our competitors much differently
than customers see them. I’ve found this to be particularly true in technology startups that are keeping an eye on other startups in their space that are competing with them for
investment dollars. That’s fine, and you will have to keep an eye on those threats as your business grows in the future. However, keep in mind that most of your target customers
have never heard of you or your rival startups—they simply want to know how your product compares to what they use today. Customer-facing positioning must be centered on a customer
frame of reference. Shouldn’t we position our product for customers the same way we position it for investors? Absolutely not! Investors are investing in what your company will be
in the future; customers are buying a solution to a problem they have right now. Investors want to hear your vision for what your company will look like five or ten years from now,
and how you intend to be a leader in a large, preferably fast-growing market. Customers, for the most part, are making an immediate decision to spend money they have right now to
get immediate value and relieve an immediate pain. They generally aren’t that concerned about your plan for getting 1,000 more customers that look just like them (although they do
want to know you intend to still be in business in the future). Your plan for the future from a customer’s point of view could look confusing, terrifying or both. When investors
hear the word “disruption,” they see opportunity for new companies to expand and grow. But sometimes customers hear “disruption” as replacing things they have invested in—even
though they might be ready to do that in the future, they may not want to think about that today. In general, your website, your sales and marketing materials, your pricing and
even your immediate product roadmap will be designed to serve customers, and therefore should reflect your customer positioning not your investor positioning. Investors will
understand that and will also understand that the story in your investor pitch deck may look dramatically different from the story in your sales deck. The process described in this
book has been designed with customers in mind, rather than investors. Am I positioning my product, my company or both? Throughout this book I give examples of positioning a product
