Praise for Obviously Awesome “April Dunford is the master at positioning and bringing B 2 B tech to market. Obviously Awesome pulls together two decades of her experience into a
brilliant step-by-step book that actually shows us how to do positioning, rather than just talking about it—with great examples and a few chuckles along the way.” Rich Mironov ,
CEO and product management guru “In this valuable book, April Dunford proves that products can be transformed by changing their context. Obviously Awesome is a must-read for any
founder, marketer or salesperson struggling to make their product stand out in crowded markets. We spend a lot of time talking about product and engineering, and not enough time
thinking about marketing and positioning—this book can help change that.” Kirk Simpson , co-founder and CEO of Wave “Three years ago, April Dunford contributed invaluable work for
Redgate, helping us position our company around a reframed area with more growth opportunities and a bigger mission than we had before. Since then our revenues have grown
substantially, in part due to our better positioning. In her new book, Obviously Awesome , April provides an easy-to-understand framework for you to do your own positioning work.
If you run through her 10- Step Positioning Process and give yourself the chance to allow the scales to fall from your eyes, you’ll improve your positioning and ultimately, your
product.” Simon Galbraith , CEO of Redgate Software “April Dunford is the thought leader across the country and beyond when it comes to marketing and positioning for startups. She
has an uncanny ability to see well ahead on how tech companies will be perceived by their users and customers, and has incredible insights for founders as they launch and scale
their startups.” Sunil Sharma , managing director of Techstars Toronto and co-host of Collision Conference “Great positioning is an unbeatable advantage. But you’re probably doing
it wrong. This book fixes that, offering a clear roadmap that businesses of any size can use to find and communicate their unique advantages on their own terms.” Alistair Croll ,
founder of Solve for Interesting and bestselling author of Lean Analytics “Positioning. Is. Hard. Really hard. But April Dunford gets it better than anyone I know. Candid, deeply
knowledgeable and—just as she is onstage—obviously hilarious. April is a master storyteller, and if you liked her keynote talk, you are going to love this book.” Oli Gardner ,
co-founder of Unbounce “April Dunford’s two decades of marketing leadership in large companies and small give her a unique perspective on positioning. This how-to guide is a
must-read. Before you spend a dollar on sales and marketing, read April’s book on positioning.” Renny Monaghan , VP solutions at RingCentral “Sometimes you need a smart,
experienced outsider to help you see things in your business in a different light. April Dunford is that person.” Benjamin Alarie , CEO of Blue J Legal “April Dunford’s product
positioning knowledge and experience are voluminous and she has an unparalleled ability to apply them. Before working with her, we really struggled to quickly and simply articulate
our value proposition to customers and often left them confused. When we went through her positioning workshop, she was able to help us home in on a place in the landscape and a
value to customers that made sense to people immediately. She’s distilled the elements of the workshop into this book clearly and simply, making it possible for product marketers
and entrepreneurs alike to take themselves through the key steps to successfully positioning your product or company. Highly recommended!” Jen Evans , CEO and co-founder of Squeeze
CMM and president of B 2 B News Network “ Obviously Awesome is the playbook for making your market category work for you instead of against you. If your product is hard for
customers to figure out, this book is for you.” Mark Organ , founder and CEO of Influitive, founder and former CEO of Eloqua “April Dunford may know more about product positioning
than any person alive and her deep, practical experience shines in this book. Witty, thoughtful and genuinely useful, Obviously Awesome is the must-read bible on positioning. If
your product is hard for customers to figure out, this book is for you.” Rich Emrich , CEO of Altus Assessments “Having an experienced outsider work with you can be really valuable
to help you see your business from a new perspective. April Dunford helped us navigate our complex industry landscape and clarify the core of our positioning.” Mazdak Rezvani ,
founder and CEO of Chatkit “April Dunford’s deep experience working with startups shines in this treasure trove of strategic marketing goodness.” Marie Chevrier Schwartz , founder
and CEO of Sampler “April Dunford has decades of practical and value-driven experience leading teams at early stage companies. There are few go-to-market professionals that have
proven scale-up success across multiple organizations. If you are a startup looking for assistance to accelerate your business and learn from someone who has really been there and
done that, April’s your gal.” David Bloom , founder and CEO of LevelJump “ Obviously Awesome is a tremendously valuable guide for marketers at companies of all sizes. April Dunford
knows better than just about anyone how much companies struggle to understand the relationship between their product and the context through which their product is viewed by the
outside world. This book is perfect for founders, marketers or salespeople who need to move beyond the basic process of writing down a positioning statement and actually doing the
work to make their product stand out in crowded markets.” David McIninch , senior VP strategy and marketing at Fiserv “You won’t meet anyone who understands the art of positioning
as deeply as April Dunford. I wish that every founder I worked with would read this. I have no doubt that Obviously Awesome will quickly become the de facto reference text on
positioning. (Bonus: I literally laughed out loud.)” Georgiana Laudi , SaaS marketing and growth advisor, startup mentor, former VP marketing at Unbounce “April Dunford’s trademark
wit and entertaining style make Obviously Awesome easily the best business book of the year. If you want your customer acquisition costs to go down, sales to close faster and your
customers to stick around longer, you need to position your products to be ‘obviously awesome’ too. Move over, Eric Ries and Steve Blank, there’s a new must-read book in town for
startup founders and executives.” Ashley Greene , CEO and founder of Instratify “This is marketing mojo in a box. We finally have a book on positioning that is prescriptive and not
just descriptive, and April’s process really works. Buy the book. Read the book. Use the book.” Rob Tyrie , founder of Ironstone Advisory, formerly global lead for insurance at
Salesforce “April Dunford wisely reminds us that sexy marketing tactics and technologies are, ultimately, at the mercy of the product’s positioning. In stepping us through the
process to deliver obviously awesome positioning, April gives us a beautiful gift: the ability to align the entire company’s efforts behind a winning strategy.” Mitch Solway ,
fractional CMO for Startups, formerly VP marketing at Vidyard, FreshBooks and Lavalife Copyright © 2019 by April Dunford All rights reserved. No part of this book may be
reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted, in any form or by any means, without the prior written consent of the publisher or a licence from The Canadian Copyright
Licensing Agency (Access Copyright). For a copyright licence, visit www.accesscopyright.ca or call toll free to 1-800-893-5777. ISBN 978-1-9990230-0-3 (paperback) ISBN
978-1-9990230-1-0 (ebook) Produced by Page two www.pagetwo.com Cover design by Peter Cocking Interior design by Setareh Ashrafologhalai Interior illustrations by Michelle Clement
Ebook by Bright Wing Books ( brightwing.ca ) 19 20 21 22 23 5 4 3 2 1 www.aprildunford.com You’ve got a cool product, but nobody understands it. You think it’s simple, but
customers don’t. They compare your products with those that are nothing like it. At first you think this is a sales or marketing problem. If prospects don’t understand what your
product is all about, it must be because they haven’t really heard you, or you’re not saying it clearly enough. But if that were true, then you would see additional marketing
result in more sales, and your sales reps wouldn’t have to work so hard explaining what your product is and why anyone should care. CONTENTS Introduction I. WHAT IS POSITIONING?
Positioning as Context The Five (plus One) Components of Effective Positioning II. THE 10-STEP POSITIONING PROCESS Step 1. Understand the Customers Who Love Your Product Step 2.
Form a Positioning Team Step 3. Align Your Positioning Vocabulary and Let Go of Your Positioning Baggage Step 4. List Your True Competitive Alternatives Step 5. Isolate Your Unique
Attributes or Features Step 6. Map the Attributes to Value “Themes” Step 7. Determine Who Cares a Lot Step 8. Find a Market Frame of Reference That Puts Your Strengths at the
Center and Determine How to Position in It Step 9. Layer On a Trend (but Be Careful) Step 10. Capture Your Positioning so It Can Be Shared III. PUTTING POSITIONING INTO PLAY After
Positioning: What Happens Next? Conclusion Landmarks Cover Title Page Copyright Page Table of Contents Body Matter Part Chapter Chapter Part Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter
Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Part Chapter Conclusion Back Matter You have a positioning problem. I have a solution in 10 easy steps. INTRODUCTION I frequently speak at
tech and marketing conferences, and when I tell organizers I want to talk about positioning, their answer is always the same, “Don’t you have something cooler to talk about?” I get
it. Positioning isn’t new, and it isn’t trendy. You might even think we know everything there is to know about positioning by this point. You’d be wrong. Many of us know what
positioning is, but very few understand how to do it. The way we market and sell products is constantly changing. Recently we have seen the emergence of account-based marketing,
growth hacking, content marketing, video marketing, visual search, voice search and chatbots. You could forgive any conference organizer for thinking that there are more current
and exciting topics out there than positioning. Why do a talk on that old stuff? Why write a book on it? Hey—why even read a book on positioning? Because every single marketing and
sales tactic that we use in business today uses positioning as an input and a foundation. To put it another way—none of the new, cool stuff works without good positioning as a
starting point. Positioning is the act of deliberately defining how you are the best at something that a defined market cares a lot about. Want to do better account-based
marketing? Get a better understanding of how to identify your best target accounts. Want to create better marketing content? Understand your value and differentiators better. Want
to grow revenue faster? Understand what makes a best-fit customer. Positioning is a fundamental input into every tactic we execute, every campaign we launch, every piece of content
we create, every sales pitch we make. If we fail at positioning, we fail at marketing and sales. If we fail at marketing and sales, the entire business fails. Like speaking
Japanese slowly and loudly to a person who speaks only English, putting a bigger marketing budget behind confusing and unclear positioning doesn’t work. And it’s hard to blame the
sales process when it takes several meetings for a customer to figure out what your product is, let alone whether or not they want to purchase it. Weak positioning diminishes the
results of everything we do in marketing and sales. It’s a wind in our face, constantly slowing us down, making the effort required to meet our business targets just that much more
difficult. It’s like trying to make an omelet with rotten eggs—your cooking technique is perfect, but nobody wants to eat what you’re serving. “How do you beat Bobby Fischer? You
play him at any game but chess.” WARREN BUFFETT Great positioning supercharges all of your marketing and sales efforts. Strong positioning feels like we’re cheating. It lets us
draft along with the forces of the markets we operate in, making everything we do in marketing and sales easier. No matter what direction we face, the wind is blowing at our back.
But positioning has a positioning problem. When I talk to people about positioning, we often spend the first part of the conversation reaching a common understanding of
positioning. Some folks think of positioning as messaging, and others think everything related to marketing is positioning. The first step to optimizing positioning is to really
understand what it is. I like to describe positioning as “context setting” for products. When we encounter something new, we will attempt to make sense of it by gathering together
all of the little clues we can quickly find to determine how we should think about this new thing. Without that context, products are very difficult to understand, and the whole
company suffers—not just the marketing and sales teams. I’ve seen startups use a shift in context to transform a product that customers found confusing or irrelevant into an
obvious, must-have purchase. I’ve seen customers struggle to understand products that my team found absurdly simple, and I’ve seen deeply innovative solutions misunderstood as
totally irrelevant. Often, you’re too close to your product to realize that the market doesn’t think about it the way you do. Positioning is a secret superpower that, when
harnessed correctly, can change the way the world thinks about a problem, a technology or even an entire market. And yet, there isn’t a standard way to position products. Can
positioning be taught, or does it need to be done in a different way for every product and audience? Can you be strategic about setting context, or is it all about right place,
right time? The concept of positioning first became a popular marketing construct in 1981 with the publication of Positioning: The Battle for Your Mind by Al Ries and Jack Trout.
To put that into perspective, in the early 1980s you were likely listening to Blondie’s “Call Me” on your new Sony Walkman while you played Pac-Man. That is, if you had even been
born. Ries and Trout argued that markets had become crowded with copycat products, and buyers were overwhelmed with the volume of marketing aimed at them. In order to break through
the noise, companies would need to take into account their own strengths and weaknesses, then contrast them with their competitors to create a unique leadership position in the
minds of customers. While Ries and Trout defined what positioning was all about, they didn’t give us many clues for how to do it. Their case studies focused on TV advertising
campaigns their agency had worked on, giving many people the impression that positioning was something best crafted by an agency and executed through big-budget advertising
campaigns. Today, opening the App Store on my smartphone gives me over 2 million choices. One of those apps, Amazon, gives me a marketplace of just under 580 million products to
choose from. Not only that, your customers are now exposed to more ads and branding than your Walkman-listening self could have ever imagined. Clear positioning was important in
1981; we are doomed without it today. Does the world really need another positioning book? If positioning is so important, and the concept has been around for decades, then surely
we know how to do this, right? That’s what I thought when I got my first job in marketing and realized I was going to have to figure this out. I learned that there was no shortage
of books talking about positioning, but none offered a methodology for actually doing it. That doesn’t mean folks were ignoring positioning completely. We were doing it, we just
weren’t super effective at it. I repositioned every product I worked on as an executive, all sixteen of them, but I was learning the hard way and making every mistake possible.
When I talked with other folks who were doing positioning work, I realized they were doing the same thing: getting it wrong and then trying it differently the next time. In the
absence of a process to follow to position a product, we mucked around until we figured it out (and sometimes we didn’t figure it out). After I’d repositioned a dozen or so
products, I felt like I was getting pretty good at it and wanted to share my knowledge with others. In my spare time, I served as an entrepreneur in residence ( EIR ) at a local
startup accelerator and started doing positioning sessions one on one with startups. I did a set of guest lectures at three different universities, talking through my ideas on
positioning. I spoke at conferences and private events. I built a set of templates and tools. I began teaching a regular masterclass on positioning with a university accelerator,
and started offering private sessions to both startups and larger companies across industries. Skeptical tech startup founders and grizzled “been there, done that” marketing and
product executives have challenged and refined my technique over the years. My process has been thoroughly field tested and proven as a bulletproof way to connect the customer with
the product, leading to sales. I decided the world did indeed need one more positioning book, one that would share this clear process. This book will show you how to deliberately
position your product to maximize the success of your business. I’m going to show you a simple way to break positioning into components so you can hone and perfect each piece. You
will learn how to put those pieces together into a market position that is centered on your strengths and focused on your best-fit customers. You might even start to think that
positioning is cool. So who exactly is this book written for? You’re the founder, CEO or an executive at a startup that needs prospects to quickly understand why your product is
unique and important to shorten your sales cycles and grow revenue. You’re a marketer who wants to make it easier for your target customers to understand the strengths of your
offerings so you can generate more leads. You’re a salesperson who needs to quickly get prospects to the aha moment where they understand what the product is all about and why they
need it. You’re an executive at a mature business who has seen your growth flatline as your market gets crowded and new competitors nip at your heels. You sell products online and
you need help connecting with customers who will love your distinctly amazing products. “Strategy is about making choices, trade-offs; it’s about deliberately choosing to be
different.” MICHAEL PORTER Above all, you recognize that your business will not succeed if you can’t connect product and prospect. Customers need to be able to easily understand
what your product is, why it’s special and why it matters to them. When positioning is not working, it often looks like a marketing or sales problem; dig a bit below the surface
and you can see that something else is going on. Weak positioning leaves a trail—the signs are there if you know where to l ook. Your current customers love you, but new prospects
can’t figure out what you’re selling. Do you spend more time explaining what you’re selling rather than closing deals? If your prospects can’t figure out what you do—quickly—they
will invent a position for you, one that potentially hides your key strengths or misrepresents your value. When you don’t own your positioning, you are putting your company at a
competitive disadvantage. Talk to people—not just friends and family—who would be great prospects for your offering. Show them your product and explain what it does. Now ask them
how they would describe what you do. Likewise, ask existing customers about your offering and see what they say. If you see a disconnect between how your happy customers think
about your product and how prospects see it, you likely have a positioning problem. Your company h as long sales cycles and low close rates, and you’re losing out to the
competition. Do your customers seriously evaluate your product, only to drop out at the last minute? Products with a strong position make their value obvious, attract suitable
customers and sell quickly. Effective positioning makes your sales efforts more efficient by attracting customers who are a great fit and who move through a buying process quickly.
Otherwise, poor-fit prospects consume your busy sales team’s valuable time, energy and attention—only to choose a competitor that was a better fit for them all along. You ha ve
high customer churn. Do you have high customer churn shortly after purchase, and new customers who are constantly asking for features you have no plan to deliver? Customers who
misunderstood your value chose you for the wrong reasons, and now they’re trying to recover sunk costs by turning your product into what they thought they were getting. In a
worst-case scenario, your development team may spend time building features for these disappointed customers, trying to appease a group that is likely to quit eventually, while
overlooking your happiest customers. Pairing weak positioning with strong marketing and sales efforts leads to customers abandoning your product soon after they have purchased
it—particularly bad news for subscription-based businesses that depend on renewals . You’re under price pressure. Do customers complain that your prices are too high? You can’t
charge a premium for a product that seems exactly like everything else on the market, and weakly positioned products are seen to offer little beyond their competitors. Clear
positioning helps prospects understand that you are a leader in your market segment and that you offer considerable value, making it easier for you to charge a premium. Positioning
is worth it. And it’s not that hard. Obviously Awesome isn’t about theory and principles (although I will give you just enough of those to make you dangerous), it’s about how to
get the job of positioning done, out there in the real world where nobody cares about “best practices” or how things are supposed to work. You’ll learn how to implement a new
position for your offerings that will put you at a distinct competitive advantage. It is possible to do positioning effectively and make your product obviously awesome to the
customers out there who really need it. So let’s figure out what exactly you’re trying to sell. But first, let’s understand what positioning truly is, and why you’re having such a
hard time doing it. POSITIONING AS CONTEXT Context enables people to figure out what’s important. Positioning products is a lot like context setting in the opening of a movie. The
opening scene helps the viewer quickly answer a list of basic questions that give context for the story about to unfold. Where are the characters? Who are they, and should the
viewer love them or hate them? Is the story going to be sad or scary or funny? Think of the opening scene in Apocalypse Now . You see a dense grove of peaceful palm trees swaying
in the breeze. But then you start to notice some smoke coming from the bottom of the screen and a helicopter moves quickly across. The palm trees burst into flames as Jim Morrison
says, “This is the end.” The setting is no longer a beach in the Caribbean; it’s a war in the jungle. The scene slowly shifts from the burning jungle to Martin Sheen’s face and you
realize you’re seeing his traumatic memories. He’s smoking, he’s drinking, he’s got a gun, and your mother would have something to say about the state of that hotel room. He walks
over to the window and looks out, and you hear his thoughts. “Saigon. Shit. I’m still only in Saigon. Every time I think I’m gonna wake up back in the jungle.” The movie is four
minutes and forty-five seconds in, but you have enough context to know what it’s all about. It’s set in the middle of the Vietnam War, the main character has some serious PTSD ,
and if you thought this was going to be a two-hour laugh riot, you are dead wrong. Hey, they did warn you with the title. The opening scene positions the movie so you can stop
wondering about the big questions of where, what, why and who and move onto focusing on the story itself within that context. When customers encounter a product they have never
seen before, they will look for contextual clues to help them figure out what it is, who it’s for and why they should care. Taken together, the messaging, pricing, features,
branding, partners and customers create context and set the scene for the product. Context can completely transform the way we think about a product. A good example of this is the
famous context experiment conducted by the Washington Post . The experiment involved Joshua Bell, an internationally acclaimed violinist, who at the time was considered the best
classical musician in America. Interview magazine once said his playing, “does nothing less than tell human beings why they bother to live.” Joshua Bell regularly sells out concert
halls where tickets cost $ 300 or more. For this test of context, he would play the violin outside a busy subway station in Washington, DC , during the morning commute. Would
people recognize Bell’s extraordinary talent, or would they simply walk past him as they would any other street performer? And more importantly for the experiment, would he make
more money than a typical street performer? Bell performed for forty-five minutes. In that time, 1,070 people passed by, and of those, 27 gave him money, and only 7 paused to
listen. His total earnings for the concert: $ 32.17. You might argue that the commuters of Washington, DC , may simply be late getting to work and don’t carry change. Just because
he didn’t draw a crowd and he didn’t make much money doesn’t mean the rushing commuters weren’t suddenly inspired to ponder the meaning of their lives. But the Washington Post went
further and interviewed people who had experienced the music. It turned out that plenty of them weren’t in much of a rush at all—like the man getting a shoe shine in the corner of
the plaza or the people lined up to buy lottery tickets at the kiosk twenty feet from Bell. It turns out they weren’t any more likely to notice the music. One man buying a lottery
ticket that morning later remembered every number he chose but only vaguely recalled the musician as “just a guy trying to make a buck.” The owner of the shoe-shine stand
complained that the music was too loud and admitted that she had thought about calling the police to make him stop. Clearly these folks had not found a reason to live in Bell’s
music. Although many people were too rushed to appreciate Bell’s playing, nothing else told them that what was happening in the plaza was special enough to stop and take in. Joshua
Bell was sabotaged by his context. Even a world-class product, poorly positioned, can fail. In the context of a concert hall, Bell is perceived as producing something that is very
valuable. He’s dressed to perform. He’s surrounded by an orchestra on a beautiful stage. The program tells people what awards he has won. Whereas, when he’s playing outside a
subway station, everything around him has changed. He’s dressed like a street performer and standing beside a garbage can, playing for tips. His product—the music—hasn’t changed,
but in this context, few people recognize its value. We rely on context to make sense of a world that is full of street performers and concert hall musicians, and full of millions
of products of all shapes and sizes. Context allows us to make thousands of little decisions about what we should pay attention to and what we can simply ignore. Without context to
guide us, we would be overwhelmed, maybe even paralyzed by choice . The situation is even worse when we consider innovative products that people have never encountered before.
Think back to the last time you saw something novel—like an iPad or a hoverboard or a drone or a cake pop. How did you make sense of it? Understanding something new is challenging
because we don’t yet have a frame of reference. When we lack context for a product, the easiest way to create one is by starting with something we already know. When you saw a
hoverboard, you may have thought, “Hey, that kid is riding a thing that looks like a skateboard, but he’s not pushing with his foot.” Or you saw an iPad and thought, “That’s like a
giant cell phone or a little monitor without a keyboard.” For people who build and sell things, the frame of reference that a potential customer chooses can make or break the
business. Coke is much more than just fizzy water in the same way that a concert violinist is more than just a street performer with a fiddle. “If you’re a baker, making bread,
you’re a baker. If you make the best bread in the world, you’re not an artist, but if you bake the bread in the gallery, you’re an artist. So the context makes the difference.”
MARINA ABRAMOVIĆ Most products are exceptional only when we understand them within their best frame of reference. For those of us who make and sell products, the frame of reference
that potential customers build around our offerings is critical to staying in business. The trouble is, making sense of all the offerings is becoming an increasingly difficult
task. There are too many products, all competing for shrinking attention. With so many other offerings on the market, it’s easy for products to get lost in the noise or, worse,
completely misunderstood and framed in ways that make them unappealing, redundant or merely unremarkable . While we understand that context is important, we generally fail to
deliberately choose a context because we believe that the context for our product is obvious. The Two Traps Product creators often fall into the trap of thinking there is only one
way to position an offering, and that we have no ability to shift that contextual frame of reference, especially after we have released it to market. We set out to build something
(a new dessert or a new way of doing email, for example) and then almost unconsciously position our offering in that market (“dessert” or “email”). But most products can be
positioned in multiple different markets. Your dessert might be better positioned as a snack, and your email solution might make more sense if it were positioned as chat. But
because we never thought about positioning our product deliberately, we continue to believe there is only one way to think about it. Without meaning to, we trap ourselves within
our own context. We don’t know how to shift the framework to best communicate what our product actually is or what it does. These traps usually take one of two forms. Trap 1: You
are stuck on the idea of what you intended to build, and you don’t realize that your product has become something else. Imagine you’re a baker and you decide you’re going to make
the greatest chocolate cake the world has ever known. You probably weren’t aware of it, but the minute you decided your product was “cake,” you made a set of critical business
decisions before the flour hit the bowl. These include: Target buyers and where you sell. You will be selling to folks looking for a fancy dessert, either directly at a bakery or
food store, or to restaurants that serve fancy desserts after fancy meals. Competitive alternatives. You will be competing with other cakes, ice creams, pies and assorted desserts.
Pricing and margin . You won’t be likely to charge much more than you would for other desserts, since you’ll be selling the cake alongside them. Key product features and roadmap.
Your potential customers eat fancy desserts, so your product differentiators will need to appeal to them (likely high-income restaurant goers, or dinner hosts looking to impress
guests). You might make your cake organic or gluten free, or add fancy French salt to your caramel sauce. Now, suppose that in your process of experimentation, you end up creating
a cake that is actually quite small. It’s so small you could sell it as a self-contained, single-serving cake, so you put a little wrapper around it. You realize that you’ve
actually made supreme chocolate muffins instead of better chocolate cake. At first it might not seem like this is much of a change. The product hasn’t changed much — it’s the same
batter— but almost everything else about your business has. Why? Because we changed the mental frame of reference around the product from “cake” to “muffin.” That change in context
changes everything about the business: Target buyers and where you sell. Unlike cakes, muffins are sold at coffee shops and diners. Competitive alternatives. You are now competing
with donuts, Danishes and bagels. Pricing and margin. Muffins sell for a buck or two, and you will be looking to sell a lot of them. Key product features and roadmap. You are now
fighting for the hearts and minds of a noble class of people who eat chocolate for breakfast. They’re likely not worried about gluten or the origin of the salt in your caramel.
They might like your muffin larger or with more caramel or maybe they want it deep-fried like a hash brown (you might be laughing, but deep down I think you want to try one of
those). So, if you were the baker, you might not see too much difference between muffins and cake—the product is essentially the same, right? However, choosing to make muffins or
cake results in two fundamentally different business models, with different ways of making revenue. As product creators, we need to understand that the choices we make in
positioning and context can have a massive impact on our businesses—for better or worse. Once our product is released into the market, we often fall into the trap of thinking that
there is a “default” context around our offering. Our product simply is what we set out to build. However, the road from an idea to a market-ready product is rarely a straight
line. After we have an idea of what we want to create—a better email app, a faster database or a yummier chocolate cake—we go through a process of building prototypes, or ugly
first versions, that we put in front of prospects to get their feedback. We then incorporate new ideas, adding and removing features based on that feedback. We repeat the cycle,
often for months or even years, until we have something that our early customers really seem to love. Frequently, the product we end up with is not what we started out to build.
Our email system seems more like group chat, our database seems more like an analytics platform and our cake has become muffins. This transformation happens so gradually that we,
the product creators, often don’t notice it. We still see the product as the thing we set out to build. What else could it possibly be? Customers, though, are often left confused
by products that don’t seem to match up with the way companies are positioning them. This disconnect leaves customers confused, or worse, they believe that the product is simply
poorly conceived and therefore can be ignored and forgotten entirely. Trap 2: You carefully designed your product for a market, but that market has changed. Your product exists
within a market context—simple enough. Trouble is, markets, and the way customers perceive them, are constantly changing. Markets are made up of competitors who are constantly
evolving their offerings, often in response to shifts in technology, customer preferences, economic conditions and regulatory requirements. Sometimes a product that was well
positioned in a market suddenly becomes poorly positioned, not because the product itself has changed, but because markets around the product have shifted. Suppose again that
you’re a baker and you’ve been in the muffin business for a while. Over time, your specialty has become extraordinarily healthy muffins filled with nuts, seeds and dates. You’ve
been positioning your muffin as a great breakfast for folks on a diet who want an alternative to the empty calories of a donut. For years, you’ve sold your “diet muffin” to pudgy
workers from the office next door. Then a bakery opens across the street and your office workers aren’t coming to you as often as they used to. You decide to check out the
competition and discover a massive crowd that includes not only your former customers but also buff athletes from the gym down the street and a group of stylish moms. When it’s
your turn to order, you get what everyone else is ordering. You’re stunned to discover the hit product at this bakery is just like yours—it’s full of nuts, seeds and dates... the
ingredients are almost identical! But this muffin isn’t positioned as a “diet muffin.” In fact, they don’t even call it a muffin. It’s a “gluten-free paleo snack.” In this case,
you had a great product but failed to adjust the positioning as markets around the product shifted. In the past, healthy eaters might have thought of themselves as “being on a
diet,” but that concept shifted over time as eating habits changed and trendy diets emerged. Now, your once-popular “diet muffin” seems out of date and irrelevant to bodybuilders
and trendy moms and eventually even to schlumpy desk jockeys. You were trapped in your original positioning, even though the market had moved on. For startups and tech companies,
this problem is very common. Our markets are complex, overlapping and shifting rapidly. Our customers operate in a context that is often quite different from our startup or tech
bubble. It’s easy to miss a shift that impacts nurses, housekeepers, insurance agents, restaurant workers or manufacturers while we’re drinking espresso and staring at our MacBooks
in our exposed-brick, open-plan offices. How to Position Your Product like Your Company Depends on It (Hint: It Does) The common failure in both of these traps is not deliberately
positioning the product. We stick with a “default” positioning, even when the product changes or the market changes. I believe this happens because we haven’t been taught that
every product can be positioned in multiple ways and often the best position for a product is not the default. We have never been taught that positioning is a deliberate business
choice that requires time, attention and, importantly, a systematic process. Let’s walk through an example that shows the difference between “default” positioning and deliberate
positioning . Take the baker scenario from Trap 1. Suppose you weren’t happy with those chocolate muffins, and you’re back to the cake idea, only now you’re going to revolutionize
the whole idea of chocolate cake. You imagine cake that people can eat without a fork. This cake will be portable so people can eat it walking down the street with a coffee in one
hand and your portable-cakey-thing in the other. You work on this idea until you have a prototype that your friends and family love. Your Cake 2.0 is an absolute hit! You’re
invited to your local business association to compete in a pitch contest for small business innovators. You hope to win some sweet prize money, not to mention the attention of
local coffee shop owners who might want to sell your new cake. Naturally, you pitch your product the way you think about it in your own head. “I wanted to build an innovative cake
product,” you explain. “So I invented Cake 2.0. It’s like a small piece of cake that you can eat with your hands. I’ve managed to put a handle on it, well it’s a stick, really—so
you don’t need a fork. What I have is an amazing, innovative cake on a stick!” But is that really what you built? Is “cake on a stick” the best way to position your cool new thing?
