want to think about okay if I was Clay who would I want to be reaching or monitoring? I would want to be monitoring some of the sales teams right? These are people that are on the
front lines and they'll be engaging with clients. So they are the best people to be be tracking for. So I'll then start to factor that into my process here. VP of sales, perfect
one to start tracking for. We've got GTM, I might have a look at them. VP of marketing is also a a lovely person to start tracking for. And the nice thing that you can see with
this quick view is you get a little high level overview of the level of followers that they have. So fifty seven k followers, huge good person to monitor. This person probably
doesn't have that many followers, so perhaps not a great person to monitor. And why are we looking at vanity metrics like followers? Well, if we go to Aaron Reeves here, this is
interesting. It doesn't actually work at, just an adviser, but but we'll we'll talk about why we're looking at followers nonetheless. If they have a lot of followers, typically, it
does mean that they got a lot of engagement with their posts. So you can see here fifty, thirty one, forty, thirty seven, so on and so on. Claire here, she's got four, thousands.
This is perfect. Thirty eight, twenty seven, twenty four. This is a good person to start tracking, for as well. The other thing that we can go look at is we can go look at posts.
We can look at the people who are engaging with this type of content. So here we have, Florian. We also have Eric who's in charge of content. Florian here, head of sales
development for Common Room, two thousand followers. The reason that I'm looking to see who is liking is it shows me who's active. And so this is a perfect person to start tracking
for seventy two thousand followers, great engagement and all of his stuff. Eric probably not so much and just doesn't have enough followers to make it really worth it. But you get
my train of thought, this is how I find the key people to track and follow at a competitor. And what I would then go and do is I would then just go and copy and paste the URLs of
these individuals into the tool over here. And so then we could start to see I set this one up as an example. We then have all of their posts coming in and we can then run the same
play. We could start to push this data through to, instantly, automatically. So anytime someone engages with a competitor, we can push it through. Now what does the actual email
copy typically look like from our standpoint? Well, let me pull up, a typical campaign for us and show you exactly what this looks like. Okay. So here we are inside of one of our
campaigns. This time what we're doing is we're monitoring anyone engaging with a tool called HayReach. So we're actually being a little bit more direct and a little bit more
obvious here. They're not a competitor to to us, which is why I'm going more direct. And I'm saying I've been looking at how leading HeyReach users in the industry space are
getting thirty percent positive reply rates by running Evergreen Outbound campaigns that track competitors, thought leaders, and their own brand. In the last thirty days, several
of your competitors have been using social signals, monitoring LinkedIn engagement, keyword trends, brands to, trigger timely hyper relevant outreach, so on and so on. And really
what the personalization, don't need to go too crazy on the on like AI which is quite nice is the personalization is around like I know that you know you have interest in this
particular topic or this particular company. And and so when I'm reaching out to perhaps anyone engaging with like a thought leader and a creator and we'll go on to look at how you
find those people in a second, I instead of focusing on the company, this would be like, hey, I've been looking at how leading companies in x industry are leveraging x topic.
Right? And that's that could be intent data or whatever it is, right, that you're that you're focusing on. So let's pretend I was instantly here. You know, I've been looking at how
leading SaaS companies are leveraging, email sequencing tools and data to to generate, you know, the the outcome that you're trying to sell, right, which is the the metric. Always
focus on a metric and always add metrics into there. And that's really the level of personalization that I do. I do do a fun one with thought leaders which I'll go on to in a sec
but maybe take a screenshot of that and you can kind of mirror that approach when it comes to reaching out to companies that are similar in the space where you maybe have
integrations with. If this is a competitor, I don't tend to reference the competitor because I think it's a bit weird and a bit stalkery. So what I do instead and let's pretend
going back to the use case that I was pretending I was Clay and I was reaching out to people engaging with, you know, key individuals at Common Room. I will, say, hey, I've been
looking at how leading SaaS leaders are leveraging, intent based platforms or signal based platforms because that's kind of what Common Room is to generate and then x outcome,
right? So you just focus on the topic as opposed to the specific individual. So going back to to to this, how do we then set up a campaign around thought leaders? Well, inside of
the Triggerfy platform, we have a thing called influencer search. And so what we can do here is we can set up a search query to find anyone who has influence that talks about x y
zed. So let's just type in like cold email in this example. So I'm wanting to find anyone in the last seven days that has talked about cold email. Straight away we've got someone
with a large following just Braun, probably all know about him. Nuri, I think he runs the AISDR company, good person to to start monitoring especially for, you know, when we're
thinking about like copilots that we have with it instantly. So if I was instantly, he'd be an interesting person to start monitoring. Alan, Ruchten, so on and so on. I can then
add these people to, profile engagement which is then where we'll start pulling their engagement anytime they post, the more we collect, the more we get. In my use case, I monitor
a chap called Adam Robinson who talks a lot about intent data given he runs a intent database platform. And anytime he posts, I am generating five leads off the back of him, so
five meetings. And the flow is very, similar to what we looked at previously, where we're using instantly here. But instead of focusing and saying, hey, I've been I noticed that
you've been engaging with x y zed user. Right? So that's taken this use case, Josh. Rather than reaching out saying, hey, I noticed that you're engaging with Josh, I'd focus on the
topic, and the topic was cold email that Josh tends to talk about. So it's like, hey, I can see like cold email is of interest to you given some of the engagement that you've been
doing across, you know, x y zed's social media. Go into the metrics and then go into the rest of kind of your pitch. What I do do is with the p s line, I say p s, Josh Braun talks
a lot of good content on this particular subject worth checking him or her out. The reason that I do that is because I know that they are engaging with that person and obviously
they know. So they're typically more likely to reply to me because you've kind of found that mutual, alignment between the two of you together as well which is pretty cool. And so
it works really really well and doesn't come across stalkery in in any way. And so that's what I then think about. So we then have you know monitoring three or five thought
leaders, three or five individuals from the competitors and then obviously my own brand each of them feeding to different campaigns, where you then can start to generate a lot of
meetings off the back of that. How do we then look at it to be in more of a direct way or even in an ABM way as well? So this is where the social listening component, actually
comes into play. So here we can look at social listening and what we can start to do is we can build some really interesting flows off perhaps let's say, LinkedIn here and we could
do I'm gonna pretend this is Trigify. Setting up the search for Trigify. So here what I want to do is like okay I want to find anyone talking about social listening and, like GTM
or maybe like cold email or something like that. So what I'm trying to find is people referencing these things in like a clever way. So we can see here these people talking about
like cold emails, social listening, how they're using kind of agents to do social listening, here for for outbound which is pretty cool. So these are all perfect people for me to
reach out to because they're really talking about some stuff that's relevant. Then what I might think is I want to add some like further filtration to this to find any like
founders or CEOs or like you know anyone with like sales perhaps in their job title where this would be relevant for as well. And so now what I'm doing is I'm just filtering out
those companies because I don't want to reach out to them and I'm finding you know your key ICP perhaps. And once we save this, it will then start to pull through that data and
start to run for us every single day. So then what we can do is we could come through to, workflow section here and we could actually go and build a campaign off the back of this.
So we could go and do social listening here, which is the search, that I just set up and we could actually then build, you know, agents to start to write the emails based on
obviously what I was showing you here. It can mirror that kind of process, and it could obviously start to then add data straight into, instantly and create that evergreen
campaign. So probably what I would do before I would do the instantly is I would just add a step using an agent. We're gonna do yeah. Just agent. Here we go. And I would just like
say like, qualify that this lead is actually talking about using social listening in relation to some type of GTM kind of concept. If it is, then we'll add like an if then add this
particular lead to my campaign inside of, instantly as well, which is really cool because then you're finding really high intent, leads as a result of that. Now in the next module
that kind of wraps up lesson two. In the next module, we're going to go over how to create a social warming strategy and leverage email and social selling together. ‍ Expand
transcript Resources How to Get Emails Out of Promotions and Into Gmail Primary By Amanda Laine Feb 3, 2026 How to Create an AI Agent for Cold Email Outreach (Step-by-Step) By
Chris Tweten Feb 4, 2026 AI For Sales Prospecting: Playbook For Scalable B2B Outreach By Amanda Laine Feb 5, 2026 Email Marketing for Small Business: From First Send to Steady
Revenue By Amanda Laine Feb 6, 2026 Best AI Sales Agent Software: A Guide for Scaling Teams By Raul Kaevand Feb 9, 2026 View All Courses Building Your AI Sales Brain with Claude +
Instantly 9 lessons by Hans Dekker Perform in-depth research using Perplexity's AI-powered search engine, within Instantly. 1 lessons by Hans Dekker Learn social listening best
practices from the owner of Trigify. 3 lessons by Max Advanced cold email deliverability concepts that will help you avoid the spam folder and hit the inbox. 8 lessons by Hans
Dekker Learn how to leverage Supersearch to find the perfect leads for your business. 5 lessons by Hans Dekker Set up your outbound infrastructure the right way from the start. 8
lessons by Hans Dekker Learn how to use webhooks and other more technical concepts to orchestrate multi-channel campaigns and integrate tools. 5 lessons by Hans Dekker Learn how to
instruct co-pilot to be your ideal outbound assistant. 1 lessons by Hans Dekker Deploying AI agents for your cold email campaigns is easier than it sounds 2 lessons by Hans Dekker
Learn how to set up outbound campaigns in Instantly, the right way. 1 lessons by Hans Dekker View All Prompts Supersearch Personalized Outreach for Video Marketing Professionals by
Vibhor Takkar Supersearch Personalized Cold Email Openers for Real Estate Agents by Mehdi Oulaoub Supersearch Extract First Name from Email Addresses Prompt by Andrew Wang
Supersearch Personalized Cold Email Opener Generator for Sales Teams by Anonymous Supersearch Personalized Email Openers for Custom Fabrication Sales by Soni Frigo Supersearch
Identify CEOs’ Pain Points for Investor Outreach by Neil Thompson Supersearch Cold Email Opener Generation for Sales Teams by Yousif Shamasha Supersearch Extract Measurable
Customer Benefits For Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Categorize Contacts by Industry and Company Name by Eric Evans Supersearch Personalized Email Openers for Digital
Nomad Outreach by Dmitrii Malakhov Supersearch Assume Hybrid Teams’ Onboarding and Security Challenges by Mike McDonald Supersearch Summarize Top Google Review for Sales Teams by
Yahya Hisham Supersearch Suggest Training Topics for Sales Outreach Prospects by Robin Rudolph Supersearch Extract First Names from Email Addresses List by Mehdi Oulaoub
Supersearch Personalized Cold Email Openings for Sales Teams by Soni Frigo Supersearch Identify Home Health Care Marketing Pain Points by Spencer Horne Supersearch Extract B2B
Domains From Email Addresses by Henri-Georg Eiche Supersearch Personalized First Line Generator for Sales Teams by Mehdi Oulaoub Supersearch Predict Likely Gender from First Name
by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Format Company Names for Sales Email Copy by Gabe Mitchell Supersearch create ai case study bullets for sales teams by Kaushal Parikh Supersearch
Write Cold Email Openers From LinkedIn Profiles by Josip Šare Supersearch Clean Company Names for Sales Data Enrichment by Akash Joshi Supersearch Personalized Landmark Mention for
Cold Emails by Ananay Goyal Supersearch Extract City Name From Mailing Address Prompt by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Identify Most Valuable Clients by Industry CEOs by Devang from
MMM Supersearch Write Casual One-Sentence Compliments for Leads by Ben kane Supersearch Clean Company Names for Lead Enrichment by Jamie Holden Supersearch Personalized Email Intro
for Sales Lead Generation by David Jovanovic Supersearch Identify HubSpot CMS Pain Points for Industry Leaders by Valeriya Stepanova Supersearch Lowercase Clean Job Titles for
Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Spot Video Storytelling Gaps for Construction Marketers by Vibhor Takkar Supersearch Personalized Cold Email Openers for Sales Teams by
Tomoya Mori Supersearch Find Companies Posting Marketing or Ad Job Listings by Amir Dawoud Supersearch Personalized Website First Lines for Sales Teams by Ankit Modi Supersearch
Verify Law Firm Practice Area for Lead Routing by Romney Bales Supersearch Personalized Prospecting Sentences for Sales Emails by Valentin Vouriot Supersearch Personalize Cold
Emails With Unique Company Insights by Conor Ryan Supersearch Craft Conversational Cold Email Openers from Company Data by Bruno Berardi Supersearch Personalized Cold Email Openers
for B2B Outreach by Edward Zhang Supersearch B2B Programmatic Outreach Prompt for Cannabis Agencies by Christian Valdez Supersearch Summarize Company Offerings for Sales
Researchers by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Generate Friendly Informal Greetings For Sales Outreach by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Define ICP for Sales Teams Using Data by Timothy
Wenger Supersearch List Industry Pain Points for B2B Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Personalized First-Line Compliment for Sales Outreach by Timothy Wenger Supersearch
Icebreaker Line Generator for Sales Prospecting by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Humorous Cold Email Opener Generation for Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Clean Company
Names for B2B Outreach Emails by Xrfan . Supersearch Write Role and Industry-Specific B2B Hook by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Curiosity-Driven Cold Email Questions for Sales Teams
by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Personalized Industry Joke Generator For Cold Outreach by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Personalized Email Openers for Sales Outreach by Dominik Kolber
Supersearch Pain Point Sentence Generator for Sales Outreach by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Extract Core Company Keywords for Lead Research by Timothy Wenger Supersearch AI
Follow-Up Prompt for B2B Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Identify Company Niche Market for Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Find Fitness Companies Selling
Digital Fitness Products by Charles Biggins Supersearch Personalized Linkedin Appreciation Lines for Sales Emails by Vatsal Nigam Supersearch Generate One-Sentence B2B Product
Description Prompt by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Humorous Follow-Up Question Prompt for Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Validate Tech Stack for Outbound Sales Teams by
Timothy Wenger Supersearch CTO Tech Stack Analysis for Leadership Insights by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Peer-Led Cold Email Openers for Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch
Personalized Cold Email Openers for Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Personalized Cold Email Opener for Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Cold Email Openers for
B2B Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Clean Normalize Job Titles For Outreach by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Intro Email Prompt for Construction Quantity Surveyors by Thea
Flores Supersearch Personalized Email Openers for Manufacturing Decision Makers by Jakob Michaels Supersearch identify company product type for b2b researchers by Corentin Stephan
Supersearch Personalized Email Openers for Sales Outreach by Avinash Raju Supersearch Personalized First Line Generator for Cold Email Outreach by Lincon Parrott Supersearch
Classify Companies for AI B2B Outreach by Adam Ögren Supersearch Identify Company Collaboration Tools for Sales Outreach by Shrikanth K Supersearch Abbreviate Job Titles for B2B
Sales Teams by Ilson Mendes Supersearch Summarize LinkedIn Posts for Dutch Outreach by Lucas Bakx Supersearch SDR Subject Line Personalization for Sales Teams by Arjun Varma
Supersearch Find Top SEO Competitor Domains for Outreach by Ryder Meehan Supersearch Edit Restaurant Names for Conversational Email Use by Coby Skonord Supersearch Simplify Company
Names for Sales Prospecting by Viktor Budanovic Supersearch Craft Cold Email Outreach for Web Designers by Cal Nettle Supersearch Personalized LinkedIn Icebreakers for Sales
Outreach by Franz Weber Supersearch Generate Bill Burr Style Puns From Coaching Websites by Jahan Hadi Supersearch Find Similar Job Titles at Same Company by Oswaldo Canho
Supersearch Write Cold Email Openers from LinkedIn Descriptions by Thomas Ottosen Supersearch Personalized IT Outreach Sentence for Sales Teams by Josh Champion Supersearch
Generate Industry-Specific Cold Email Openers For Founders by Jay Feldman Supersearch Clean Company Names for Outreach Personalization by Salomon Wainberg Supersearch Simplify
Company Names for Cold Email Campaigns by Divyang Ledwani Supersearch Personalized Email Openers for B2B Outreach Teams by Jonas Gaida Supersearch Shorten Industry Names for Cold
Email Personalization by Aron Gunnarsson Supersearch Personalized Icebreaker Compliment Generator for Sales Teams by Alexander Ioncescu Supersearch Extract Company Products
Achievements History For Cold Emails by Barzan Ahmed Supersearch Personalized Cold Email Subject Lines for Sales Teams by Thomas Ottosen Supersearch Clean Company Names for
Outreach Sales Teams by Paolo Shamoon Supersearch Remove Location Words From Company Names by Eerik Haamer Supersearch Don Draper Style Cold Email Opener Prompt by Ezra Gonzalez
Supersearch Classify Company Professions for Sales Teams by Zachary Brown Supersearch Clean Human-Readable Titles for Sales Outreach by Andrew Tannus View All Unlock the power of
AI With Get started now to access exclusive templates and elevate your projects to the next level. Get Started See pricing Products Outreach CRM Verification Lead Database Website
Visitors Inbox Placement Deliverability Email Accounts Instantly AI AI Sales Agent Automations Use Cases Agencies Freelancers Enterprise Founders Sales VIP Service Marketing Sales
Development Resources Blog API Help Desk Instantly Accelerator Careers Affiliate Facebook Group Slack Community Experts Instantly Academy Instantly Creators Instantly vs Apollo
Integration Program Meet Our Partners Refer a Friend Reviews Quick Links Pricing Company Terms AI Sales Agent Terms Privacy Don’t Sell My Info Privacy Center Cookie Declaration ©
2026 Instantly. All rights reserved. Pricing Login Get Started See Demo Instantly Academy Trigify Lesson 2 Trigify Lesson 2 3 video 6:46 minutes Search Trigify Intro Trigify Lesson
1 Trigify Lesson 2 Unlock The Power Of AI With Instantly Find warm leads, scale email campaigns, reach primary inboxes, engage smarter and win more with AI. Get started with
Instantly Social Warming: Combining Social Selling With Email Outreach The best cold email results come when messages do not feel entirely cold. Social warming represents a
strategy that systematically reduces the coldness of outreach by building familiarity before sending emails. Teams implementing this approach report seeing positive reply rates
climb from twenty percent to thirty percent or higher. The core insight behind social warming is that people respond better to names they recognize. By deliberately creating
touchpoints before email outreach, you transform cold contacts into warm leads without waiting for them to discover you organically. The Foundation of Familiarity Think about how
you react when receiving messages from strangers versus acquaintances. Even slight recognition shifts your perception. You are more likely to read the message, more likely to give
it consideration, and more likely to respond positively. Social warming creates this recognition systematically. Rather than hoping prospects somehow encounter your brand before
you email them, you engineer those encounters deliberately through strategic social engagement. The strategy combines two activities that many teams treat as separate. Social
selling through platforms like LinkedIn. And email outreach through platforms like Instantly. Running these in parallel, targeted at the same prospects, creates multiplicative
effects that neither achieves alone. How Social Warming Works The process begins with identifying thought leaders whose audiences overlap with your ideal customer profile. These
might be industry analysts, successful practitioners, or founders of complementary products. The key is finding people who regularly create content that your prospects engage with.
Once you identify relevant thought leaders, you set up two parallel systems. First, you configure alerts to notify you whenever these thought leaders post new content. Second, you
track the engagement their content receives to identify prospects for email outreach. When thought leaders post, you comment on their content promptly and substantively. This
serves multiple purposes. It builds your own visibility within their audience. It triggers notifications to everyone else engaging with that post. And it positions you as someone
knowledgeable about relevant topics. The Notification Effect Here is where the strategy becomes powerful. On LinkedIn, everyone who has engaged with a post receives notifications
when new comments appear. When you comment on content that your prospects have liked or commented on, they see your name in their notification feed. This happens repeatedly as you
comment on multiple posts from thought leaders they follow. Over one to two weeks of consistent engagement, prospects start recognizing your name without knowing exactly where they
have seen it before. When your email arrives in their inbox, something subtle happens. The name looks familiar. They cannot quite place it, but they feel like they should know you.
This familiarity dramatically increases the likelihood they will open, read, and respond positively. The Timing Element One crucial detail separates effective social warming from
merely commenting on content. You need to allow time for familiarity to build before launching email outreach. If you start tracking thought leader engagement today and immediately
email everyone who liked a post, the warming effect has not occurred. The prospects have not had time to see your name repeatedly across their feeds. Best practice involves waiting
one to two weeks between starting your commenting strategy and beginning email outreach to that thought leader's audience. This window allows multiple touchpoints to accumulate and
creates the subconscious recognition that drives higher response rates. Practical Implementation Setting up social warming requires connecting several systems. Social listening
tools monitor when thought leaders post, triggering immediate notifications to your team. Profile engagement tracking identifies who engages with that content over time. When a
thought leader posts, you receive an alert, often through Slack, prompting immediate action. You or your team comments substantively on the post, getting your name in front of
everyone engaging with it. Meanwhile, the engagement tracking system collects everyone who likes, comments, or otherwise interacts with that thought leader's content. After your
warming period, these contacts flow into email campaigns through your outreach platform. Some teams extend automation further by using AI to draft comment suggestions. The human
still reviews and posts, but AI assistance speeds the process of crafting substantive comments across multiple posts daily. Combining Strategies for Maximum Impact Social warming
works best when combined with the evergreen campaign strategies discussed previously. The warming creates familiarity while the evergreen targeting ensures timing relevance. A
prospect who has seen your name commenting on thought leader content for two weeks, and who just engaged with a post about challenges you solve, represents an ideal outreach
opportunity. They recognize you and they are actively thinking about relevant topics. This combination explains why teams achieve reply rates exceeding thirty percent. The outreach
is neither entirely cold nor randomly timed. It arrives when prospects are predisposed to respond positively because they recognize the sender and are already thinking about
related topics. The approach requires more coordination than simple cold outreach, but the dramatically improved results justify the additional effort. Rather than treating social
and email as separate channels, integrating them creates outcomes neither achieves independently. ‍ Video transcript Hello, everyone. In this episode, we're gonna be going over
exactly how you can leverage a strategy that I've been developing over the past six months called social warming. Now this has taken my campaigns from twenty percent positive reply
rate all the way up to around a thirty to thirty two percent reply rate is what we've seen with the improvement. And this strategy is called social warming. And what I love about
it is this is combining both a social selling strategy combined with an email strategy, which I think is pretty unique because a lot of people think of it as an either or, kind of
compass. So let's go over high level what it is before how we then can go and set it up using Triggerfy and Instantly Together. First of all, the concept of, social warming is
we're going to be monitoring, you know, five to ten different thought leaders. Thought leaders is just another word for an influencer, a creator, essentially someone who gets a
good level of engagement and talks about the topics that your product or service offering solves. So we're gonna use Triggerfy to then track the thought leaders. And what it's
going to do is it's going to pull through two things. We want to use the profile engagement feature which is going to pull through any of the engagement that the individual gets.
And we also want to use the social listening feature which is going to alert us anytime that thought leader actually posts. Because what we're wanting to do is as soon as they
post, we want to send a Slack notification, to the team or whomever is the, reaching out to the people. So whoever the email inboxes are set up under, I. E. The name, we want that
person to be then commenting on the LinkedIn post. Now the reason that we want to do this is because while we're doing this particular strategy here, is a is a simple kind of like
commenting strategy about being the first to comment, we then also want to set up this, table for engagement. So here we're gonna be using the profile engagement and we're gonna
start to reach out to these people through cold email, through instantly. The reason that we want to do this is anytime you comment on someone's post, everyone else gets notified.
So what that basically means is anyone who has liked or commented on that particular post will then have a notification in their top right when you then comment on that particular
profile. So even if you're late to the party, people will start to become relatively familiar with your name. Now if you're the first person to comment, the beautiful thing about
that is then you have all of those eyeballs on your particular post as they read it. So if someone's getting on average fifty to a hundred likes or comments, you know, that post is
probably getting anywhere between, know, five thousand to ten thousand impressions. So firstly, one, they're going to then, obviously, you're gonna get that level of impressions
from your comment, which is pretty cool. And that's also why it's a good strategy if you don't have a decent, social media presence yet. But two, everyone then who then comments or
engages after will just become familiar with your name, familiar with the level of value that you're putting out there. So let's go over this particular section first because this
is key and the reason why it's key is because once people become familiar with your name and perhaps you comment for a week or two on that particular person's post, when you then
start reaching out using instantly to this level of engagement to these people engaging with that thought leader, the the conversion rate is far higher because they become familiar
with your name. You know, I often reference this to the old magician trick, which is if you get asked to think of a number between one to ten and they're able to guess the number,
that's usually because what they've done is throughout the day is they've been subliminally implanting, like messages like nine chips or nine, I don't know, drinks or whatever it
is. Right? And they're trying to implant that, like, recognition into your into your mind. There's a great film called Now You See Me, which kind of alludes to this. So just going
back to it, it's like, well, if we can make our name incredibly familiar and recognizable, then obviously, it helps when reaching out to these individuals and that's a theory and
that's why, it's not just a theory, it's been a proven theory not only with our campaigns but many other campaigns as a result. So how do we do this? Well, we come to the social
listening, step here. And what we're gonna do is we're gonna hit monitor profile activity, and I'm just gonna type in my name. So we'll just do me as an example here. So I'm gonna
come to here and I'm gonna select my profile and then we'll just validate it. Number of posts, this is just the number of posts that will get returned when you initially do this,
and then you can control the frequency. So hourly, daily, weekly, monthly, so on. And then we'll hit complete. So what this is now gonna do is it's now gonna set up the search and
it's now gonna start monitoring for myself and any time that I post. So then what we want to do is we want to come through to the workflow section of Triggerfy. We'll create a new
one and we're then going to trigger it off the back of my post. So just click this one as an example. And then what we're going to do is anytime I post, I'm just going to send a
very simple, you can either do it to a channel or to yourself, Slack notification saying hey this person has posted. Now we could actually take this even further. We can maybe add
an agent which could help write the comment for us as well, and then you can go and action that manually yourself. Or you could just send the notification through to a channel and
say, hey. This person's posted. Get on there and go and comment. At the same time, what you're doing is you're coming to the profile engagement section, and we're adding the
individual. So we would add, my profile here, into here. So, obviously, you already got me. And so this is then collecting the engagement. Now I wouldn't start reaching out to
everyone straight away. I would wait one to two weeks before I then start pushing these leads through to instantly and running the campaign off the back of that. The reason why is
you want to allow that time for, you know, people to see you become familiar. And most people's engagement is repeat engagement, so they will become familiar with you. And that
then leads to a campaign that just converts at a way higher rate as a result. ‍ Expand transcript Resources How to Get Emails Out of Promotions and Into Gmail Primary By Amanda
Laine Feb 3, 2026 How to Create an AI Agent for Cold Email Outreach (Step-by-Step) By Chris Tweten Feb 4, 2026 AI For Sales Prospecting: Playbook For Scalable B2B Outreach By
Amanda Laine Feb 5, 2026 Email Marketing for Small Business: From First Send to Steady Revenue By Amanda Laine Feb 6, 2026 Best AI Sales Agent Software: A Guide for Scaling Teams
By Raul Kaevand Feb 9, 2026 View All Courses Building Your AI Sales Brain with Claude + Instantly 9 lessons by Hans Dekker Perform in-depth research using Perplexity's AI-powered
search engine, within Instantly. 1 lessons by Hans Dekker Learn social listening best practices from the owner of Trigify. 3 lessons by Max Advanced cold email deliverability
concepts that will help you avoid the spam folder and hit the inbox. 8 lessons by Hans Dekker Learn how to leverage Supersearch to find the perfect leads for your business. 5
lessons by Hans Dekker Set up your outbound infrastructure the right way from the start. 8 lessons by Hans Dekker Learn how to use webhooks and other more technical concepts to
orchestrate multi-channel campaigns and integrate tools. 5 lessons by Hans Dekker Learn how to instruct co-pilot to be your ideal outbound assistant. 1 lessons by Hans Dekker
Deploying AI agents for your cold email campaigns is easier than it sounds 2 lessons by Hans Dekker Learn how to set up outbound campaigns in Instantly, the right way. 1 lessons by
Hans Dekker View All Prompts Supersearch Personalized Outreach for Video Marketing Professionals by Vibhor Takkar Supersearch Personalized Cold Email Openers for Real Estate Agents
by Mehdi Oulaoub Supersearch Extract First Name from Email Addresses Prompt by Andrew Wang Supersearch Personalized Cold Email Opener Generator for Sales Teams by Anonymous
Supersearch Personalized Email Openers for Custom Fabrication Sales by Soni Frigo Supersearch Identify CEOs’ Pain Points for Investor Outreach by Neil Thompson Supersearch Cold
Email Opener Generation for Sales Teams by Yousif Shamasha Supersearch Extract Measurable Customer Benefits For Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Categorize Contacts by
Industry and Company Name by Eric Evans Supersearch Personalized Email Openers for Digital Nomad Outreach by Dmitrii Malakhov Supersearch Assume Hybrid Teams’ Onboarding and
Security Challenges by Mike McDonald Supersearch Summarize Top Google Review for Sales Teams by Yahya Hisham Supersearch Suggest Training Topics for Sales Outreach Prospects by
Robin Rudolph Supersearch Extract First Names from Email Addresses List by Mehdi Oulaoub Supersearch Personalized Cold Email Openings for Sales Teams by Soni Frigo Supersearch
Identify Home Health Care Marketing Pain Points by Spencer Horne Supersearch Extract B2B Domains From Email Addresses by Henri-Georg Eiche Supersearch Personalized First Line
Generator for Sales Teams by Mehdi Oulaoub Supersearch Predict Likely Gender from First Name by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Format Company Names for Sales Email Copy by Gabe
Mitchell Supersearch create ai case study bullets for sales teams by Kaushal Parikh Supersearch Write Cold Email Openers From LinkedIn Profiles by Josip Šare Supersearch Clean
Company Names for Sales Data Enrichment by Akash Joshi Supersearch Personalized Landmark Mention for Cold Emails by Ananay Goyal Supersearch Extract City Name From Mailing Address
Prompt by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Identify Most Valuable Clients by Industry CEOs by Devang from MMM Supersearch Write Casual One-Sentence Compliments for Leads by Ben kane
Supersearch Clean Company Names for Lead Enrichment by Jamie Holden Supersearch Personalized Email Intro for Sales Lead Generation by David Jovanovic Supersearch Identify HubSpot
CMS Pain Points for Industry Leaders by Valeriya Stepanova Supersearch Lowercase Clean Job Titles for Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Spot Video Storytelling Gaps for
Construction Marketers by Vibhor Takkar Supersearch Personalized Cold Email Openers for Sales Teams by Tomoya Mori Supersearch Find Companies Posting Marketing or Ad Job Listings
by Amir Dawoud Supersearch Personalized Website First Lines for Sales Teams by Ankit Modi Supersearch Verify Law Firm Practice Area for Lead Routing by Romney Bales Supersearch
Personalized Prospecting Sentences for Sales Emails by Valentin Vouriot Supersearch Personalize Cold Emails With Unique Company Insights by Conor Ryan Supersearch Craft
Conversational Cold Email Openers from Company Data by Bruno Berardi Supersearch Personalized Cold Email Openers for B2B Outreach by Edward Zhang Supersearch B2B Programmatic
Outreach Prompt for Cannabis Agencies by Christian Valdez Supersearch Summarize Company Offerings for Sales Researchers by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Generate Friendly Informal
Greetings For Sales Outreach by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Define ICP for Sales Teams Using Data by Timothy Wenger Supersearch List Industry Pain Points for B2B Sales Teams by
Timothy Wenger Supersearch Personalized First-Line Compliment for Sales Outreach by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Icebreaker Line Generator for Sales Prospecting by Timothy Wenger
Supersearch Humorous Cold Email Opener Generation for Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Clean Company Names for B2B Outreach Emails by Xrfan . Supersearch Write Role and
Industry-Specific B2B Hook by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Curiosity-Driven Cold Email Questions for Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Personalized Industry Joke Generator
For Cold Outreach by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Personalized Email Openers for Sales Outreach by Dominik Kolber Supersearch Pain Point Sentence Generator for Sales Outreach by
Timothy Wenger Supersearch Extract Core Company Keywords for Lead Research by Timothy Wenger Supersearch AI Follow-Up Prompt for B2B Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch
Identify Company Niche Market for Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Find Fitness Companies Selling Digital Fitness Products by Charles Biggins Supersearch Personalized
Linkedin Appreciation Lines for Sales Emails by Vatsal Nigam Supersearch Generate One-Sentence B2B Product Description Prompt by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Humorous Follow-Up
Question Prompt for Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Validate Tech Stack for Outbound Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch CTO Tech Stack Analysis for Leadership
Insights by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Peer-Led Cold Email Openers for Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger Supersearch Personalized Cold Email Openers for Sales Teams by Timothy Wenger
