again. A good conversation: Them: “What idiot decided it was a good idea to make me carry around a thousand cafe loyalty cards?” You: “It’s crazy, right? My wallet is like two feet
thick. Hey — have you ever tried any of those loyalty apps for your phone?” Anchor to past behaviours. Them: “Those exist?” Perhaps my rage is misplaced… You: “Yeah, I’m sure
you’ve seen the little signs for that one in the campus cafe.” Them: “Oh yeah, I remember that. I’m always kind of in a rush.” This is a nice bit of customer insight about their
state of mind and circumstances when you’re trying to advertise to them. You: “Why don’t you download it now?” If someone’s being flaky, put them to a decision. If they don’t care
enough to try solving their problem already, they aren’t going to care about your solution. Them: “I’ll do it next time.” Not a real problem. You can’t help but laugh when you hear
this one. “Someone should definitely make an X!” “Have you looked for an X?” “No, why?” “There are like 10 different kinds of X.” “Well I didn't really need it anyway.” Long story
short, that person is a complainer, not a customer. They’re stuck in the la-la-land of imagining they’re the sort of person who finds clever ways to solve the petty annoyances of
their day. Beyond rousting some poor soul’s consumeristic hypocrisy, anchoring the fluff can also yield useful signals: You: “…Have you ever tried any of those loyalty apps for
your phone?” Them: “Yeah, I downloaded a couple of them. You need a different one for every chain. I don’t want a hundred apps clogging up my phone any more than I want a bunch of
cards in my wallet.” So he’s an actively searching potential user, but we’d need to get critical mass with the stores he goes to before he'll be happy. Maybe we could take over a
small university town first. Or he might say: Them: “I looked into it, but you only end up getting like a 10% discount. That seems less like a loyalty reward and more like a cheap
way for them to collect a bunch of data about me.” So he was on the fence, but needs better perks. Maybe we could find a way to force merchants into deeper discounts like Groupon
was able to do. He also has privacy concerns. Or he could respond with: Them: “Have you ever actually tried using that app? It's abysmal. It takes me longer to find the stupid
button than to buy my coffee.” So all we need to do (for this particular user) is to out-execute and simplify. We could try to be the Instagram to their flickr. The list goes on.
There are tons of useful responses you can get. Even learning that the person is a non-customer is useful. To get toward this truth, you just need to reject their generic claims,
incidental complaints, and fluffy promises. Instead, anchor them toward the life they already lead and the actions they’re already taking. Dig beneath ideas Entrepreneurs are
always drowning in ideas. We have too many ideas, not too few. Still, folks adore giving us more. At some point during a good conversation, the person you’re talking to may “flip”
to your side of the table. This is good news. They are excited and see the potential, so they’ll start listing tons of ideas, possibilities and feature requests. Write them down,
but don’t rush to add them to your todo list. Startups are about focusing and executing on a single, scalable idea rather than jumping on every good one which crosses your desk.
Let’s say you’re mid-conversation when this idea drops: Them: “Are you guys going to be able to sync to Excel? I really think that’s the a killer feature.” What do you do here? The
wrong response is to write “sync to Excel” on your todo list and then move on. That’s the fast-lane to feature-creep. Instead, take a moment to dig into the motivations behind the
request. You: “What would syncing to Excel allow you to do?” Maybe there’s an easier way I can help you achieve the same thing. Them: “We’ve got all these legacy reports and we
need to go through them every now and then. It would be nice to have everything in one place, you know?” Don’t worry, it’s not a key buying criteria. Or they might say: Them:
“We’ve tried a bunch of these things and it’s always the syncing that kills it.” They’re actively searching for solutions which are all missing a must-have feature — this could be
your major differentiator if it’s important enough to the segment and difficult enough for your competitors to emulate. Or: Them: “We have a decent workaround, as you saw. But it
takes nearly a week at the end of each month to pull all the reports together in one place. It’s a big pain and totally stalls our work.” They’ve cobbled together a home-brew
solution, know it’s costing them money, and are ideally suited to become an early customer. At my first company Habit, we were adapting our product to sell to enterprise companies.
MTV told me they needed analytics and reports for their campaigns. I made a big mistake by accepting the feature request and face value and beginning the next meeting with a demo
of our shiny new analytics dashboard (custom-built to solve their request, of course). They “ooh’ed” and “ahh’ed” appropriately and I left thinking we’d nailed it. It offered a
zillion options and could carve up your data every which way. It was technically and aesthetically lovely. Unfortunately, 90% of what we had built was irrelevant. We just didn’t
know that yet. They started calling every Friday asking me to email over a CSV (data file) of the week’s stats, so we added CSV export to the dashboard. Later, they asked for the
report as a PDF instead of an CSV, so we obediently built PDF export. That took longer. Salt was rubbed in the wound when, weeks later, they were still calling me every Friday and
asking me to export and send over the same stupid analytics report. And every week, I would do so while politely explaining that, you know, we built this awesome self-serve
dashboard so they could have their data whenever they wanted. And then, the next Friday, they’d call me. It turned out we had entirely missed the real reason they’d been excited
about our analytics demo. In fact, we'd missed their whole motivation for wanting analytics. The memory of being burned by feature requests was still fresh in my mind when they
asked if we could add their logo and colours to the reports. I asked a couple incredulous questions about why in the world they wanted this feature when they didn’t even use the
ones I had already built, like an exasperated Dad at Christmas: “But you don’t even play with the toys I bought for your birthday!” So, I finally—and inadvertently—did the smart
thing when I asked, “Why do you want this feature? What do branded reports get you that unbranded ones don’t? It’s the same data, right?” She replied, “Oh yeah, of course. I mean,
nobody even reads these. Our clients just like to get something emailed to them at the end of every week and we think they’d be happier if it was a bit fancier, you know?” I knew
exactly. They had asked for analytics. We had jumped to the conclusion that they wanted to better understand their data. But they had really wanted a way to keep their own clients
happy. If we had properly understood that, we would have built a totally different (and much simpler) set of features. Consider how much easier our lives would have been if we’d
understood the motivation behind the request. Instead of enabling the exploration and export of all campaign data, we could have just always exported the few high-level numbers a
big brand manager would be interested in. And instead of a self-serve dashboard, we could set up a little scheduler to send it to them every Friday. In fact, we didn’t even need to
build a dashboard at all. And instead of coding up a layout and branding system for the reports, we could have had an intern hand-build them each week. All wasted because I didn’t
ask the right question. I sure wish I had those 3 months back! When you hear a request, it’s your job to understand the motivations which led to it. You do that by digging around
the question to find the root cause. Why do they bother doing it this way? Why do they want the feature? How are they currently coping without the feature? Dig. You should dig in
the same way around emotional signals to understand where they’re coming from. Just like feature requests, any strong emotion is worth exploring. Is someone angry? Dig.
Embarrassed? Dig. Overjoyed? Dig! I once overheard a founder interviewing someone at a cafe table next to me. The founder mentioned a problem and the guy responded, “Yeah, that’s
pretty much the worst part of my day.” The founder jotted something down in his notebook, and then moved on to the next question. What!? It’s the worst part of his day and you’re
not going to figure out why? That’s insane. You’ve got to dig. Questions to dig into feature requests: “Why do you want that?” “What would that let you do?” “How are you coping
without it?” “Do you think we should push back the launch add that feature, or is it something we could add later?” How would that fit into your day? Questions to dig into
emotional signals: “Tell me more about that.” “That seems to really bug you — I bet there’s a story here.” “What makes it so awful?” “Why haven’t you been able to fix this
already?” “You seem pretty excited about that — it’s a big deal?” “Why so happy?” “Go on.” These nudges don’t need to be complicated. People love talking about their opinions and
emotions. Digging into a signal is basically just giving them permission to do a brain dump. Rule of thumb: Ideas and feature requests should be understood, but not obeyed. Stop
seeking approval As we’ve seen, compliments are dangerous and sneaky. So if we can nip them in the bud before they bloom, so much the better. The main source of compliment-creation
is seeking approval, either intentionally or inadvertently. Doing it intentionally is fishing for compliments. You aren’t looking for contradictory information. You’ve already made
up your mind, but need someone’s blessing take the leap. Symptoms of Fishing For Compliments: “I’m thinking of starting a business... so, do you think it will work?” “I had an
awesome idea for an app — do you like it?” Accidental approval-seeking is what I call “The Pathos Problem.” It happens when you expose your ego, leading people to feel they ought
to protect you by saying nice things. This comes up when you tell someone about an idea you obviously care about (which is pretty much always, since otherwise you wouldn’t be
asking). Even if you give folks permission to be honest and ask for criticism, they’re still going to pull their punches. Symptoms of The Pathos Problem: “So here’s that top-secret
project I quit my job for... what do you think?” “I can take it — be honest and tell me what you really think!” To deal with The Pathos Problem, keep the conversation focused on
the other person and ask about specific, concrete cases and examples. Once someone detects that your ego is on the line, they’ll give you fluffy mis-truths and extra compliments.
Disregard that data and use The Mom Test to re-focus on the person, their life, and their goals. People rarely lie about specific stuff that’s already happened, regardless of your
ego. Some famous entrepreneurs don’t suffer the effects of The Pathos Problem, but you should ignore their advice since it’s not reproducible if you aren’t them. Guys like Elon
Musk, Reid Hoffman, and Gordon Ramsey are all notorious for actively seeking negative feedback. It evidently works for them. But nobody is worried about hurting Elon, Reid, or
Gordon’s feelings. You and I must be more circumspect. In short, remember that compliments are worthless and people’s approval doesn’t make your business better. Keep your idea and
your ego out of the conversation until you’re ready to ask for commitments. Rule of thumb: If you’ve mentioned your idea, people will try to protect your feelings. Cut off pitches
Being pitchy is the dark side of the “seeking approval” coin. Instead of inviting compliments by being vulnerable, you’re demanding them by being annoying. It’s when you hold
someone hostage and won’t let them leave until they’ve said they like your idea. Normally, compliments are well-intentioned. In this case, they’re just trying to get you out of
their office. “Won’t-take-no-for-an-answer” is generally a good quality for a founder to have. But when it creeps into a conversation that’s meant to be about learning, it works
against you. Symptoms: “No no, I don’t think you get it...” “Yes, but it also does this!” If you slip into pitch mode, just apologise. You’re excited about your idea. That’s good!
Otherwise you wouldn’t have taken this crazy leap in the first place. But suddenly, you find yourself five minutes into an enthusiastic monologue while the other person nods
politely. That’s bad. Once you start talking about your idea, they stop talking about their problems. Cut yourself off and say something like: “Whoops—I just slipped into pitch
mode. I’m really sorry about that—I get excited about these things. Can we jump back to what you were just saying? You were telling me that…" If they say they really want to hear
about what you’re working on, promise that you’ll tell them at the end of the meeting or loop them in for an early demo, and that you just want to talk a bit more about their stuff
before biasing them with your idea. Rule of thumb: Anyone will say your idea is great if you’re annoying enough about it. Talk less You can’t learn anything useful unless you’re
willing to spend a few minutes shutting up (even if you have something really smart to say). After you introduce your idea (either intentionally or accidentally), they’re going to
begin a sentence with something like “So it’s similar to…” or “I like it but…” It’s tempting to interrupt and “fix” their understanding about how it’s totally different and
actually does do that thing they want. Alternately, they’ll raise a topic you have a really good answer to. For example, they’ll mention how important security is, and you’ll want
to cut in and tell them you’ve thought about all that already. This is also a mistake. In both cases, the listener was about to give you a privileged glimpse into their mental
model of the world. Losing that learning is a shame. You’ll have the chance to fill them in later. Plus, it’s annoying to people if they start trying to help you and you cut them
off to correct them. Rule of thumb: The more you’re talking, the worse you’re doing. CHAPTER THREE Asking important questions Once we know about The Mom Test and start trying to
ask non-biasing questions, sometimes we over-compensate and ask completely trivial ones. Asking someone how old they are isn’t biasing, but it also doesn’t move your business
forward. You have to apply The Mom Test to the questions which matter. Otherwise you’re just spinning your wheels. In addition to ensuring that you aren’t asking trivialities, you
also need to look for the world-rocking scary questions you’re shrinking from. The best way to find them is to run thought experiments. Imagine that the company has failed and ask
why that happened. Then imagine it as a huge success and ask what had to be true to get there. Find ways to learn about those critical pieces. You can tell it’s an important
question when the answer to it could completely change (or disprove) your business. If you get an unexpected answer to a question and it doesn’t affect what you’re doing, it wasn’t
a terribly important question. Every time you talk to someone, you should be asking a question which has the potential to completely destroy your currently imagined business. One
of my companies had some legal ambiguities around content ownership. It was okay in theory, but lacked strong precedents. I was always a bit nervous we would get “found out.” Their
execs were excited, their creatives were thrilled. We had even brought the stubborn tech team around to our side. But in all my early customer conversations, I never asked to talk
to their lawyers. For whatever reason, that was an important question which I shrunk from, and not asking it cost us at least half a million bucks. There’s no easy solution to
making yourself face and ask these questions. I once heard the general life advice that, for unpleasant tasks, you should imagine what you would have someone else do if you were
delegating it. Then do that. And remember, you’re allowed to ask about money. You're a startup. It's okay. Rule of thumb: You should be terrified of at least one of the questions
you’re asking in every conversation. Love bad news One of the reasons we avoid important question is because asking them is scary. It can bring us the upsetting realisation that
our favourite idea is fundamentally flawed. Or that the major client is never going to buy. Although it seems unfortunate, this we need to learn to love bad news. It’s solid
learning and is getting us closer to the truth. If you’ve only got one shot, then bad news is bad news. If your bungee jump doesn’t work, that’s bad. If you’ve sunk your retirement
savings into opening a cafe and it doesn’t work, that’s bad. If you hustle together $50k to start your business and spend all $50k on your first idea only to see it fail, that’s
bad. On the other hand, if you have $50k and spend $5k to learn you’re running down a dead end, that’s awesome. You can use the rest to find a viable path to your goal. Similarly,
if you have an exciting idea for a new product and go talk to a couple customers who don’t actually care about it, then that’s a great result. You just saved yourself however much
time and money it would have cost to try building and selling it. We go through the futile process of asking for opinions and fish for compliments because we crave approval. We
want to believe that the support and sign-off of someone we respect means our venture will succeed. But really, that person’s opinion doesn’t matter. They have no idea if the
business is going to work. Only the market knows. You’re searching for the truth, not trying to be right. And you want to do it as quickly and cheaply as possible. Learning that
your beliefs are wrong is frustrating, but it’s progress. It’s bringing you ever closer to the truth of a real problem and a good market. The worst thing you can do is ignore the
bad news while searching for some tiny grain of validation to celebrate. You want the truth, not a gold star. Some of the most informative (and thus best) responses you can get are
along the lines of, “Umm, I’m not so sure about that” and "That's pretty neat." Both are lukewarm responses which tell you they don’t care. In this context, “best” means learning,
not selling. If you’re a sales guy going door to door selling gadgets and someone doesn’t care, then that is a bad result: you’re not getting paid. But if you’re trying to decide
whether to invest your time and money in developing, building and promoting that gadget, then lukewarm is a terrific response. It gives you a crystal clear signal that this person
does not care. It’s perfectly reliable information you can take to the bank. The classic error in response to a lukewarm signal is to “up your game” and pitch them until they say
something nice. Unless they’re holding a check, the only thing to gain from “convincing” them are false positives. You’re not here to collect compliments; you’re trying to learn
the truth. Their lukewarm response already gave you that. If they’re still engaged in the conversation, it’s worth asking a couple follow-up questions to understand the nature of
their apathy. Is the “problem” not actually that big of a deal? Are they fundamentally different from your ideal customers? Do they not care about the specific implementation? Are
they worn out and skeptical from hearing too many pitches, like cafe owners in the aftermath of Groupon? Are they just plain tired today? After that, say a big thanks and leave
them to their day. They’ve probably helped you more than the guy who said he loved it. Rule of thumb: There’s more reliable information in a “meh” than a “Wow!” You can’t build a
business on a lukewarm response. Look before you zoom Another way we miss the important questions is by instead spending our time on ultimately unimportant details. This can happen
when we get stuck in the details before understanding the big picture. Most people have lots of problems which they don’t actually care enough about to fix, but which they’ll
happily tell you the details of if you ask them. Before you have solid evidence that you’re fixing a meaningful problem for your customer segment, you can really mess yourself up
by zooming in too quickly. A (really, really) bad conversation: You: “Hello. Thanks for taking the time. We’re building phone and tablet apps to help people stay in shape and just
wanted to understand how you stay fit.” This isn’t a terrible opening, but I’d generally avoid mentioning the idea immediately since it gives them a good idea of which answers
you’re hoping to hear. Them: “Okay.” I never exercise, so this should be quick. You: “How often do you go to the gym?” This sort of demographic data doesn’t give you any new
insight, but can still be useful at the start of a conversation to figure out what sort of person you’re talking to so you can ask relevant follow-ups. Them: “Not really ever.”
Well, looks like we’re done here then! You: “What would you say your biggest problem with going to the gym is?” This is where the conversation goes horribly wrong. Instead of
figuring out whether staying fit is actually a real problem, we’re prematurely zooming in on it. Any response we get is going to be dangerously misleading. Them: “I guess the time
it takes to get there. I’m always kind of busy, you know?” Wait, who says I have a problem with going to the gym? I thought I just told you I don’t care about the gym! But if I had
to choose one, I guess I’d go with convenience. Not that I’ve done a pushup in 5 years. Pushups are pretty convenient. You: “Perfect. That’s great. And could you rank these 4 in
terms of which is most important to you in a fitness program: convenience, personalisation, novelty, or cost?” Note that we’re still assuming we’re talking to a person who actually
cares about getting in shape. Questions like this don’t actually tell you if the person cares about any of it at all. Them: “Probably convenience, then cost, then personalisation,
then novelty.” Since you asked, I’ll answer. Hypothetically speaking, of course. You: “Okay. Awesome. Thanks so much. We’re working on an app to help you exercise in the
convenience of your own home. I think it’s going to be a great fit for what you care about.” Totally missing the point and mis-interpreting the conversation as validation. Now
fishing for compliments. Them: “Cool. I’d love to try it when it launches.” Half-hearted compliment plus non-committal stalling tactic. You: “Great — I’ll send over one of our beta
keys so you can check it out.” We got a user! Them: “Thanks.” I am literally never going to type that in. The reason this conversation is so very bad is because, if you aren’t
paying attention, it seems like it went well. If you focus the conversation too quickly on one problem area, you can think you’ve validated a “top” problem when you haven’t. You
just led them there. If you ask me what my biggest problem with staying fit is, I’ll probably tell you it’s the time cost of going to the gym. But then, if you build me a
workout-at-home app, I’m going to ignore it. Even though commute time is the biggest problem with getting in shape, the whole area of fitness just isn’t something I care about
enough to act on. My #1 fitness problem is still an unimportant one. Let’s start the conversation again and fix it when it starts to go off track: A good conversation: You: “How
often do you go to the gym?” Them: “Um. Not really ever.” Looks like we’re done here. You: “Why not?” Instead of taking for granted that staying fit is one of their top priorities,
let’s dig into the motivations. Them: “I don’t know, it’s just not something I’m that worried about, you know?” Not trying to fix this, so unlikely to buy or use an app. You:
“When’s the last time you did try? Have you ever joined a gym or taken up jogging or anything?” Let’s anchor the generic just to make sure… Them: “Oh yeah, I used to be into sports
in high school. It just hasn’t been a big deal since I settled down. Running around after the kids gives me all the cardio I need!” You: “Haha, gotcha. Thanks for the time!” This
was a pleasant conversation and we learned what we came for, so we can abandon ship and leave him to his day. The premature zoom is a real problem because it leads to data which
seems like validation, but is actually worthless. In other words, it’s a big source of false positives. Let’s re-run the same conversation, but instead of immediately zooming in on
exercise, we’ll start more generic, since we aren’t sure that fitness is a must-solve problem: A good conversation: You: “What are your big goals and focuses right now?” Products
which solve problems on this list are infinitely more likely to get bought. We might alternately ask for major annoyances, costs, or joys. Them: “The big one is finalising that
promotion at work. And we just bought our first house, so I’ve got to get that all fixed up and ready to go. Exciting times. And I want to find a bit more time for the missus, you
know? Things have been pretty busy lately.” Work, house, and marriage. Not looking good for us! You: “You’re buying a new house and expect to be less busy?” Them: “Can’t blame a
guy for hoping.” You: “Is getting healthier on that list?” We probably already know the answer, but it doesn’t hurt to ask leading questions when you’re about to abort the
conversation anyway. If they come back with a positive, just be a little extra careful in making sure they aren’t lying. Them: “I’m actually feeling pretty good at the moment.” Not
a customer. However, we don’t always need to start the conversation from the square one of do-they-care-at-all. Sometimes we know the problem exists as a top priority and we can
safely zoom in immediately. For example, let’s say we help drive qualified leads to small business websites. We know that marketing is always a top 3 problem for small businesses,
so we can focus on it and start the conversation by zooming in with a question like: You: What are your big problems with marketing? We can immediately zoom in on the problem if we
are 100% certain it’s a must-solve problem which people are ready to pay for. Versus: You: What are your big problems right now? If we aren’t sure it’s a must-solve problem, we
start more generic to see if they care at all about the problem category, in which case they’ll mention it. Now imagine you’ve built the aforementioned marketing tool for small
businesses and realise it could also be used to help bloggers get more attention. You’re wondering if you have another strong customer segment. However, since blogs have a harder
time monetising traffic than small businesses, we can’t necessarily assume that they’re also going to happily pay for traffic. For example, I have a blog which I quite like (but
which I don’t take seriously as a business). If you’re talking to me and you ask, “Hey Rob, what are your top problems with marketing your blog?” Then you’ve just prematurely
zoomed on a non-problem. I’m going to tell you some sort of answer which sounds legit but is actually misleading. I might say that my keywords are all kind of generic, so it’s hard
to attract the right people. Or that I walk a fine line between writing beginner and advanced articles, so it’s tough to attract the right people. Whatever. Problems exist with my
blog marketing, but the whole space just isn’t something I’m too fussed about. I write because it’s fun, not because it’s how I pay my rent. To have a useful conversation, you need
to zoom back out to ask about my blog in general, rather than marketing my blog. A good conversation: You: “Hey Rob, what are the top problems with your blog?” Me: “I’m pissed that
Google Reader is disappearing — I feel that I’m going to lose like half my followers. And this book is consuming all of my interest in writing, so I haven’t really posted in
months. And Wordpress seems so slow these days.” Of the topics here, one of them (Google Reader and audience size) is related to marketing, so you can anchor on that and figure out
whether I’m a customer or just a complainer. You: “That Google Reader thing is a mess. What are you doing about it?” Now that you’ve let me raise the topic, you know it’s on my
mind and can more safely zoom in to talk about that specifically. As before, try to figure out what I’m already spending time and money on. Me: “Nothing, really. I don’t know what
to do. But it sucks.” I’m not appearing terribly motivated, but the fact that I don’t know what to do could give you hope. You: “Have you looked into what your options are?”
Continue anchoring and digging. Me: “No, I just caught the drama on Hacker News.” I knew the reader-pocalypse was coming and didn’t even search around to properly understand the
implications and my options. This just isn’t a big deal for me, despite how “annoyed” I claim to be. You: “Are you going to make a serious effort to build your audience back up?”
You are digging into the audience size signal, since it’s relevant to your space. It’s a fluff-inviting question (hypothetical future-tense), so you should be skeptical of the
answer, but it’s hard to see a better way to get at the information you want from here. Not every question can be perfect, sadly. Me: “Probably just keep on writing when I have
something to say. It’s more of a hobby than a business, really.” At this point, you might be suspicious about how much I actually care about my blog. When it’s not clear whether a
problem is a must-solve-right-now (e.g. you’re selling a painkiller) or a nice-to-have (you’re selling a vitamin), you can get some clarity by asking cost/value questions like the
following. “Does-this-problem-matter” questions: “How seriously do you take your blog?” “Do you make money from it?” “Have you tried making more money from it?” “How much time do
you spend on it each week?” “Do you have any major aspirations for your blog?” “Which tools and services do you use for it?” “What are you already doing to improve this?” “What are
the 3 big things you’re trying to fix or improve right now?” Some of these questions are generic, but give us signals that we can anchor on and dig around. The bulk of them are
about finding out whether the person we’re talking to is taking this space seriously. Are they spending money or making money? Is it in their top 3? Are they actively looking for
solutions? When you fall into a premature zoom, you can waste a ton of time figuring out the minutia of a trivial problem. Even if you learn everything there is to know about that
particular problem, you still haven’t got a business. Rule of thumb: Start broad and don't zoom in until you’ve found a strong signal, both with your whole business and with every
conversation. Look at the elephant Lastly, sometimes we comfort ourselves by asking questions which don’t actually de-risk the business or resolve those critical, big, scary,
lurking questions. We ignore the elephant in the room. Let’s say we suspect that teachers from the poorest schools are completely overloaded, and that our tools would save them
time so they could better educate their students. We go talk to them and confirm that yes, they are completely overloaded. We then spend weeks with them, figuring out exactly what
their dream tool would do. Unfortunately, we've missed the elephant, which is that the poorest schools may not have the budgets available to pay us what we need. We're liable to
spend a huge amount of time exploring a real and urgent problem, only to hop into the deadpool due to our customer's budgeting issues. Successful startups tend to depend on
multiple failure points. In this case it is both the needs of the teachers and the ability of the schools to pay us. If any of these conditions doesn't exist, we have to
significantly overhaul our idea. It's tempting to obsess over the most interesting of several failure points and ignore the others. It's a great way to miss important questions.
Beyond the risks of our customers and market, we also have challenges with our own product. Overlooking the product risks is just as deadly as overlooking the goals and constraints
of our customers. Take the following conversation with a professional public speaker. Is it full of good data or bad data? An ambiguous conversation: Them: “…I get paid 2 or 3
grand per talk. Sometimes more if it’s corporate work.” Some good pricing and value signals. You: “Where do you get your gigs? Do you have an agent?” Trying to understand the
alternatives. Them: “Yeah. He kind of sucks though. Most of my work comes through people who just know me from my blog or have seen my other talks.” Hardly a must-solve problem
since he has a reliable workaround, but at least it’s high value. You: “What’s wrong with the agent? And why do you still work with him?” Dig. Them: “I’m one of the lowest-paid
people they work with, so I get ignored a lot. But sometimes he brings in deals, so whatever. It’s free money.” Good information on his motivations and goals. At this point, let’s
say I’m confident that getting gigs is important to him. I also know what it’s worth and how he’s currently accomplishing it. So I zoom in to introduce the problem I’m solving and
the way I want to approach it. You: “I’m building a marketplace to cut out the agents and connect event organisers directly with speakers. It should help you get more gigs and keep
the agent fees. How would that fit into your speaking life?” Them: “Man, that’s awesome. If you could get me more more gigs — or better paid ones — I’d happily drop my agent and
pay you 20% of the boost. I know a bunch of other people who would love to as well.” This is the important bit — is it good? So what’s the result? Beyond being excited, we got some
concrete data about how valuable this could be to him. Plus, it involved a commitment to be one of our early users. It sure seems good. But what did he actually tell us? He said
that if we can get him more gigs, then he’ll pay a cut. Well, obviously. Who doesn’t want free money? His needs are clear: he wants to make more money by speaking. If we can send
him work, he’ll share some of it with us. This was never really in doubt. The key phrase of “if you could get me more gigs” is basically shifting the burden from the customer to
your product. Even though you’ve found a pain, your success is dependent on a bunch of other factors, such as your ability to grow a healthy supply of paying gigs which are a good
fit for him. Will you be able to do that? It remains to be seen. This situation is easier to spot in the online advertising industry. Imagine running customer conversations with an
advertiser to try to understand their pains so you can convince them to advertise on your site. They’d sort of look at you blankly and say, “Listen, if you can get enough page
views, we’ll pay you for them.” In fact, it’s such a well established would-pay-to-solve-problem that you don’t even need to talk to them to set it up. You just plug in an ad
network and you’re done. Similarly with affiliate commissions. If you sell a company’s products, you get a cut. That’s just how it works. You don’t need to explore or validate or
understand their problems. The risk resides in your ability to get lots of traffic and sell lots of products. If you can, they’ll pay you. In all of these examples, the risk is in
your product, not in the market or the customer. The customer will pay if your product gets big enough. Product risk — Can I build it? Can I grow it? Will they keep using it?
Market risk — Do they want it? Will they pay? Are there enough of them? You don’t want to overlook one or the other. I met a founder who had wasted 3 months on worthless customer
conversations. He wanted to start a company building gadgets to track the fertility of farm animals, ultimately boosting birthrates and thus revenue. When he talked to farmers, he
asked questions like, “Would you switch trackers if something cheaper and more effective was available?” That’s the same as asking someone whether they would like more money. The
answer is always “Yes.” The farmers responded along the lines of, “If you can build what you say you can build, I’ll equip my whole herd.” The problem is, he couldn’t build it. The
risk was in the product. I’ve also seen this strike several of the recent companies who want to use mobile/realtime deals to drive foot traffic to bars and clubs. They run customer
conversations with bar owners who confirm that: yes, they would like more customers on the slow nights; and yes, they would pay you if you could send customers on demand. The
founders take this as strong validation (“They have the problem and committed to pay!”) without recognising that the vast majority of the risk is in the product, not the market.
Bars will pay, but only if you can amass a huge audience of consumers. Then the founders talk to consumers and ask if they would use an app which always pointed them to booming
parties with cheap booze. Again, obviously yes. But that doesn’t tell us whether we can actually get to that critical mass of users. Video games are pure product risk. What sort of
question could you ask to validate your game idea? “Do you like having fun?” “Would you like to have even more fun?” Practically 100% of the risk is in the product and almost none
is in the customer. You know people buy games. If yours is good and you can find a way to make them notice it, they’ll buy it. You don’t need to rediscover people’s desire to play
video games. This isn’t to say that you shouldn’t talk to anyone if you’re building something with product risk. In the case of the farm fertility monitor, it’s good to know that
the farmer isn’t opposed to switching tech once he’s already got something installed, for example. For the nightclubs, it’s good to know that they’re at least theoretically willing
to pay for promotion. It would be tragic to succeed at the hard work of creating the technology or community only to learn nobody will pay for it. What all this does mean is that
if you’ve got heavy product risk (as opposed to pure market risk), then you’re not going to be able to prove as much of your business through conversations alone. The conversations
give you a starting point, but you’ll have to start building product earlier and with less certainty than if you had pure market risk. Prepare your list of 3 Always pre-plan the 3
most important things you want to learn from any given type of person. Pre-planning your big questions makes it a lot easier to ask questions which pass The Mom Test and aren’t
biasing. It also makes it easier to face the questions that hurt. If we go through an unplanned conversation, we tend to focus on trivial stuff which keeps the conversation
comfortable. Instead, decide what to ask with your team in a calm environment. Your 3 questions will be different for each type of person you’re talking to. If you have multiple
types of customers or partners, have a list for each. Don’t stress too much about choosing the “right” important questions. They will change. Just choose the 3 questions which seem
murkiest or most important right now. Doing so will give you firmer footing and a better sense of direction for your next 3. You might get answers 1-3 from customer A, answer 4
from customer B, answers 5-7 from customer C. There’s overlap and repetition, but you don’t need to repeat the full set of questions with every participant. Don’t feel obliged to
