repeat questions you already have reliable data on. Pick up where you left off and keep filling in the picture. Knowing your list allows you to take better advantage of
serendipitous encounters. Instead of running into that dream customer and asking to exchange business cards so you can “grab a coffee” (exactly like everyone else), you can just
pop off your most important question. And that goes a long way toward Keeping it Casual. Rule of thumb: You always need a list of your 3 big questions. CHAPTER FOUR Keeping it
casual We know that zooming prematurely and introducing your idea too early creates biases and can get you stuck on a local maximum. In his original book on Customer Development, 4
Steps to the E.piphany, Steve Blank solves this by recommending 3 separate meetings: the first about the customer and their problem; the second about your solution; and the third
to sell a product. By splitting the meetings, you avoid the premature zoom and biasing them with your ideas. In practice, however, I’ve found it both difficult and inefficient to
set them up. The time cost of a 1-hour meeting is more like 4 hours once you factor in the calendar dance, commuting, and reviewing. It’s also a big time commitment to ask from the
customer before you’re in a position to show them anything in return. In the early days, asking for the first conversation was simply impossible for me. I wasn’t credible enough,
so nobody wanted to take a meeting just to talk to me about their day. Steve recommends starting with friendly first contacts. Definitely do that if you have them. Thanks to The
Mom Test, the fact that they’re friends won’t bias your data, so long as you ask good questions. In my case though, I was entering a new industry with high walls (brand
advertising) and no friendly first contacts. As my credibility built after a couple years in the industry, I found I was now able to get meetings without any real “reason”. The
3-meeting structure was finally viable! But once I started doing it, it felt like a bad use of my time. The most precious resource a startup has is its founders’ time and
attention. You have to put yourself where you matter most, and I wasn’t finding early customer meetings to be that place. I wished I could get the learning without all the
overhead. If the solution isn’t a 3-meeting series, then what is it? You may have noticed a trend throughout the conversation examples we’ve seen so far: keeping it casual. Let’s
say I’m trying to build tools to help public speakers get more speaking gigs and I bump into one at a conference. I’m not going to try to set up a meeting. Instead, I’m just going
to immediately transition into my most important question: “Hey, I’m curious—how did you end up getting this gig?” As a side bonus, we’re also now having an interesting
conversation and I’m far more likely to be remembered and get a meeting later. When you strip all the formality from the process, you end up with no meetings, no interview
questions, and a much easier time. The conversations become so fast and lightweight that you can go to a industry meet-up and leave with a dozen customer conversations under your
belt, each of which provided as much value as a formal meeting. The structure of separate problem/solution/sales conversations is critical for avoiding bias, but it’s important to
realise that the first one doesn’t actually need to be a meeting. Rule of thumb: Learning about a customer and their problems works better as a quick and casual chat than a long,
formal meeting. The meeting anti-pattern The Meeting Anti-Pattern is the tendency to relegate every opportunity for customer conversation into a calendar block. Beyond being a bad
use of your time and setting expectations that you’re going to show them a product, over-reliance on formal meetings can cause us to overlook perfectly good chances for
serendipitous learning. Imagine that you’re in a crowded cafe, tapping away at your keyboard, when your dream boy/girl sits down next to you. They’re wearing a charming hat and
give you a friendly nod before cracking open a dog-eared old novel which just totally completes the mood. You slam down a quick espresso to psych yourself up and fumble through
some sort of awkward monologue about how they seem like a really nice person and this is kind of weird because you don’t even know each other but maybe they want to go get a coffee
sometime? Like, a different coffee? At a different place? We know this is a silly situation. After all, the purpose of a date is to talk to each other and see if you get along.
Therefore, for all intents and purposes, you were already on a date. And then you messed it up by trying to over-formalise it when you could have just chatted a bit and skipped
that whole first date completely. We’re going to pull exactly the same trick on our early customer conversations. We’re going to strip the pomp and circumstance and reduce it from
a meeting to a chat. If we do it right, they won’t even know we were talking about our idea. I was considering a product idea to make office managers more efficient. I played with
the possibilities on Friday, figured out the big questions over the weekend, and then went to an industry event on Monday. A handful of office managers were there and without any
of them realising we’d “had a meeting”, I'd learned that the big problem was really about debt collection rather than efficiency. I got there by just being interested and chatting
with them over a beer: “X seems really annoying, how do you deal with it?” “Is Y as bad as it seems?” “You guys did a great job with Z… Where did you get that from?” Being too
formal is a crutch we use to deal with an admittedly ambiguous and awkward situation. Instead of leaving wiggle room for the unexpected, everything becomes a process. Symptoms of
formality: “So, first off, thanks for agreeing to this interview. I just have a few questions for you and then I’ll let you get back to your day…” “On a scale of 1 to 5, how much
would you say you…” Learning from customers doesn’t mean you have to be wearing a suit and drinking boardroom coffee. Asking the right questions is fast and touches on topics
people find quite interesting. You can talk anywhere and save yourself the formal meetings until you have something concrete to show. At their best, these conversations are a
pleasure for both parties. You’re probably the first person in a long time to be truly interested in the petty annoyances of their day. Rule of thumb: If it feels like they’re
doing you a favour by talking to you, it’s probably too formal. How long are meetings? Early conversations are very fast. The chats grow longer as you move from the early broad
questions (“Is this a real problem?”) toward more specific product and industry issues (“Which other software do we have to integrate with to close the sale?”). It only takes 5
minutes to learn whether a problem exists and is important. Learning how someone currently achieves a certain goal or solves a problem is also quick. Soon you’ll find yourself
asking questions which are answered with long stories explaining their workflow, how they spend their time, or what else they’ve tried. You can usually get what you came for in
10-15 minutes, but people love telling stories about themselves, so you can keep this conversation going indefinitely if it’s valuable for you and interesting for them. At the
longer extreme, learning the details of an industry takes an hour or more. Thankfully, those are easier conversations to manage since the other person (usually some sort of
industry expert) can go into a monologue once you point them in the right direction. The duration of formal B2B meetings (the kind you schedule) is determined more by the arbitrary
calendar block than by what you actually want to learn. Of course, you've liable to burn 15 minutes just to get a cup of tea and say hello. Once you have a product and the meetings
take on a more sales-oriented feel, you’ll want to start carving out clear blocks of 30+ minutes. You might lose 5 minutes due to miscellaneous tardiness, spend 5 minutes saying
hello, 5 minutes asking questions to understand their goals/problems/budget, 10 minutes to show/describe the product, and the last 5 minutes figuring out next steps and
advancement. That's your half hour. The potential speed of the early conversations one of the big reasons I like keeping it casual and skipping the meeting. Scheduling and going to
a meeting has a lot of overhead for a 10 minute chat. Even explaining that you’re starting a company and would love to ask a couple questions can take 5 or 10 minutes. You'll make
progress a lot faster if you’re able to leave your idea out of it for as long as possible. Putting it together Even within a more formal meeting, you still might want to keep it
casual if you’re hoping to get non-biased feedback. I once had a product idea to help busy investors to manage their dealflow. I knew they got hundreds of applications per month
and figured it must be a spreadsheet nightmare. I lined up a couple meetings to ask about the industry. I showed up to the first meeting and, while making smalltalk, said something
like “I was thinking, you guys must get a ton of leads, right?” The guy laughed and said, yeah, it was crazy. “How in the world do you deal with all of that?” He sort of shrugged
and pointed at a cluster of about a dozen sticky notes on the wall. Each held a name and a phone number. “Our analysts kill most of them before they ever reach us, and then we
throw out a bunch more. We only end up with about 10 apiece that are serious contenders. We just call every couple weeks to see how it’s going.” Well that doesn’t sound so bad, I
said. “Yeah, it works pretty well,” he replied. “Anyway, what did you want to talk about?” They don’t have the problem. That’s successful learning. We disproved our idea before the
guy even realised we were talking about it. It took 5 minutes, avoided biases, and didn’t feed us any bad data in the form of compliments, fluff, or ideas. Instead, we got concrete
facts about our customers which are directly relevant to our core business questions. Of course, it took me a 2-hour commute to get to those 5 minutes. It can’t be perfect every
time. In the aforementioned case, we proved ourselves wrong. Sometimes, however, it goes in the opposite direction and everything we learn from customers makes us even more
excited. In that case, we stand atop all that we’ve learned and take the visionary leap of coming up with a specific product and business to make our customers’ lives better. And
then we ask them to commit to it. Rule of thumb: Give as little information as possible about your idea while still nudging the discussion in a useful direction. CHAPTER FIVE
Commitment and advancement Once we've learned the key facts about our industry and customers, it’s time to zoom in again and start revealing our idea and showing some product. The
bad news is that this invites nefarious compliments. The good news is that since we have the beginnings of a product, we're now in a position to cut through the false positives by
asking for commitments. In sales, moving a sales relationship to the next stage is called "advancement". It's like pushing a customer into the next step of your real-world
acquisition funnel. They'll either move forward or make it clear that they're not a customer. Both are good results for your learning. When you fail to push for advancement, you
end up with zombie leads: potential customers (or investors) who keep taking meetings with you and saying nice things, but who never seem to cut a check. It's like your startup has
been friend-zoned. Thankfully, you caused it, and that means you can fix it. It's a consequence of being clingy and fearing rejection. By giving them a clear chance to either
commit or reject us, we get out of the friend-zone and can identify the real leads. As always, you’re not trying to convince every person to like what you’re doing. When you’ve got
the information you came for (even if it’s that they don’t care), you can leave. But at some point, you do need to put them to a decision in order to get it. Symptoms: A pipeline
of zombie leads Ending product meetings with a compliment Ending product meetings with no clear next steps Meetings which "went well" They haven't given up anything of value As I
use them in a customer learning context, commitment and advancement are separate concepts which overlap quite a lot and tend to appear together. Commitment — They are showing
they’re serious by giving up something they value such as time, reputation, or money. Advancement — They are moving to the next step of your real-world funnel and getting closer to
a sale. Commitment and advancement often arrive hand-in-hand. For example, to move to the next step (advancement), you might need an introduction to your contact’s boss (reputation
commitment). As such, they are functionally equivalent for our purposes and I’m going to blur them into one concept for the following sections. Rule of thumb: “Customers” who keep
being friendly but aren’t ever going to buy are a particularly dangerous source of mixed signals. Meetings succeed or fail It took me years to learn that there’s no such thing as a
meeting which just "went well". Every meeting either succeeds or fails. You've lost the meeting when you leave with a compliment or a stalling tactic. While we might spot something
as blatant as "Let's talk again after the holidays... Don't call me, I'll call you," we accept the more subtle versions every day. A meeting has succeeded when it ends with a
commitment to advance to the next step. But you have to force this resolution or the meetings drift along in la-la-land while performing their ancient duty: wasting everyone’s
time. If you leave with worthless wishy washiness, I'd bet you're falling for one or both of the following traps: You're asking for their opinion about your idea (e.g. fishing for
compliments) You're not asking for a clear commitment or next steps You know how to deal with compliments by now: deflect, ignore, and get back to business. Commitments are
similarly easy to master, once we know what we’re looking for. When we leave without a commitment, sometimes it’s because we asked and got rejected. That’s sad, but it happens. Not
everyone is going to convert and at least you now know where you stand. You have a strong negative data point. The real failure is listed above as #2: not even asking. I never
consider rejection to be a real failure. But not asking certainly is. This can happen because you avoid the scary question or because you haven’t figured out what the next steps
should be. Commitment is important. It tells us whether people are actually telling the truth. The more they give us, the more we can trust what they say. Rule of thumb: If you
don’t know what happens next after a product or sales meeting, the meeting was pointless. The currencies of conversation Commitment can be cash, but doesn’t have to be. Think of it
in terms of currency—what are they giving up for you? A compliment costs them nothing, so it’s worth nothing and carries no data. The major currencies are time, reputation risk,
and cash. A time commitment could include: Clear next meeting with known goals Sitting down to give feedback on wireframes Using a trial themselves for a non-trivial period
Reputation risk commitments might be: Intro to peers or team Intro to a decision maker (boss, spouse, lawyer) Giving a public testimonial or case study Financial commitments are
easier to imagine and include: Letter of intent (non-legal but gentlemanly agreement to purchase) Pre-order Deposit Sometimes, strong commitments combine multiple currencies, such
as someone agreeing to run a paid trial with their whole team, thus risking their time, money, and reputation. Just like compliments aren’t data when you’re trying to learn about a
problem, they also aren’t progress when you’re trying to validate a product. Hearing a compliment can still be useful though—it’s a warning flag that the person you’re talking to
is trying to get rid of you. Rule of thumb: The more they’re giving up, the more seriously you can take their kind words. Good meeting / bad meeting Game time again. We just had a
meeting. But how did it go? Were they good meetings or bad meetings? Why? And if they’re bad, what can we do to fix them? Have a think about the meetings listed below and then turn
the page for further discussion. “That’s so cool. I love it!” “Looks great. Let me know when it launches.” “There are a couple people I can intro you to when you’re ready.” “What
are the next steps?” “I would definitely buy that.” “When can we start the trial?” “Can I buy the prototype?” “When can you come back to talk to the rest of the team?” "That's so
cool. I love it!" Bad meeting. Pure, unadulterated compliment. This may make you feel good, but there is precisely zero data here. But at least you won’t hurt yourself on this one
since it’s so obviously fluff. To fix it, deflect the compliment and get back to business. "Looks great. Let me know when it launches." Bad meeting. A compliment plus a stalling
tactic is the classic way to end a pitch for something you’re never going to buy. This comes in a lot of flavours, but they’re all basically a polite way to say, “Don’t call me,
I’ll call you.” The big error you can make here is to mistake this compliment-stall for a pre-order (“He said he’ll buy it when it launches!”). To fix it, I’d look for a commitment
I could ask for today. If I was very early stage, I might ask for an introduction to his boss or tech team or the budget-holder so I can make sure I fully understand their needs.
If I was slightly further through development, I might push him to agree to be one of our alpha users and to roll it out to some subset of their team and be a case study for
launch. If I’ve hit on a real problem, he’ll jump at the chance to start making progress today and get early access. "There are a couple people I can introduce you to when you're
ready." Nearly a good meeting, but right now it’s bad. There’s some data here, but probably not as much as you initially hope. On the bright side, at least you know he doesn’t
think you’re completely nuts or he wouldn’t have even made the fluffy offer (unless he’s just name dropping). The problem is that the promise is so generic that it’s a worthless
signal. To fix it, try to convert fuzzy promises into something more concrete. The more specific it is, the more seriously you can take it. For example: who does he want to
introduce you to and what does “ready” mean? And why can’t he make the intro now? This isn’t about being pushy. You don’t have manifest destiny over his rolodex. But you do need to
distinguish between legitimate offers and polite gesturing. Knowing what “ready” means can also give you a better sense of what your short-term goals should be. "What are the next
steps?" Good meeting. A classic good meeting conclusion. To succeed, a meeting doesn’t need to end with a check in your pocket. It just needs to advance to the next step, whatever
that is. It's worth noting that you need to know your next steps to benefit from this. If you have to say, “Let me have a think about that and get back to you,” then you’ve ruined
a perfectly good meeting. Of course, even clear next steps can be a lie. Everything can be a lie. But with next steps in your pocket, you've got a fighting chance. "I would
definitely buy that." Bad meeting. Danger! There’s admittedly some signal here, but the false positive danger is off the charts. This is the mis-interpreted answer which sunk the
first startup I worked at to the tune of ten million bucks. To fix it, you need to shift from fuzzy future promises into concrete current commitments. For example, you could ask
for a letter of intent, a pre-purchase or deposit, or intros to other decision makers and team members. Kickstarter is so wonderful because it forces customers who say they would
buy it to actually pull out a credit card and commit. "When can we start the trial?" Maybe a good meeting. Unlike “when does it launch," which is usually a stall, “When can we
start” is a step forward. Setting up new software and training staff to use it is a big deal for most businesses. Even a "free" trial can cost them serious money. However, in some
cases, "trying" software costs nothing, especially for individuals. For example, I've “tried” countless CRM (contact management) apps. It takes ten seconds to log in, look around,
and never think about it again. As always, think in terms of currency. What are they giving up to try it out? If your trial is too "cheap" to try, you can try to increase the cost
of it. For example, you could ask to write a case study about them after they've spent 2 weeks using it. Or you could get them to promise to try using it with their team for at
least a week. If you've got a more developed product, you can take their credit card and just charge them nothing if they cancel within 30 days. The more they are giving up for
you, the more seriously you can take their validation. "Can I buy the prototype?" Great meeting. The best meeting conclusion I've seen is the rarely-heard but always appreciated,
“Can I buy the prototype?” A product designer was once showing me a brilliant smartphone tripod he was designing. He demo’d the 3D-printed prototype unit for me and I immediately
asked him how much it would cost to buy the prototype. He laughed and said he’d gone through about a dozen prototypes already because people kept buying them. That’s a good sign.
"When can you come back to talk to the rest of the team?" Good meeting. Bingo! If you are selling anything to companies, you’re going to have to talk to multiple people. If they
won’t introduce you, then it’s a sure bet you’re at a dead end. Enterprise sales is tedious, but one of the perks is that you can get really accurate signals like this one quite
early in the process. Building consumer products is a lot murkier since the customer conversation process doesn’t mimic the purchase process. How to fix a bad meeting The worst
meetings are the wishy-washy ones that you leave with neither rejection nor advancement. You are in no-man’s-land and you won’t learn anything until you fix the meeting by forcing
a next step (or rejection). A lost meeting can often be saved by just pushing for a commitment at the end while you're being brushed off with a compliment. But don't be annoying.
You aren't trying to strong-arm folks into handing over their wallet. You are trying to cut through some of the polite rejections and find out if they're actually going to become a
partner/investor/customer. If they aren't excited, then good news: you got the information you came for. Assimilate it, decide if it matters enough to change your strategy, and
then keep on keeping on. The goal is just to put them to a decision so you can learn whether you've found a must-have product and a real customer. Rule of thumb: It’s not a real
lead until you’ve given them a concrete chance to reject you. Don't pitch blind Even once you've moved on to more product-focused sales meetings, you still want to start with some
open-ended learning to get your bearings. You may know what the market cares about, but figuring out what’s unique about this particular person feels. It will make the rest of the
conversation much smoother, increases your chances of closing the deal, and also gives you ongoing learning even after you've got a product. Startup sales meetings too often go
like this: You: "We do X. Want to buy it?" Them: "No thanks." Those rejections aren't helpful. Hard pitching gives binary feedback: you either nailed it or you didn't. That's okay
when you're making fine adjustments (tweak this feature) but bad for bigger questions (does anybody care at all about what I'm doing). Ask learning questions which pass The Mom
Test. Then confirm by selling it. This happens over both the life of your company and during a single meeting. Crazy customers and your first sale It’s pretty weird that anybody
buys anything from young startups. In all likelihood, before the year is up, you’re going to either go out of business, abandon the product, or sell the company. And even if you
stay the course, there’s no guarantee you can actually do what you say you can do. First customers are crazy. Crazy in a good way. They really, really want what you’re making. They
want it so badly that they’re willing to be the crazy person who tries it first. Keep an eye out for the people who get emotional about what you’re doing. There is a significant
difference between: “Yeah, that’s a problem” and “THAT IS THE WORST PART OF MY LIFE AND I WILL PAY YOU RIGHT NOW TO FIX IT.” Steve Blank calls them earlyvangelists (early
evangelists). In the enterprise software world, they are the people who: Have the problem Know they have the problem Have the budget to solve the problem Have already cobbled
together their own makeshift solution They’re the company who will commit way before it makes rational sense to do so. It’s the guy who will give you cash right now from his
discretionary budget to run a trial. Or who will fight for you against his boss and lawyers when they’re saying the tech is unproven. In the consumer space, it’s the fan who wants
your product to succeed so badly that they’ll front you the money as a pre-order when all you’ve got is a duct-tape prototype. They're the one who will tell all their friends to
chip in as well. They’re the person reading your blog and searching for workarounds. We’ve got 2 takeaways. Firstly, when someone isn’t that emotional about what you’re doing, it’s
pretty unlikely that they’re going to end up being one of the people who is crazy enough to be your first customer. Keep them on the list, but don’t count on them to write the
first check. Secondly, whenever you see the deep emotion, do your utmost to keep that person close. They are the rare, precious fan who will get you through the hard times and turn
into your first sale. In summary, after you've learned the facts of your industry and customers and designed the solution, you start pushing for advancement and commitments to
separate dead leads from real customers. Rule of thumb: In early stage sales, the real goal is learning. Revenue is just a side-effect. CHAPTER SIX Finding conversations Now that
you know how to ask good questions and fix bad meetings, you know enough to have good customer conversations. Take this opportunity to go flex your conversational muscles and talk
to some people. If you’re scratching your own itch with this business, you likely already know your customers. Great! Go talk to them. Now that you’re armed with The Mom Test, they
won’t be able to lie to you even though they know you. But if you don’t already know folks, where do these conversations and meetings come from? Going to them Drumming up good
conversations from cold leads is hard. It’s doable and sometimes you have no choice, but it’s far from ideal. The goal of cold conversations is to stop having them. You hustle
together the first one or two from wherever you can, and then, if you treat people’s time respectfully and are genuinely trying to solve their problem, those cold conversations
start turning into warm intros. The snowball is rolling. Cold calls What does it mean if you reach out to 100 people and 98 of them hang up on you? Well, nothing, except that
people don't like getting cold calls. No surprise there. More importantly, it means you’ve now got 2 conversations in play. Unless your plan is to sell your app via cold calls, the
rejection rate is irrelevant. I know one team who successfully used cold LinkedIn messages to reach C-level execs of several major UK retailers. They were ignored by practically
every exec in the country, but you only need one to say “yes” to start the intro train. Beyond hard hustle, you should also stay open to serendipity. There are lots of ways you can
get lucky when you’re in the mood for it. Seizing serendipity I was mulling over the idea of building tools for professional speakers and found myself at a friend-of-a-friend’s
engagement party. I heard someone across the room say “my talk in Tokyo next week” and made a beeline over to her. She left the party thinking I was a nice guy who was super
interested in her career and I left with a bunch of useful customer insight and a commitment to use the prototype at her next talk. If it sounds weird to unexpectedly interview
people, then that's only the case because you're thinking of it as an interview instead of a conversation. The only thing people love talking about more than themselves is their
problems. By taking an interest in the problems and minutia of their day, you’re already being more interesting than 99% of the people they’ve ever met. Rule of thumb: If it’s not
a formal meeting, you don’t need to make excuses about why you’re there or even mention that you’re starting a business. Just have a good conversation. Find a good excuse I was
chatting to an aspiring entrepreneur in a cafe. Among other things, his product helped cafe owners educate potential customers on the origins and backstory of their beans. He had
been hitting the pavement for the past 2 weeks and getting turned away from cafe after cafe. He wanted to talk to me about his customer interview process. Ten minutes into the
conversation, I cut in: “Who have you talked to so far?” “Nobody—I don’t know the owners and the staff won’t help me.” “Have you talked to this cafe?” “No, I don’t know them.” A
waitress walked by and I flagged her down. “Excuse me, can I speak to the owner?” “Umm.” “Don’t worry, it’s nothing bad. This coffee is amazing and I wanted to ask him about the
story behind the beans.” The owner wasn't around, but with a good excuse in hand, we were soon chatting with the manager. And the manager, in turn, gave us the owner’s contact
details and said he’d be in on Tuesday. You’ve go the ultimate excuse if you have a PhD student on your founding team. “Hello, I’m doing my PhD research on the problems around X,
it would be a huge help if I could ask you a couple questions for my dissertation.” Rule of thumb: If it’s a topic you both care about, find an excuse to talk about it. Your idea
never needs to enter the equation and you’ll both enjoy the chat. Immerse yourself in where they are I wanted to build tools for public speakers and conference organisers. I knew a
few at the lower and middle tiers, but none of the big names who charge $5-50k per talk, who I thought might be a good customer segment for obvious reasons. I hit the conference
circuit and gave free talks everywhere I could. Permanently on the road, everywhere I went was an opportunity to meet new speakers, do favours for event organisers, and learn what
they care about. By immersing myself in the community I met a load of people and soon had all the connections and conversations I could handle (I ultimately decided that big
speakers and big conferences were a bad customer segment and walked away—not every conversation has to end in finding out your idea is awesome). Landing pages Joel Gascoigne did a
classic "landing page" test with his startup Buffer, describing the value proposition and collecting emails. But contrary to popular understanding, it wasn't the metrics or
conversion rate which convinced him to move forward. Instead, it was the conversations which resulted from emailing every single person who signed up and saying hello. I'm
skeptical of the quantitative validation of landing page metrics. But they are certainly a great way to collect emails of qualified leads for you to reach out to and strike up a
conversation with. Paul Graham recommends a generic launch for the same purposes. Get your product out there, see who seems to like it most, and then reach out to those users. This
is starting to bring the customers to you instead of going to them, but still involves sending a mostly cold email. Next we'll look at how to run with this principle to make our
lives even easier. Bringing them to you When you are finding ways to sneak into customer conversations, you're always on the back foot. You made the approach, so they are
suspicious and trying to figure out if you're wasting their time. Instead, we can look for ways to separate ourselves from the crowd so they can find us. Beyond saving you vast
sums of time and frustration, bringing people to you also makes them take you more seriously and want to help you more. How can you plant a flag your customers can see? What can
you offer them that will make them want to talk to you? Organise meetups For marginally more effort than attending an event, you can organise your own and benefit from being the
centre of attention. Want to figure out the problems HR professionals have? Organise an event called “HR professionals happy hour”. People will assume you’re credible just because
you happen to be the person who sent the invite emails or introduced the speaker. You'll have an easy time chatting to them about their problems. Nobody ever follows this
recommendation, but it’s the first thing I would do if I got moved a new industry or geography. It’s literally the most unfair trick I know for rapid customer learning. As a bonus,
it also instantly bootstraps your industry credibility. Speaking & teaching Teaching is under-valued as both a learning and selling tool. Let's say you're making better project
management software. In that case, you probably have both expertise and a strongly held opinion about how things could be better. That’s the magic combination for being an
effective teacher. Spend the time to teach. You'll find chances at conferences, workshops, through online videos, blogging, or doing free consulting or office hours. You'll refine
your message, get in touch with a room full of potential customers who take you seriously, and will learn which parts of your offering resonate (before you’ve even built it). Then
simply chat up the attendees who are most keen. Industry blogging If you have a reasonably sized and relevant blog audience, lining up conversations is a total non-issue. You just
write a post about it and ask people to get in touch. Of course, not everyone has a relevant audience. That’s one big reason to start blogging to your customers today. Even when I
had no audience, I still found blogging to be helpful. When I sent cold emails from my blog email address, folks would often meet with me because they had checked my domain, seen
my industry blog, and figured I was an interesting person to talk to. In other words, the traffic and audience were irrelevant. Blogging about an industry is also a good exercise
to get your thoughts in a row. It makes you a better customer conversationalist. Get clever I once heard a brilliant hack from a guy who wanted to sell to top-tier universities
like Stanford and Harvard. But first he needed to understand their problems (difficult) and be taken seriously by the decision makers (even more difficult). His solution was to
organise a semi-monthly "knowledge exchange" call between the department heads of 3 top universities to discuss the challenges around his topic of choice. Furthermore, it was set
up as a conference call where any other universities could dial in and listen to the best practices of the big 3. By simply organising the call and playing host, he immediately
absorbed all the credibility of the top universities and got direct phone access to a pile of great leads. Every business is different. Don't just copy what someone else is doing.
Consider your own situation, and then get clever. Creating warm intros Warm intros are the goal. Conversations are infinitely easier when you get an intro through a mutual friend
that establishes your credibility and reason for being there. 7 degrees of bacon The world is a relatively small place. Everyone knows someone. We just have to remember to ask. I
was talking to a team of recent graduates who needed to reach McKinsey style consultants. They were pulling their hair out. We were in a coworking space full of other young
entrepreneurs, so I just stood on a chair and yelled, “Excuse me! Does anyone here know anyone who works at McKinsey? Can we talk to you for a second? We’ll buy you a beer — you
could really help us out!” They bought 3 beers, had 3 quick chats, and left with a diary full of intros. This is even easier for consumer products. Not everyone knows folks at
McKinsey, but everybody does know, for example, a recent mom or amateur athlete or theatre enthusiast. Rule of thumb: Kevin Bacon’s 7 degrees of separation applies to customer
conversations. You can find anyone you need if you ask for it a couple times. Industry advisors I relied heavily on advisors in my first company. We didn't know the industry and
nobody took us seriously. Our 5 advisors each had around a half percent of equity and basically just made credible intros. I met with each once per month, so I ended up getting a
fresh batch of intros weekly without it being a huge time burden for any of them. On a bit of a tangent, you'd be surprised by the quality of the folks you can get to join your
advisory board. The first conversation with a good advisor looks similar to the first conversation with a flagship customer: you get along and are talking about a space you both
care about. You can sometimes poach killer advisors from your early customer conversations. Universities I'm jealous of founders who are still in (or recently out of) university.
Professors are a goldmine for intros. They get their grant funding from high-level industry folks they're on good terms with. And since they’re investing in research, those
industry folks are self-selected to be excited about new projects. Professors are easy to get in touch with if you don't know them yet. They post their emails and you can just
wander into their office. Investors Top-tier investors are awesome for B2B intros. Beyond their own rolodex and company portfolio, they can usually pull off cold intros to
practically any industry. Investors can also help you close higher-tier advisors and directors than you'd be able to wrangle on your own. Who has bought in to your idea already?
Who could they connect you to? Cash in favours Remember all those people who brushed you off by saying, “Sounds great, keep me in the loop and let me know how I can help.” Now’s
the time to call in those favours. Yes, they might not have actually meant it, but who cares? Reply back to that ancient email and tell them you’re ready for an intro to that guy
they know. Use the format in the next section to make their lives easy and reassure them that you aren't going to waste anybody's time. You’ll get ignored a lot, but again, who
cares? You aren’t trying to minimise your failure rate; you’re trying to get a few conversations going. The person you’re being introduced to won’t know the backstory anyway, so
it’s a clean start from there. I wouldn’t make a habit of doing stuff like this since it’s a bit annoying and can burn bridges, but sometimes you’re backed into a corner and need
to get started somehow. Asking for and framing the meeting Sometimes a proper meeting can't be avoided. For example, you might want the full hour or need to talk to someone senior
outside of your peer or networking group. But since you don't necessarily have anything to sell, it's unclear what the meeting is for. In those cases, the right explanation and
framing can do wonders. If you don’t know why you’re there, it becomes a sales meeting by default, which is bad for 3 reasons. First, the customer closes up about some important
topics like pricing. Second, attention shifts to you instead of them. And finally, it’s going to be the worst sales meeting ever because you aren’t ready. Symptoms: “Um. So….”
