“How’s it going?” There are a lot of bad ways to frame the meeting, both when first asking for it and once it begins. Questions like, "Can I interview you" or "Thanks for agreeing
to this interview" both set set off alarm bells that this meeting is going to be super boring. I don't want to be interviewed; I want to talk and help! The common, "Can I get your
opinion on what we're doing?" sets expectations of neediness and that you want compliments or approval. No expectations at all are set by, "Do you have time for a quick
coffee/lunch/chat/meeting?" which suggests you're liable to waste my time. The framing format I like has 5 key elements. You're an entrepreneur trying to solve horrible problem X,
usher in wonderful vision Y, or fix stagnant industry Z. Don't mention your idea. Frame expectations by mentioning what stage you're at and, if it's true, that you don't have
anything to sell. Show weakness and give them a chance to help by mentioning your specific problem that you're looking for answers on. This will also clarify that you're not a time
waster. Put them on a pedestal by showing how much they, in particular, can help. Ask for help. Or, in shorter form: Vision / Framing / Weakness / Pedestal / Ask The mnemonic is
“Very Few Wizards Properly Ask [for help]." Here's what it might look like before you have a product: Hey Pete, I'm trying to make desk & office rental less of a pain for new
businesses (vision). We're just starting out and don't have anything to sell, but want to make sure we're building something that actually helps (framing). I've only ever come at
it from the tenant's side and I'm having a hard time understanding how it all works from the landlord's perspective (weakness). You've been renting out desks for a while and could
really help me cut through the fog (pedestal). Do you have time in the next couple weeks to meet up for a chat? (ask) Sometimes the 5 parts will be combined into just one or two
sentences, or they can be in a different order. For example, the next email sounded a little too pitchy and I was worried he would delete it as sales spam before getting through
the first two sentences. As such, I moved my admission of weakness as early as I could get it: Hey Scott, I run a startup trying to make advertising more playful and ultimately
effective (vision). We're having a load of trouble figuring out how all the pieces of the industry fit together and where we can best fit into it (weakness). You know more about
this industry than anyone and could really save us from a ton of mistakes (pedestal). We're funded and have a couple products out already, but this is in no way a sales meeting --
we're just moving into a new area and could really use some of your expertise (framing). Can you spare a bit of time in the next week to help point us in the right direction over a
coffee? (ask) People like to help entrepreneurs. But they also hate wasting their time. An opening like this tells them that you know what you need and that they'll be able to make
a real difference. Once the meeting starts, you have to grab the reins or it's liable to turn into them drilling you on your idea, which is exactly what you don't want. To do this,
I basically repeat what I said in the email and then immediately drop into the first question. If someone else made the introduction, I'll use them as a voice of authority: Hey
Tim, thanks so much for taking the time. As I mentioned in the email, we're trying to make it easier for universities to spin out student businesses (vision) and aren't exactly
sure how it all works yet (framing & weakness). I think Tom made this intro (authority) because you have pretty unique insight into what's going on behind the curtain and could
really help us get pointed in the right direction (pedestal)… (introductions continue) I was looking at your spinout portfolio and it's pretty impressive, especially company X. How
did they get from your classroom to where they are now? (grab the reins and ask good questions) These conversations are easy to screw up. As such, you need to be the one in
control. You set the agenda, you keep it on topic, and you propose next steps. Don't be a jerk about it, but do have a plan for the meeting and be assertive about keeping it on
track. It’s worth noting that this is how I set up meetings from warm intros. The main goal is to clarify what I need and how they can help. Cold approaches are a totally different
beast and are much more of a gamble. Again, the point of cold calls is to stop having them. Find a clever ways to generate warm intros and tell those people how they can help.
You’ll have a much easier time. To commute or to call One of the solutions to the time cost of these conversations is to move them onto Skype or phone calls. In most situations, I
don’t think the added volume is worth the information you lose by not being in the room. I get confused enough by what people are telling me in person. Losing access to their face
and body language feels like shooting myself in the foot. More subtly, calls damage the delicate power dynamic of these conversations. When someone is having a coffee with you,
there’s the potential to chat as friends. You can just shoot the breeze about the industry for a bit. You can keep it casual. They’re enjoying the conversation The same is
decidedly not true on the phone or Skype. People try to squeeze calls in between other activities, wondering how quickly they can “finish with business” and hang up. Folks on the
phone are super annoyed when you “just want to chat”. So you need to make the whole thing more formal, which is one of the exact mistakes we’re trying to avoid! Phone calls end up
sounding more like scripted interviews than natural conversations, because they are. It’s a constraint of the medium. Plus, nobody becomes friends over the phone, which means you
aren't going to get the warm intros and future meetings you need. Setting up a call feels like less overhead in the short-term, but that’s because you aren’t yet able to see all
the time-saving and business-saving benefits of in-person relationships with your customers. That being said, some other great people in the field like and recommend phone calls.
Use whatever works. But I will say that you should start in person. It’s too easy to use surveys or phone calls as an excuse to skip the awkwardness of meeting in person rather
than as a considered trade-off. The advisory flip In terms of mindset, don't go into these discussions looking for customers. It creates a needy vibe and forfeits the position of
power. Instead, go in search of industry and customer advisors. You are just trying to find helpful, knowledgable people who are excited about your idea. With that mindset switch,
you'll know why you're there. And instead of it being a customer-learning-but-I-really-want-to-do-sales meeting, it's a
let-me-find-out-if-you-are-a-good-advisor-by-asking-lots-of-questions meeting. Willpower is a finite resource. The way to overcome difficult situations isn't to power through, but
rather to change your circumstances to require less willpower. Changing the context of the meeting to "looking for advisors" is the equivalent of throwing out all your chocolate
when you start a diet. You change the environment to naturally facilitate your goals. You don't need to explicitly tell them you're looking for advisors. In fact, I wouldn't unless
you already quite like them and it happens to come up in conversation. It's really about orienting your state of mind to give you a helpful internal narrative and consistent front.
Somewhat counterintuitively, the sales-advisor switch also puts you firmly in control of the meeting, since you're now evaluating them. Even if the topics of discussion are
basically the same, you (and they) will notice the difference. How many meetings Every meeting has an opportunity cost. While you’re sitting in a bus on your way there, you aren’t
writing code or generating leads or drinking wine. If you’re running a sales-driven business (especially enterprise sales), the opportunity cost of early conversations is low since
many of them will become sales leads. You’re doubling up on learning and dealflow. The UX community (who knows their customer conversation!) says you should keep talking to people
until you stop hearing new information. In my experience, that could take as few as 3-5 conversations if you have a relatively simple industry and a focused customer segment. If
you’ve run more than 10 conversations and are still getting results that are all over the map, then I’d guess that your customer segment is too fuzzy and could stand to be
tightened up. This isn’t about having a thousand meetings. It’s about quickly learning what you need, and then getting back to building your business. You should be able to answer
almost any customer question and move onto new ones within a week. Rule of thumb: Keep having conversations until you stop hearing new stuff. CHAPTER SEVEN Choosing your customers
They say that startups don’t starve, they drown. You never have too few options, too few leads, or too few ideas. You have too many. You get overwhelmed. You do a little bit of
everything. When it comes to avoiding drowning and making faster progress, good customer segmentation is your best friend. Segmentation When we look at the big successes, they seem
to serve the whole world. Google lets anyone find anything. Paypal helps anyone send money anywhere. Evernote backs up all the writing of everybody. But they didn’t start there. If
you start too generic, everything is watered down. Your marketing message is generic. You suffer feature creep. Google helped PhD students find obscure bits of code. EBay helped
collectors buy and sell Pez dispensers. Evernote helped moms save and share recipes. When you have a fuzzy sense of who you’re serving, you end up talking to a lot of different
types of people, which leads to confusing signals and three problems: You get overwhelmed by options and don’t know where to start You aren’t moving forward but can’t prove
yourself wrong You receive incredibly mixed feedback and can’t make sense of it Babies or body builders? I talked to a woman who had developed a very cool powdered condiment. It
was sweet (like a cinnamon brown sugar), but had all the nutrition of a multivitamin. In fact, it was an all-natural superfood — you could eat nothing but that powder and survive
indefinitely. She said that it had countless uses: you could sprinkle it on your breakfast or mix it in with your protein shake. Moms could trick their kids into being healthy.
Restaurants could leave it on the tables as a healthy sugar alternative. However, she was running in circles because the bodybuilders wanted one thing, the restaurants wanted
another, and the moms needed a third. Making one of them happy always disappointed the others. She didn’t know how to start. Before we can serve everyone, we have to serve someone.
By thinking about who would be most likely to buy, she realised it was moms with young kids who are currently shopping at health food stores. She also knew where to find them: in
the health food stores! But the stores were an important partner and she didn’t know what they would want. She decided to kill two birds with one stone by going into only the
small, independent health food stores (slice that segment!) and asking them to place a few bottles of her condiment beside the breakfast foods. It’s a great way to cut through
opinions by asking for a commitment (some shelf space) and she would come back in a week to ask them about their experiences. If the stores were happy and the product sold, she
could begin finding ways to talk to their customers (and her end consumers), perhaps via an in-store tasting. By getting specific, she was able to cut through the noise, stop
drowning, and start making progress. Big brands or mom & pop? I was once thrilled that my customer segment was “advertisers”. Everyone advertises somehow, so naturally this was
very exciting. Our market was practically infinite! I talked to mom-and-pop shops, e-tailers, big brands, creative agencies, SMEs, music labels and more. Everyone I talked to had
different needs, constraints, problems, and desires. Everything we did ended up sort of working. Everything was somewhat promising. Some people were talking about paying us
$10,000/month while others scoffed at the idea of paying $10. Every feature was more or less well-received. But if we tried to cut any of those middling features, we would get an
uproar. It was always someone’s favourite part. In reality, our customer segment was just too broad. We were trying to serve everyone simultaneously. We said “yes” to every
request. Every debate over a new feature could be won by claiming, “Well, those guys would love it.” The reverse argument could be made to prevent any feature’s removal. The big
trouble was that we could prove ourselves neither right nor wrong. We could never say that a new idea had really worked or totally failed. We were paying attention to so many
customer segments that there was pretty much always someone it worked for. But making a so-so product for a bunch of audiences isn’t quite the same as making an incredible product
for one. Getting specific about who your ideal customers are allows you to filter out all the noise which comes from everyone else. In our case, we eventually noticed unusually
strong signals from creative agencies who wanted to be edgy. We cut a bunch of features and were finally able to get a sense of what was working and what wasn’t. But what does it
mean!? I recently spoke to a couple founders who have been working hard on their customer conversations. They were doing a great job of ensuring they use every sales meeting as an
opportunity to learn. They’re asking good questions which pass The Mom Test and are pushing for advancement and commitment whenever it’s relevant. And yet, they have no idea what
is going on and aren’t sure how to move the business to the next level. They don’t know which features to build and which to cut. They don’t know how to improve their marketing
language. Why aren’t customer conversations helping them? To make matters worse, the feedback they’re getting is absurdly inconsistent. If they run twenty conversations, they end
up with twenty different must-have features and twenty separate must-solve problems. The more people they talk to, the more confused they get. What’s going on here? Their customer
segment was incredibly broad, but in a sneaky way. Imagine I tell you my customer segment is “students”. Okay, you say, with a picture of an American undergraduate university
student in your head. Maybe it’s a male student. He sits down in the lecture hall, cracks open his mac (adding to the sea of glowing apples the professor’s view has recently
become), and fires up reddit to help him survive the next ninety minutes. So I’ve built a product for students, and feedback starts coming in. But it’s not what I expect. One user
needs to add formal citations. Another wants practice questions. A third needs it to run on the iPad. A fourth needs eighty pupils to be able to use it on the same computer. The
next needs to use the app through an intermittent internet connection. We’re looking at this list of requirements and our soul feels like it’s being forced through a colander. This
will literally take us years to build. Where do we start? It turns out that “students” is a broader segment than we initially expected. The first is a PhD student. The second is an
ambitious youngling at a prep school. The third is a homeschooling parent who wants to use it with her kid. The fourth is a rural village in the Indian rice belt where all the
local kids are self-educating through the one village computer. The fifth is in Africa, running the app off a shaky cellphone connection. All are “students”. The founders I
mentioned were having the same experience, but for “sales organisations” instead of “students”. There are countless different kinds of sales organisations with fundamentally
different needs and workflows and tools and goals. But from the outside, they all look like companies who do sales. Even if you narrow it down with a demographic constraint, as
these guys did (sales organisations with 25-250 salespeople), you’re still facing unfathomable diversity. They weren’t having 20 conversations with their customers. They were
having one conversation each with 20 different types of customers. That’s why the feedback was so inconsistent. It was as if they were exploring two dozen business ideas
simultaneously. In these cases, talking to an industry expert can be hugely informative to provide you with a taxonomy of the industry. That will give you a better starting point
for choosing where to begin. If you don’t have access to this high-level view, you still want to take your best guess and get specific. The next section on Customer Slicing will
show you one way to approach it. Over time, your understanding of the industry will improve and you can adjust your mental categories as needed. When the feedback is all over the
map, it’s really hard to extract value. Once you get specific, you can learn. Rule of thumb: If you aren’t finding consistent problems and goals, you don’t yet have a specific
enough customer segment. Customer slicing If you’ve already got a product and users, you can explore your way to a good segment by seeing who likes it and focusing on that group.
The other approach is to just make a best-guess. In both cases, you’re ending up with a specific idea of who you’re serving so you can really make the features and language
resonate for them. You’ll want even more specific segmentation for your conversations than for your whole business. Going out and talking to people is that it takes time. If you
talk to five people who each have different goals, you’re going to get mixed signals which don’t give you the confidence you need to move forward. This drilling down into ever more
specific groups is called Customer Slicing. You take a segment and then keep slicing off better and better sub-sets of it until you’ve got a tangible sense of who you can go talk
to and where you can find them. Start with a broad segment and ask: Within this group, which type of this person would want it most? Would everyone within this group buy/use it, or
only some of them? Why do they want it? (e.g. What is their problem or goal) Does everyone in the group have that motivation or only some of them? What additional motivations are
there? Which other types of people have these motivations? We now have a two groups of segments: the first is a collection of quite specific demographic groups and the second is a
series of motivations. When we look at them, some will be more generic than others. Go back through the generic ones and keep slicing. Just repeat the questions above. Within that
sub-group, who wants it most? Next we’re going to look at our groups’ behaviours and figure out where to find them. What are these people already doing to achieve their goal or
survive their problem? Where can we find our demographic groups? Where can we find people doing the above workaround behaviours? Are any of these groups un-findable? If so, go back
up the list and slice them into finer pieces until you know where to find them. A customer segment isn’t very useful if there’s no way you can get in touch! Now that we have a
bunch of who-where pairs, we can decide who to start with based on who seems most: Profitable Easy to reach Rewarding for us to build a business around For example, if we were
thinking about building an app to help students become more confident speakers, we might decide the best-case-students are graduating students nervous about their first big job
interview. They are motivated not to screw up their big day. Other folks with those motivations might be first-time TV/radio guests, someone giving a wedding speech, or new authors
who are about to go on book tour. Additional motivations (beyond coping with nervousness about a particular event) might be to improve at a valuable long-term skill or to fix some
of the quirks of being a non-native speaker. That gives us some additional demographics, such as young professionals who have to talk a lot, such as teachers and salespeople. Or
foreign exchange students who are about to graduate. Or non-native speaking PhD students who have an upcoming conference talk. As we get specific, it becomes easier to imagine
where to find these groups. Instead of the generic “students” (I guess I’ll walk around campus?), we can easily find non-native speaking PhD students through the admissions office
or the department advisors. We know exactly who to look for and won’t waste our time talking to a bunch of irrelevant folks. Or we can find people online. We might reach new
authors by searching Amazon’s upcoming release list and then reaching out to them on Twitter. Now that we’ve got some focused demographics, we also want to look at existing
behaviours. A lot of people are terrified of speaking and just ignore it. They probably aren’t going to be our customer. Others talk to a therapist about their anxiety in general,
while others try to improve speaking in particular by googling for tips, reading books, or going to workshops and meetups like Toastmasters. There are more existing solutions (e.g.
new salespeople might get on-the-job training), but you get the idea. Once we know a group’s existing behaviours, it’s incredibly easy to get in touch with them. Nervous wedding
speakers might be Googling for examples of great wedding speeches. We could advertise on those search terms and offer a bit of re-assurance and support in exchange for a quick
chat. If someone is listening to a podcast about speaking skills, we could sponsor it or propose to the host that they run a “call in to talk about your speaking fears and
solutions” live event. If this was my business, I would probably shift my preferred customer segment from “students” to “people scared of public speaking who are trying to get
better.” I would start by going to a Toastmasters meetup since I could have a dozen conversations over the course of the evening by Keeping it Casual. That one evening would give
me a great starting point for understanding the motivations, worldview, and needs of a large group of totally ideal customers who are already spending time and money to try to get
better. On the other hand, if you were attacking the same vision and happened to be a secret bibliophile, you might choose to start by tracking down some authors who are about to
go on book tour. You needn’t be planning and theorising all day about this stuff — use it to quickly get to a specific, best-possible customer so you can go grab a few of them and
move the business forward. Since you’ll spend a lot of time talking to your customers, it’s worth choosing someone who is both accessible and fun for you to be around. This stuff
is hard work and can be a real grind if you’re cynical about the people or the industry you’re trying to understand and serve. As we mentioned, you can broaden your segment back
out later. Make your life easy for now by choosing someone who is specific and who also and meets the three big criteria of being reachable, profitable, and personally rewarding.
Rule of thumb: Good customer segments are a who-where pair. If you don’t know where to go to find your customers, keep slicing your segment into smaller pieces until you do.
Talking to the wrong people You can’t get the data you need if you’re talking to the wrong people. There are 3 ways to end up fall into this clearly unhelpful trap. You have
too-broad of a segment and are talking to everyone You have multiple customer segments and missed some of them You are selling to businesses with a complicated buying process and
have overlooked some of the stakeholders We’ve already talked about #1. If you talk to everyone, many of them are inevitably going to be the wrong people. You can miss segments and
overlook buyers in lots of ways. The first important step is to know they exist. Sometimes it’s obvious. If you are a multi-sided marketplace, you obviously have multiple customer
segments. Other times, it’s sneakier. If you’re building an app for kids, need to “sell” to both them and their parents. If you’re building something for public schools, you could
potentially be affected by the concerns of the teachers, the students, the administration, the parent-teacher association, and the tax payers. You’ll also need to worry about
multiple groups if you rely on an important partner, whether for manufacturing, distribution, or promotion. If your business relies on a certain partner, you’d better understand
their goals and constraints just as well as you understand your customers’. Don't just talk to the most senior or important people you can find. You want to talk to people who are
representative of your customers, not ones who sound impressive on your status report. When I was building interactive advertising products, I spent lots of time talking to guys in
suits and very little (well, none) talking to the teenagers we were assuming would enjoy using our products. Telling my board that I had successfully talked to ten children that
week just didn’t seem like the most important thing I could be doing. In retrospect, it clearly was. CHAPTER EIGHT Running the process Even if you do everything else right, you can
get bad results if you don’t have the right process wrapped around your conversations. If you just show up to meetings and hope for the best, you aren't making a good use of
anyone's time. You need to do a little bit of work before and after to extract full value. A common anti-pattern is for the business guy to go to all the meetings and subsequently
tell the rest of the team what they should do. Bad idea. Telling the rest of the team “What I learned” is functionally equivalent to telling them “What you’ll do.” Therefore,
owning the customer conversations creates a de-facto dictator with “The customer said so” as the ultimate trump card. But as we’ve seen, it’s easy to misinterpret what the customer
said. When all the customer learning is stuck in someone’s head instead of being disseminated to the rest of the team, you’ve got a learning bottleneck. Avoid creating (or being)
the bottleneck. To do that, the customer and learning has to be shared with the entire founding team, promptly and faithfully. That relies on good notes plus a bit of pre- and
post-meeting work. The most extreme way to bottleneck is to go to the meetings alone and take crappy notes which you don’t review with your team. At that point, your head has
become the ultimate repository of customer truth and everyone just has to do what you say. In my case, I bottlenecked so hard that our CTO quit while saying, “We’re never going to
succeed if you keep changing what we’re doing.” In my defence, the stuff I’d learned was true (at least, I think it was). But it didn’t matter anyway since I hadn’t properly
communicated it to the rest of the team. Symptoms of a learning bottleneck: “You just worry about the product. I’ll learn what we need to know.” “Because the customers told me so!”
“I don’t have time to talk to people — I need to be coding!” Avoiding bottlenecks has three parts: prepping, reviewing, and taking good notes. Prepping Your most important
preparation work is to ensure you know your current list of 3 big questions. Figure them out with your team and make a point to face the scary questions. If you’ve already learned
the facts of your customer and industry, then you should also know what commitment and next steps you are going to push for at the end of the meeting. It’s easier to guide the
conversation and stay on track if you have an existing set of beliefs that you’re updating. Spend up to an hour writing down your best guesses about what the person you’re about to
talk to cares about and wants. You’ll probably be wrong, but it’s easier to keep the discussion on track and hit important points if you’ve created a skeleton. If you have an
appropriately focused segment, then you’ll only rarely need to do this. While prepping, if you come across a question which could be answered with desk research, take a moment to
do it. You want to move past the obvious stuff and spend your conversations finding answers the internet can’t give you. Similarly, if you’re about to meet with a business, do your
basic due diligence on LinkedIn and the company website. It takes 5 minutes and will save you from borking the conversation and looking like an idiot. Sit down with your whole
founding team when you prep. You want both business and product to be represented. If you leave part of the company out of the prep, then you end up missing their concerns in the
customer conversations. Some founders react with hostility to the whole idea. They’ll say something along the lines of, “We need to be building the gosh derned product, not fuffing
around talking to people.” On the surface, it appears to be a refusal to face the reality that there might be something wrong with the product’s foundations. But having seen it in
several teams now, I think it’s actually the desire for speed, where speed is measured by building features instead of by de-risking and validating the business. Beyond asking a
grumpy cofounder to “humour me”, there are 2 questions to help tease out hidden product risks. The first is asking, “If this company fails, what is most likely to have killed it?”
If we had asked that about my very first product (a user-generated cartoon community), we would have answered that either nobody wants to create cartoons or that their cartoons
will be so bad that nobody wants to watch them. This gives us a good starting point to begin exploring with a combination of technical and conversational tools. Prep questions to
unearth hidden risks: If this company were to fail, why would it have happened? What would have to be true for this to be a huge success? The second question is a flipped version
of the first, from Lafley/Martin’s strategy book. “What would have to be true for this to be a huge success?” In this case, I might have answered that we need lots of hilarious
cartoons plus scaling revenue from brand advertisers. These aren’t long, involved strategy discussions. Your gut reaction is enough. You don’t need to be too rigorous. All you’re
really trying to figure out is: “What do we want to learn from these guys?” In fact, if you’re tight for time, asking this question is the only prep you really need. Rule of thumb:
If you don’t know what you’re trying to learn, you shouldn’t bother having the conversation. Reviewing After a conversation, just review your notes with your team and update your
beliefs and 3 big questions as appropriate. The goal is to ensure the learning is now on paper and in everyone’s head instead of just in yours. Talk through the key quotes and main
takeaways of the conversation, as well as any problems you ran into. I also like to talk about the meta-level of the conversation itself: which questions worked and which didn’t?
How can we do better next time? Were there any important signals or questions we missed? This stuff is more craft than science: you have to actively practice it to get better. It’s
a valuable skill for your team to have, so it’s worth spending a bit of time improving. Just like prepping, reviewing is so simple that it sounds like a non-step. It’s tempting to
skip it. Don’t! The review is important. Disseminate learnings to your team as quickly and as directly as possible, using notes and exact quotes wherever you can. It keeps you in
sync, leads to better decisions, prevents arguments, and allows your whole team to benefit from the learning you’ve worked so hard to acquire. Who should show up Everyone on the
team who is making big decisions (including tech decisions) needs to go to at least some of the meetings. The tech guys don’t need to go to most of the meetings, but you’ll all
learn a ton from hearing customer reactions first-hand occasionally. You’ll also be able to help each other catch and fix your conversation mistakes and biases. Meetings go best
when you've got two people at them. One person can focus on taking notes and the other can focus on talking. As the second person, sometimes you'll notice the lead asking bad
questions or missing a signal they should be digging into. Just jump in and fix them. Don’t send more than two people unless it’s group-on-group or you’ve got a particularly good
reason to do so. Three folks interviewing someone can be a little overwhelming. Going in solo is fine once you get good at taking concise notes. The main problem of running solo is
that it's harder to catch yourself and recover once you start going off-track asking bad questions or missing the point. If you’re shy and have no cofounder to take the lead, call
in a favour with a friend to come to your first couple conversations with you. You can just play the role of the note-taker until you’re comfortable. If there’s no workaround and
you have to bite the bullet, remember that confidence is domain-specific. Instead of suffering through, focus on getting better and understanding the process. It will get less
scary as you improve. You can't outsource or hire someone to do customer learning. There are exceptional team dynamics where it works, but generally speaking, the founders need to
be in the meetings themselves. When a hired gun brings you bad news (“This problem isn't real and nobody cares about what we're doing”), properly assimilating it is difficult. More
insidiously, if the signal is lukewarm, it’s tempting for a hire to gloss over it. Hiring out your learning is a guaranteed way to get bad signals. Until you've got a working
business model and a repeatable sales or marketing process, the founders need to be in the meetings themselves. On the bright side, even though you have to be in the room to
process the learning, you don't necessarily have to be the one setting up or leading the meetings. You can hire people to help as long as you’re there with them, listening. How to
write it down Taking good notes is the best way to keep your team (and investors and advisors) in the loop. Plus, notes make it harder to lie to yourself. And when, months later,
you decide to adjust the business's direction, you'll be able to return to your notes instead of having to go do a whole new set of interviews. When possible, write down exact
quotes. Wrap them in quotation marks so you know it's verbatim. You can later use them in your marketing language, fundraising decks, and to resolve arguments with skeptical
teammates. Other times the exact quote isn't relevant and you just write down the big idea. In either case, add symbols to your notes as context and shorthand. I use 12 main
symbols and make up more in the field as I need them. You probably won't exactly copy mine, so don't worry about memorising them. You'll build your own go-to list as you have more
conversations. :) :( :| ☇ ⨅ ☐ ⤴ ^ ☑＄♀☆ Emotions :) Excited :( Angry :| Embarrassed Someone saying "that's a problem" should be interpreted totally differently depending on whether
they are neutral or outraged. Any strong emotion is worth writing down. For example, depending on your industry, you might also choose to make symbols for lust or laughter. Capture
the big emotions and remember to dig into them when they come up. Their life ☇ Pain or problem (symbol is a lightning bolt) ⨅ Goal or job-to-be-done (symbol is a soccer/football
goal) ☐ Obstacle ⤴ Workaround ^ Background or context (symbol is a distant mountain) These five “life” symbols are your bread and butter. Combine them with emotion symbols where
appropriate. Pains and obstacles carry a lot more weight when someone is embarrassed or angry about them. Obstacles are preventing a customer from solving their problems even
though they want to. They're important because you'll probably also have to deal with them. For example, a lot of corporate folks would love to use cloud services and hate their
current options, but can't use anything else because their company's IT policy is an obstacle. Their workaround might be to use their personal phone as a secondary computer or by
doing certain work at home. Also worth noting. Specifics ☑ Feature request or purchasing criteria ＄ Money or budgets or purchasing process ♀ Mentioned a specific person or company
☆ Follow-up task As we discussed, feature requests usually get ignored, but they're a good signal to capture and explore. Must-have purchasing criteria are obviously more
important. Money signals are also key. Write down specific names and companies. If it’s someone they know, ask for an intro at the end of the conversation. If it’s a competitor or
alternate solution, write it down to research it later. Put a big star on items to follow-up on after the meeting, especially next steps you promised as a condition of their
advancement/commitment. Where to write it down You want to take your customer notes so that they are: Able to be sorted, mixed, and re-arranged Able to be combined with the notes
of the rest of your team Permanent and retrievable Not mixed in with other random noise like todo lists and ideas In practice, I’ve found that taking notes in my primary notebook
is practically useless. Over the course of several months’ sprawl, you set an insurmountable search and retrieval task for yourself. If you won’t look at your notes, they aren’t
much good. If you do end up taking notes in non-ideal places, you just need to spend a little extra post-meeting time moving them over into your permanent format. Otherwise you’ll
be kicking yourself when you remember that amazing quote someone gave you which you can’t quite remember well enough to convince those skeptical investors. What is a better
note-taking medium? Google Docs spreadsheets and Evernote are both great for team sharing, search, and retrieval. Spreadsheets are wonderfully sortable if you write your key
signals in their own column. The downside is that it comes across as rude to take notes directly on a computer during a meeting, so you add a bit of mandatory post-meeting work to
transfer your notes. I always found this a bit annoying, but it’s way better than losing your learning in an off-topic notebook. A dedicated notebook is fine, if you can remember
to carry it with you and use it. For a while, I would use my regular notebook for my customer notes and then just tear out every page which wasn’t from an interview so it was
easier to find them later. Hardly the most elegant. My favourite medium is index cards. Post-it notes also work. I carry around blank cards and take notes on them, with one quote
or learning per card (along with a signal icon, of course). After the meeting I jot down the date and name of the person on each card. It takes a couple minutes, but it’s faster
than moving over all your notes. When we review, we lay the cards out on the table and sort through them. Cards are great because of the random access and sorting. If you learn
that the problem you’re solving doesn’t really matter, you can just pull out all the cards marked with a lightning bolt and find yourself a new problem that’s already been
confirmed. When I first started, I would make audio recordings, but that suffered from the same problem as notebooks. I'd end up with a ton of content and no real way to sort it or
find the bit I wanted, so I ended up ignoring the recordings. If you do want to use audio, you’ll find people are surprisingly willing to be recorded. Put your phone on the table
as you sit down and say, “Hey, is it cool if I record this, because I’m always paranoid I’ll miss something important in my notes. It won’t get shared with anyone or posted
