anywhere.” Almost everyone says yes, but it does blow your cover if you’re trying to Keep it Casual. If you embrace Keeping it Casual, you'll find customer conversations appearing
out of nowhere and catching you by surprise. Just go with it. I've got notes written on paper plates from a pizza party, on beer mats from the pub, and on newspapers from the cafe.
You'll want to transfer them over to your main storage system once you get back to the office, but it's better to capture what's said on something weird than to try to remember all
the important bits. If it’s totally inappropriate to take notes during the chat, just have the conversation and then immediately retreat to a corner to write down what was said.
This is how I usually handle customer conversations at the pub or conferences. Regardless of the medium, the most important thing is that the notes are lightweight enough that
you'll actually review them yourself and with your team. Rule of thumb: Notes are useless if you don't look at them. The process Talking to customers is a tool, not an obligation.
If it’s not going to help or you don’t want to do it for whatever reason, just skip it. I’m sure you’ve been on the receiving end of a half-assed survey sent out by some new
startup to tick the box marked “learn from customers” on their startup todo list. There are better ways to waste your time. Without figuring out what actually matters to your
company and how to deal with it effectively, you’re just going through the motions. When it comes to conversations, it looks like this: Signs you’re just going through the motions:
You’re talking more than they are They are complimenting you or your idea You told them about your idea and don’t know what’s happening next You don’t have notes You haven’t looked
through your notes with your team You got an unexpected answer and it didn’t change your idea You weren’t scared of any of the questions you asked You aren’t sure which big
question you’re trying to answer by doing this The persistent presence of any of these problems suggests that you’re doing something wrong and wasting your time. Here are the steps
I go through to keep on track. Feel free to ignore or tweak as needed given your situation and company. It’s as light-weight as I’ve been able to get it and should reduce rather
than increase the amount of time you need to spend on conversations. The process before a batch of conversations: If you haven’t yet, choose a focused, findable segment With your
team, decide your big 3 learning goals If relevant, decide on ideal next steps and commitments If conversations are the right tool, figure out who to talk to Create a series of
best guesses about what the person cares about If a question could be answered via desk research, do that first During the conversation: Frame the conversation Keep it casual Ask
good questions which pass The Mom Test Deflect compliments, anchor fluff, and dig beneath signals Take good notes If relevant, press for commitment and next steps After a batch of
conversations: With your team, review your notes and key customer quotes If relevant, transfer notes into permanent storage Update your beliefs and plans Decide on the next 3 big
questions The goal of this process is twofold. Firstly, to make sure you're spending your time well by attacking the questions which really matter and using the whole founding
team’s brains. Secondly, to spread any new learning through your team as quickly and completely as possible. There you go. Now you know everything I do about how to learn from
conversations. Combine this process with The Mom Test, Keeping it Casual, and Advancement for maximum learning in minimum time. But even if it goes wrong, don’t worry so much.
Eternity will forgive. This stuff is fast The time scales of the process are important. The point is to make your business move faster, not slower. Don’t spend a week prepping for
meetings; spend an hour and then go talk to people. Anything more is stalling. Don’t spend months doing full-time customer conversations before beginning to move on a product.
Spend a week, maybe two. Get your bearings and then give them something to commit to. You’ll keep talking to customers for the life of your company, of course. I’m not advising you
to become a recluse after the first two weeks. Your customers are a crucial source of ongoing insight and will help catch any badgers in the bush, so to speak. With the tools in
this book (especially Keeping it Casual) you should be able to keep benefitting from customer learning without spending any real time on it. You can do it alongside growing your
business rather than in place of it. This stuff moves really quickly when you’re doing it right. This book isn’t meant you an excuse to squander precious months on theorising. It’s
meant to help you extract maximum value in minimum time from conversations so you can get back to what really matters: building your business. Rule of thumb: Go build your dang
company already. Conclusion and cheatsheet I still ask dumb questions all the time. You will too. Don’t beat yourself up over it. In fact, just yesterday I screwed up a
particularly important meeting by slipping into pitch mode (this was yesterday at the time of writing… hopefully not again at the time of reading). It happens. It’s okay. Review
with your team, don’t beat yourself up (or your cofounders) over mistakes. Work on getting better as a team. I make tons of mistakes. At least now I notice and have a chance to fix
them. Most bad conversations can be fixed. You’re trying to do something difficult. You’re never going to be perfect, but it always helps to be better. People love startups.
Startups do cool stuff and make their lives better. Everyone supports the entrepreneur. When entrepreneurs screw up, people want to forgive them. They want the entrepreneur and the
startup to succeed. By asking good questions, we can fix many flawed ideas before they get us in trouble. But still, sometimes it doesn’t work out. It’s okay. Go to the people who
believed in and supported you and thank them. If relevant, apologise. They’ll say something like: “Hey, don’t even worry about it — I know how it goes.” Eternity will forgive our
earthly blunders. Everyone loves an entrepreneur. After all, you’re putting it on the line to try and make their lives better. Rule of thumb: It’s going to be okay. Hack it In
ancient times it was prophesied that whoever undid the convoluted Gordian Knot would rule the land. Coming across the knot, Alexander drew his sword and with a single stroke, cut
the knot in half. The knot was undone and he became “the Great”. Struggling to untie the knot was the “proper” process. Cutting through it was a hack (ba-dum tish!). Alexander
jumped straight to the end result without any of the work. When we find a new and exciting process, it’s easy to spend hours obsessively geeking out about exactly the right way to
untie this big, gnarly knot. At a workshop about customer segmentation, a personal trainer said he was spending most of his time on the non-billable commutes between his clients.
At some point it was suggested that the police might be a better customer, since he could go to the station and spend all day working with different officers. No commute, more
billable hours, and a less price-sensitive customer. Sounds good in theory. We all started geeking out about how he was going to validate this. Who could he talk to? Did anyone
have family in the police? What should his interview questions be? What was the market size? Etc etc. He looked at us like we were all idiots and held up his phone. “Why wouldn’t I
just call them?” It’s not like he didn’t know their number. We all stood around a bit dumbfounded while he went outside and called the police. Twenty minutes later, he came back in
with a trial session scheduled. Having a process is valuable, but don’t get stuck in it. Sometimes you can just pick up the phone and hack through the knot. Cheatsheet Just in case
you like lists. Key skills: Asking good questions (Chapters 1 & 3) Avoiding bad data (Chapter 2) Keeping it casual (Chapter 4) Pushing for commitment & advancement (Chapter 5)
Framing the meeting (Chapter 6) Customer segmentation (Chapter 7) Prepping & reviewing (Chapter 8) Taking notes (Chapter 8) The Mom Test: Talk about their life instead of your idea
Ask about specifics in the past instead of generics or opinions about the future Talk less and listen more Getting back on track (avoiding bad data): Deflect compliments Anchor
fluff Dig beneath opinions, ideas, requests, and emotions Mistakes and symptoms: Fishing for compliments “I’m thinking of starting a business... so, do you think it will work?” “I
had an awesome idea for an app — do you like it?” Exposing your ego (aka The Pathos Problem) “So here’s that top-secret project I quit my job for... what do you think?” “I can take
it — be honest and tell me what you really think!” Being pitchy “No no, I don’t think you get it...” “Yes, but it also does this!” Being too formal “So, first off, thanks for
agreeing to this interview. I just have a few questions for you and then I’ll let you get back to your day…” “On a scale of 1 to 5, how much would you say you…” “Let’s set up a
meeting.” Being a learning bottleneck “You just worry about the product. I’ll learn what we need to know.” “Because the customers told me so!” “I don’t have time to talk to people
— I need to be coding! Collecting compliments instead of facts and commitments “We’re getting a lot of positive feedback.” “Everybody I’ve talked to loves the idea.” The process
before, during and after the meeting: If you haven’t yet, choose a focused, findable segment With your team, decide your big 3 learning goals If relevant, decide on ideal next
steps and commitments If conversations are the right tool, figure out who to talk to Create a series of best guesses about what the person cares about If a question could be
answered via desk research, do that first Frame the conversation Keep it casual Ask good questions which pass The Mom Test Deflect compliments, anchor fluff, and dig beneath
signals Take good notes If relevant, press for commitment and next steps With your team, review your notes and key customer quotes If relevant, transfer notes into permanent
storage Update your beliefs and plans Decide on the next 3 big questions Results of a good meeting: Facts — concrete, specific facts about what they do and why they do it (as
opposed to the bad data of compliments, fluff, and opinions) Commitment — They are showing they’re serious by giving up something they value such as meaningful amounts of time,
reputational risk, or money. Advancement — They are moving to the next step of your real-world funnel and getting closer to a sale. Signs you’re just going through the motions:
You’re talking more than they are They are complimenting you or your idea You told them about your idea and don’t know what’s happening next You don’t have notes You haven’t looked
through your notes with your team You got an unexpected answer and it didn’t change your idea You weren’t scared of any of the questions you asked You aren’t sure which big
question you’re trying to answer by doing this You aren’t sure why you’re having the meeting Writing it down — signal symbols: :) Excited :( Angry :| Embarrassed ☇ Pain or problem
(symbol is a lightning bolt) ⨅ Goal or job-to-be-done (symbol is a soccer/football goal) ☐ Obstacle ⤴ Workaround ^ Background or context (symbol is a distant mountain) ☑ Feature
request or purchasing criteria ＄ Money or budgets or purchasing process ♀ Mentioned a specific person or company ☆ Follow-up task Signs you aren’t pushing for commitment and
advancement: A pipeline of zombie leads Ending product meetings with a compliment Ending product meetings with no clear next steps Meetings which "went well" They haven't given up
anything of value Asking for and framing the meeting: Vision — half-sentence version of how you’re making the world better Framing — where you’re at and what you’re looking for
Weakness — show how you can be helped Pedestal — show that they, in particular, can provide that help Ask — ask for help The big prep question: “What do we want to learn from these
guys?” Thanks! It’s been fun. Thanks for reading :). I hope it was helpful. For slides, videos, and other information, check out momtestbook.com. When you hit a stumbling block I
can help with or learn that I gave some bad advice, hit me up on twitter @robfitz. My blog where I write about early stage startup stuff is thestartuptoolkit.com. Subscribe to the
rss or email updates and dig through the archive. To learn to be a better founder, you’ve got to get your hands dirty. Startups are more craft than science. It’s something you
learn by doing. The tools help, but you need to get out in the field. I’ve learned more from launching silly projects than I ever did from reading books or blogs. Make it happen.
And finally, if you’re in the business of supporting, training, mentoring, or investing in startups, I work with a few other founders building educational curriculum (slides,
workshops, videos, facilitation guides, etc) at foundercentric.com. Download resources, join the mailing list, and get involved. We’ve run training from Costa Rica to Kiev with
folks ranging from Oxford to the UN. Get in touch at aloha@foundercentric.com. Acknowledgements A huge thanks to all the people who helped with feedback, and especially those who
took the time to write up their ridiculously useful line-by-line comments: Daniel Tenner, Andreas Klinger, Veronica Torras, Dave Chapman, Salim Virani, Sabrina Kiefer, Madeleine
Evans, Spike Morelli, Adele Barlow, and Orsolya Toth. Thanks! Nobody gets through the startup life alone. Thanks to Paul Graham for taking a punt on us when we were so clearly
clueless and to Devin, Laurence, and Ryan for getting on that crazy train. Thanks to Saul Klein for lovingly yelling at me about sales every Friday and for forcing me to actually
read 4 Steps to the E.piphany. Thanks to Steve Blank for writing it. Thanks to Peter Read and Andy C for showing me how sales really works. Thanks to Ian and Pete for getting us
settled in London. Thanks to my peers in the Braintrust who were the perfect sounding board, and especially Salim Virani for calling me on my BS. Thanks to Tom Stone, Dave Chapman,
John Spindler, and Tim Barnes for showing me the good bits of the startup education world and giving me my first chance to teach. Beyond the obvious influence from Steve Blank and
Eric Ries, a big thanks to some other writers who have directly helped this book with their work: Amy Hoy on worldviews, Brant Cooper on segmentation, Richard Rumelt and
Lafley/Martin on strategy, Neil Rackham on sales, and Derek Sivers on remembering that businesses are meant to make you happy. And of course, big thanks for Mom & Dad for gently
planting the entrepreneurial seed through both encouragement and their own collection of insane startup and/or shipwreck stories. The cover was put together by Devin Hunt. The
author image is provided by heisenbergmedia.com. Thanks!