v1.04 @robfitz August, 2013 The Mom Test: how to talk to customers and learn if your business is a good idea when everybody is lying to you by Rob Fitzpatrick a foundercentric.com
book Contents Introduction ? The Mom Test ? Avoiding bad data ? Asking important questions ? Keeping it casual ? Commitment and advancement ? Finding conversations ? Choosing your
customers ? Running the process ? Conclusion and cheatsheet ? Introduction Trying to learn from customer conversations is like excavating a delicate archaeological site. The truth
is down there somewhere, but it’s fragile. While each blow with your shovel gets you closer to the truth, you’re liable to smash it into a million little pieces if you use too
blunt an instrument. I see a lot of teams using a bulldozer and crate of dynamite for their excavation. They are, in one way or another, forcing people to say something nice about
their business. They use heavy-handed questions like “do you think it’s a good idea” and shatter their prize. At the other end of the spectrum, some founders are using a toothbrush
to unearth a city, flinching away from digging deep and finding out whether anything of value is actually buried down there. We want to find the truth of how to make our business
succeed. We need to dig for it—and dig deep—but every question we ask carries the very real possibility of biasing the person we’re talking to and rendering the whole exercise
pointless. It happens more than you’d ever imagine. The truth is our goal and questions are our tools. But we must learn to wield them. It’s delicate work. And well worth learning.
There’s treasure below. Is this book for you? Hello, You’ve read about Customer Development or Lean Startup and aren’t sure how to actually go about having your first customer
conversation. You’re a traditional business or sales person aiming to be more effective within a young company which hasn’t yet found its business model. You mentor, support, or
invest in startups and want to help them have more useful customer conversations. You’ve fallen in love with a new business idea and want to figure out if it has legs before
quitting your job. You’re raising funding and the investors want to see more evidence that you’re solving a real problem. You find this whole process incredibly awkward and really
wish there was an easier way to do it. You’ve got a vague sense of an opportunity and want to figure out exactly what it is. You’ve always wanted to build your own company and want
to start making real progress today. This book is for you. Talking to customers is hard We know we ought to talk to customers. Many of us even do talk to customers. But we still
end up building stuff nobody buys. Isn’t that exactly what talking to people is meant to prevent? It turns out almost all of us are doing it wrong. I’ve made these mistakes myself
and seen them happen a hundred times over with other founders. Despite the recent explosion of startup knowledge, the process of figuring out what customers want too often unfolds
as it did at my first company, Habit. We were building social advertising tech and I was distraught. We'd spent 3 years working our hearts out. We’d nearly run out of investor
money and it didn’t look like we’d be getting more. We’d relocated internationally to be closer to our market and had survived a co-founder being deported. I’d been talking to
customers full-time for months. And then, after innumerable days of slog and an exhausted team, I learned I’d been doing it wrong. I may as well not have bothered. The advice that
you ought to be talking to your customers is well-intentioned, but ultimately a bit unhelpful. It’s like the popular kid advising his nerdy friend to “just be cooler.” They forget
to mention that it’s hard. These conversations take time, are easy to screw up and go wrong in a nefarious way. Bad customer conversations aren’t just useless. Worse, they convince
you that you’re on the right path. They give you a false positive which causes you to over-invest your cash, your time, and your team. Even when you’re not actively screwing
something up, those pesky customers seem hellbent on lying to you. This book is a practical how-to. The approach and tools within are gathered from a wide range of communities
including Customer Development, Design Thinking, Lean Startup, User Experience, traditional sales and more. It’s based on working with a bunch of founders and from my experiences
both failing and succeeding at customer learning, as well as from the support of innumerable peers and mentors. It’s a casual approach to conversation, based on chipping away the
formality and awkwardness of talking to people and taking responsibility for asking good questions. Why another book on talking and selling? Does your shelf really need another
book on selling and talking? And does it need one written by me in particular? Well… yes. Yes it does. Here’s why: Firstly, I’m a techie, not a sales guy. I’m introverted and
naturally bad in meetings. Every other sales book I've read is written by and for folks who are already pretty good at dealing with people. They know the unspoken rules of the
meeting. I fumbled through from scratch. You know that line, “Don’t call me, I’ll call you”? People have actually said that to me (and I believed them). With much help from peers
and advisors, I eventually started figuring it out and we closed deals with companies like Sony and MTV. But I learned that there’s a big gap between textbooks and check books.
Secondly, before we can start doing things correctly, we need to understand how we’re doing them wrong. Through my own projects and my work with new founders, I’ve built up an
exhaustive list of how it can go wrong. Throughout the book, I’ll try to help you figure out where you might be messing stuff up in unnoticed ways. Finally, this is a practical
handbook, not a theoretical tome. For example, how do you find people to talk to and set up the meetings? How do you take notes while still being polite and paying attention? It’s
all in here. I can’t teach you how to make your business huge. That’s up to you. But I can give you the tools to talk to customers, navigate the noise, and learn what they really
want. The saddest thing that can happen to a startup is for nobody to care when it disappears. We’re going to make sure that doesn’t happen. A note on scope & terminology This book
isn’t a summary or description or re-interpretation of the process of Customer Development. That’s a bigger concept and something Steve Blank has covered comprehensively in 4 Steps
to the E.piphany and The Startup Owner’s Manual. This book is specifically about how to properly talk to customers and learn from them. Talking is one of the big aspects of
Customer Development, but shouldn't be confused with the whole process. To keep the distinction clear, I’m going to refer to chatting with people as “customer conversation”
(lowercase) instead of “Customer Development” (uppercase). For the most part, I'm assuming you already agree that talking to customers is a good idea. I’m not trying to convince
you again, so this book is more “how” than “why”. Let’s get involved. CHAPTER ONE The Mom Test People say you shouldn’t ask your mom whether your business is a good idea. That’s
technically true, but it misses the point. You shouldn’t ask anyone whether your business is a good idea. At least not in those words. Your mom will lie to you the most (just ‘cuz
she loves you), but it’s a bad question and invites everyone to lie to you at least a little. It’s not anyone else’s responsibility to show us the truth. It’s our responsibility to
find it. We do that by asking good questions. The Mom Test is a set of simple rules for crafting good questions that even your mom can't lie to you about. Before we get there,
let's look at two conversations with mom and see what we can learn about our business idea: digital cookbooks for the iPad. Failing the mom test Son: “Mom, mom, I have an idea for
a business — can I run it by you?” I am about to expose my ego — please don’t hurt my feelings. Mom: “Of course, dear.” You are my only son and I am ready to lie to protect you.
Son: “You like your iPad, right? You use it a lot?” Mom: “Yes.” You led me to this answer, so here you go. Son: “Okay, so would you ever buy an app which was like a cookbook for
your iPad?” I am optimistically asking a hypothetical question and you know what I want you to say. Mom: “Hmmm.” As if I need another cookbook at my age. Son: “And it only costs
$40 — that’s cheaper than those hardcovers on your shelf.” I’m going to skip that lukewarm signal and tell you more about my great idea. Mom: “Well...” Aren’t apps supposed to cost
a dollar? Son: “And you can share recipes with your friends, and there’s an iPhone app which is your shopping list. And videos of that celebrity chef you love.” Please just say
“yes.” I will not leave you alone until you do. Mom: “Oh, well yes honey, that sounds amazing. And you’re right, $40 is a good deal. Will it have pictures of the recipes?” I have
rationalised the price outside of a real purchase decision, made a non-committal compliment, and offered a feature request to appear engaged. Son: “Yes, definitely. Thanks mom —
love you!” I have completely mis-interpreted this conversation and taken it as validation. Mom: “Won’t you have some lasagna?” I am concerned that you won’t be able to afford food
soon. Please eat something. Our misguided entrepreneur has a few more conversations like this, becomes increasingly convinced he’s right, quits his job, and sinks his savings into
the app. Then he wonders why nobody (even his mom) buys the app, especially since he had been so rigorous. Doing it wrong is worse than doing nothing at all. When you know you’re
clueless, you tend to be careful. But collecting a fistful of false positives is like convincing a drunk he’s sober: not an improvement. Let’s fix the conversation and show that if
we do it right, even mom can help us figure out whether our business is a good idea. Passing the mom test Son: “Hey mom, how’s that new iPad treating you?” Mom: “Oh - I love it! I
use it every day.” Son: “What do you usually do on it?” Whoops — we asked a generic question, so answer to this probably won’t be terribly valuable. Mom: “Oh, you know. Read the
news, play sudoku, catch up with my friends. The usual.” Son: “What’s the last thing you did on it?” Get specific about examples in the past to get real, concrete data. Mom: “You
know your father and I are planning that trip? I was figuring out where we could stay. “ She uses it for both entertainment and utility, which didn’t come up during the “usually”
answer. Son: “Did you use an app for that?” A slightly leading question, but sometimes we need to nudge to get to the topic we’re interested in. Mom: “No, I just used Google. I
didn’t know there was an app. What’s it called?” Younger folks use the App Store as a search engine, whereas your mom waits for a specific recommendation. If that’s true more
broadly, finding a reliable marketing channel outside the App Store is going to be crucial. Son: “Where did you find out about the other ones you use?” Dig into interesting and
unexpected answers to understand the behaviours and motivations behind them. Mom: “The Sunday paper has a section on the apps of the week.” You can’t remember the last time you
cracked open a paper, but it sounds like traditional PR might be a viable option for reaching customers like your mom. Son: “Makes sense. Hey, by the way, I saw a couple new
cookbooks on the shelf — where did those come from?” Business ideas usually have several failure points. Here it’s both the medium of an iPad app and the content of a cookbook.
Mom: “They’re one of those things you just end up getting at Christmas. I think Marcy gave me that one. Haven’t even opened it. As if I need another lasagna recipe at my age!” Aha!
This answer is gold dust for 3 reasons: 1. Old people don’t need another generic set of recipes. 2. The gift market may be strong . 3. Younger cooks may be a better customer
segment since they don’t yet know the basics. Son: “What’s the last cookbook you did buy for yourself?” Attack generic answers like “I don’t buy cookbooks” by asking for specific
examples. Mom: “Now that you mention it, I bought a vegan cookbook about 3 months ago. Your father is trying to eat healthier and thought my veggies could benefit from a pinch more
zazz.” More gold: experienced chefs may still buy specialised or niche cookbooks. The conversation continues. If it’s going well, I would raise the topics of whether she ever
thought to look for recipes on the iPad or for cooking videos on YouTube. Overall, your mom can’t remember the last time she had such an enjoyable conversation with you. You were
so interested in her life for once! You thank her for the lasagna, pet the dog, and head home. You’ve learned that building an app and waiting for people to find it on the App
Store probably isn’t a good plan. But you’ve got some good insight about your customer segment and a few promising leads to look into. That was a useful conversation. A useful
conversation The measure of usefulness of an early customer conversation is whether it gives us concrete facts about our customers' lives and world views. These facts, in turn,
allow us to improve our business. Our original idea looked like this: old people like cookbooks and iPads. Therefore, we will build a cookbook for the iPad. It’s generic. There are
a thousand possible variations of this premise. With an idea this vague, we can’t answer any of the difficult questions like which recipes to include or how people will hear about
it. Until we get specific, it always seems like a good idea. After just one conversation (with our mom, of all people), we have a higher fidelity vision. We now see that there are
at least 2 specific customer segments we might serve, each of which needs a slightly different product. We’ve also identified some major risks to address before we commit too
heavily. We could offer niche recipes (ethnic, diets) which experienced cooks may not already know. Our biggest question is how to reach them when they don’t search for apps. We
have a possible lead with newspaper and magazine PR. Alternately, we might make generic recipes for younger cooks who are easier to reach via the App Store and who haven’t
memorised all their favourites yet. We haven’t talked to any, so we have loads of questions, but one big one is whether a customer segment who isn’t already in the habit of buying
expensive cookbooks will pay a premium for ours. The first conversation gave us rope to hang ourselves. The second gave us actionable insight. Why? What was different about the
second conversation? Mom was unable to lie to us because we never talked about our idea. That’s kind of weird, right? We find out if people care about what we’re doing by never
mentioning it. Instead, we talk about them and their lives. The point is a bit more subtle than this. Eventually you do need to mention what you’re building and take people’s money
for it. However, the big mistake is almost always to mention your idea too soon rather than too late. If you just avoid mentioning your idea, you automatically start asking better
questions. Doing this is the easiest (and biggest) improvement you can make to your customer conversations. Here are 3 simple rules to help you. They are collectively called
(drumroll) The Mom Test: The Mom Test: Talk about their life instead of your idea Ask about specifics in the past instead of generics or opinions about the future Talk less and
listen more It’s called The Mom Test because it leads to questions that even your mom can’t lie to you about. When you do it right, they won’t even know you have an idea. There are
some other important tools and tricks that we’ll introduce throughout the rest of the book. But first, let’s let’s put The Mom Test to work on some questions. Rule of thumb:
Customer conversations are bad by default. It’s your job to fix them. Good question / bad question Let’s play a game. Are the following questions good or bad? Do they pass or fail
The Mom Test? If they fail it, why? And how could we improve them? Work your way through the list and then read on for some discussion. “Do you think it’s a good idea?” “Would you
buy a product which did X?” “How much would you pay for X?” “What would your dream product do?” “Why do you bother?” “What are the implications of that?” “Talk me through the last
time that happened.” “Talk me through your workflow.” “What else have you tried?” “Would you pay X for a product which did Y?” “How are you dealing with it now?” “Where does the
money come from?” “Who else should I talk to?” “Is there anything else I should have asked?” "Do you think it's a good idea?" Awful question! Here’s the thing: only the market can
tell if your idea is good. Everything else is just opinion. Unless you’re talking to a deep industry expert, this is self-indulgent noise with a high risk of false positives. Let’s
fix it: Say you’re building an app to help construction companies manage their suppliers. You might ask them to show you how they currently do it. Talk about which parts they love
and hate. Ask which other tools and processes they tried before settling on this one. Are they actively searching for a replacement? If so, what’s the sticking point? If not, why
not? Where are they losing money with their current tools? Is there a budget for better ones? Now, take all that information and decide for yourself whether it’s a good idea. Rule
of thumb: Opinions are worthless. "Would you buy a product which did X?" Bad question. You’re asking for opinions and hypotheticals from overly optimistic people who want to make
you happy. The answer to a question like this is almost always “yes”, which makes it worthless. Let’s fix it: Ask how they currently solve X and how much it costs them to do so.
And how much time it takes. Ask them to talk you through what happened the last time X came up. If they haven’t solved the problem, ask why not. Have they tried searching for
solutions and found them wanting? Or do they not even care enough to have Googled for it? Rule of thumb: Anything involving the future is an over-optimistic lie. "How much would
you pay for X?" Bad question. This is exactly as bad as the last one, except it’s more likely to trick you because the number makes it feel rigorous and truthy. How to fix it: Just
like the others, fix it by asking about their life as it already is. How much does the problem cost them? How much do they currently pay to solve it? How big is the budget they’ve
allocated? I hope you’re noticing a trend here. Rule of thumb: People will lie to you if they think it’s what you want to hear. "What would your dream product do?" Sort-of-okay
question, but only if you ask good follow-ups. Otherwise it’s a bad question. A question like this is like the “set” before the spike in a volleyball game: not too helpful on its
own, but it puts you in a good position as long as you’re ready to exploit it. Let’s improve it: The value comes from understanding why they want these features. You don’t want to
just collect feature requests. You aren’t building the product by committee. But the motivations and constraints behind those requests are critical. Rule of thumb: People know what
their problems are, but they don’t know how to solve those problems. "Why do you bother?" Good question. I love this sort of question. It’s great for getting from the perceived
problem to the real one. For example, some founders I knew were talking to finance guys spending hours each day sending emails about their spreadsheets. The finance guys were
asking for better messaging tools so they could save time. The “why do you bother” question led to “so we can be certain that we’re all working off the latest version.” Aha. The
solution ended up being less like the requested messaging tool and more like Dropbox. A question like “why do you bother” points toward their motivations. It gives you the why.
Rule of thumb: You're shooting blind until you understand their goals. "What are the implications of that?" Good question. This distinguishes between I-will-pay-to-solve-that
problems and thats-kind-of-annoying-but-I-can-deal-with-it “problems”. Some problems have big, costly implications. Others exist but don’t actually matter. It behooves you to find
out which is which. It also gives you a good pricing signal. I once had someone keep describing the workflow we were fixing with emotionally loaded terms like “DISASTER”,
accompanied by much yelling and arm waving. But when I asked him what the implications were, he sort of shrugged and said “Oh, we just ended up throwing a bunch of interns at the
problem—it’s actually working pretty well.” Rule of thumb: Some problems don’t actually matter. "Talk me through the last time that happened." Good question. Your high school
writing teacher may have told you that good stories are meant to “show, not tell”. Whenever possible, you want to be shown, not told by your customers. Learn through their actions
instead of their opinions. If you ran a burger joint, it would be stupid to survey your customers about whether they prefer cheeseburgers or hamburgers. Just watch what they buy
(but if you’re trying to understand why they prefer one over the other, you’ll have to talk to them). Folks can’t be wishy-washy when you’re watching them do the task in question.
Get as close to the real action as you can. Seeing it first hand can provide unique insight into murky situations. But if you can’t get in there, asking them to talk you through
the last time it happened still offers many of the benefits. Being walked through their full workflow answers many questions in one fell swoop: how do they spend their days, what
tools do they use, and who do they talk to? What are the constraints of their day and life? How does your product fit into that day? Which other tools, products, software, and
tasks does your product need to integrate with? Rule of thumb: Watching someone do a task will show you where the problems and inefficiencies really are, not where the customer
thinks they are. "What else have you tried?" Good question. What are they using now? How much does it cost and what do they love and hate about it? How much would those fixes be
worth and how big of a pain would it be for them to switch to a new solution? I was checking out an idea with a potential customer and they excitedly said, “Oh man, that happens
all the time. I would definitely pay for something which solved that problem.” That’s a future-promise statement without any commitment to back it up, so I needed to learn whether
it was true or not. I asked, “When’s the last time this came up?” Turns out, it was pretty recent. That’s a great sign. To dig further, I asked, “Can you talk me through how you
tried to fix it?” He looked at me blankly, so I nudged him further. “Did you google around for any other ways to solve it?” He seemed a little bit like he’d been caught stealing
from the cookie jar and said, “No… I didn’t really think to. It’s something I’m used to dealing with, you know?” In the abstract, it’s something he would “definitely” pay to solve.
Once we got specific, he didn't even care enough to search for a solution (which do exist, incidentally). It’s easy to get someone emotional about a problem if you lead them there.
“Don’t you hate when your shoelaces come untied while you’re carrying groceries?” “Yeah, that’s the worst!” And then I go off and design my special never-come-untied laces without
realising that if you actually cared, you would already be using a double-knot. Rule of thumb: If they haven't looked for ways of solving it already, they're not going to look for
(or buy) yours. "Would you pay X for a product which did Y?" Bad question. The fact that you’ve added a number doesn’t help. This is bad for the same reasons as the others: people
are overly optimistic about what they would do and want to make you happy. Plus, it’s about your idea instead of their life. Let’s fix it: As always, ask about what they currently
do now, not what they believe they might do in the future. Common wisdom is that you price your product in terms of value to the customer rather than cost to you. That's true. And
you can't quantify the value received without prodding their financial worldview. Another way to fix it, if you’re far enough along, is to literally ask for money. If you have the
deposit or pre-order in hand, you know they were telling the truth. "How are you dealing with it now?" Good question. Beyond workflow information, this gives you a price anchor. If
they’re paying £100/month for a duct-tape workaround, you know which ballpark you're playing in. On the other hand, they may have spent £120,000 this year on agency fees to
maintain a site you're replacing. If that's the case, you don't want to be having the £100 conversation. Sometimes, both of the above will be happening simultaneously and you get
to choose how you present yourself. Do you want to be a replacement for the web app at a yearly value of £1.2k or for the agency at 100x that? Rule of thumb: While it’s rare for
someone to tell you precisely what they’ll pay you, they’ll often show you what it’s worth to them. "Where does the money come from?" Good question. This isn't something you would
necessarily ask a consumer (though you might), but in a B2B context it’s a must-ask. It leads to a conversation about whose budget the purchase will come from and who else within
their company holds the power to torpedo the deal. Often, you'll find yourself talking to someone other than the budget owner. Your future pitches will hit unseen snags unless you
learn who else matters and what they care about. This knowledge of their purchasing process will eventually turn into a repeatable sales roadmap. "Who else should I talk to?" Good
question. Yes! End every conversation like this. Lining up the first few conversations can be challenging, but if you’re onto something interesting and treating people well, your
leads will quickly multiply via intros. If someone doesn’t want to make intros, that’s cool too. Just leave them be. You’ve learned that you’re either screwing up the meeting
(probably by being too formal, pitchy, or clingy) or they don’t actually care about the problem you’re solving. Take anything nice they say with an extra grain of salt. "Is there
anything else I should have asked?" Good question. Usually, by the end of the meeting, people understand what you’re trying to do. Since you don’t know the industry, they’ll often
be sitting there quietly while you completely miss the most important point. Asking this question gives them a chance to politely “fix” your line of questioning. And they will!
This question is a bit of a crutch: you’ll discard it as you get better at asking good questions and as you get to know the industry. Rule of thumb: People want to help you, but
will rarely do so unless you give them an excuse to do so. Using the mom test You’ll notice that none of the good questions were about asking what you should build. One of the
recurring “criticisms” about talking to customers is that you’re abdicating your creative vision and building your product by committee. Given that people don’t know what they
want, that wouldn’t be a terribly effective approach. Deciding what to build is your job. The questions to ask are about your customers’ lives: their problems, cares, constraints,
and goals. You humbly and honestly gather as much information about them as you can and then take your own visionary leap to a solution. Once you’ve taken the leap, you confirm
that it’s correct (and refine it) through Commitment & Advancement, which we’ll look at in Chapter 5. It boils down to this: you aren’t allowed to tell them what their problem is,
and in return, they aren’t allowed to tell you what to build. They own the problem, you own the solution. Before we move look at ways to confirm that you’re building the right
product to fit your customers’ lives, we’re going to look at fixing some of the ways conversations go wrong. CHAPTER TWO Avoiding bad data They say that to bankrupt a fool, give
him information. Practically everyone I’ve seen talk to customers (including myself) has been giving themselves bad information. You probably are too. Bad data gives us false
negatives (thinking the idea is dead when it’s not) and—more dangerously—false positives (convincing yourself you’re right when you’re not). There are three types of bad data:
Compliments Fluff (generics, hypotheticals, and the future) Ideas Sometimes we invite the bad data ourselves by asking the wrong questions, but even when you try to follow The Mom
Test, conversations still go off track. It could happen because you got excited and started pitching, because you had to talk about your idea to explain the reason for the meeting,
or because the conversation is just stuck in hypothetical la-la-land. These things happen. Once you start to notice, it’s easy to get back on track by deflecting compliments,
anchoring fluff, and digging beneath ideas. Deflect compliments Most of your meetings will end with a compliment. It feels good. They said they liked it! Unfortunately, they’re
almost certainly lying. Not necessarily intentionally. They might want to be supportive or to protect your feelings. Or your excitement might be rubbing off on them. Even if they
really do like it, that data is still worthless. For example, venture capitalists (professional judges of the future) are wrong far more than right. If even a VC's opinion is
probably wrong, what weight could that of some random guy's possibly have? With the exception of industry experts who have built very similar businesses, opinions are worthless.
You want facts and commitments, not compliments. The best way to escape the misinformation of compliments is to avoid them completely by not mentioning your idea. If they happen
anyway, you need to deflect the compliment and get on with the business of gathering facts and commitments. Before we look at how to properly deflect compliments, here's what
happens when you take them at face value: A bad conversation: You: “…And that’s it. It’s like X for Y, but better because of Z.” Bam! Totally nailed that pitch. Them: “That’s cool.
Love it.” How is this relevant to me? (Compliment) You: “It’s going to totally change the way you work. We’re predicting cost savings of 35%.” I am so great. Them: “Sounds
terrific. Keep me in the loop.” I can’t believe I keep agreeing to these startup pitches. (Compliment + stalling tactic) You: “Awesome, thanks.” I’m just like Steve Jobs. Except
more handsome. You: (Back at the office) “That meeting went really well. They said they loved it! In fact, everybody loves it. I really think we’ve finally found our big idea.
We’ve found something people want.” It’s margarita time! Your Team: (6 months later) “Why do we have zero customers? I thought you said everybody loved it?” Wasn’t this your job?
You: “I don’t know, I talked to like a thousand people. I must have missed one of their buying criteria. Don’t worry, I’ll go talk to them some more and we’ll get it next time.”
Doooooomed. Let’s try that again while properly deflecting the confounding compliments: A good conversation: You: “…And that’s it. It’s like X for Y, but better because of Z.”
Rats, I just slipped into pitch mode. Let’s try to recover this and learn something. Them: “That’s really cool. I love it.” How is this even relevant to me? (Compliment) You:
“Whoops — really sorry about that — I got excited and started pitching. Listen: you guys seem to be doing a good job in this space — do you mind if I ask how you’re dealing with
this stuff at the moment?” That compliment made me suspicious. Let's deflect it and find out whether they're a potential customer or are just trying to get rid of me. Them: “What?
Oh, well, sure. We’ve got a couple people who manage the process just to make sure we’re all in sync, and then we use Excel and a lot of emails to keep it all moving. Anyway, I
really like your idea. I’m sure it will do well.” If you want facts, here they are, but your idea still isn’t a good fit for me and there’s no way I’m going to express an interest
in buying (notice the sneaky compliment at the end). You: “I haven’t heard of anyone solving it quite like that — that’s interesting. Can you talk me through how it actually all
fits together?” Let's ignore & deflect that compliment to focus on the fact that they’re spending a lot of money to solve this. Two full time staff!? I didn’t know it was worth
this much. Them: (More delicious workflow data) You: “What sort of difficulties have come up with that solution?” This is a bit generic and isn’t the world’s greatest question, but
I’m trying to find an anchor to learn about workflow inefficiencies and bumps. When I find one, I’ll dig around that signal with more follow-ups. Them: (Even more workflow and
alternate solution data) If we’re early in the learning process, the meeting could end here quite happily. We have the learning we came for. If we were slightly later-stage and
already had a product, we might continue by zooming in and pushing for commitments or sales. Remember though: you don’t need to end up with what you wanted to hear in order to have
a good conversation. You just need to get to the truth. Here’s a good conversation with a solid negative result. A good (negative) conversation: Them: “That’s really cool. I love
it.” Compliment. You: “How are you dealing with this stuff at the moment?” Deflect that compliment and get to the real facts. Them: “Oh, it’s really not that big of a deal for us.
We kind of just ignore it.” The implications of the problem are non-existent so I’m not in the market for a solution. You can always be happy with a conversation like the above.
You saw through the false compliment and found the facts behind the mirage. If the conversation is going well, I’d try to have them talk me through their process anyway so I can
try to figure out whether it’s an industry wide non-problem or something specific to their particular situation. Did you notice that in the conversations above, practically every
response contains a sneaky compliment? They are pervasive, constantly trying to trick us into thinking the conversation “went well”. Ignoring compliments should be easy, but it’s
not. We so desperately want to hear them that we are often tricked into registering them as positive data points instead of vacuous fibs. Sometimes it’s easier to spot the symptoms
than to notice the original compliment. Symptoms (in the meeting): “Thanks!” “I’m glad you like it.” Symptoms (back at the office): “That meeting went really well.” “We’re getting
a lot of positive feedback.” “Everybody I’ve talked to loves the idea.” All of these are warning signs. If you catch yourself or your teammates saying something like this, try to
get specific. Why did that person like the idea? How much money would it save him? How would it fit into his life? What else has he tried which failed to solve his problem? If you
don’t know, then you’ve got a compliment instead of real data. Rule of thumb: Compliments are the fool’s gold of customer learning: shiny, distracting, and entirely worthless.
Anchor fluff Fluff comes in 3 cuddly shapes: Generic claims (“I usually”, "I always", "I never") Future-tense promises (“I would”, "I will") Hypothetical maybes ("I might", "I
could") When someone starts talking about what they “always” or “usually” or “never” or “would” do, they are giving you generic and hypothetical fluff. Follow The Mom Test and
bring them back to specifics in the past. Ask when it last happened, for them to talk you through it, how they solved it, and what else they tried. The world’s most deadly fluff
is: “I would definitely buy that.” It just sounds so concrete. As a founder, you desperately want to believe it’s money in the bank. But folks are wildly optimistic about what they
would do in the future. They’re always more positive, excited, and willing to pay in the imagined future than they are once it arrives. The first startup I worked at fell for the
“I would definitely buy that” trap and subsequently lost about 10 million bucks. They mistook fluffy future promises and excited compliments for commitment, wrongly believed they
had proven themselves right, and wildly over-invested. The worst type of fluff-inducing question is, “Would you ever?” Of course they might. Someday. That doesn't mean they will.
Fluff-inducing questions include: “Do you ever…” “Would you ever…” “What do you usually…” “Do you think you…” “Might you…” “Could you see yourself…” You don’t need to avoid these
questions 100% of the time. They aren’t exactly toxic. It’s just that the responses are useless. The mistake is in valuing the answers, not asking the questions. In fact, sometimes
these questions can even help you transition into more concrete questioning. Transitioning from a fluffy question to a concrete one: You: “Do you ever X?” A fluff-inducing
question. Them: “Oh yeah, all the time.” A fluffy answer which has no value in itself, but which we can anchor from. You: “When’s the last time that happened?” We use the Mom Test
and ask for concrete examples in the past. Them: “Two weekends ago.” We’ve successfully anchored the fluff and are ready to get real facts now instead of generics and
hypotheticals. You: “Can you talk me through that?” Back to asking good questions. To use a more tangible example, let’s say you’re designing some sort of inbox management tool: A
good conversation, anchoring generic fluff: Them: “I’m an ‘Inbox 0’ zealot. It’s totally changed my life.” A generic (e.g. fluffy) claim. You: “Haha, nice. I’m an ‘Inbox 0’
failure. What’s your inbox at right now?” Let’s get specific to see if this fluff holds up. Them: “Looks like about ten that have come in since this morning.” Facts! You: “Okay
wow, so you are on top of things. I have like 200 right now. When’s the last time it totally fell apart for you?” He’s still claiming to be on top of his email, so I’m going to
look for concrete examples where he wasn’t. Them: “Ug, 3 weeks ago. I was travelling and the internet at the hotel totally didn’t work. It took me like 10 days to get back on
track.” You: “Can you talk me through how you handled it?” Successfully anchored — now we’re talking about what actually happens instead of what “usually” happens. In this case, we
took the generic claim, “My inbox is always under control” and added the important caveat: “Except when it’s not, in which case it’s a total nightmare to recover from.” While using
generics, people describe themselves as who they want to be, not who they actually are. You need to get specific to bring out the edge cases. Let’s say you’re building a mobile
loyalty app to help stores give deals and discounts to their most loyal customers and you hear the guy in line in front of you complaining: A bad conversation (pitching and
accepting fluff): Them: “Which idiot decided it was a good idea to make me carry around a thousand cafe loyalty cards?” You: “Whoa! Hey! I’m building a mobile app to help stores
give out discounts to their most loyal customers so you’d never need to carry paper cards again. Do you think you would use something like that?” This is pretty much as bad of a
question as you can find. You’ve revealed your ego and asked a “would you ever” question. You’re begging for a false positive. Them: “Heck yes, it's about time! I would definitely
use that.” Fluffy hypothetical future promise! By switching into pitch mode, we just wasted a perfectly good opportunity for learning and instead got a fistful of fluff. Let’s try
