Skip to main content [Guide] [Long] Beginner’s guide to style and a new wardrobe : r/malefashionadvice r/malefashionadvice Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to Navigation Skip
to Right Sidebar Back r/malefashionadvice icon Go to malefashionadvice r/malefashionadvice • 9y ago [deleted] [Guide] [Long] Beginner’s guide to style and a new wardrobe This guide
is meant for someone who’s only just gotten interested in dressing better or finding a new style and wardrobe. It’ll be quite a long read, but the steps themselves should be easy
enough to follow. It also relies on existing guides and other resources of MFA. Tl;dr: look at the subsection titles, bolded texts and click some links. As a slow reader, it should
take you roughly 15 minutes to read this entire thing. Most of this is just my opinion, feel free to do it your own way. I hope it helps you somehow. Keep this in mind • Dress in a
way you like. It’s important to feel confident in your outfit. • Dressing up, like wearing a suit, does not equal dressing well. Dress properly for the occasion! • Regardless of
what you like, the way clothes fit is very important. From a simple t-shirt to a full suit, if it doesn't fit you well it won't look good. Helpful links Look at the sidebar, it has
many more links to useful resources. • Item-specific guides • Collection of guides on styles, shopping and clothing/personal care • Ask questions in the ‘Simple Questions’ thread •
Get feedback on your outfit in the ‘Outfit Feedback’ thread 1. Finding your style First off, if you’ve never been interested in fashion before, it’s time to get acquainted with the
styles that are out there. Take a look at r/malefashionadvice’s many inspiration albums, MFA’s WAYWT, Instagram, Pinterest, style Youtubers, magazines, dressed mannequins in
stores, people on the street, etc. Save images of outfits that you like, write down what you like about the outfits. Is it the colours? The fits? The clothes themselves? The
materials? A pattern? Beyond finding inspiration, you can use them as a reference for combining clothes, what colour combinations work and how things should fit. One tip is to also
find images with people that roughly have a similar body type to your own so you know what things’d look like on you. Recommended beginner albums These are links to the original
topics which link to the albums. • “The Basic Bastard” – basic album, also called the MFA uniform. It’s simple with colour combinations you can’t go wrong with. It’s a good basis
from which you can expand if you want. I recommend this if you just want to dress better but don't want to delve too deep into all sorts of styles. • Business Casual wardrobe.
Note: business casual tends to vary in regions and businesses and can be either to the more casual or more formal side. Typically, you should be fine with tucked-in button-up
shirts, wool trousers / chinos / slacks (not jeans!), and brown or black leather shoes with a matching belt. • Large Guy inspiration album and more formal wear for larger men.
Other popular styles • Collection of Streetwear inspiration albums. (Warning: inspiration overload) • Scandinavian minimalism. • Collection of Americana / Workwear / preppy-ish. •
Saint Laurent Paris (SLP) look. Help I don't understand some of these outfits!: That's alright, tastes differ. You don't have to like or understand every outfit. Fashion can have
different meanings for people, for some it's an expression of who they are, or an artistic medium, or just a cool looking outfit. Best to focus on finding outfits and styles you do
like and which would work for you. 2. The right fit Fit is important. Clothes should flatter your body; too baggy or too tight around you can make an outfit look bad, regardless of
the quality of the clothes. It takes some practice, reading and time, but everyone can learn to see if something fits. Try to remember what clothes should fit like while shopping.
You can take your phone with you so you can look at example photos or the fit guide linked below. If you're not yet sure about the fit, you can take frontal and back body-length
photos in the mirror and ask for advice/feedback in the recurring outfit feedback threads. Tip: get yourself measured. You only need a tape measure. You can do it yourself or have
a friend or tailor do it. If you know your measurements, it will be easier to shop online using size charts or exact measurements from retailers and second-hand sellers. Tailors
can help you with small adjustments to your clothes to make them fit better, like hemming (shortening) shirts and trousers/denim, tapering trousers/denim (making them tighter from
the knee down), or taking in shirts and other tops to slim them down and make them less billowy. Guides • How clothes should fit guide (also available as a booklet). This is based
on Shujin's comprehensive fit guide. • T-shirt guide (you can skip to the 'fit' section). • Shorts guide/infographic 3a. Buying clothes Take it slow. Buying an entirely new
wardrobe is a daunting task. It's also something that you should avoid doing in one go. Take it easy at the start. It can take months to even years to complete a wardrobe you're
happy with in terms of both the items in it, and the quality of your clothes. You don't have to buy something when you visit a clothing store. Trying to buy everything at the same
time can also be exhausting and frustrating, and you may end up with a number of clothes that you won't wear that often. Maybe because they don't fit right, or because they don't
exactly fit your style or what you're going for, and there's a myriad of other reasons. If you want to buy something, try to think of a few ways you can combine it with clothes you
already own so you don't end up with clothes you'll never end up wearing. Tip: try not to match colours, focus on complementary colours instead. Sometimes, I buy something I end up
not really 'feeling', or I feel unsure about a piece in-store. I either return it or end up not buying it because if I don't like or love it there, I'm probably not going to wear
it that often. If you're unsure, leave the tag on so you can at least return it when you've made a decision. In the beginning, you may feel this way a lot if you're still unsure
about fits or combinations, so you can ask for feedback in the outfit feedback threads. Start with basic items. Basic items are the foundation of your wardrobe. They are simple
items in versatile colours like plain white or grey t-shirts or some plain trousers or denim. I'd personally avoid neon colours like bright red and green and instead go with
pastels if I wanted some colours. Avoid gaudy branding. You can combine these basics with pretty much anything regardless of your style. Make sure these basics fit well. Get
clothes that you need (if applicable). Think of clothes for work for example. Or maybe you're just running out of underwear every week. If your workplace has a specific dress code,
you should buy some clothes for that even if they don't fit your style so you can keep bringing in the $$$. Having at least one business-casual outfit is also useful for job
applications (though you might need a suit), fancier dates, events etc. You may want to consider a suit. This depends on your environment, it's possible you live somewhere where no
one ever wears a suit and then it might be too much. While a suit is a bit pricey, you may be at an age where you'll have to attend weddings, funerals, job applications in certain
industries or other events that need a suit. At very short notice, a suit may be hard to find, so then it's good to have one on hand. If you don't have the budget for that,
consider rentals or second-hand suits. Get clothes that fit your style. Slowly start buying pieces that fit the specific style you like, like specific kinds of jackets, shoes or
boots, a longline tee, anything that helps you achieve the look you want. Use the inspiration you got earlier. This will be very personal and different for everyone. Again, try to
keep in mind IF and HOW you can combine certain things. If you're not sure about a style yet, you could 'try out' the style with pieces from cheaper retailers instead of diving
head-first into high-end brands. A downside of this is that it's sometimes very hard to find the unique cuts and materials that higher-end brands offer and which may be important
for a style. Guides • Building a basic wardrobe. • Visual guide to quick & easy colour combinations. 3b. Actually buying clothes You can try on clothing in-store and buy, or just
order online. Knowing your measurements is really helpful so you can compare with size charts or clothing measurements. If you're buying from fast-fashion retailers, I suggest you
always try on clothes: lacking quality control and the use of different factories may result in differences in sizes and fit, even if you're buying the same thing in the same size.
The more specific your style gets or the more interested in specific items (for example, raw denim) you become, the more you'll have to look for specific brands and retailers that
suit your needs. Here are some pretty arbitrarily sorted suggestions to start your shopping. Not all are great quality, but I wanted to give any budget an option. My own opinion:
Uniqlo for basics, H&M and Zara for trends and trying out new styles. Move on to higher-end brands specific to your style after. Shops • $: JCPenney, Target, local thrift stores,
second-hand from Grailed and eBay. • $$: asos, Banana Republic Factory, GAP, H&M, Nordstrom Rack, J. Crew Factory, Uniqlo, Weekday, Zara • $$$: Abercrombie & Fitch, Banana
Republic, Bonobos, COS, J.Crew • $$$$: Brooks Brothers, END Clothing, Farfetch, Neiman Marcus, Nordstrom, Saks Fifth Avenue • $$$$$Time to empty your bank account$$$$$: Mr. Porter,
SSENSE Recommended link • Item-specific guides. If you're looking for information on specific clothes like suits, sneakers/trainers, dress shoes, hats or anything else, I highly
recommend looking at this page to see if there's already a guide. Usually, the writer of the guide recommends brands for various budgets as well. Guides to shopping for bargains
and deals • Sub to r/frugalmalefashion for deals and sales. • Beginner's Guide to Buying Expensive Clothes for Less. • eBay bargains guide. • Thrifting guide 1 and Thrifting guide
2. 4. Tl;dr Look at inspo albums, pictures and stuff for some inspiration. Learn how things should fit. Don't buy your entire wardrobe at once, take it slow, start with basics as a
foundation, then move on to non-basic style pieces and think of outfits/combinations when buying non-basic clothing. Click and read linked guides and info, check the sidebar.
Thanks for reading haha yeah ^right 385 · 16 Comments Section u/erinhayth avatar erinhayth • 9y ago Great guide Only constructive criticism I would offer is the dollar-sign
ranking. There's a huge difference between Abercrombie & Fitch and Nordstrom/Brooks Brothers in terms of price. IMO, $$$ should be A&F, J. Crew, BR, etc.; $$$$ should be Brooks
Brothers, Nordstrom, Gitman Bros., Neiman Marcus, etc.; and $$$$$ is everything up Then again, you mentioned that it's all arbitrary, anyway 18 [deleted] OP • 9y ago Tweaked it a
little, thanks. I had something like low/med/high budgets first but didn't like it. 5 palewavee • 9y ago This is a good summary. Nice job dude. 4 u/ItsReallyMeSid avatar
ItsReallyMeSid • 9y ago Man I need to lose more weight to wear any of these 4 [deleted] • 9y ago S+ guide man, thanks for everything you do here. 3 [deleted] • 9y ago Excellent. 5
[deleted] • 9y ago Movies kind friendly weekend to jumps patient careful the month dot. 2 u/mastersnake44 avatar mastersnake44 • 9y ago Wish I had taken it slower in the beginning
like you suggested, since initially I ended up with so many pieces I ended up donating or selling. Although that also gave me plenty of opportunities to experiment and fail and
learn, so I guess it's kind of a double-edged sword. 2 Doogiesham • 9y ago Where would I look for something like the brown sweater/jacket in the fourth image of this
https://imgur.com/a/ASzAI? I love it 1 u/coconutgrape avatar coconutgrape • 9y ago Fairly certain that is a J Crew shawl cardigan from FW 16 1 Creccio • 9y ago I need this lol 1
[deleted] OP • 9y ago Good luck on your fashion journey! 1 Creccio • 9y ago It's going to take a while! I don't have much money so buying pieces one by one is going to have to do
it for me, hopefully i don't take too long to get an OK wardrobe. My fashion sense is nonexistant so hopefully this will help 1 2 more replies u/nsh2017 avatar nsh2017 • 9y ago
Great summary 1 Related Answers Section Related Answers Beginner's guide to men's style and wardrobe Essential wardrobe items for men Different styles for men Tips for dressing
classy as a man Best brands for affordable men's fashion New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number
By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. More posts you may like Men fashion guide r/IndianFashionAddicts icon
r/IndianFashionAddicts • 8mo ago Men fashion guide 209 upvotes · 36 comments Fashion advice 2026 for beginners r/mensfashion icon r/mensfashion • 18d ago Fashion advice 2026 for
beginners r/mensfashion - Fashion advice 2026 for beginners 7 upvotes · 10 comments IWTL how to dress well (male) r/IWantToLearn icon r/IWantToLearn • 5y ago IWTL how to dress well
(male) 412 upvotes · 60 comments Men’s fashion r/TikTokCringe icon r/TikTokCringe • 3y ago Men’s fashion r/TikTokCringe - Men’s fashion 4.2K upvotes · 508 comments Style-Guides,
suggestions on client wardrobe etc. r/photography icon r/photography • 1y ago Style-Guides, suggestions on client wardrobe etc. 4 upvotes · 4 comments Thoughts? r/mensfashion icon
r/mensfashion • 8d ago Thoughts? r/mensfashion - Thoughts? 4 2.9K upvotes · 943 comments Spring/Summer - A Comprehensive Wardrobe Guide, v3.0 r/malefashionadvice icon
r/malefashionadvice • 9y ago Spring/Summer - A Comprehensive Wardrobe Guide, v3.0 1.9K upvotes · 269 comments Is there an alternative to r/malefashionadvice tailored to younger
men? Because istg this sub is drowning in men in their 40s wearing suits. r/malefashionadvice icon r/malefashionadvice • 6mo ago Is there an alternative to r/malefashionadvice
tailored to younger men? Because istg this sub is drowning in men in their 40s wearing suits. 993 upvotes · 253 comments A rudimentary guide on creating outfits that work
r/malefashionadvice icon r/malefashionadvice • 13y ago A rudimentary guide on creating outfits that work 2K upvotes · 190 comments Post your Favorite Men’s Fashion Brands for Men
in their twenties. I’m (29, M) looking for a new wardrobe since all my clothes are still from my High School era. r/malefashionadvice icon r/malefashionadvice • 1y ago Post your
Favorite Men’s Fashion Brands for Men in their twenties. I’m (29, M) looking for a new wardrobe since all my clothes are still from my High School era. 8 upvotes · 31 comments
Normalise high effort outfits as men ! r/OUTFITS icon r/OUTFITS • 4d ago Normalise high effort outfits as men ! r/OUTFITS - Normalise high effort outfits as men ! 9 2.4K upvotes ·
746 comments Tailoring / Smart Casual Inspo Album r/malefashionadvice icon r/malefashionadvice • 6y ago Tailoring / Smart Casual Inspo Album r/malefashionadvice - Tailoring / Smart
Casual Inspo Album imgur 729 upvotes · 100 comments IWTL how to dress myself better r/IWantToLearn icon r/IWantToLearn • 4y ago IWTL how to dress myself better 307 upvotes · 31
comments Mens fashion brands that are appropriate for each age category r/malefashionadvice icon r/malefashionadvice • 7y ago Mens fashion brands that are appropriate for each age
category r/malefashionadvice - Mens fashion brands that are appropriate for each age category youtube 35 comments What are your men's fashion trends hot take?
r/IndianFashionAddicts icon r/IndianFashionAddicts • 2y ago What are your men's fashion trends hot take? 116 upvotes · 217 comments The mens fashion advice subreddit sucks
r/TrueUnpopularOpinion icon r/TrueUnpopularOpinion • 1y ago The mens fashion advice subreddit sucks 120 upvotes · 32 comments Is dressing well outside rich urban areas completely
pointless? r/malefashionadvice icon r/malefashionadvice • 5d ago Is dressing well outside rich urban areas completely pointless? 1K upvotes · 541 comments In the process of
updating my wardrobe. Could use some advise/critique r/mensfashion icon r/mensfashion • 6mo ago In the process of updating my wardrobe. Could use some advise/critique r/mensfashion
- In the process of updating my wardrobe. Could use some advise/critique 5 119 upvotes · 95 comments Being Well-Dressed Won’t Make You Attractive. Do you agree? r/mensfashion icon
r/mensfashion • 3mo ago Being Well-Dressed Won’t Make You Attractive. Do you agree? r/mensfashion - Being Well-Dressed Won’t Make You Attractive. Do you agree? youtube 5 comments
Best value for men's clothes? r/Frugal • 2y ago Best value for men's clothes? 80 upvotes · 161 comments What is the typical Australian men's fashion like? r/AustralianMFA • 1y ago
What is the typical Australian men's fashion like? 13 upvotes · 38 comments Boyfriend asked me to update his wardrobe, which sounds really fun, but I need some brand guidance based
on his personality and lifestyle. r/malefashionadvice icon r/malefashionadvice • 20d ago Boyfriend asked me to update his wardrobe, which sounds really fun, but I need some brand
guidance based on his personality and lifestyle. 123 upvotes · 128 comments What Frustrates You About Men’s Fashion? r/malefashionadvice icon r/malefashionadvice • 1y ago What
Frustrates You About Men’s Fashion? 298 upvotes · 529 comments Male Fashion Advice r/IndianFashionAddicts icon r/IndianFashionAddicts • 3y ago Male Fashion Advice 5 upvotes · 8
comments What are your "10 Commandments" of entry-level Male Fashion? r/malefashionadvice icon r/malefashionadvice • 1y ago What are your "10 Commandments" of entry-level Male
Fashion? 354 upvotes · 298 comments VIEW POST IN हिन्दी Français Português (Brasil) Русский Community Info Section r/malefashionadvice Join /r/malefashionadvice Reddit's largest
men's fashion community. Making clothing less intimidating and helping you develop your own style. We welcome those who want to learn and those who want to contribute. We aim to
foster an environment where everybody feels safe and welcomed and where people feel encouraged to have healthy and productive discussions. Note this sub focuses on clothing not
hair style, skincare, etc. Show more Public TOP POSTS Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 28, 2017 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 2017 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2017 Reddit
Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Home Popular Explore RESOURCES About Reddit
Advertise Developer Platform Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility
Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. FINAL SEASON: Virtual Styling ending May 2026 - Limited spots → APPLY NOW SKIP TO CONTENT The Essential Man ABOUT STYLING SERVICES CLIENT
TRANSFORMATIONS THE BLOG APPLY FOR STYLING A Beginner's Guide: 16 Essential Style Tips For Guys Who Want to Dress Better Style Masterclass Written By Peter Nguyen “I’m just not
naturally stylish.” Does that sound familiar? Here's the truth. Dressing well is a skill. And like any other skill, you can learn it and improve. Don’t believe me? Yes, this is
actually me in high school The horror Yes, that's me in high school rocking a terrible ponytail, along with glasses that were way too small for my head. And to flesh out the image,
my daily outfit in high school consisted of: Plaid button up shirts Baggy jeans with ripped hems because they were too long and I kept stepping on them Clunky Rockabilly shoes I
found at the mall It wasn’t until college did I start paying attention to my style in a serious way. And if that kid above could learn, so can you. In fact, you have a huge
advantage as an Essential Man reader. I didn't have a real resource, and had to go through years of trial and error before I’ve truly learned what great style was. Today I’m
sharing with you essential style tips for guys who want to dress better. Whether you're a complete beginner, or have been working on your style for a while and need a refresher,
I've refined these concepts and tips over the last 11 years to help you look your best in no time. Heads up! I put together a special beginner's bonus for this postto help you
kickstart your new style in less than 10 mins! Download my "How Clothes Should Fit You" Cheatsheets. You'll learn "clothing fit" hacks that'll help you find clothes that fit, cut
your shopping time in half, and make you look really fucking good - even if you have a "weird" body type. You can learn these simple tricks in 10 minutes. And best of all, it's
free! Just enter your info below and I'll send it to you! ⬇️ SEND THE BONUS 1. Realize that dressing well is a skill Just like cooking or shooting free throws, dressing well is a
skill that can actually be learned. My job as a personal stylist isn’t to buy clothes for guys and send them on their way. I teach men how to choose clothes that enhance them so
they can do it on their own. If dressing well wasn’t a skill that could be taught, I’d be out of a job! With all skills, you get better the more you practice. And unless you live
in some weirdo nudist colony (I would apologize here, but if you're a nudist reading this blog, you're in the wrong place), you need to get dressed everyday. That means you have an
opportunity to practice and nurture the skill of dressing well every single day. WHAT YOU CAN DO TODAY: Nobody is born in a perfectly tailored 3-piece suit, or with some magical
intuition on how to dress well. (If you need a reminder, scroll back up and look at my high school picture again.) Realize that dressing well is a skill that can be developed
through practice. 2. Develop your “eye” by identifying styles you like Right after guys tell me that they’re just not “naturally stylish”, it's often followed up with: “I just
don’t have an eye for putting together outfits or knowing what looks good” Here’s what I tell them: “Ok. Is there anyone who’s style you think looks good? Something you think ‘I’d
like to dress like that’, even if you don’t think you could pull it off. Maybe it’s a celebrity, a musician, an athlete? Even a fictional character. Some of my clients have
mentioned James Bond or Tony Stark before.” The guy will then list off a ton of men he thinks dresses cool. And then I like to point out that he just debunked his own assumption
that he doesn’t have an "eye". He just showed me he can see and recognize great style! Now, he might not know the why yet, and that's often the reason why guys tell me they don't
have an eye. Understanding why is learnable. But whenever you're working on a goal, it's important to identify and challenge stories you tell yourself. Whether it's that you don't
have an eye for style, you're too busy to work out, or you're just a shy person. The stories we tell ourselves are often invisible barriers to keep us in our comfort zone. WHAT YOU
CAN DO TODAY: Take 5 minutes. List out 3 or more guys who style you think looks great and that is in the direction you’d like to go. Even if you don’t think you can pull it off,
list it. It could be someone you know, a celebrity, or even a fictional character from a movie. 3. You can solve 90% of your style problems by dialing in your fit “F*@K Ryan
Gosling!” This is something an actual client said to me once after seeing the picture of Ryan Gosling above. “How the hell does he look so cool wearing just a t-shirt and jeans?”
The answer, my friend, is fit. Fit is the most important thing when it comes to great style. It’s so important, in fact, that I tell every one of my clients "wearing clothes that
fit properly will solve 90% of your style problems." When clothes don’t fit properly, they throw off your body proportions. Because of the excess fabric, clothes that are too big
make you not only look sloppy, but fatter and shorter than you are. Men have the tendency to wear clothes that are too big for them because it either “feels more comfortable”, or
they just don’t know how clothes are supposed to fit in the first place. The right fit is how someone like Ryan Gosling (or me, or you) can look effortlessly stylish rocking a
plain white t-shirt and jeans, and how someone can look terrible in a “nice suit” that probably cost 20x more. This also means if you think you need a suit in order to look
stylish, you don’t! If you’re more leather jacket and jeans like me, you can be leather jacket and jeans and look great, as long as you're wearing clothes that fit right. WHAT YOU
CAN DO TODAY: "How Clothes Should Fit You" Cheatsheets which shows you my trick to mastering the perfect fit for your shirts and pants in 10 minutes. 4. Surround yourself with
stylish people (even if it’s online) When making any change in your life, especially something that’s physical like your style, the biggest roadblock is going to be the most
surprising. When it comes to the people around you now, your friends and family, your girlfriend, your coworkers, there is a high likelihood that they won’t all have a positive
reaction to your change. If you want to work with me one on one as a client, you have to agree to work with me solo. That means your girlfriend or wife is not allowed to sit in to
any of our sessions or shopping trips. I created this rule after working with a client whose wife insisted she sit in in our styling sessions. She would give me feedback on every
single piece of advice I'd give. Her notes and comments amounted to “He doesn’t like that, he prefers to wear this.” Essentially negating any advice I would give. She was enabling
his bad style. After a couple of weeks, I promptly refunded his money and created this rule. Change is uncomfortable for people. It makes them face the reality that someone is
working hard to improve, and it challenges what they’re doing for themselves. One of my favorite quotes of all time is “You are the average of 5 people around you.” Who we surround
ourselves with has an extremely important impact on our actions, behaviors, and mindsets. This is why wealthy successful businessmen tend to be friends with each other. It's why
fit attractive Crossfitters are surrounded by fit attractive Crossfitters in Instagram pics. And it's why obese parents are more likely to have obese kids. When it comes to your
style, that’s exactly what you need if you want to improve. You need to surround yourself with people with the same goals as you. WHAT YOU CAN DO TODAY: The simplest change you can
make is to start following stylish people on places like Instagram. It’ll give you a double whammy: It’ll expose you to great style and give you some inspiration, but it’ll also
create an environment where dressing well is “normal”. Need some stylish Instagram recommendations? Check out this post I wrote about my favorite stylish Instagrams here. 5. Don’t
worry about building a unique personal style (yet) Steve McQueen, Classic style, timeless cool A mistake people make when trying to improve their style is thinking they need to
create an original, 100% unique personal style. This is a classic example of what’s called “Extreme thinking”. Want to lose 20lbs? “Ugh. I have to give up bread, rice, beer,
alcohol, candy, meat AND have to do some crazy crossfit workout, and spend 2 hours at the gym. Forget it” Want to save money for a vacation? “That means I have to cancel my Netflix
account, stop going out on weekends, defer my student loans. I probably had to miss some credit card payments if I ever want to have fun. That’s going to ruin my credit. I’m never
gonna be able to relax on vacation now.” When you’re starting to improve your style, think of it like how chefs learn to cook: They don’t go into the kitchen thinking they need to
create some amazing and original dish never seen before. They learn the classic recipes and techniques first. Then they start adding bits and pieces of their personality and
interests in to put a spin on them. You’re going to do the exact same thing with your style. Focus on classic styles first, then slowly add your own personal spin later. WHAT YOU
CAN DO TODAY: I write about classic styles in my “Essentials” series, you can see all the Essentials I’ve written about so far by clicking here. 6. Shop for classic styles before
trying to incorporate trends classicsvstrends Tell me if this sounds familiar: You open your closet. It’s filled with clothes. You sift through all the hangers squeezed into your
cramped closet and think to yourself “I have nothing to wear.” So you go to the mall and buy even more clothes. Then a month later, the same thing happens. You have "nothing" to
wear. You’re not going crazy. This is what I call “Panic mode shopping”. You open your closet and freak out because things are outdated, they're hard to mix, and there are so many
choices. So you go out and buy more clothes and add to the problem. It’s a vicious cycle. And one of the biggest reasons for this problem is trendy clothes. Trendy translates to
what's cool now. It’s what all the blogs and magazines are talking about. It’s what’s in the stores. And because it’s new and fresh, it’s a little exciting. But the big problem
with any trend is that it eventually dies down. Remember how leather sweatpants were really popular a couple years ago? And what about double monk shoes before that? Or if you’re
old like me, trucker hats? Trendy clothes are like that big Summer blockbuster that you can't escape. The actors are on every talk show. Commercials are playing non-stop. Posters
are everywhere. But, come Fall, we've moved on. Classics styles are like classic movies. The Godfather. Back to the Future. Taxi Driver. They're not going anywhere. That's the
advantage of classic styles of clothes. They’re time tested to look good. A leather jacket, dark blue jeans, boots? Looked great in the 1950s, still looks good today. WHAT YOU CAN
DO TODAY: Start shifting your shopping habits to look for and buy classic styles. What’s the difference between something that’s classic and trendy? How do you balance classics and
trends in your wardrobe? Check out this post I wrote that answers that question. 7. Pull back on graphics, logos, and patterns Many Essential Man readers are older professionals
(30+), and I often get asked “How can I look older/more mature/get taken more seriously?” One of the ways is to stay clear of graphics, logos, and wild prints on any kind of
clothing, whether it’s a t-shirt, sweater, or god forbid, pants. Whenever you wear a logo or graphic t-shirt, you either look like you’re in college, or are you're on your way to a
UFC fight. (Don’t get me wrong, I’m a HUGE MMA fan. But there is a certain style that goes with it.) I’m not opposed to logos and graphic t-shirts as part of a solid wardrobe, but
when you’re starting out, going solid colors is going to make you look 10x more mature and serious. WHAT YOU CAN DO TODAY: Solid colors and graphic/logo-less clothes make you look
more refined and mature. The great thing is that this change is a simple swap. Replace your graphic t-shirts and clothes with solid versions, like with the examples above. 8. Stick
to solid, neutral colors Great examples of outfits using neutral colors Every man’s wardrobe should be based around neutral colors. What are neutral colors? They’re colors that
aren’t overpowering. Because they’re not overpowering they easily mix with each other. Powerful colors like a neon green and orange? Pretty hard to work with. If your wardrobe is
all neutral colors, you don’t need to know “how to mix and match colors”. A neutral color wardrobe is essentially self-working! Here’s the other thing: You’ve probably already been
dressing in mostly neutral colors without even knowing it. Neutral colors are white, black, navy, olive, grey, khaki, brown Standard neutral color palette What I love about neutral
colors, aside from it being self working, is that it’s a very masculine color palette. It makes you look refined, serious, and put together. It also provides the perfect backdrop
when you want to start introducing more color to your wardrobe. WHAT YOU CAN DO TODAY: I recommend a ratio of 3:1 when it comes to solid neutrals and non-neutral colors. Take 10
minutes check your closet. Do you have more non-neutrals, graphics and pattern clothes than solid neutrals? Make a note to start balancing it out to hit a 3:1 ratio. 9. To
understand good quality, get hands on bd1ec093ad6e5b668485d1d3c43b7cf4 copy Why are some cashmere sweaters $100, and other $1,500? Is the $1,500 one really 15x better? Are higher
quality clothes "worth it"? No doubt these questions have crossed your mind. And my answer is... It depends. It's hard to make anything good for a low price. Whether that's a pair
of jeans, a laptop, or a steak dinner at home. When you have a limited budget to work with, there has to be some compromises. There's an assumption that because higher quality or
designer clothes are expensive, "you're getting ripped off" as a customer. You'll sometimes read guys on blogs and forums proclaim you're just "paying for the marketing costs" I
can tell you having worked 11 years as a menswear designer, it's just not really true. Better materials, better construction, and better design cost more to make, so it costs more
for you to buy. A perfect example: Cheap jacket zippers can be low as $0.50 a zipper. They're light, can be frustrating to use and, of course, break easily. A leather jacket I
designed using a high quality RiRi Zipper A leather jacket I designed using a high quality RiRi Zipper When I was making leather jackets, I was using high end RiRi zippers. They're
heftier and nearly impossible to break. When you zip up your jacket, it was buttery smooth. The downside? They can sometimes cost as much as $20 per zipper for me as a designer.
That means by the time the jacket hits you in the stores, that single $20 zipper adds $60 to the price of the jacket thanks to a standard 3x markup. That's not marketing, that's
math. But it's hard for you to grasp how much better that zipper or $1,500 cashmere sweater is without trying it. The same way I can tell you one of the best meals I've ever had
cost $220, per person, no matter how well I describe it, you can't truly understand until you take a bite. WHAT YOU CAN DO TODAY: Go to a store that you would consider out of your
budget. A place that might even be uncomfortably expensive for you. You don't have to buy anything. Just walk around, touch the clothes. Maybe even try something on. Make mental
note of how things fit, feel, and how you feel wearing it. Then go to a fast fashion shop like Zara or H&M and try similar items on. Make note of what's different and what's
similar. Anything surprising? 10. Buy the best quality you can for your budget This leads us to the question, how much should you spend on clothes? Simple: My recommendation to all
my clients is to buy the best quality that fits in their budget. If you're making mid 6-figures a year, then a $200 pair of jeans might not be a big deal. But if $200 is barely
what you make a day, there are plenty of great options at lower prices. WHAT YOU CAN DO TODAY: To start, I always recommend J.Crew. They're in almost every major city, are classic
with a touch of trend, and they have solid prices. For more store recommendations, check out my post "Where I personally shop (and what I get there)" 11. Save time in the dressing
room by using the “Pull 3” shoppting trick Whenever I'm out shopping, I always see people pulling one size, then going back and forth from the showroom to the dressing room. It
drives me crazy! It's such a waste of time. Imagine cooking a meal at home where you took out one ingredient at a time from the fridge. I'm going to show you how to cut your
shopping time in half with one trick. When you're pulling clothes to try on in the dressing room, "Pull 3" of the same item: One in the size you think you are One size up One size
down So if you're shopping for jeans and you think you're a 33, pull a 32 and a 34 and take all three to the dressing room. It saves you a couple trips, and is a bit of insurance
in case it's a new cut or the brand changed their sizing. WHAT YOU CAN DO TODAY: Use the "Pull 3" trick when you're out shopping 12. Use the “Swap Trick” to step out of your
comfort zone White pants can be intimidating, but looks great when done right. There’s no change without stepping outside of your comfort zone. But it doesn’t have to be
terrifying. I teach my clients what I call “The Swap Trick”. It’s a way of introducing something into your wardrobe - a new trendy piece, a new color they thought they could never
wear, or an item of clothing they never considered before - gradually. Here’s how it works. Think of it like trying out hot sauces. You wouldn’t go from a mild hotsauce straight to
a super hot ghost pepper sauce. You would try something slightly hotter than the last and work your way up. It’s the same thing when you’re trying something new with your style.
You probably don't want to jump from a black leather jacket to a neon green one. The next step up would probably be a brown leather jacket. Here's another example: You want to
start wearing more colors and patterns for summer. I’ll start with an easy outfit: linen oxford shirt, navy lounge pants, sunglasses, white sneakers. The color palette,while
perfectly fine, feels a little boring and safe. So let’s swap out the shirt for something a little more colorful. We can go two ways, a brighter color, or a pattern/print. Even
though the choice of a light blue shirt isn’t so crazy, you can already see it feels a lot more colorful than the outfit we started with. With the print, it’s even better and more
in the spirit of summer. But notice how one simple swap can change the entire mood of the outfit! This is really the key to starting to wear more color. You don’t have to wear a
lot to brighten up your look. As a starting recommendation, I always advise to start with just one swap per phase. When you get more comfortable with wearing some color and
patterns, take it a step further. Each time, swap out one more item in your look for something a bit brighter and colorful. The great thing is, if you feel like you went overboard,
you can always pull it back a level or two and still have a great outfit. WHAT YOU CAN DO TODAY: Think about something you wanted to add to your style that you’re nervous about.
How could you break it down and gradually introduce it into your wardrobe using “The Swap Trick”? If you need a specific example on how to use The Swap Trick for something like
trends, check out this post I wrote on Effortless Gent. 13. You don’t have to start with confidence (you make it a habit) Think about when you first started learning how to drive a
car. You were probably terrified. You were pretty sure within the first 10 seconds of hitting the road, you were going to crash. You weren’t confident. Yet, as you kept driving,
your confidence grew. Driving got easier. Now you illegally Snapchat on your phone while sipping your coffee and playing with the radio as you steer with your knee, and still get
work in one piece. It’s the same with your style. You don’t need to start with confidence to improve your style. Your confidence grows as you work to improve your style. Just like
