buying. Having 100 passionate fans of your business who are eager to buy anything you release is exponentially more effective than having 100,000 followers who simply follow your
business to win something like a free iPad. Making money is often easier than earning trust, because money can be lost and won back without judgment, whereas trust is hard to
regain once it's lost. Your word and your company's word have to be a contract with your customers. This is how many companies of one stand out in competitive industries: by simply
doing the work they say they'll do and then honoring social contracts with their customers. Even a big company like Amazon has services built on trust. First it was the promise to
deliver in less than seven days. Then they went to two-day delivery. Now, in some places (not in the woods, or on an island), Amazon delivers []{#chapter010.xhtml_pg158
.pagebreak}on the same day. We buy from Amazon because we trust that our order will be delivered quickly, and that, if we aren't happy, it will be easy to return. So trust happens
first. Only then does the commerce follow. In trust marketing, a group of people trusts you enough to invest their personal attention, email address, or dollars with your company.
This kind of marketing requires that you always keep the promises you make and engage in a consistent dialogue with them. While it may seem counterintuitive to focus your marketing
and trust-building efforts on a small and specific group of people, there are benefits to doing so. The more specific you are with who your products or services are for, the more
you can build trust with that particular audience. The paradox of focusing on a niche is that the more specific you are, the easier it is to sell to that group and the more likely
it is that you can charge a premium for being that focused. With that kind of focus in mind, you can get to know the specifics of your niche better, learn how to serve customers
more effectively, and build a reputation for yourself in that smaller niche. Kurt Elster, instead of spending his time building an audience for general ecommerce consulting
services, focuses entirely on Shopify store owners. (More than 400,000 businesses use Shopify as an ecommerce platform.) By using this niche to build trust in a smaller and more
specific audience, Kurt has grown his revenue eightfold and made a name for himself as an authority in Shopify consulting; he was even featured on Shopify's website. His reputation
for helping Shopify store owners has, in turn, brought him more leads, allowed him to set higher prices for his services, and helped him land speaking gigs around the world. If you
had a Shopify store, whom would you trust with your business --- a general ecommerce consultant or someone like Kurt who focuses only on Shopify? ##### []{#chapter010.xhtml_pg159
.pagebreak}TRUST DOESN'T REQUIRE A BIG BUDGET {#chapter010.xhtml_com0000523 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} By making customer happiness your top priority over new customer acquisition
and then incentivizing customers to share the word about your business, less of your money needs to be spent on promotion. With a company of one, which can be profitable at any
size, such slow but sustainable growth makes sense. You start with the idea of creating a trust-centric business, build products that customers love, make sure they're educated and
happy with what they've purchased from you, and then give them systematic ways to share their success with others. This doesn't require huge billboards, massive ad spends, or paid
acquisitions. In treating trust as a primary factor in running your business, you'll amass an army of loyal fans --- and not just a huge customer base of people who bought from you
and then forgot about you. The truth is, you don't need Super Bowl ads. Instead, as a company of one, you can be more effective by writing guest articles for websites and blogs,
creating incentive programs for existing clients, or appearing in podcasts that cover your industry. Alex Beauchamp, former head of content at Airbnb, said that she never wants any
content she works on to "go viral." She doesn't want to ever be on the hook for making that happen. Moreover, going viral is often what happens with a business that, not
understanding who its intended audience is, tries to appeal to pretty much everyone. If you want a piece of content for your business to generate a billion views, you probably
don't understand the purpose of that content or whom it was really created for. Engagement and connection with your niche are more important and far less costly to generate. Alex,
in her current role as director of content at Edmonds.com, []{#chapter010.xhtml_pg160 .pagebreak}knows that trust is more important than virality when it comes to content. As an
objective third-party review website for cars, Edmonds.com can't appear partial to any one car brand by taking ads or sponsored content. That would immediately ruin trust with its
specific audience. So instead, Alex and her team create impartial reviews, based on the merits of each vehicle, that are intended for the specific audience of engaged car-buyers.
She says that the best platform is the one you've already got --- by catering to people who are already listening and focusing on them, you can draw in others as well. As noted
earlier, education is a better and cheaper way to build your customer base. When you teach customers about how products like yours can be used or can benefit their own businesses
or lives, trust is the natural outcome. BoatUS, a company that provides insurance and tows for water vehicles, uses education for customers and noncustomers alike with its mobile
phone app that features water hazard warnings and tide charts --- for free. If your business becomes a source of information, you're giving your customers what they need to make
their own informed decision (even if they decide not to buy from your business). This type of education, like a free resource page on your website or a small but free mobile app,
can be a cost-effective way to promote both your products and customers' trust in them. Jason Fried told me that Basecamp recently flirted with paid acquisition by spending around
\$1 million on social media ads. They quickly stopped because they found that these ads weren't as effective as what they were doing already: creating and sharing educational
content. For instance, in the absence of any acquisition or paid ads, over 4,400 people signed up for their software in one week alone. They decided to focus on a great product,
amazing customer service, and incentivizing existing customers with referral bonuses. Jason said that he would rather give money to []{#chapter010.xhtml_pg161 .pagebreak}his happy
customers to bring in more customers through incentives than buy ads from big businesses like Facebook or Google. It costs them a lot less money as well. There's no reason to
compete with highly expensive ad spends to gain customers; moreover, such campaigns are especially difficult for a company of one, because of the scale that's required and, of
course, the cost. Let me give you a perfect example that is close to home for me. The Pointe Restaurant in Tofino is an award-winning, high-end dining experience (and my favorite
place to eat). They greet you with a glass of champagne, and the waitstaff then gets to know you a bit as they bring you five to seven immaculately prepared courses over several
hours. The chef tends to make an appearance to see how the night is going. When the bill arrives, the maître d' asks if you'd like your car brought around to the front. While the
food obviously backs up the restaurant's top-of-the-line status, the personal touches are what set it apart and make it a luxury brand that people talk about. The personal touches
may not cost much more to implement (for example, hiring waitstaff who make the effort to get to know people), but surprising and delighting customers can go a long way toward
building trust. And with service like this, they can charge a huge premium. Trust in business is more than a matter of adopting an internal slogan or making up a mantra to apply to
products and services when it suits a marketing campaign. Trust has to be totally baked into every aspect of not only what you sell, but how you sell and support it. For a company
of one, even at a tiny scale, maintaining a business worthy of customer trust creates a market differentiator and helps you stand out. Such a business focuses on quality over
speed, compassion over profit, and honesty over tricks. And since, as a customer, you certainly prefer to buy []{#chapter010.xhtml_pg162 .pagebreak}from trusted businesses, why
change that when you're the one doing the selling? ##### BEGIN TO THINK ABOUT: {#chapter010.xhtml_com0000535 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} [■]{.bulletorn} How you embed trust and
honesty as a marketing strategy in your company of one [■]{.bulletorn} The relationships you could foster with your customers to incentivize them to share word of your business
with others [■]{.bulletorn} How to ensure --- whether through email, support, or social media --- that you're always honoring social contracts with your customers
[]{#chapter011.xhtml} ## []{#chapter011.xhtml_pg163 .pagebreak}11 {#chapter011.xhtml_com0000539 .EB04MainHeadClosedNum} ## Launching and Iterating in Tiny Steps
{#chapter011.xhtml_com0000540 .EB04MainHeadClosedTitle} I know I have talked about Ugmonk a couple of times earlier in the book, but it's such a fascinating and inspirational story
of how a company of one got started that I want to return to it one more time and provide some more detail on how it began. A month after Ugmonk founder and creator Jeff Sheldon
graduated from college, in 2008, he married his high school sweetheart and moved to Burlington, Vermont, to start a full-time job at a design agency. He was enamored with minimal
design and typography, but couldn't find clothing that matched this aesthetic. He started with just one idea and four T-shirt designs. But instead of planning a large clothing
company, with factories, warehouses, and supply chains for large retailers, Jeff began with a \$2,000 loan from his father and a plan to be profitable as quickly as possible --- by
outsourcing production to American T-shirt printers. (He carefully selects every manufacturing company he works with for both quality and alignment with his ethics.) Because he
started with just four designs and a tiny run of 200 shirts, after paying back the small loan, Jeff was able to be profitable almost instantly. Only when the first, then the
second, then the third run of his T-shirts quickly sold out did he increase his costs by ordering more inventory. By working to become profitable []{#chapter011.xhtml_pg164
.pagebreak}as quickly as possible in tiny steps and not waiting for tremendous scale to happen, Jeff got a bonus: scale happened anyway. In short, his profits rose because the
increased volume cut his costs. While growing this way wasn't Jeff's initial plan, it served him well by letting him figure out how to make money at a small scale first, then grow
iteratively, based on customer demand. For two years Jeff created clothing and routinely sold it out through Ugmonk and its website while still working in his full-time design job.
He worked nights and weekends building Ugmonk, refining designs, organizing logistics, and packing orders. During those first two years he lived off his salary from the full-time
job and invested all the profits from Ugmonk back into his company of one until there was enough momentum and scale to pay himself and the other people who worked with him. It
wasn't until his first tiny apartment became too crammed full of inventory that he moved to a larger warehouse and fulfillment center. Although Ugmonk was profitable from the
beginning, Jeff has been careful not to scale too quickly. He moves slowly, iterating in small steps, slowly increasing production, the number of products, and what the company
takes on. Like Need/Want from [Chapter 8](#chapter008.xhtml), Ugmonk still sells directly to customers, as it requires less staff and resources. And because Ugmonk has always been
focused on the quality of both its designs and its products, they routinely get free press from design publications and blogs. ##### MINIMUM VIABLE PROFIT
{#chapter011.xhtml_com0000546 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} As a company of one, you need to reach profitability as quickly as possible. Since you're not relying on massive influxes of
cash from investors, every minute you spend getting set up and started is a minute when you aren't making money. So getting your product or service released as soon as possible,
even if it's small, is []{#chapter011.xhtml_pg165 .pagebreak}both financially wise and educational, since a quick release can also serve as a perfect learning experience. The first
version of a product doesn't need to be huge --- it simply needs to solve one problem well and leave your customers feeling better than before they purchased it. In determining
your minimum viable profit --- the point at which your business is operating in the black (we'll call it MVPr from here on in) --- keep in mind that the lower the number, the
quicker you can reach it. So it's important to scale up your timelines and focus on core features only, reduce expenses and overhead, and ensure that your business model works at a
small scale first. The assumption at work here is that your MVPr --- not the number of your customers, not your measured growth, not even your gross revenue --- is the most
important determinant of the sustainability of your company of one. If you make a profit right from the beginning, then you can figure out everything else. If your expenses are
low, profit happens sooner. Decisions should be made with a focus on realized profit, not based on the expectation that profit may happen. This is such a key and main difference in
how growth-focused businesses and companies of one operate. Even when a company of one needs to grow, that can happen only if metrics are based on actual profit, not on hopeful
profit projections. Your MVPr can be low in the beginning, as companies of one typically start with either just one person or a tiny team of two to three people with the abilities
and skills to create what needs creating. These teams get larger only if more people are truly needed and if profits can support them. Profit happens when the business is making
enough money to cover a salary for the owner(s); this is the "minimum" part of MVPr, as a company of one can be a full-time endeavor only when it's making enough to support at
least one person. Viability is when MVPr either continues to support []{#chapter011.xhtml_pg166 .pagebreak}that one person long-term or increases with time. The more viable your
company becomes, the more your profits can truly grow. From there, you can choose to pay yourself more, to focus on scaling systems, to work less and keep paying yourself the same,
to invest in the business further, or to grow based on the increased money coming in. In the end, the choice is yours. Becoming a business that earns revenues predictably and
consistently is a milestone for a company of one. MVPr is achieved with the least investment and in the shortest amount of time possible. Quickly becoming profitable is important
to a company of one because focusing on growth and focusing on profit are nearly impossible to do at the same time. For big companies, traditional growth requires investing in the
future, and that usually means spending money on a sales cycle with the bet that it will pay off at a higher rate ... *sometime in the future.* A focus on growth may require
spending money on sales staff, paid acquisitions, increased support teams, or even a larger technology infrastructure to handle the hoped-for growth. The assumption is that,
eventually, more spending will generate more profit. Focusing on profit down the road doesn't work for a company of one. A company of one begins quite small (one person, no office
required) and spends only when profits allow it. Growth is much slower because it's incremental from zero --- a tiny amount of profit leads to a tiny amount of spending, which
leads to slightly more profit and then slightly more spending, and so on. It's a very gradual process. With companies of one, exponential profit increases aren't a core objective
because just hitting profitability is usually enough. From there, you have choices --- to grow, to stay the same, to take more time off, to scale systems --- as well as the space
to make those choices because your goal isn't to make exponential profit, but simply to bring in profits greater than your expenses. ##### []{#chapter011.xhtml_pg167
.pagebreak}SIMPLICITY SELLS (QUICKLY) {#chapter011.xhtml_com0000555 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} According to entrepreneur and author Dan Norris, you don't learn anything until you
launch. It might sound obvious, but a product is built to solve a specific problem. But as Dan points out, you won't know how well your product solves that problem until people are
actually paying for it and using it. Whether you're selling cars, accounting software, or falafels from a falafel stand, these products exist to fix or address an existing and
pressing problem. You can travel great distances quickly having a vehicle that goes much faster than walking. Keeping track of expenses and sales is important to every business ---
doing it with automated software beats using scrap paper. And falafels? They solve hunger (or guilty pleasure cravings). Every minute you spend as a company of one in the ongoing
development of a new product is a minute you aren't seeing how well it solves a problem, and even worse, you aren't making money from it or building toward your MVPr. That's why
getting a working version of your product released as quickly as possible is important: your company needs to start generating cash flow and obtaining customer feedback. Andrew
Mason founded Groupon as a basic website where he manually typed in deals and created PDFs to email to subscribers from Apple Mail. Pebble, a smartwatch, started with just a single
explainer video and a Kickstarter campaign (no actual product, even) that raised more than \$20 million to fund its development; Pebble was eventually sold to FitBit. Virgin
started as a single Boeing 747 flying between Gatwick, England, and Newark, New Jersey. Once these startups were up and running, they were able to build from customer feedback and
make positive changes. In much the same way, companies of one need to continually []{#chapter011.xhtml_pg168 .pagebreak}iterate on their products to keep them useful, fresh, and
relevant to the market they serve. So, launch your company quickly, but then immediately start to refine your product and make it better. When you launch a first version of a
product, you're guessing at a lot of things --- how it's positioned in its market, how easy or difficult it will be to reach your target audience and get its attention, and how
willing people will be to buy it and at what price. But the good news is that once you launch the first version, data immediately starts to pour in. How are sales going? How are
the reviews? How is customer retention? Are they so excited about your product that they are telling others? You can and must use this data to further refine your product to be an
even better and more useful solution to the problem you set out to solve. I can't emphasize this point enough: finding a simple solution to a big or complicated problem is your
strongest asset as a company of one. Your unique ingenuity can't be outsourced to artificial intelligence or to a massive team. Your ability to problem-solve with simplicity will
keep you and your skills relevant in any market. The benefit of starting small is that you can start with only a few customers using your product and you can speak to them directly
--- for feedback, suggestions, and improvements. For a company of one to launch a new product, the process has to be simple. (If you recall from [Chapter 1](#chapter001.xhtml),
this is a defining trait of companies of one.) Your launch should be simple in choice, simple in messaging, and simple in hypertargeting only one audience. There are three elements
to the psychology of simple, according to Harvard professor George Whitesides: [predictability, accessibility](chapter011_notes.xhtml_ch_en1){#chapter011.xhtml_ch-en1}, and serving
as a building block. Being predictable means that simple products are easy to instantly understand. A product that solves a single problem, like a Casper mattress helping you get a
good night's sleep, is simple. Casper doesn't make 108 styles of mattresses, they make three. Being accessible means []{#chapter011.xhtml_pg169 .pagebreak}being honest: Casper
makes no over-the-top claims, but backs its product with solid research and overwhelmingly positive reviews from over 400,000 customers. Finally, to serve as a building block is to
build on an existing and understood concept. Casper didn't invent a soft and rectangular piece of foam to sleep on and call it a mattress. They simply built off an existing
industry, an existing product, and made it better. Everyone knows what a mattress is, so Casper doesn't have to explain that; they just have to explain *why* their mattress is
better. In effect, Casper doesn't market mattresses but rather *better sleep,* with their mattresses being a means to that end. They're consistent in this message across all media
(social media, their blog, and any other advertising). The hyperfocused target market for a Casper mattress is younger people who are ready to upgrade their lumpy mattress but hate
going to stores and talking to salespeople. These are the customers who'd rather buy online, with a guarantee that if they don't like the product, they can return it (after 100
nights' sleep). Keeping your launch simple lets you avoid roadblocks in getting your product to market and then sharing it with the market. If it's not simple, you'll have to spend
too much time first creating your product, and then explaining what it is and what it does. Simple lets you hit MVPr sooner and really start learning how your product is faring in
the market. ##### FUNDING YOUR OWN PRODUCTS, VCS NOT REQUIRED {#chapter011.xhtml_com0000566 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} Let's return to Ugmonk's Jeff Sheldon, who wanted to create
and sell a desk organizer called Gather. Selling physical products can be tough, as they involve a great deal of prior planning and then manufacturing agreements that can involve
minimum orders and therefore large investments of upfront cash. This is why []{#chapter011.xhtml_pg170 .pagebreak}many product companies go after funding or bank loans or require a
massive amount of capital to begin. Not so with Gather, however: Jeff decided to test his idea for his new product by creating a crowdfunding campaign for it. This approach, he
felt, would see how much his audience wanted Gather; if they did, they would raise the capital he needed to build it without the need to give up control to investors. And because
he'd already spent a decade building an audience that was ravenous for his Ugmonk brand, Jeff's Kickstarter campaign was able to generate over \$430,000 (surpassing his original
funding goal by 2,394 percent), garnering him more than enough to cover all the costs required to put Gather into production. Jeff was now able to ramp up production to an existing
audience for this product, and he got funding directly from that audience instead of from outside investors who might not have completely shared his vision. As mentioned earlier,
the Pebble watch, one of the first smartwatches created, would not have even gotten off the ground if it hadn't been for their crowdfunding efforts --- which quickly became [the
most-funded Kickstarter project ever](chapter011_notes.xhtml_ch_en2){#chapter011.xhtml_ch-en2}. (Even raising over \$20 million from 78,471 backers, however, didn't ensure Pebble's
long-term success.) Not surprisingly, crowdfunding, as an alternative to raising capital from investors, is a growing trend in new businesses. It's far easier to access than VC
money, and it puts your idea directly into the hands of potential customers --- if they agree with your idea, they'll pledge money as a preorder. If they don't, you'll only have
wasted time developing the crowdfunding campaign (the marketing and possibly prototypes), not months or years in product development. It's not as cut and dry, though, as "VC = bad,
crowdfunding = good." VC money can sometimes come with much-needed mentorship and even the required connections on which to build business relationships. Capital can also come with
the business []{#chapter011.xhtml_pg171 .pagebreak}experience needed not only to create a product but also to run a company. It's just often very tricky to find investors. As any
entrepreneur will tell you, people who have money and who share your vision and are eager to invest in your idea are often hard to find. While VCs are interested in their own
profits and partial ownership of their investments, crowdfunding seems more aligned with companies of one --- if the product idea solves a problem for an audience, that audience
will become customers. Profit will be generated quickly and at the outset, allowing you to make choices about your business and how it will proceed based entirely on the money it's
making. If your crowdfunding is done right, it can be extremely beneficial, but bear in mind that crowdfunding isn't always a surefire way to raise money: typically, only 35
percent of Kickstarter campaigns are successfully funded. Nevertheless, though crowdfunding is still a niche, it was responsible for about \$6 billion in money raised in 2016. Olav
Sorenson, professor of management at Yale University, believes that crowdfunding is [best suited for consumer-facing
products](chapter011_notes.xhtml_ch_en3){#chapter011.xhtml_ch-en3}, and not as likely to succeed for business-focused products. Crowdfunding is also a little more meritocratic than
traditional ways of raising capital. Research from Harvard Business School shows that investors --- who are predominantly white males --- prefer ventures pitched and run by people
like themselves, i.e., other white men. By contrast, women excel with crowdfunding, according to research from PwC and the Crowdfunding Center: they are actually 32 percent more
successful at hitting their fundraising goals than men. Consider the case of Katherine Krug, the CEO of a company called BetterBack, which has raised more than \$3 million in
crowdfunding for its devices that help anyone with lower-back issues from sitting at a desk. With no outside investments influencing her, she's able to completely control the
direction of her []{#chapter011.xhtml_pg172 .pagebreak}company. Katherine, who famously turned down a *Shark Tank* deal, believes that crowdfunding is an ideal platform for female
entrepreneurs to secure the capital needed to develop new products. She's also found that crowdfunding is more liberating for companies of one, as too many VCs tend to consider
\$500,000 or even \$1 million companies just too small to invest in. BetterBack operates without an office and with a small team spread around the globe. Katherine herself works
from various parts of the world, spending each quarter in a different country. Her business, and how she leads her employees, are more focused on personal growth than on
exponential profit increases. ##### CAPITAL ISN'T ALWAYS REQUIRED {#chapter011.xhtml_com0000575 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} Sometimes, if your idea for a business or product requires
a substantial influx of funds to start, it could be that your idea is too large or too complex. And sometimes you should start a business only when people are asking you for
something and are willing to give you money for it. Derek Sivers began CDBaby --- which sold for \$22 million in 2008, while it was doing approximately \$250,000 a month in net
profit --- by accident when he began selling his own band's CDs on the internet. Friends asked if he could sell their albums for them as well, and as more people asked, a revenue
model began to form and Derek's CDBaby business was born. But in the beginning, it required no capital to start --- just an idea and the time it took to execute it well. CDBaby
never took on investors, even though there were weekly offers from outsiders who wanted to invest. Derek didn't need CDBaby to expand quickly because it was profitable from the
start and it focused on serving its audience, not expanding its own profit margins. He didn't have to please anyone but his customers and himself. Every decision, he feels, whether
it's to []{#chapter011.xhtml_pg173 .pagebreak}raise money, to expand a business, or to run promotions, should be done according to what's best for your customers. Derek spent \$500
to start CDBaby, made \$300 in his first month and \$700 in the second, and was profitable from that point on. Customers typically don't ask a business to grow or expand. If growth
isn't what's best for them, maybe it should be reconsidered. Because when you do focus primarily on your customers and their satisfaction, as we saw in [Chapter
7](#chapter007.xhtml), they'll tell everyone about you. Crew, back in [Chapter 3](#chapter003.xhtml), started with a one-page website and a form to collect information in order to
manually match freelancers to businesses. When the demand became too large to handle manually, they invested in building custom software. When they launched another product,
Unsplash (royalty-free stock photographs), they did so in a similar manner: they bought a \$19 Tumblr theme and uploaded ten high-resolution images taken by a local photographer.
Within three hours, the first low-fi version was launched. They did the work manually until a scalable system was absolutely required, then invested in it with their profits. Now,
a few years later, more than 1 billion photos are viewed per month through Unsplash (and it's now a profitable business, although it is VC-backed at this point). This may sound
obvious, but businesses need to solve problems for their customers. Whether it's selling a mattress that helps customers get a better night's sleep or stock photographs, a business
succeeds only when it's viewed by your audience as useful. So your first goal, as a company of one just starting out, is to figure out the best way to solve a specific audience's
problems, and then get to work at doing it quickly and cost-effectively. By starting out small, a company of one can put all of its energy into solving problems for real people
rather than into growing large enough to *maybe* solve problems for people one day. This approach also gives your relationship with customers a strong []{#chapter011.xhtml_pg174
.pagebreak}foundation: by eliminating bureaucracy and the friction of large infrastructures, you can interact with, listen to, and empathize with your customers directly. For
example, if you'd like to sell an online course that teaches people how to run an online business, then it's faster to offer that advice as a one-on-one consulting service first.
That way you don't need to wait to turn a profit until you've filmed all the videos, developed or set up an online course platform, and built the audience required to make money
from online courses. Profit can happen as soon as you get your first customer paying you for individual instruction. Halley Gray, founder of Evolve + Succeed, has found that most
people who start a new business by themselves make the mistake of believing the products should always come first. Instead of developing a product, which can take a lot of time
(and sometimes cash) to develop, new founders can start almost immediately by offering their product idea as a service first. This is what Danielle LaPorte did with her "Fire
Starter Sessions" after she was fired from the company she founded and then went out on her own. By offering services first, she was able to generate income almost immediately, as
well as prove that there was a market for her products when her one-on-one service-based work took off. By doing this, she learned a great deal about her audience and determined
what they wanted from her, so when her products were launched, they sold very well and her million-dollar-plus business was born. ##### LAUNCH QUICKLY --- AND LAUNCH OFTEN
{#chapter011.xhtml_com0000585 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} Too often we believe that we get only one chance to launch a product or a business, that the first splash is all that
matters. If it doesn't become massively profitable right away, we think, then []{#chapter011.xhtml_pg175 .pagebreak}it's doomed. We somehow feel that there's magic in the first
time we open our (sometimes digital) doors to the public. The problem with this thinking is that most launches *aren't* massive successes. Yes, they can be slightly profitable (if
everything goes right), but often things don't pay off as quickly as we hoped, because we're still mostly guessing in the beginning. We guess at the intended audience, the
positioning of the product, and the value that audience will assign to what we're selling. WD-40, the well-known everyday lubricant, is literally named after its thirty-nine
failures and one success. Originally it was created for the aerospace industry, but it became so popular with employees using it for other tasks that it was brought to retail,
where it thrived. GM launched an electric car (the EV-1) in 1996, but found it was too "niche" and scrapped the program; twenty years later, in 2017, their Chevrolet Bolt (also an
electric car) was the *Motor Trends* Car of the Year. Only after you've first launched can you then start to measure data and collect key insights: what worked, what did not, how
was it received, and how could it be positioned differently? Launching isn't a onetime, singular event, but a continual process of launch, measure, adjust, repeat. The cofounder of
LinkedIn, Reid Hoffman, has said that if you aren't embarrassed by the first version of your product, [you've launched too
late](chapter011_notes.xhtml_ch_en4){#chapter011.xhtml_ch-en4}. It's ridiculous to believe that every company grows out of a founder's fully formed and unchanging idea, especially
since most wildly successful companies achieved their place only by course-correcting, changing entirely, or iterating their way to greatness. Jim Collins, best-selling author of
*Good to Great,* studied 1,435 companies over a forty-year span. He found that every great company that's very profitable and successful started out as simply good enough to
launch. These companies focused on one thing and let go of the rest. He likens it to foxes and hedgehogs. Foxes are very smart and wily and have many tricks for catching prey.
[]{#chapter011.xhtml_pg176 .pagebreak}In contrast, a hedgehog has only a single trick --- curling up into a spike-laden ball. Regardless of how many tricks a fox deploys to catch a
hedgehog, the hedgehog's singular trick beats all of them, because a fox can't eat a hedgehog. Many companies try to be foxes, doing everything for everyone or launching products
full of bells and whistles, but successful companies that thrive over the long term work at a single task and master it. You still need a varied skill set to build a company of
one, but your focus on serving customers needs to be singular. This singular focus is made far easier with today's technology. ["Every company now is a technology
company,"](chapter011_notes.xhtml_ch_en5){#chapter011.xhtml_ch-en5} says Anil Dash. In the past it made sense to separate out tech companies from all others, but now every company,
even a company of one, relies heavily on technology. From their use of email to ecommerce software to automation in manufacturing, every company is now a tech company, with
technology at its disposal, not just to create the scalable systems we spoke about in [Chapter 8](#chapter008.xhtml), but to enable further focus. For example, a company doesn't
need to put its efforts into developing a new online payment system; it can use Stripe, Square, or PayPal instead. A company doesn't need to invest time and resources in building a
content management system for its website; it can use WordPress. Streaming video required? Just use YouTube. Looking for supply chain management? There are now hundreds of software
solutions. By using existing technology to run as much of a business as possible, you can better focus on your core idea --- the core solution --- and find your core niche. Because
the first launch generally doesn't yield amazing results, companies of one should try to get it out of the way as soon as they have something to launch. Then the focus can turn to
making the product better, based on what was learned. By iterating and relaunching, greater results can be achieved. Companies of one need to continually iterate on their products
to keep []{#chapter011.xhtml_pg177 .pagebreak}them useful and relevant to the market they're intended to serve. So launch quickly, but immediately start to refine and improve your
product. Iterating is an ongoing process, by the way, and should never stop as long as you're receiving feedback and data from the market, from other businesses in your niche, and
even from within your organization (such as requests from the support person or team). Your strategy, then, shouldn't be rigid and set in stone, but capable of being changed each
time new information is collected. In this way, your strategy will never fall out of sync with the customers and market you're serving. Blockbuster failed to iterate to the
changing market and Netflix slaughtered its profits. To quote Blockbuster's CEO in an interview with *Motley Fool:* "Neither RedBox nor Netflix [are even on the radar screen in
terms of competition](chapter011_notes.xhtml_ch_en6){#chapter011.xhtml_ch-en6}," he said. Blockbuster ended up with hopelessly outdated retail stores, which led to huge overhead
and debt and then bankruptcy. When Sears failed to change its practice of putting catalogs in every home, it lost out to Walmart and Amazon. In 2006, Ed Zander, CEO of Motorola,
said this about the Apple iPod Nano: "Screw the Nano. What the hell does the Nano do? Who listens to 1,000 songs?" In 1946, Darryl Zanuck, the cofounder of 20th Century Fox, said,
"Television won't be able to hold onto any market it captures after the first six months. People will soon get tired of staring at a plywood box every night." Without iteration and
adjustment based on new data and insights, a company will stagnate and die. But if you've launched, once or several times, and it hasn't resulted in enough profit to sustain even a
single person's cost of living, how do you know when to stay resilient and push on --- and how do you know when to pack it in and quit (that is, when to move on to a brand-new idea
or business)? That was the question that best-selling author Tim Ferriss, on his podcast, asked Scott Belsky, the cofounder of Behance, an online []{#chapter011.xhtml_pg178
.pagebreak}portfolio platform for creatives. Scott feels that whether we find that line between stubbornly proceeding when we shouldn't and resiliently persevering when we should
has to do with the truth of our initial assumption. In other words, if you're at a place where you aren't sure what to do because things haven't worked out, do you still think that
your initial assumption was correct? And in knowing all you know at this point, would you pursue the project all over again? If the answer is yes, if you still think your original
