to developing Sony's PlayStation. [The word "intrapreneur"](chapter001_notes.xhtml_ch_en1){#chapter001.xhtml_ch-en1} points to one example of a company of one within a larger
organization. It describes corporate leaders who come up with their own goals and then execute them. They don't need much direction, micromanaging, or oversight, as they've been
given full work autonomy. They know what needs doing and they just do it. They're aware of the needs of the company and how their talents fit, and they just get to work.
[]{#chapter001.xhtml_pg8 .pagebreak}Where the term "intrapreneur" varies from a company of one is that intrapreneurs are typically responsible for product creation and marketing
--- that is, creating something new, with the resources of the company behind them. Companies of one within organizations don't need to be managers or create products --- they
simply need to find suitable ways to become better and more productive, without more resources or team members. They can certainly be managers or product creators, but that's not
the only definition. Companies of one within larger corporations have a history of helping large corporations make breakthroughs and dominate markets. Dave Myers, who worked for W.
L. Gore and Associates, the company that makes GoreTex fabric, was given "dabble" time to develop new ideas within the company and ultimately came up with the idea to use a kind of
coating they were already manufacturing on guitar strings. The result was the best-selling acoustic guitar string brand, Elixir (the strings I use on my guitars --- they're head
and shoulders above the competition). Sometimes companies of one happen by accident. Dr. Spencer Silver, a scientist at 3M, was working to create an adhesive for aerospace. In
playing with the formula, he created a lighter adhesive that didn't leave any residue. It wouldn't work for planes, but it was perfect for paper products, and thus Post-it notes
were born. Some large corporations, like Google, give their employees "personal time" to experiment with ideas outside their typical job roles. Facebook uses "hackathons," which
typically last several days and bring together computer programmers to collaborate on something big in a relatively short amount of time. It was a hackathon that led to the
creation of Facebook's "Like" button, which arguably connects its ecosystem to the rest of the internet. [In a recent
study](chapter001_notes.xhtml_ch_en2){#chapter001.xhtml_ch-en2}, Vijay Govindarajan, a professor at Dartmouth, found that for every 5,000 employees, at least 250 will
[]{#chapter001.xhtml_pg9 .pagebreak}be true innovators and 25 will be innovators and great intrapreneurs (or companies of one) as well. Many large corporations have companies of
one hiding within them. If the skills and passion for innovation and autonomy of these employees are fostered, it can greatly benefit the entire business as a whole. But if they
are stifled in their creativeness and freethinking, they tend to move on quickly to other employment or entrepreneurialism. They're rarely motivated solely by money or salaries and
lean more toward reinventing their job and role in a way that works best for them. If you're a company of one, your mind-set is to build your business around *your* life, not the
other way around. For me, being a company of one means not having to bother with infinite growth, since that was never the purpose of my working. Instead, I just focus on
maximizing work in a way that works for me, which can sometimes mean doing less. Work can be done at a pace that suits my sanity rather than one that supports costly overhead,
expenses, or salaries. As much as I enjoy growing my wealth, I also realize that there's a point of diminishing returns if I don't also take care of myself and my well-being.
Society has ingrained in us a very particular idea of what success in business looks like. You work as many hours as possible, and when your business starts to do well, you scale
everything up in every direction. To this day, this strategy is considered what it takes to be a success in business --- solving problems by adding "more" to the solution. Anyone
who stays small, in this line of thinking, hasn't done well enough to add "more" to the mix. But what if we challenge this way of thinking in business? What if staying small is
what a company does when it's figured out how to solve problems without adding "more" to them? Growth, especially blind growth, isn't the best solution to any problem a business
might face. And going further, growing your []{#chapter001.xhtml_pg10 .pagebreak}business might actually be the worst decision you could make for the longevity of your business. So
a company of one is not anti-growth, or anti-revenue, and it's not just a one-person business either (although it certainly can be). It's also not just working with a tech-focused
or startup mind-set, although leaning on technology, automation, and the connectedness of the internet definitely makes it easier to be a company of one. A company of one questions
growth first, and then resists it if there's a better, smarter way forward. Next, let's look at the four typical traits of all companies of one: resilience, autonomy, speed, and
simplicity. #### Resilience {#chapter001.xhtml_com0001033 .EB11SmallItalicHead1} Danielle LaPorte, a best-selling author and self-made entrepreneur, reaches millions of people each
month with her message of conscious goal-setting and entrepreneurship and is one of Oprah's (yes, *that* Oprah) "Super Soul 100" leaders. But in the beginning, she was fired by the
very CEO she had hired months earlier. In believing that exponential growth was required for her business (more on this in [Chapter 2](#chapter002.xhtml)), she took \$400,000 in
funding from private investors with the provision that she had to hire a "*wunderkind* CEO" to run the business. So she incorporated and hired a thought-to-be superstar. But six
months later, the investors and CEO wanted to change the business model, which meant relegating Danielle's role to just a few blog posts a month and substantially decreasing her
pay. Note: named after her, the business was a personality-driven brand based on her own unique personality and style. Once Danielle got over the supreme shock of what happened,
which involved a lot of yoga, tears, and good friends, she began to bounce back. She brought on a new team of A-players, created a website within a few weeks, and figured out the
fastest way to start making money on her own with a new business that she had []{#chapter001.xhtml_pg11 .pagebreak}full control over. She began offering consulting services that
became so popular that she had to create a waiting list, and then she wrote a best-selling book. In all the success of her new website, she realized that the strings attached to
other people's money are often those other people's opinions about your business and your life. In hardship, she was able to find her path to becoming a company of one. Being or
becoming a company of one has a lot to do with resilience: the capacity and fortitude to recover quickly from difficulties --- like a changing job market, or being fired. Like a
shift in a larger company's focus, or the need to adapt to new disruptive technology --- or even to avoid being replaced by robots. (No, this book isn't a taking a turn toward
sci-fi ... more on this in a second.) Dean Becker, the CEO of Adaptiv Learning Systems, has been researching and developing programs around the idea of resilience since 1997. His
company found that the level of resilience a person exhibits determines their success in business, far more than their level of education, training, or experience. Contrary to
popular belief, resilience isn't something that only a select few are born with. It can most definitely be learned. Resilient people possess three --- absolutely learnable ---
characteristics. The first trait that resilient people have is *an acceptance of reality.* They don't need for things to be a certain way and don't engage in wishful thinking.
Instead of imagining "if only this changed, I could thrive," they have a down-to-earth view that most of what happens in our lives is not entirely within our control and the best
we can do is to steer the boat a little as we float down the river of life. For example, I'm not going to stop writing today because my neighbor is using his deafening chainsaw.
Rather, I'm just going to close my window, turn on some electronic music, and get back to work. Danielle LaPorte didn't throw in the towel after being fired; instead, she took a
minute, regrouped, then started again. []{#chapter001.xhtml_pg12 .pagebreak}Often, it's easier to accept reality with a bit of dark humor. My wife, a firefighter and first
responder, regularly jokes around with her department because they're routinely exposed to the worst day of someone's life --- houses burning down, heart attacks, even chainsaw
accidents. Their humor is a way of coping that her fire chief actively encourages, not to make light of bad situations, but to *add* a sense of light to bad situations. Their sense
of humor is just as important as their ability to save lives and put out fires. However crass it might sound to an outsider, dark humor helps first responders and firefighters
accept their reality and therefore keeps them resilient in doing their essential work. The second characteristic of resilient people is a sense of *purpose* --- being motivated by
a sense of meaning rather than by just money. Although purpose and money are not mutually exclusive, you're more likely to be resilient when you know that even in awful or
stressful situations, you're working toward a greater and larger good. This sense of purpose comes from values that are unchangeable and central to both individuals and companies
as a whole. Companies of one know that they can enjoy their work without always enjoying every aspect of it. So, even if work is sometimes stressful, as long as it relates to a
greater whole or a greater end result, that tough work is worth it in the end. For example, you may get stressed out on the day you launch a new product or land a new client, but
if the product or the client aligns with the purpose of your business, that momentary anxiety is worth it, since not every day will be nearly as stressful. The last trait of
resilient people in a company of one is *the ability to adapt* when things change --- because they invariably do. In Canada, [42 percent of jobs are at
risk](chapter001_notes.xhtml_ch_en3){#chapter001.xhtml_ch-en3}, according to Ryerson University, from advances in automation, and 62 percent of jobs in America will be in danger
within the next ten to twenty years, according to the White House's Council of Economic Advisers in 2016. As much as we can joke about "welcoming our robot overlords"
[]{#chapter001.xhtml_pg13 .pagebreak}(a memorable quote from the 1977 film adaptation of H. G. Wells's short story "Empire of the Ants"), the threat is real. McDonald's has a robot
that can flip a burger in ten seconds and could replace an entire crew within a few years. Tesla and other companies are working on self-driving big rigs to replace truckers for
long-range cargo delivery. Highly skilled jobs are also at risk: IBM's Watson, for instance, can suggest available treatments for specific ailments, drawing on the body of medical
research and data on disease. However, what's difficult to automate is exactly what makes a company of one great: the ability to creatively solve problems in new and unique ways
without throwing "more" at the problem. Whereas workers in "doing" roles can be replaced by robots or even by other workers, the role of creatively solving difficult problems is
more dependent on an irreplaceable individual. Regardless of the rise of the so-called robot overlords, this is where the strength of a company of one lies. A company of one sees
coming shifts like the above and can pivot. For example, an interior designer may spend less time measuring and ordering supplies and more time creating innovative design concepts
based on a unique client's needs. Or a financial adviser may spend less time analyzing a client's financial situation and more time understanding the client's particular needs and
teaching them how best to manage their money. These industry disruptions or market changes aren't a sky-is-falling scenario --- they're truly just opportunities to redefine work
and adapt to changes. When I was doing web design full-time, each time an economic bubble burst or a recession hit I found myself in a great place to find more jobs because I could
offer the quality of work a larger agency could provide, but at a price that had one less zero in it. And not only was I still making more profit than if I had been salaried at an
agency, but I could still make the most of the price I was charging because my overhead []{#chapter001.xhtml_pg14 .pagebreak}was almost nothing past having a computer and writing
off the second bedroom in a rented condo. And then, when the economy picked back up, agencies were so busy that they had to farm out work, which I was available for. So either way,
I had a model for revenue that larger agencies couldn't have replicated without scaling down immensely. Improvising when change happens or when difficulties arise in the market
allows you to make do with what's at hand, without having to add "more" into the mix --- as in, more employees, more expenses, or more infrastructure. These traits for resilience
are absolutely learnable, not just inherent. In fact, they must be learned, and then fostered, if you are creating a company of one. #### Autonomy and Control
{#chapter001.xhtml_com0001049 .EB11SmallItalicHead1} Companies of one are becoming more popular because people want more control and autonomy in their lives, especially when it
comes to their careers. This is why so many people are choosing this path: being a company of one lets you control your own life and your job. But to achieve autonomy as a company
of one, you have to be a master at your core skill set. Competence and autonomy are tied together because the opposite --- having complete control but not a clue what you're doing
--- is a recipe for disaster. So just as Tom commanded a knowledge of marketing from his Harvard MBA education and subsequent corporate marketing job, as well as a talent for
drawing that he had fostered since childhood and worked at weekly, you have to have a skill set, or a combination of skills, that's in demand. With a well-developed skill set,
you'll know what areas will benefit from growth and what potential places for growth don't make sense. Basically, you have to be good at your skill set before you can expect to
achieve autonomy from using it. []{#chapter001.xhtml_pg15 .pagebreak}Typically, you can't acquire this mastery without putting in some time at the beginning of your career in a job
that's less autonomous, offers less control, and requires less resilience, since you're managed by the whims of someone higher up. Companies of one know how to break standard rules
for the greater good. Doing so is tricky, however, as it involves learning the rules first. In the beginning, a pre--company of one adopts the mind-set of a sponge --- basically,
you learn everything you can about your profession, your industry, and your customers, and you work at collecting valuable skills of your trade. Corporations that excel at creating
autonomy for their best employees often empower them to become something like companies of one: these employees work faster and more ingeniously, and they use fewer resources. For
example, Google gives its engineers "20 percent time": they can work on whatever project they want for 20 percent of their time. More than half of the products and projects Google
releases were created during this 20 percent time. Other companies set up ROWEs (Results-Only Work Environments), in which employees don't have set schedules, all meetings are
optional, and it's entirely up to employees how they spend their time working. They can choose to work from home, they can work from 2:00 AM to 6:00 AM if it suits them, and they
can sculpt their job however they want, as long as the results benefit the company as a whole. Cali Ressler and Jody Thompson have defined and then studied ROWE implementations for
over a decade, and they find that in these kinds of autonomous environments, productivity goes up, [employee satisfaction goes up, and turnover goes
down](chapter001_notes.xhtml_ch_en4){#chapter001.xhtml_ch-en4}. For entrepreneurs or those working for themselves, autonomy may seem easier to achieve but can come with several
pitfalls. Often when you start working for yourself you trade micromanaging bosses for micromanaging clients. The solution to finding []{#chapter001.xhtml_pg16 .pagebreak}better
clients and better projects has a lot to do with your skill and experience, just as I mentioned at the start of this section. When you're starting out and your skills aren't as
developed, you won't be able to lead projects or be too picky about the type of work you do. But as your expertise increases and your network grows, you can land better clients ---
the kind who listen more carefully to how you would do what they're paying you to do --- and you can be more selective about the types of customers and projects you want to take
on. Kaitlin Maud, a digital strategist and currently a freelancer, put in her time developing her skills at an agency for five years. She spent that time learning the ropes of her
industry as well as building a solid network of contacts, with whom she actively kept in touch. Just like Tom the cartoonist, she didn't venture out on her own until she had enough
freelance projects to bring in a relatively stable side income. Kaitlin thinks that a sense of autonomy looks different on everyone. She herself has created a work life that
rewards her for getting her work done quickly. In a typical company, regardless of how quickly you work, you're still required to be there for a set number of hours a day; in other
words, there's no reward for productivity or efficiency. Kaitlin has also found that she's able to get work done with more focus from 9:00 AM to 1:00 PM, so she doesn't schedule
meetings or calls during that window of time. According to a study from Upwork, freelancing now accounts for [more than one-third of jobs in
America](chapter001_notes.xhtml_ch_en5){#chapter001.xhtml_ch-en5}. Like Kaitlin, people are increasingly *choosing* to go freelance --- that is, they're not using freelance work as
a fallback because their job disappeared. Freelancing makes up almost half the jobs being done by younger people, who are choosing to freelance in hopes of gaining more control
over their career path. As a society, we're gradually starting to view "work" not as a single place of employment, but as a series of engagements or projects. The millennial
generation in []{#chapter001.xhtml_pg17 .pagebreak}particular views the traditional aspiration to a corporate job in an office as something like a satirical sitcom, à la *The
Office,* than something they wish to strive for. With a stable of side project clients and a vast network of contacts in hand, Kaitlin left her agency job and started to freelance
full-time. When she started, she first worked at leveling up her skill set before focusing on becoming more autonomous. Since going solo, she's had a steady waiting list, regularly
has to turn down projects that are a fit for her values, and has worked with some large companies like Beats by Dre, Taco Bell, Adobe, and Toms. Her work, because she put in the
time to become great at it, now revolves around her life. She can focus entirely on the type of work she loves, solving problems with creative solutions online --- basically,
Kaitlin is the Olivia Pope (of *Scandal* fame) of the internet. She fixes things that no one else can --- and she's well on her way to becoming her own company of one. Sol Orwell,
a fellow Canadian, has refused venture capital for his very profitable business, Examine.com, because he doesn't see an upside in relinquishing control to venture capitalists. He
doesn't need cash --- his company makes seven figures per year. He isn't looking for a quick out or trying to sell --- he enjoys his work a great deal. As a majority owner, he
doesn't have to answer to anyone except his paying customers. Sol would rather have ownership of his work and the freedom to not have to fill every minute of every day with his
job. Success to him means making a great living, but not at the expense of being able to take long midday breaks to walk his dog or attend hourlong dance classes on a Wednesday
afternoon. But bear this in mind: achieving control over a company of one requires more than just using the core skill you are hired for. It also requires proficiency at sales,
marketing, project management, and client retention. Whereas most normal corporate []{#chapter001.xhtml_pg18 .pagebreak}workers can be hyperfocused on a single skill, companies of
one, even within a larger business, need to be generalists who are good at several things --- often all at once. #### Speed {#chapter001.xhtml_com0001063 .EB11SmallItalicHead1}
Companies of one work best under constraints --- because that's where creativity and ingenuity thrive. Companies like Basecamp have a four-day workweek during the summer (no work
on Fridays) because it helps them prioritize what's important to work on and what they can let go of. The key for their employees is to figure out how to work smarter to accomplish
tasks with the time they've got, not just harder. Companies of one question their systems, processes, and structure to become more efficient and to achieve more with the same
number of employees and fewer hours of work. On the company intranet, Basecamp has a "weekend check-in" where employees can post photos of what they did on their three days off
from work. This helps this remote-based company build connections between its employees, who are spread all over the globe. Speed is not merely about frantically working faster.
It's about figuring out the best way to accomplish a task with new and efficient methods. This is the concept at work in the ROWE method: employees no longer have to work a set
amount of time, but are rewarded when they finish their tasks faster. By being smarter at getting more work done faster when you work for yourself, you can create a more flexible
schedule that fits work into your life in better ways. Tasks that used to take Kaitlin days to accomplish in the open-office environment of the agency she worked at now take her
only a few hours, because she's figured out what needs to be in place to maximize her productivity. This gives her the space in her workday, when she's not at peak productivity, to
head to the gym or []{#chapter001.xhtml_pg19 .pagebreak}spend time with her newborn daughter. She's able to accomplish eight hours of agency work in four hours of freelance work,
freeing up half her day. She still works hard and sometimes has to work much longer as project deadlines loom, but she enjoys the reality that most of the time on her schedule is
her own. Another aspect of speed in a company of one is the ability to pivot quickly when a customer base or market changes. As a solo worker or small company, a company of one
finds this much easier to do, because it has less infrastructure to cut through. So speed works to the advantage of companies of one not only because they're able to pivot when
needed, and far faster, but also because they have less of the corporate mass that often gets in the way. Stewart Butterfield started out developing online games, like Game
Neverending and Glitch. Both games failed to gain enough of an audience to become profitable, but both times Stewart was able to pivot his (then) small teams, pluck key features
from the games, and spin them off into their own products --- the photo-sharing site Flickr and Slack, an internal chat system that is now worth over \$1 billion. Facing the
limitations of both time and money running out, Stewart's teams managed to hyperfocus on a single solution and bring it to market. By keeping his company small and by paying
attention to what was working and what wasn't, he was able to quickly move to spin-offs that ultimately netted great gains. When I asked Danielle LaPorte if she'd take funding
again for a new business idea, she said no. She'd learned that not accepting outside funding allowed her to move faster. Instead, she said, she would quickly release a first
version of a new product that would fund iterations on it, keeping her costs and expenses as low as possible in order to move toward profitability as quickly as possible. The fewer
staff and less external funding involved, the faster a company can move, whether forward or in a new, more promising direction. #### []{#chapter001.xhtml_pg20 .pagebreak}Simplicity
{#chapter001.xhtml_com0001071 .EB11SmallItalicHead1} The best example of the power of simplicity comes from two rival social bookmarking services, Pinboard and Delicious. Delicious
grew quickly, adding lots of features, and its founder, Joshua Schachter, made investments early on and grew Delicious into a company with approximately 5.3 million users. The
company was sold to Yahoo for somewhere between \$15 million and \$30 million. Unable to make it profitable, Yahoo sold it to Avos Systems, which removed the popular support forums
that Delicious users had come to love. A few years later, Avos sold Delicious to Science, Inc., where Delicious users were continually leaving and using other services. While
Delicious was rapidly changing hands, Pinboard was started by web developer Maciej Ceglowski. He offered his simple service to users at \$3 per year, a fee that increased over time
to \$11 per year. Since the beginning, Pinboard has been a one-person company with a limited feature-set and with no investors. Ceglowski operated it as a side business for the
first few months, until it was generating enough income for him to move to working on Pinboard full-time. Then, on June 1, 2017, Pinboard acquired Delicious for just \$35,000 and
quickly shut it down to new users, offering existing users the option to migrate their accounts to Pinboard instead. After rapid growth and increased complexity in its offerings
and internal structure, Delicious, in which millions of dollars had been invested, was ultimately consumed by a company of one for a tiny price. Pinboard had kept things simple,
played the long game, and ended up winning. Typically, as companies gain success or traction, they grow by taking on additional complexities. These complexities can often detract
from a business's original or primary focus, resulting in more costs and the investment of more time and money. []{#chapter001.xhtml_pg21 .pagebreak}For a company of one at any
size, simple rules, simple processes, and simple solutions typically win. Complexity is often well intentioned, especially at large corporations, where, as complicated processes
are added to other complicated processes and systems, accomplishing any task requires more and more work on the job and not toward finishing the task. It can be a slippery slope:
one step is added to a process without increasing its complexity too much, but then, after a few years of adding steps here and there, a task that once took a handful of steps now
requires sign-off by six department heads, a legal review, and a dozen or more meetings with stakeholders. By contrast, growth for a company of one can mean simplifying rules and
processes, which frees up time to take on either more work or more clients, because tasks can be finished faster. With this goal in mind, companies of one routinely question
everything they do. *Is this process efficient enough? What steps can be removed and the end result will be the same or better? Is this rule helping or hindering our business?* For
a company of one to succeed, a strategy for simplifying isn't just a desirable goal but an absolute requirement. Having too many products or services, too many layers of
management, and/or too many rules and processes for completing tasks leads to atrophy. Simplicity has to be a mandate. When Mike Zafirovski became the CEO of Nortel, he implemented
an unambiguous theme of "business made simple" across the entire company. From reducing costs to speeding up product development, to making it easier for customers to get the
latest technology, he wove the idea of "simple" into every aspect of their large company. Often, complexity can creep in right from the beginning --- when you're just thinking
about starting a new business. You begin to assume that your business requires "essentials" like office space, websites, business cards, computers, fax machines (just
[]{#chapter001.xhtml_pg22 .pagebreak}kidding), and custom software solutions. In reality, it's usually possible to start a business --- especially the freelance or startup kind ---
just by finding and then helping a single paying customer. Then doing it again, and again. And only adding new items or processes to the mix when they're absolutely required. If
you have an idea for starting a business that requires a lot of money, time, or resources, you're most likely thinking too big. Your idea can be scaled down to the basics --- do it
now, do it on the cheap, and do it quickly --- and then iterated upon. Start without automation or infrastructure or overhead. Start by helping one customer. Then another. This
puts your focus on helping people immediately with what you've got available to you right now. Work on things like sales funnels and automation when it no longer makes sense to
personalize your interactions with your customers in surprising and delightful ways. We've become enamored with new technologies, new software, and new devices, and too often large
companies and even solo companies try to incorporate them into their existing structures in an effort to "keep up." The problem here is mistaking "simple" for "easy." Often we try
to be simpler and end up more complicated. We add more tools, more software, more devices to the mix to make things easier, without testing or questioning how easy they'll be to
use on a daily basis. Even the latest and greatest HR software, for instance, probably doesn't need hundreds of screens and drop-down menus. A business selling thousands of
products can probably cut most of them if the bulk of their sales comes from just 5 percent of their offerings. There may be no need for thirteen company-wide initiatives if three
will do. Start out as simple as possible, and always fervently question adding new layers of complexity. Set yourself up as a company of one that's run to maximize your ability to
solve existing problems and to adapt as new problems arise. And then, who knows, perhaps []{#chapter001.xhtml_pg23 .pagebreak}you'll end up acquiring a massive competitor that
couldn't keep up with your radical simplicity. ##### BEGIN TO THINK ABOUT: {#chapter001.xhtml_com0001086 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} [■]{.bulletorn} Whether growth is truly
beneficial to your business [■]{.bulletorn} How you could solve business problems without just adding "more" [■]{.bulletorn} Whether you really need funding or venture capital for
your idea, or are simply thinking too big to start []{#chapter002.xhtml} ## []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg24 .pagebreak}2 {#chapter002.xhtml_com0000001 .EB04MainHeadClosedNum} ## Staying
Small as an End Goal {#chapter002.xhtml_com0000002 .EB04MainHeadClosedTitle} Sean D'Souza doesn't want to grow his company. He decided that \$500,000 a year of profit was all he
wanted to earn and that his business shouldn't exceed it. So that's what Psychotactics --- his consultancy that teaches other businesses the psychology of why their customers buy
(or don't buy) --- earns through its website and in-person training workshops. Sean feels that his job as a business owner is not to endlessly increase profits, or even to defeat
the competition, but instead to create better and better products and services that his customers benefit from in their lives and work. Implementation, he's found, is the key to
retaining his customers and persuading them to keep buying --- that is, if they're using what he makes, they see successes in their own business and then keep buying more from him.
Sean is only interested in reaching his target limit. This goal feels very counterintuitive to what we're taught about business and success. Society says that business goals should
focus on ever-increasing profit and that, as profit increases, so should everything else --- more employees, more expenses, more growth. But like many others, Sean feels that the
opposite is true --- that success can be personally defined, and that while profit and sustainability []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg25 .pagebreak}are absolutely important to a business,
they aren't the only driving forces, metrics, or factors in business success. Sean's goal of achieving a target profit and not exceeding it comes from shaping his business around
an optimal life he wants to lead --- complete with taking a three-month vacation each year with his wife and spending hours walking, cooking, and teaching and tutoring his two
young nieces each day. Typically awake by 4:00 AM --- no alarm clock required --- Sean goes to work early from a small office located in his backyard. By starting this early, Sean
can record audio for his podcast before the world around him becomes too noisy. It's an idyllic life filled with hourlong walks and ample coffee breaks. His work routine revolves
mostly around answering questions for his customers in his private message board on his website. Sean is easily able to meet his \$500,000 per year profit goal, not through
marketing and promotion, but by paying close attention to his existing customer base. His audience has grown slowly and sustainably because those listeners share his work with
their own audiences and contacts --- his current customers gladly become his (unpaid) sales force. Too often businesses forget about their current audience --- the people who are
already listening, buying, and engaging. These should be the most important people to your business --- far more so than anyone you wish you were reaching. Whether your audience is
ten people, a hundred people, or even a thousand people, if you're not doing right by them, right now, nothing you do regarding growth or marketing will make a lick of difference.
Make sure you're listening to, communicating with, and helping the people who are already paying attention to you. Sean sees lots of people in the online education world focusing
their time entirely on marketing, but his focus is on making his products better for his existing audience. He works to get more and better results for his existing customers, who
in turn continue []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg26 .pagebreak}to buy from him, both established products and new products as he releases them. He likens his business to a kind of "Hotel
California" --- "You can check in anytime, but you can never leave" --- except that his version is less psychedelically creepy and doesn't feature pink champagne on ice; it
features chocolate. Part of Sean's customer retention strategy involves sending his customers a box of chocolates, with a handwritten note and sometimes a small cartoon he draws
himself. The package costs him approximately \$20, which includes shipping from New Zealand (where he lives currently), but it's the one thing his customers talk about. They'll buy
a \$2,000 training program from him and talk about the chocolate. He'll give a speech at an event, and people will talk about the chocolate. His customers love these small touches,
and the attention his business gives them, because his company of one focuses solely on serving his existing customers, not on infinite growth. When a friend of Sean's had a
remarkably profitable year, they cracked open the champagne (possibly pink champagne, on ice) in a meeting and vowed to double that profit in the following year. But Sean is
absolutely certain that his end goal is to keep his business small. He questions the blind growth mind-set because he doesn't require it. If he were to double his profits, like his
friend was trying to do, how much more work would be involved? How would that extra work affect his family or his life overall? Sean doesn't want that complexity, the added stress
and responsibility. He'd much rather make a great living without his work taking over all aspects and hours of his life. So succeeding, for Sean, means staying small. Sean's
Psychotactics business is a great example of a company of one finding its optimum size and staying put. He purposely keeps his business small as a long-term strategy that makes
sense for maximizing his profits and his lifestyle. With Psychotactics at its current size, he's able to get to know and better help his customers, []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg27
.pagebreak}who in turn are eager to spend thousands on his training products every year --- as long as he also sends them \$20 worth of chocolate. Like Sean, Ricardo Semler, CEO of
Semco Partners, has found the right organic size for the businesses he owns and invests in. And it's working for him, as he's grown Semco into a business worth more than \$160
million. He believes that companies need to focus on becoming *better* instead of simply growing *bigger.* His approach is to question the idea that growth is always good and
always unlimited. Ricardo works at determining the size at which each company he manages can enjoy worldwide competitive advantages and then stop growth from there in order to turn
the focus away from getting bigger and toward getting better instead. The current business paradigm teaches us that to make a lot of money or to achieve lasting success, we need to
scale our businesses --- as if larger businesses are less prone to fail or to become unprofitable (obviously not true). In fact, according to this view, before our imagined
businesses are even off the ground we need to create them with the sole purpose of growth --- and possibly eventual sale for a huge profit. This paradigm, however, isn't rooted in
truth, nor does it hold up to critical investigation. A study done by the Startup Genome Project, which analyzed more than 3,200 high-growth tech startups, found that [74 percent
of those businesses failed](chapter002_notes.xhtml_ch_en1){#chapter002.xhtml_ch-en1}, not because of competition or bad business plans, but because they scaled up too quickly.
Growth, as a primary focus, is not only a bad business strategy, but an entirely harmful one. In failing --- as defined in the study --- these high-growth startups had massive
layoffs, closed shop completely, or sold off their business for pennies on the dollar. Putting growth over profit as a strategy, however trendy as business advice, was their
downfall. When [the Kauffman Foundation and Inc](chapter002_notes.xhtml_ch_en2){#chapter002.xhtml_ch-en2}. magazine did a follow-up study on a list of the 5,000 fastest-growing
companies []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg28 .pagebreak}five to eight years later, they found that more than two-thirds of them were out of business, had undergone massive layoffs, or had
been sold below their market value, confirming the findings of the Startup Genome Project. These companies weren't able to become self-sustaining because they spent and grew based
on where they thought their revenue would hit --- or they grew based on venture capital injections of funds, not on where revenues were actually at. Venture capital can be a quick
