start to figure out how long each of our tasks actually takes. Perhaps we need only four hours a day to get our work done. As a company of one that achieves ownership over your
schedule and how long you allow yourself to work, you can be overloaded with the sheer number of tasks you need to do to keep your businesses running. Researcher John Pencavel from
Stanford University says that if you start to define your productivity in physical terms, you can see that your ability to focus drastically diminishes after [fifty-five hours a
week](chapter005_notes.xhtml_ch_en9){#chapter005.xhtml_ch-en9}. So adding anything more to your schedule that takes longer will not be productive. The social badge of honor for
always being busy and always working has no rewards past bragging rights. It also has no place in the company-of-one mind-set. What you should be bragging about is figuring out how
to get your work done quicker and more productively. Just as company growth should be questioned, so too should a busy schedule. How many opportunities do we really need to say yes
to? Often, piling on work to get ahead comes at the price of our health, our relationships, and even our productivity. Perhaps we need to determine what "enough" is for our
particular schedule and then ruthlessly stick to and defend that. ##### BEGIN TO THINK ABOUT: {#chapter005.xhtml_com0000262 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} [■]{.bulletorn} The true
purpose of your business and whether it shows up in your actions (not just in your marketing material) [■]{.bulletorn} []{#chapter005.xhtml_pg93 .pagebreak}What you are skilled at
that is already in demand and where else that skill could be leveraged [■]{.bulletorn} Where you could test your leap into something in a small way first [■]{.bulletorn} How you
could align your day/schedule to be focused on single-tasking []{#chapter006.xhtml} ## []{#chapter006.xhtml_pg94 .pagebreak}6 {#chapter006.xhtml_com0000267 .EB04MainHeadClosedNum}
## Personality Matters {#chapter006.xhtml_com0000268 .EB04MainHeadClosedTitle} In high school, I was the kid everyone picked on. Day after day I'd get made fun of or someone would
lure me into a fight. I figured my personality was the weakest part of who I was and attempted to hide it as much as I could. It wasn't until years later --- when I sent a survey
to more than 10,000 customers asking why they bought my products --- that I realized that my personality was the number-one factor in their decision to purchase from my business
and not from someone else. As much as they wanted to buy the products I was selling, they wanted to buy them from me in particular, even if similar products were offered elsewhere
or at a lower price. What changed? My personality didn't. I'm still an awkward and excitable nerd, just like I was in high school. What did change was that I gradually became okay
with sharing who I am and using my differences strategically. Once who I am became part of how I marketed and sold, more people started to respond to that. Not everyone, of course,
but enough people started paying attention to my work and became customers. They liked that I was an awkward geek. They trusted me because of my personality, since a lot of them
were awkward and excitable nerds too. Personality --- the authentic you that traditional business has []{#chapter006.xhtml_pg95 .pagebreak}taught you to suppress under the guise of
"professionalism" --- can be your biggest edge over the competition when you're a company of one. What's even better is that while skills and expertise can be replicated, it's damn
near impossible to replicate someone's personality and style. Especially in a company of one, where you aren't the largest player in your niche and probably not the cheapest, using
your quirks and standing for something can be exactly how and why you gain customers' attention. A personality is required for your company of one, regardless of size. Your human
characteristics are the way your brand speaks and behaves. For example, Harley-Davidson is a brand that connotes rebelliousness, while Snapchat is associated with being young and
fresh (although calling it "young and fresh" probably means that I'm neither). If you don't think about the personality of your business, your audience will assign one to you ---
because people relate to other people, and your audience wants to relate to your brand when they see it. As a company of one, your brand should very much represent some distinct
aspect of yourself, while taking into account whom you're trying to reach. Marie Forleo, founder of Marie Forleo International, runs an eight-figure business training company with
her distinct personality front and center. In the beginning, she worried about being her quirky self in videos and writing because at the time that wasn't seen as the norm in the
business world, or even in the world of other leaders she aspired to connect with, like Oprah. Funnily enough, though, it was specifically her quirky self that her audience related
to so strongly, and when her platform grew to reach more than 250,000 subscribers in 193 countries, not only did she appear on *Oprah,* but Oprah named her a leader for the next
generation. What do you want your brand to exude? Toughness? Sophistication? Excitement? Sincerity? Luxury? Competence? []{#chapter006.xhtml_pg96 .pagebreak}Rand Fishkin says that
newly formed companies tend to inherit the personality of their founders internally, and then externally. So personality even creates and affects company culture. Charlie Bickford,
founder of Excalibur Screwbolts, a small British manufacturer, has found that keeping his business small makes it easier to show both his staff and customers his commitment to
quality and personal service. Charlie still answers customer phone lines at age seventy-four. By keeping his company small, he maintains its integrity and also places his own
unique personality in front of his brand; meanwhile, his massive competitors are racing to win market share. Excalibur has endured --- even after the entire industry copied his
bolt-fixing techniques --- by focusing on building a brand personality based on personal contact and great service. These key factors have allowed Charlie to do well at a small
size and landed him an impressive range of projects, from the Olympic stadium in Atlanta to the Gottard tunnel in Switzerland. Brand personality needs to foster a two-sided
relationship --- one focused on not just how your businesses can benefit or gain something from others, but on how others can benefit from having a relationship with your business.
And don't confuse the personality of your brand with "acting the part" --- instead, the idea is to showcase those aspects of who you naturally are as they relate to building
fascination with your intended audience. Charlie, for example, has always been focused on creating products of true quality, so his company works hard to showcase that aspect of
its personality. ##### THE ATTENTION ECONOMY {#chapter006.xhtml_com0000279 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} Steve Rubel, a public relations expert in New York City, says that attention is
the most important currency anyone can give a business, and that attention is worth more than revenue or possessions. []{#chapter006.xhtml_pg97 .pagebreak}In an age of information
--- almost every piece of knowledge in the world is immediately available on computers we keep in our pockets --- the vastness of what's available to learn, read, listen to, or
watch causes a scarcity of attention. Every business everywhere wants a piece of this attention, both online and off. The new "attention-as-currency" may stem from how the world
has changed since the industrial revolution, which had led to sellers making all the rules. Now buyers dictate what they want, how they want it, and when. And if they aren't happy
with one seller, they simply take to the internet and post their dissatisfaction, sometimes with reach greater than the seller's. For example, when blogger Amber Karnes tweeted
that Urban Outfitters stole a design of an independent visual artist, her comment was quickly retweeted by other accounts with a total reach of 1.3 million followers, and then
subsequently picked up by the *Huffington Post*, causing Urban Outfitters to [lose 17,000 followers within hours](chapter006_notes.xhtml_ch_en1){#chapter006.xhtml_ch-en1} (and no
doubt having a lasting negative impact on its brand). As we'll also see in [Chapter 10](#chapter010.xhtml), attention can be instantly lost when trust is broken. Our own minds are
not always focused on our current tasks and can wander 46.9 percent of the time, according to research from Daniel Gilbert and Matthew Killingsworth, who studied 5,000 participants
across eighty-three countries of ranging ages and socioeconomic status. If we ourselves rarely pay full attention to what we do, how can a business hope to gain attention long
enough to convert a person into a customer? Or even have that person simply notice their business? In other words, how can companies of one, operating with the idea that less can
be better, grab the attention required to profit and thrive? According to best-selling business author Sally Hogshead, the answer lies in developing fascination --- an intense
captivation and focus on a person or business. Her research on this subject, []{#chapter006.xhtml_pg98 .pagebreak}published in fourteen languages, involved more than 125,000
participants over ten years. What Sally has looked at is how businesses and people can leverage attention over others. By measuring how the world sees us, she's been able to
determine how we can be fascinating to our ideal customers. Sally contends that the key is to unlearn being boring. That is, you need to learn how to elicit a strong emotional
response to your business, and the personality of your brand, because while it's easy to forget or lose interest in information, it's much harder to forget strong emotion. You can
do this by allowing your business to have some aspect of your own innate personality or quirks. Fascination in a product or service builds an emotional connection, and emotional
connections hold attention. As a result of her research, Sally has compiled a twenty-eight-question personality test that, instead of explaining how you see yourself, explains how
the world sees you. When I took the test, for academic curiosity's sake, the results showed that I'm a "Provocateur." This seems correct and in line with how I showcase my own
brand's personality: I dislike authority and the status quo and enjoy trying new contrarian business ideas. This personality bleeds through in my writing, my sales pages for
products, and even when I'm interviewed for podcasts. So I build fascination in my own audience by leaning on provoking others with ideas. In an interview Sally did with Marie
Forleo, she spoke about the tendency of large companies to be the vanilla ice cream of their market --- they project a personality that's universally acceptable, but bland. For a
company of one, being vanilla isn't going to allow you or your work to stand out. Companies of one have to be the pistachio ice cream of their market. For better or worse, people
either absolutely love pistachio or can't stand its flavor and weird green color. For its loyal fans, pistachio ice cream stands out, demands attention, and charges a premium. Just
like Excalibur Screwbolts does with its products. Just like Marie using her []{#chapter006.xhtml_pg99 .pagebreak}personality to captivate audiences in her videos with lots of chair
dancing and funny stories. These are all examples of gaining attention by using and featuring personality, not by shying away from it. Fascination is the response when you take
what makes you interesting, unique, quirky, and different and communicate it. When you start to understand how the world sees your business, you can amplify that understanding by
featuring the specific traits that make you, you. When you own and harness aspects of your personality strategically, you can use them as a competitive advantage in a crowded
marketplace --- like an artisanal bucket of pistachio ice cream that people will gladly pay \$25 for (instead of going with the \$4 tub of vanilla). Don't just ask consumers to pay
attention to your business. Instead, start doing the kinds of unique and unusual things that attract attention in order to make your business distinct. ##### NEUTRALITY CAN BE
COSTLY {#chapter006.xhtml_com0000290 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} It can be scary to draw that line in the sand --- especially when it's your business and livelihood. Doing so
immediately alienates certain people or entire groups. But taking a stand is important because you become a beacon for those individuals who are your people, your tribe, and your
audience. When you hoist your viewpoint up like a flag, people know where to find you; it becomes a rallying point. Displaying your perspective lets prospective (and current)
customers know that you don't just sell your products or services. *You do it for a specific reason.* The best marketing is never just about selling a product or service, but about
taking a stand --- showing an audience why they should believe in what you're marketing enough to want it at any cost, simply because they agree with what you're doing. Products
can be changed or adjusted if they aren't functioning, but rallying []{#chapter006.xhtml_pg100 .pagebreak}points align with the values and meaning behind what you do. These bold
statements are impossible to ignore and make clear that your work is more than the work, that you have a serious reason for doing it in the first place. Derek Sivers, the former
CEO of CDBaby, says that we should proudly exclude people, because we can't please everyone. That way, when someone hears our message directed specifically at them and no one else,
they'll be drawn toward our message (and will pay attention). It's like creating messaging for pistachio ice cream lovers while poking fun at boring vanilla. Tom Fishburne, from
[Chapter 1](#chapter001.xhtml), says that there's power in polarization. If we try to appeal to everyone, we won't appeal to anyone in particular, muddying our message. Creating
indifference or simply being another boring small company in a crowded marketplace just won't serve you well as a company of one. The "poster child" for polarization is Marmite,
the classic yeast food spread from the United Kingdom. Marmite's tagline is "You either love it or hate it," a message it's been tapping successfully for twenty years. Guy
Kawasaki, the well-known marketing specialist and venture capitalist, also thinks that we shouldn't be afraid of polarization. Large companies search for the "Holy Grail" of
products that appeal to every demographic, socioeconomic background, and geographical location, but this "one size fits all" approach rarely works and often leads to mediocrity
(and vanilla ice cream). Instead, Kawasaki believes, we should create products that make specifically identified groups of people very happy and [ignore everyone
else](chapter006_notes.xhtml_ch_en2){#chapter006.xhtml_ch-en2}. The worst-case scenario is inciting no passionate reactions from anyone --- no one caring enough about a product to
talk about it at all, either positively or negatively. The idea that we should be able to infinitely scale attention for what we create to everyone can quickly become our downfall
--- []{#chapter006.xhtml_pg101 .pagebreak}the same kind of downfall waiting for those startups that attempt to infinitely scale customers and staff much too quickly. Expanding too
quickly and for too large an audience often spells doom. Being unique, different, and unusual can have a polarizing effect on your potential audience. But that isn't always bad.
Just Mayo, a product from the company Hampton Creek, is very polarizing, even though it's "just" mayonnaise. It's been getting a swath of media attention from lawsuits, SEC
investigations, lobbying efforts, and even CEO death threats --- making it even more popular to both fans and investors alike. Just Mayo is mayonnaise without eggs. Its egglessness
was why big-food behemoth Unilever, makers of Hellmann's Mayo, sued Hampton Creek, alleging false advertising because its product didn't contain eggs, an ingredient "required" for
mayonnaise according to the Food and Drug Administration legal definition. (The fact that there's a government agency that defines legal ingredients for condiments is also
baffling.) Unilever sued because it was losing a sizable market share to this much smaller and nimbler startup. There were also unsigned and fraudulent letters to major retailers
that carried Just Mayo, alleging that the product contained salmonella and listeria; in response, Target pulled Just Mayo from its shelves. The FDA cleared the company and said
that those claims were unsubstantiated. But the controversy didn't end with lawsuits and letters: the American Egg Board and the U.S. Department of Agriculture began conspiring to
[hire journalists to denigrate](chapter006_notes.xhtml_ch_en3){#chapter006.xhtml_ch-en3} Just Mayo and its CEO, Joshua Tetrick. This campaign climaxed with this statement from a
now-public-record email exchange: "Can we pool our money to put a hit on him?" By being polarizing with its eggless mayonnaise, Hampton Creek disrupted the entire mayonnaise
industry. The ensuing controversy and legal battle only made its brand more desirable []{#chapter006.xhtml_pg102 .pagebreak}to its audience. In the end, Unilever not only dropped
the lawsuit but, in a huge about-face, launched its own certified vegan, eggless "mayo" a few years later. To be a polarizing company of one, you can look to three strategies. The
first is *placation*: trying to change the minds of the so-called haters, those individuals who don't like your product. General Mills did this in 2008 by creating low-carb and
gluten-free cake mixes, amid rising concerns over obesity and gluten sensitivities. Within three years, the number of customers who vocally disliked their mixes had dropped
significantly. The second strategy is *prodding*: by intentionally antagonizing haters, you may sway neutral customers into becoming supporters if they agree with your polarizing
stance. Finally, the third strategy is *amplification:* singling out a characteristic and leaning heavily on it. Marmite, already polarizing in its "love it or hate it" stance,
released Marmite XO, an extra-strength version of the flavor. The company invited thirty of its best customers (found through social media) to a tasting and set up a Facebook group
for the event. The promotion gleaned over 50,000 visits to the company website and over 300,000 Facebook page views. Marmite XO sold out quickly after reaching shelves. WestJet, a
highly successful Canadian airline, has taken direct aim at United Airlines' troubles with overbooking, which were highlighted when a video of a United passenger being dragged off
a flight went viral. WestJet's latest marketing campaign is simply "We don't overbook," complete with the hashtag *#OwnersCare*. (WestJet brags that its passengers are all
technically owners of the airline.) Memorable stories are often driven by a protagonist fighting against an antagonist, giving the audience someone to root for and to root against.
After all, there's no *Star Wars* without Darth Vader. The same can occur in business: since our brains are wired for relating to and remembering good stories and epic
[]{#chapter006.xhtml_pg103 .pagebreak}struggles, a company that isn't telling a compelling story can devolve into boring and forgettable vanilla ice cream. As a small business or
one that isn't aiming to grow rapidly, you can use polarization to provide an avenue for reaching your potential audience --- without massive advertising spends or paid user
acquisition --- by getting people talking. Think back to before Apple was a monolith in the tech industry, when it was a tiny company going up against the giant IBM. In a
now-famous Apple television advertisement --- an homage to George Orwell's classic book *1984* --- a hero battles against conformity and "Big Brother." The ad was so controversial
and different from all the other ads at the time that all the cable news outlets picked it up after it first aired and re-aired it for free as a news story. By being different,
Apple ended up selling \$3.5 million worth of its new Macintoshes just after the ad first ran. In my own business, the stance I take on business and even social issues puts some
people off. For every email I send to my weekly newsletter, I get a handful of critical replies, ranging from the standard internet vitriol to comments such as "I don't want to buy
anything from you because you believe in \[fill in the blank\]." This is actually a good thing, as I don't want to have customers who are so angry or who complain so readily; if
they paid for one of my products, I'd have to offer them technical or customer support. Their opting out of what I have to say and never buying anything from me is a win-win. When
I get an email along those lines, I always check to see if the person who wrote it has ever been a paying customer of mine; the answer is always no. The bottom line is that I'm
happy that my audience, in effect, vets itself. That way I can focus more time and energy on my paying and vetted potential customers. These days consumers buy and make choices
often based on alignment with their own values. By not focusing on infinite []{#chapter006.xhtml_pg104 .pagebreak}growth or assuming that more is better, a company of one can focus
on making its products better align with the values of a smaller, more specific group of people, and then market directly to their needs and viewpoints. That way, if others outside
that group hate what you do or what you stand for, it doesn't matter --- you're not going after them as customers in the first place. Instead, you're drawing your own niche market
closer by showing them your understanding and sympathy for how they see the world. People can copy skills, expertise, and knowledge, which are all replicable with enough time and
effort. What's not replicable is who you truly are --- your style, your personality, your sense of activism, and your unique way of finding creative solutions to complicated
problems. So lean on that in your work. Sell your *way of thinking* as much as you would a commodity. Polarization can shorten a sales cycle because it forces customers into a
quicker binary choice, to decided yes or no. After all, it's hard to make money from maybes. To build and maintain your company of one, the sooner you learn how to distinguish your
company's profile in a positive way, the sooner you will be able to find your precise audience and sustain your business. You need to be more aware of who you are and then
strategically highlight the innate and unique aspects of your personality to ensure that your business keeps and holds the attention of your customers. ##### BEGIN TO THINK ABOUT:
{#chapter006.xhtml_com0000309 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} [■]{.bulletorn} How you could infuse your own distinct and unique personality into your products and company image
[■]{.bulletorn} Where you could lean on what makes your business or product quirky or different to garner attention in the market []{#chapter007.xhtml} ##
[]{#chapter007.xhtml_pg105 .pagebreak}7 {#chapter007.xhtml_com0000312 .EB04MainHeadClosedNum} ## The One Customer {#chapter007.xhtml_com0000313 .EB04MainHeadClosedTitle} There are
a handful of restaurants I eat at where the staff remember my name and what I typically order. (They don't even need to bring me the menu.) The owner comes out at some point to
chat a little, not to see if I want another drink or dessert, but just to catch up. Sometimes, when a new item is added to the menu, they'll bring over a plate of it, for free,
looking for feedback. If my order is ever wrong, which is rare, they either provide more food or take something off the bill --- without me saying anything other than that the
order wasn't quite right. With service like that, I eat at these places very regularly. If friends are in town, that's where we go. Sure, the food is great, but the fact that I'm
treated well at these restaurants --- like their most important customer --- matters more in making me a regular and long-term patron. It's a great feeling when an employee or
business owner goes out of their way to be helpful. There's something quite memorable about a personal touch, or a business taking ownership of a problem and going out of its way
to fix it. This isn't a chapter on simply being a good business to the people who pay you because it's the right thing to do. There's overwhelming evidence that treating customers
well, as if they're your one and only customer, drives value to your bottom line. []{#chapter007.xhtml_pg106 .pagebreak}In short, helping your customers succeed and providing
amazing service are good for business. A recent Harris Interactive survey showed that nine out of ten Americans were willing to spend more with companies that exhibited [great
customer service](chapter007_notes.xhtml_ch_en1){#chapter007.xhtml_ch-en1}. The same survey showed that 79 percent of people bailed on a transaction or did not buy what they
intended to because of a poor customer service experience. A study done by the White House Office of Consumer Affairs found that loyal customers, on average, were worth up to ten
times as much as their first purchase. There's also the hidden cost of negative experiences --- Ruby Newell-Legner, a twenty-five-year student of customer happiness, found that
only 4 percent of customers actually voice their dissatisfaction to a business: a whopping 91 percent of dissatisfied customers simply don't ever return. And with online reviews
and social media, bad customer service tends to be talked about much more than praise for good customer service --- the internet loves to turn into a mob against companies that
don't help or that wrong their customers. With these stats in mind, it's puzzling that some growth-centric companies care more about new customer acquisition than retention or
customer happiness. Just as Kate O'Neill found with her work for Magazines.com ([Chapter 4](#chapter004.xhtml)), acquiring new customers costs far more than renewing customers (6
to 7 percent more, according to the White House study just cited). Making renewals is often a far more important metric to measure, but they won't happen unless your customers are
loyal enough to want to renew. The obsession of some companies with growth and acquisition --- with chasing a supposedly ever-growing number of users --- becomes something of a
vanity metric to tout on their homepage or in investor slide decks. But the cost of rapid user acquisition is incredibly high --- so much so that it usually results in less overall
profit. Being a profit-focused company of one (fewer expenses increase revenue just as much as more profits do), you can forgo vapid user expansion at any price and concentrate
instead []{#chapter007.xhtml_pg107 .pagebreak}on retaining, pleasing, and helping your customers. In the long run, this approach costs far less and aids your company far more. A
company of one has one massive asset when it comes to customer service: it can be delivered in a way that doesn't scale. A restaurant owner can remember my name and dinner order
because she works the front of the house and has one location, with regular staff. Just like Charlie Bickford, who's the CEO of Excalibur Screwbolts but still regularly answers the
phone at his small office. Or Basecamp's founders, who answer technical support requests. Relationships, when the company is smaller, can be built with regular and loyal customers,
and those personal relationships can keep them loyal and happy. As companies of one, we are very much in the people-serving business. It's critical that we listen to each of our
customers and take full ownership in making sure they are pleased with our service level and then successful in their own lives. Customer service is a huge differentiating factor
in why people choose the places where they want to spend their money. If you serve your customers well, they in turn become brand evangelists for your company: basically an unpaid
sales force that reduces your need to hire more staff. CDBaby, a service that lets independent musicians sell their music on platforms for iTunes, has a policy that, from 7:00 AM
to 10:00 PM, every customer support call will be picked up by a real person within two rings. They have no voice mail or routing systems, and the phone can be answered by anyone
from the CEO to the people in the warehouse. (Everyone is trained to help customers.) CDBaby focuses on treating its customers like friends, and friends don't route their personal
phone number to an automated system that says, "Your call is important to us, please continue to hold." Similarly, the folks at Basecamp try to answer every support request within
fifteen minutes --- regardless of the time of day or night. []{#chapter007.xhtml_pg108 .pagebreak}Good customer service isn't about simply achieving the norms of courtesy. Being
prompt, answering questions, and treating customers with respect shouldn't be rewarded --- such service should be expected. Where companies of one can thrive and stand out is in
*exceeding those expectations*, through personal touches, building reciprocity, and treating customers like they're very important (hint: they are). ##### THE SECOND WAVE
{#chapter007.xhtml_com0000325 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} Customer service over the last few years has gone through a bit of a renaissance. In the past, supporting and servicing
customers were thought of as a cost, and in business it makes sense to cut costs as much as possible in order to increase profits. In this old way of thinking, automations were
heavily leaned upon, from complex phone trees ("press 8, then 4, then 6, then 234, then the pound key to speak with an agent") to customer message boards and self-help automated
services like online knowledge bases. The problem with this kind of approach was that, however much money it saved a company, it actually created unneeded barriers between the
company and customers with a problem, forcing them to attempt to solve it themselves, often to their great frustration. Today's second wave of customer service as practiced by some
organizations --- and it should be the customer service delivered by all companies of one --- focuses on emotion and ease. A study from McKinsey showed that 70 percent of buying
experiences are based more on how customers feel they are treated and [less on the tangibles of a product](chapter007_notes.xhtml_ch_en2){#chapter007.xhtml_ch-en2}. The feeling of
being treated exceptionally well can only increase in the context of a second purchase or a subscription renewal, because the customer has already developed a feeling about how the
first purchase went or how any support requests were handled. This second wave of customer service bets that providing a []{#chapter007.xhtml_pg109 .pagebreak}positive emotional
experience for each customer will create more wins and higher profits. If you treat your customers like they're your one and only customer, they'll reciprocate that love for your
brand by not only continuing to do business with you, but telling their own networks to do so as well. Instead of treating customer service like a cost or expense, you can view it
as an investment in retention and acquisition, because you're essentially building a customer sales force through your support staff. If customer happiness is the goal of customer
service, your support center can become the main source of referrals. Referrals are a powerful way to gain new customers --- research done by SmallBizTrends found that a staggering
83 percent of new business comes from [word-of-mouth referrals](chapter007_notes.xhtml_ch_en3){#chapter007.xhtml_ch-en3}. The best way to get customers talking about your business
to people they know is to make sure they're happy with what you're doing for them and how you're providing help if they need it. You don't get referrals by just meeting the
standard expectations of customer service --- people rarely find it worth mentioning to others that a company did just enough to help them but nothing more. You have to do much
more than that to evangelize customers if you want them to talk about your company favorably. A great example is a now-infamous story from the tech world about a customer service
call to RackSpace, an enterprise-level cloud hosting provider. The call center rep heard someone in the background of a support call mention that he was hungry and wonder about
ordering something. She quietly put the customer on hold, ordered a pizza to be delivered to the address she had on file, and went back to assisting the customer with his problem.
Twenty minutes later, still on the phone with the customer, she heard a knock in the background and told him to go answer the door, saying, "It's your pizza." The pleasant
unexpected experience led to not only a very happy (and full) customer but also a story that would be shared thousands of times online. This is the kind of customer service
[]{#chapter007.xhtml_pg110 .pagebreak}that builds reciprocity: your customer gets something unexpected and then feels the need to [help your
business](chapter007_notes.xhtml_ch_en4){#chapter007.xhtml_ch-en4}, not only by remaining loyal but also by telling others. Referrals work because they build *trust by proxy.* A
referral is credible because someone you trust is telling you that they trust a certain company or product. And since you trust the person telling you, that sense of trust is
instant and immediate with the company or product as well. Joel Klettke, an in-demand freelance writer, says that 80 to 90 percent of his good leads for potential clients come from
word of mouth. When he's recommended by someone else, he's found that those leads come with healthy expectations for a project and the costs involved, as well as the assumption
that he's an expert (not just a paid technician). Joel doesn't have to spend time or resources on sales pitches with these referrals, since they're already sold on working with
him. He just has to determine whether the project is a good fit. In my own service-based business, all of my leads came from word of mouth as well. Early on, I decided that instead
of spending time and money on marketing and outbound sales campaigns, I'd invest those resources instead in making sure every client was absolutely happy about having decided to
hire me. Happy clients then did sales pitches for me, unasked, by telling everyone they knew that I was the person to hire for design work. For over a decade (until I moved away
from services into products), these word-of-mouth referrals created a waiting list a few months long. Even product businesses like Trello --- a SaaS (software as a service) that
lets you collaborate on projects online --- have grown their reach and customer numbers, mostly through word of mouth. Trello has had 100 percent organic growth (i.e., no paid ads)
to more than ten million users simply because people talk about its product, often, and in places visible to large groups of people, like social media or blogs. Trello has even
developed fun []{#chapter007.xhtml_pg111 .pagebreak}games (that loosely relate to their product, like "Taco Out") that help create shareable moments. With the core of their product
being a free version, Trello can convert people who find out about it into customers with not much extra effort. Coupled with the ease of use and helpfulness of its software,
Trello's massive (unpaid) sales force of customers tells everyone they know about this software. ##### LISTENING AND UNDERSTANDING: A LITTLE GOES A LONG WAY
{#chapter007.xhtml_com0000335 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} Kate Leggett of Forrester Research found that keeping customers happy and helping them succeed reduce churn, increase the
likelihood of repeat business, and even help in winning new business. In other words, when your customers win, you do too. In truth, your customers don't care if your business is
profitable --- but if you help them become profitable too, they'll never leave you. Helping your customers as individuals requires as much empathy and care as it does to sell
whatever it is you're offering them. You have to be able to understand your customers and their needs to serve them effectively. Lady Geek, a London-based consultancy, developed an
["empathy index"](chapter007_notes.xhtml_ch_en5){#chapter007.xhtml_ch-en5} (published in the *Harvard Business Review*) that combines publicly available information and proprietary
data to rank global companies based on how empathetic they are --- toward both their customers and their own employees. The five most profitable companies on the index rank at the
top of the empathy scale. For example, number-three LinkedIn (with an empathy score of 98.82) is not afraid to go where its users are, even if that's a rival platform like Twitter,
which ranks twenty-fourth (with an empathy score of 86.47). This approach illustrates that LinkedIn puts the needs, interests, and choices of its customers above its own business
objectives --- which pays off by increasing LinkedIn's bottom line. []{#chapter007.xhtml_pg112 .pagebreak}The more you understand your customers --- their needs, wants,
motivations, and desires --- the more you can feel with them and the better you can serve them. This kind of customer service is more than just the lip-service corporate speak of
"you matter to us." This is customer service that takes specific actions and puts strategies into place that begin with listening and move toward understanding. There's a common
misconception that empathy is for weak, nonprofit, hippie-lifestyle businesses, but in fact it's a most useful tool to drive real profit. This comes down to several simple facts:
the more you understand your customers, the more you can tailor and position products that provide real value to them, the more you can help them with support requests, and the
more you can learn from them, because customers understand buyers better than you do. After all, they are buyers. The first step in treating customers empathetically is listening
to their needs; with this knowledge, we can drive innovations or new product ideas. MIT's Eric von Hippel has produced a substantial body of research showing that a resounding
number of profitable innovations within companies have originated with customers --- more than 60 percent. With this research in hand, 3M's Medical-Surgical Markets Division tried
to fix its poor innovation record in the 1990s by creating some new products based on information from "lead users." Within five years, the results were quite dramatic: the
division was bringing in \$146 million in average revenue from user-lead innovations, compared to \$18 million in average revenue from [internally led
innovations](chapter007_notes.xhtml_ch_en6){#chapter007.xhtml_ch-en6}. Understanding customers requires not just providing exceptional handling of their support requests but then
gaining a bigger-picture idea about the types of questions and requests that are coming in. Even in a company of one, it's important to recognize the general theme of each request
and to manage it in a way that makes patterns and clues in the data discernible later on. It helps []{#chapter007.xhtml_pg113 .pagebreak}to see patterns by organizing all feedback
and suggestions in a central location. For example, if you find that support requests are primarily on a certain topic, maybe you could do a better job of teaching users about that
