topic. And if a handful of requests on a certain topic continue to come up again and again, perhaps that topic can be the basis of your next user-led innovation initiative. Best
Buy is a stellar example of a company that doesn't just listen to customers but actually takes time to understand customer feedback and put it to use. The company shares customer
reviews on its website with vendors to encourage them to improve their products based on what customers want. Best Buy also rewards many customers who provide feedback by giving
them incentives and discounts on store purchases. Sometimes empathy in larger companies takes the form of refusing to let bureaucratic red tape get in the way of helping a
customer. A few years ago, an elderly man was snowed in and stranded in his rural Pennsylvania home during the holidays. When his out-of-town daughter found out, she began calling
grocery stores in his area to see if any would deliver food to him, since he didn't have enough to weather the storm. After calling several stores --- none of which offered home
delivery as a service --- she called Trader Joe's. The employee said that it was not Trader Joe's policy to deliver, nor was it a service they typically provided, but given the
extreme circumstances they'd gladly get food delivered to her father. After she provided a list, the employee even suggested additional items that would fit her father's low-sodium
diet. When it came time to arrange payment for the order, the employee said not to worry about it --- the order and delivery would be free of charge --- and to have a happy
holiday. Thirty minutes later, the order was at her father's house, having cost nothing. Empathy in business can sometimes mean just being a caring human being. Like the pizza
delivery story, this story captivates us because it []{#chapter007.xhtml_pg114 .pagebreak}reminds us that some companies are less interested in "business as usual" and their bottom
line than in keeping customers happy and taking care of them as fellow human beings. Even though most companies say that customers are their top priority, it's uncommonly rare to
see that idea put into practice. But in going far beyond the extra mile, this kind of extraordinary service turns customers into loyal and raving fans. These are the kinds of
stories that get shared, and being talked about far and wide can only benefit a business. In short, customer happiness is the new marketing. If your customers feel that you are
taking care of them, then they'll stick around and they'll tell others. This is the precise way in which companies of one can compete with behemoths in their market --- by
outsupporting them. It's much harder to compete with bigger companies on aspects like volume, low prices, or logistics. But it's much easier as a smaller business to compete on the
personal touches --- going the extra mile and treating customers like humans, not numbers. That's a major advantage for any company of one. ##### SUCCESSFUL CUSTOMERS BUILD
SUCCESSFUL BUSINESSES {#chapter007.xhtml_com0000347 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} Since financial success (i.e., profit) ensures longevity, most business owners naturally spend a great
deal of time thinking about how they can make their businesses more successful. But what most business owners or even team leaders often fail to consider is their customers'
success. After all, your successful customer has the financial means to continue to support your business, which in turn increases your profit. So your customers' success leads to
your business succeeding as well. When a company looks at customers as impersonal transactions or orders, it's easy for that relationship to devolve into one
[]{#chapter007.xhtml_pg115 .pagebreak}focused on how much money can be made from them with the least amount of money spent. But a company that believes customers represent
relationships that can be both mutually beneficial and long-term succeeds when its customers succeed. Adam Waid, the director of the Customer Success Department at SalesForce
Pardot, doesn't want to take chances with helping customers find wins. In fact, Customer Success --- devoted to providing training, implementation assistance, best-practice
recommendations, and ongoing support --- is the company's largest department. This effort has made SalesForce Pardot the [number-one most innovative
company](chapter007_notes.xhtml_ch_en7){#chapter007.xhtml_ch-en7} according to *Forbes* magazine, and its customers have seen an average 34 percent increase in sales revenue
through the help offered by its Customer Success Department. Cindy Carson, the director of Customer Success at UserIQ, believes that the most successful customers are those who
start off on the right footing, with tailored onboarding processes. Her team even looks at each customer's user case for their software to fully understand how UserIQ can benefit
them the most; then they provide segmented training that highlights the specifics that will help each customer gain wins. Growth often happens organically in a customer-first
approach, based on realized profits, because even though you're entirely focusing on customers' success, the by-product is growth in your customer base from their slow and steady
evolution into your sales force. Jeff Sheldon, who runs Ugmonk, a boutique clothing line for designers, is obsessed with quality --- in both the products he creates and sells and
the support his customers receive. If a shirt doesn't fit quite right or something is wrong with an order, he'll ship a new shirt right away and not even require that the wrong
order be sent back. Because Ugmonk takes care of them, customers take care of Ugmonk by routinely posting links to the company []{#chapter007.xhtml_pg116 .pagebreak}on social
media, with photos of them wearing Ugmonk clothes. Sheldon receives a lot of free publicity from industry influencers and magazines talking about Ugmonk and his obsession with the
quality of his products. Focusing on customer success is a mentality and a way of doing business for a company of one that encompasses all aspects of a business. It begins before a
product is even created, with planning to make sure everything is done correctly and is of the best quality. This way of doing business includes customer education (which we'll
talk about in [Chapter 9](#chapter009.xhtml)) to improve their skill set and foster their success. Some companies view some customers as too small to matter, especially when it
comes to success. But if you take this shortsighted view, you may wrongly assume that your customer's situation or size won't ever change. After all, your own company of one, with
its focus on being better rather than bigger, might also be thought of as "too small to matter" by the companies where you're a customer. In adopting this kind of mind-set, you
lose sight of your own customers' long-term strategic importance and loyalty. A customer who pays \$10 a month for a service and sticks around for ten years is worth a lot more
than a customer who pays \$100 a month but cancels your service after only a few months. Smaller businesses can also wield a lot of influence, since they can easily amass large
followings on social media and massive mailing lists (both of which can scale your company with no need to grow). Finally, to be the most helpful to your customers, you sometimes
have to look beyond the problems they're presenting to you. The underlying reason customers are asking for help is often not obvious: sometimes they're looking for specific
answers, but sometimes they're asking for a certain feature without even being aware that's what they're doing. For example, when I was doing web design, clients would often want
me to design a site []{#chapter007.xhtml_pg117 .pagebreak}that, in their words, would simply look great. Over time, though, I realized that wasn't the main reason most customers
wanted to hire me: what they really wanted was a site that would look great but also generate more revenue. When I changed my sales pitch and began speaking about how good design
could help a potential customer achieve more profit, the number of projects I landed from sales calls more than doubled. Listening to what your customers really need and want is
key for companies of one. ##### WHEN THINGS GO WRONG (AND THINGS ARE GOING TO GO WRONG) {#chapter007.xhtml_com0000358 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} It's not a matter of if, it's a
matter of when. Every business has so many moving parts, so many places to interact with customers, and is typically so reliant on at least a few suppliers or partners that
mistakes can and will sometimes happen. Trying to avoid mistakes at all costs, or pretending that mistakes never happen, is not a viable strategy. More realistic is having a plan
for when they do happen. Just as the transparency discussed in [Chapter 3](#chapter003.xhtml) is important internally for both leaders and employees, it's equally important to be
transparent outwardly with your customers. That doesn't mean sharing everything, but it does mean being open about your company's relevant highs and lows, as they could have an
effect on your customer relationship. If your business has been treating customers empathetically, they'll tend to be more understanding when things go wrong --- but only if you
immediately work to fix or resolve issues. You have to *own your mistakes* --- even those caused by someone else --- by taking personal responsibility for them before someone else
blames you for them. The first step is apologizing like a real, empathetic human, not a corporate PR-sounding robot. []{#chapter007.xhtml_pg118 .pagebreak}Customers don't expect
perfect --- they just expect problems to be dealt with fairly, empathetically, and quickly. A few years ago, the vendor I used to collect payment from my customers had a software
bug that double-charged dozens of people. They ended up paying \$600 for a \$300 product, which none of them were happy about (to say the least). It felt like the worst-case
scenario: I was taking more money from my customers than they had agreed to pay for my product. Although technically it was the software vendor's fault, since it was their software
that had a bug in it, I took full responsibility --- because it was my company's name on the store that sold the product. I immediately emailed every single person affected ---
even those who didn't yet realize they'd been double-charged --- and informed them of the steps I was taking to prevent the mistake from happening again (switching vendors, at
great cost to my company in time and money) and my plan to return their money as quickly as possible. I ended the email with my phone number in case they had questions or concerns.
Of the dozens of customers affected, only two asked for full refunds (the \$300 double-charge refund plus the original \$300 cost of the product). Although I definitely had a
couple of irate customers --- and I couldn't blame them for that --- most people were understanding and acknowledged that software can involve bugs. And by taking a hit to my
bottom line and absorbing the costs of switching vendors, I helped secure my customers' confidence that I was working toward making things right. What I learned from this
experience was the importance of treating my customers the way I'd want to be treated if the situation had been reversed. I couldn't have done that by either "ostriching" (sticking
my head in the sand and hoping not many customers would notice the blip of a double-charge followed by a refund) or saving money by continuing with the bug-filled vendor software.
The long-term strategy []{#chapter007.xhtml_pg119 .pagebreak}of keeping loyal customers who were happy with my product trumped the short-term cash loss. Some companies don't allow
employees to apologize in any way because they fear the legal consequences of admitting fault. Unfortunately, this approach can make customers angry, especially if all they want is
to hear someone owning a mistake. This book is definitely not offering legal advice, but it's worth noting here the 2015 *New York Times* report that doctors who are transparent
about errors and offer apologies to patients are actually sued [far less for malpractice](chapter007_notes.xhtml_ch_en8){#chapter007.xhtml_ch-en8} than doctors who deny wrongdoing
and defend mistakes. Two years after the University of Illinois adopted this practice of transparency, with full apologies, its malpractice filings dropped by half. A separate
study by Nottingham University found that in most cases apologizing costs nothing --- companies that simply apologize for mistakes and work to fix them fare better even than
companies that offer financial compensation. Acknowledgment of fault is powerful. It shows empathy, a willingness to own the problem, and a desire to then fix it. And as the
studies cited here all found, apologizing effectively can cost dramatically less than a lawsuit or a refund. But an apology doesn't work if you're not genuinely sorry --- most
people can sense a disingenuous corporate "sorry." Before you respond, give yourself time to understand the situation and fully listen to the complaint. This usually involves
validating a customer's wronged feelings, being transparent about what happened, and clearly detailing how you'll fix the problem and ensure that it doesn't happen again. Companies
of one need to turn complaints into opportunities to do better and use them to attempt to build closer relationships with the customers who stick around. A company that doesn't
both listen to and understand complaints does so at its peril. For []{#chapter007.xhtml_pg120 .pagebreak}example, in 2011 Netflix ignored its customers' requests and split apart
its DVD and streaming businesses, effectively increasing its prices by 40 percent. As a result of that strictly cost-saving move (and not listening to their customers), Netflix
stock fell to half its previous value, the company lost 800,000 customers, and it was soon ranked as [one of the ten most-hated companies in
America](chapter007_notes.xhtml_ch_en9){#chapter007.xhtml_ch-en9}, based on a survey done by *24/7WallSt.* These days, of course, most consumers take to social media to complain
about mistakes or missteps by companies. A study done by Liel Leibovitz, a communications professor at New York University, found that 88 percent of consumers were less likely to
buy from a company that didn't answer support requests on social media. And for customers who took to social media to voice their concerns about a product they had purchased, 45
percent said that they'd be mad if they received no response and 27 percent said that they would completely stop doing business with that company. We have to pay attention to our
customers in the places where they're spending their time --- on Facebook and Twitter. ##### YOUR WORD IS A CONTRACT {#chapter007.xhtml_com0000369 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead}
Nicholas Epley, a professor of behavioral science at the University of Chicago Business School, says that maintaining good business relationships with customers doesn't require
superhuman efforts. Rather, you simply need to do what you say you'll do and customers will be grateful. Nicholas says that people tend to evaluate each other based on two general
dimensions: how interpersonally warm we appear to be, and how competent we seem to be. His work suggests that the way to be positively assessed by others is by making promises, and
then keeping them. This advice is especially important []{#chapter007.xhtml_pg121 .pagebreak}to companies that serve customers, since customers who are treated with warmth,
understanding, and competence turn into loyal customers. As a company of one, you have to be very careful in what you tell your customers, or even potential customers, because your
word is your social contract with them. It doesn't do you any good to overpromise the effectiveness of your products or pitch false information, even unintentionally. In these days
when almost all information is available online, you need to be clear about what your business does and how you do it. Is your data secure? Are your overseas factories safe and
paying fair wages? Did your car rank well on Insurance Institute for Highway Safety crash tests? Are the companies in your socially responsible exchange-traded funds lobbying
against environmental concerns? Several studies, like one done by Luigi Zingales of the University of Chicago, have shown that businesses with a culture of keeping their word are
much more profitable than those that go back on their word or only say things that [don't align with their actions](chapter007_notes.xhtml_ch_en10){#chapter007.xhtml_ch-en10}. He
finds that proclaimed values are completely irrelevant without proof that those values are backed by corporate actions. What does it take for a company to keep its promise? And why
do so many businesses fail to keep their promises? This "commitment drift," as Maryam Kouchaki, Elizabeth Doty, and Francesca Gino describe it, is defined as systematic breakdowns
in fulfilling a company's most important commitments to its stakeholders. These researchers believe that commitment drift stems from several factors that are related to a
business's perceived short-term gains and that end up compromising the stated promise. To avoid going back on a promise, a business needs to put a few strategies into practice,
from leadership to customer service reps. The first strategy is to make fewer and better commitments []{#chapter007.xhtml_pg122 .pagebreak}to customers. A business that believes it
should "underpromise and overdeliver" sometimes fails to even simply deliver on par with expectations. Next, a company that isn't tracking its commitments --- for example, through
support system software or by noting promises from leadership --- can easily forget what the original promise was. Finally, having actual processes in place to meet these
commitments is required; assuming that such processes won't be relevant until sometime in the future will only lead to broken promises. By focusing on these three strategies,
companies can learn how to better keep promises to their customers. The best approach is to treat every agreement with a customer (or even an employee) as a legally binding
contract because, on a societal level, that's what it is. If you promise to give someone something at a certain time, then do it, and do it on time. Whether it's a quote or a
deliverable or a customer service response doesn't matter. If you aren't sure whether you can deliver, either say that you can't deliver or negotiate for a longer delivery time so
that you can be sure you will. Anytime you don't keep your word you're not just letting down one person or one business --- you're losing the opportunity to work with every single
contact of that person or business, because you can be sure that they won't ever send business your way. Or worse, they'll tell everyone they know that you don't keep your word. A
broken promise balloons outward, like our ever-expanding universe: you ruin not just your relationship with one potential client or contact but your chance to work with everyone
else they know. Bear all that in mind the next time a problem pops up in your day-to-day business. If you want your company of one to succeed, it's essential to do the right thing
when it comes to owning mistakes and errors. ##### []{#chapter007.xhtml_pg123 .pagebreak}BEGIN TO THINK ABOUT: {#chapter007.xhtml_com0000379 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead}
[■]{.bulletorn} What you could do to ensure that your existing customers feel both happy and acknowledged [■]{.bulletorn} Where you could exceed expectations with your customer
service [■]{.bulletorn} How you could create opportunities for word of mouth and referrals [■]{.bulletorn} How you own and then fix mistakes [■]{.bulletorn} What you could do to
ensure that your customers end up with wins []{#chapter008.xhtml} ## []{#chapter008.xhtml_pg124 .pagebreak}8 {#chapter008.xhtml_com0000385 .EB04MainHeadClosedNum} ## Scalable
Systems {#chapter008.xhtml_com0000386 .EB04MainHeadClosedTitle} If the point of a company of one is to question growth and challenge scale, the answer might sometimes be that
growth is in fact required --- when it aligns with your overall purpose. When growth in profit, customers, or reach is needed, however, companies of one can look to simple and
repeatable systems to facilitate scale, with no need for more employees or resources. Marshall Haas, cofounder of Need/Want, used to think that a company needs to scale in
proportion to the revenue it generates. Thus, a \$100 million business needs to have at least hundreds of employees and several layers of bureaucratic managerial hierarchy. What
he's found in practice, though, is that, with fewer than ten employees, his company can grow very slowly and still increase revenue --- which is currently at nearly \$10 million.
Most people would assume that only tech startups or software companies could manage to scale revenue far quicker than they add employees and expenses, since their products exist in
the ether of the web. But Need/Want, a physical product company that sells everything from bedding to notebooks to iPhone cases, has managed to build a big business with only a
tiny team. Need/Want uses scalable systems and channels to increase profits. They use prepackaged software, Shopify, to run their online []{#chapter008.xhtml_pg125
.pagebreak}store, which can handle anywhere from one order a day to over a million. They stay out of big-box stores, so they don't need a dedicated outside sales team. They don't
do trade shows, and all their marketing efforts stem from a team of three who focus entirely on online channels, like social media, paid ads, and a newsletter (all of which can
increase reach without too many extra resources to manage). Need/Want outsources manufacturing to a factory with which they have a close relationship; it can handle anything from
handfuls of orders to tens of thousands of orders in a day. The company also outsources shipping and fulfillment to a trusted partner. In other words, Need/Want is a perfect
example of a company of one that utilizes scalable systems. Its direct-to-consumer sales model keeps things lean and enables the company to really experiment with the best way to
find and sell to new consumers. The company started when founders Marshall Haas and Jon Wheatley became interested in applying the knowledge they'd acquired from working at tech
firms to physical products. Prior to their partnership, Marshall was making money selling products that you couldn't actually touch (software), and Jon was creating things that
could be touched, but without making any real money (VC-based startups that never got off the ground or made any profits). They treat their company like a tech startup, but instead
of selling software, they sell products, relying heavily on technology, automations, and the scalability of online channels. Their team, even at nearly \$10 million in yearly
revenue, remains small: besides Marshall and Jon, who run the business and handle marketing, there's a head of operations, four support staff (two of whom are part-time), a CFO,
and a developer. When they require more help, they hire freelancers and contractors and outsource until it's cheaper to bring the job in-house. That is, they hire only when it's
too painful or time-consuming not to, or when the salary for []{#chapter008.xhtml_pg126 .pagebreak}a hire could easily be justified by the return on investment. The Need/Want model
is growth based on *realized* profit, not growth based on *potential* profit (the model adopted by most startups or VC-backed companies). They operate out of St. Louis, where it's
far cheaper to rent office space and to live, rather than in a typical startup hub like San Francisco or New York. Because Need/Want's heavy reliance on social media and
newsletters, which are both infinitely scalable systems, creates a one-to-many relationship, the company doesn't need more staff to reach more people. They simply need increasingly
effective messaging and positioning --- which they're always testing with tools like A/B tests in their ad campaigns and email campaigns. A/B tests let a company test a few
variations of a small subset of a list, see which variant performs best, and then send the winning variant to the rest of the list. James Clear --- the author and photographer
introduced in [Chapter 2](#chapter002.xhtml) --- has developed scalable systems in his own business, which creates and promotes digital products. With a mailing list that has more
than 400,000 subscribers and increases by 1,000 new people per week, he could have his pick of goods to create and sell to them. His focus for paid offerings follows two simple
rules that help him remain a company of one (with a single assistant) and serve both the many people in his audience and the people who buy his products. James's first rule is that
his products must take little to no management. The digital courses he sells have no ongoing live webinars or training sessions --- customers merely buy the content and then watch
the prerecorded videos in their own time. His second rule is to charge a onetime fee for everything he offers; he accepts no retainers and no ongoing consulting work. To give a
keynote speech, he'll fly in, give the talk, answer questions, and then be gone the next morning. These two rules help James keep his business small, his overhead and expenses
light, and, []{#chapter008.xhtml_pg127 .pagebreak}most of all, his time freed up to do what he wants to do: researching, writing, and sharing. By creating goods and offering
services that are scalable without any actual major scaling on his part, he's optimized his profitable business for the life he wants. Of course, most people and businesses don't
work backwards like James did. People tend to start with a business model and then become unhappy when their days are filled with tasks they don't enjoy. Instead of thinking, *What
product can I create?* or *What service can I offer*, James believes that we should first think: *What type of life do I want?* and *How do I want to spend my days?* Then you can
work backwards from there into a business model that allows you to create scalable systems to deliver your product to your audience. Let's break all of this down further by looking
at how systems can be put into place to assist companies of one with creation, connection, collaboration, and support. ##### CREATION AS A SCALABLE SYSTEM
{#chapter008.xhtml_com0000399 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} It's not news that companies separate product ideas, marketing, and sales from physical production. If done poorly, this
practice can create problems ranging from low ethical standards and unfair wages to vast amounts of waste as a side effect of manufacturing. In the beginning of separating branding
from production, large companies believed that great fortunes could be made by achieving the lowest common denominator in production, and in recent years that belief has been
propelled by the forces of globalization. According to author and activist Naomi Klein, however, globalization has had negative effects on workers, including poor conditions, [low
salaries, and unfair treatment](chapter008_notes.xhtml_ch_en1){#chapter008.xhtml_ch-en1}. Klein believes that a new movement, one very much in line with the mind-set of companies
of one, is breaking away from global brands with []{#chapter008.xhtml_pg128 .pagebreak}questionable morals that focus on maximizing profits over people, and that this movement will
shift businesses toward slower, smaller, or on-demand strategies, making them more "fair" in all senses of the word. For example, trend-setting companies like Arthur & Henry
advocate for "slow fashion" and encourage customers to wear their clothing longer, and in stages --- first at the office when a garment is fresh and new; then casually on the
weekend, rolling up frayed sleeves; and then, when stains and small tears appear, for garden work. Ideally, the final stage for a worn-out Arthur & Henry garment is use as a rag in
the garage. When we extract every ounce of usefulness from each piece of clothing by reusing it over and over, we get the most out of the work of the farmer, the miller, the
tailor, and the factory employee. Arthur & Henry's metric for success is sustainability in all forms: earning steady revenues, raising money for charities, minimizing environmental
damage, and maximizing benefits to all workers. Another example of a beneficial separation between brand and factory that has resulted in an ethical and profitable scalable system
for a company of one is Girlfriend Collective, founded by Ellie Dinh and Quang Dinh. They sell bras and leggings that are manufactured in Taiwan, using mostly recycled plastic from
used water bottles. Girlfriend Collective advocates for slow fashion and against pumping out large numbers of poorly made products; although its product order wait times can
sometimes be long as a result, customers are happy to wait. The company pays workers 125 percent higher than minimum wage and offers free catered lunches, guided exercise breaks,
health insurance, and free health checkups every six months. Its environmental practices exceed government standards for manufacturing as well as for recycling and waste water
management. Many overseas factories turn out vast numbers of brand-company products, which helps them stay busy and keep costs low: []{#chapter008.xhtml_pg129 .pagebreak}when one
partner company sends in a smaller order, a factory can switch to producing for another company with a larger order. Not tied to any one brand, an overseas factory can work with
any number of partner companies. This practice sometimes slows down production, but it also creates a more sustainable, almost-on-demand system in which production never outweighs
demand. ##### CONNECTION AS A SCALABLE SYSTEM {#chapter008.xhtml_com0000405 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} By constantly working toward reducing one-to-one points of contact with
customers and focusing instead on one-to-many relationships, a company of one can scale its connection with customers without actually scaling its business. Yes, personal touches,
as we saw in [Chapter 7](#chapter007.xhtml), are essential, and direct communication with customers is always required to learn, empathize, adapt, and revise --- yet the majority
of connecting can be done en masse. A perfect example is email marketing. It requires the same amount of effort to send an email to 50,000 people as it does to send that same email
to one person. This is precisely why most companies of one rely heavily on newsletters and email automation: these are powerful tools for building relationships, trust, and even
revenue. With an average [return on investment of 3,800 percent](chapter008_notes.xhtml_ch_en2){#chapter008.xhtml_ch-en2}, according to the Data & Marketing Association, email
marketing is a valid model for scaling without scale. Systems for connections don't work simply by turning them on and watching them increase profits. (This would be like believing
you can plant a real money tree.) Work is required, at the outset and through iteration, to ensure that these systems are functioning optimally. And as discussed in [Chapter
6](#chapter006.xhtml), personality is still required, even with automated customer communication, in order for these systems to be effective. The point of scalable connecting is to
make customers and potential customers feel as though they're getting on-demand information as they need it, []{#chapter008.xhtml_pg130 .pagebreak}not being relegated to an
infinite loop of unhelpful and frustrating computer-generated responses. Using personalization and segmentation in connection channels like email is key. You want to send the right
email, to the right person, at the right time. Otherwise, you may be sending out a firehose blast of messages that may not even be relevant --- like a sales pitch to a customer
who's already purchased the product. Tools like MailChimp are great for filtering and targeting an audience, allowing you to send emails with product pitches only to people who
have not yet purchased the product, or notices of in-store sales only to people who live in the particular geographic location, or up/cross sells only to people who already own the
relevant products. Also, a study done by Campaign Monitor showed that emails with personalized subject lines are [26 percent more likely to be
opened](chapter008_notes.xhtml_ch_en3){#chapter008.xhtml_ch-en3}. The Epsilon Email Institute found that segmented automation emails have a 70.5 percent higher open rate and a 152
percent higher click-through rate than "business as usual" firehose blasts. To increase the effectiveness and the conversion rates of connection channels, you need to do careful
testing. Luckily, systems like email marketing software allow for A/B tests. Similar A/B tests can also be run with marketing messaging on websites to increase engagement and
commerce. In my own business, email marketing accounts for more than 93 percent of revenue each year. It allows me to connect with thousands of people who have opted to receive
updates, education information in the form of articles, and even product pitches. I can write a single email that is instantly delivered to 30,000 people. I can teach 10,000 paying
customers how to use my products without communicating with each of them every day. Newsletter automation can also be used to increase customer education and retention at scale.
Automated emails sent to people []{#chapter008.xhtml_pg131 .pagebreak}immediately after purchase can show these customers how to best use the product they purchased or answer
common customer questions, greatly reducing customer support requests. Automated updates and notes and even simple check-ins with customers after a set amount of time can also
increase the likelihood that customers will keep using the product, as well as the likelihood that they'll tell others about their purchase (for instance, via social media sharing
buttons within the emails). Even companies of one that focus on client services, such as consultants or freelancers, can use automation software to reduce the amount of one-to-one
contact during interactions, whether it's onboarding new customers or following up after a project is finished. Jamie Leigh Hoogendoorn, a designer and student in my "Creative
Class" course, vastly cut down the amount of time she was spending dealing with emails from "tire-kickers." By automating most of her onboarding process with automated emails that
delivered information about her services and prices and setting up a calendar system that let people pick a date and time to speak to her (based on her own calendar's
availability), she cut down the amount of time it took her to take a lead and turn it into a paying project from between eight to sixteen hours to only one hour. Her success rate
for winning bids has increased, since her potential clients get information on her services instantly, instead of having to wait for her to reply to their emails. And Jamie's warm
and stylish personality still shines through in all of the automations she uses. SaaS is becoming more prevalent, and so too are the tools that allow us to spend less time on the
minutiae of operating a company of one and more time on our core work, all while helping us scale our reach or profit with no need to also scale our time, staff, or expenses. #####
[]{#chapter008.xhtml_pg132 .pagebreak}COLLABORATION AS A SCALABLE SYSTEM {#chapter008.xhtml_com0000416 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} Working *for* yourself doesn't necessarily mean
working *by* yourself. Even if your company of one is just you, there are still times when you'll need to collaborate with others --- from contractors to partners to clients. If
your company of one is a small team or exists within an organization, even more layers of collaboration are required. But collaboration is a double-edged sword: technology allows
us to easily connect with each other in real time, but at the expense of focused, deep work. In the past, internal communication had to be face-to-face, in meetings or on scheduled
conference calls, but as workplaces move toward remote workers and flex hours such communication is becoming less and less efficient. Increasingly common corporate messaging tools,
like Slack, intranets, and cheap or free VOIP calling, are allowing groups located all over the world to not just work together but truly collaborate. With these collaboration
tools, however, many companies may unknowingly be filling their employees' time with always-on distractions, especially if employees are required to keep their status as
"available," share their calendars, and keep up with group messaging all day. Real-time messaging can turn into all-day meetings, every single day, with no set agenda. Samuel
Hulick, founder of User Onboarding, believes that tools like Slack are "asyncronish": they're neither truly real-time (you sometimes have to wait indefinitely for an answer) or
asynchronous (meaning no immediate response is expected). While the use of messaging tools can seem like a truly great advance in collaboration, too often they lead to daylong
half-conversations, like a slow-drip coffee maker. Real-time collaboration can be very useful when a whole team []{#chapter008.xhtml_pg133 .pagebreak}is required to brainstorm or
solve a problem together, but it can also be completely distracting if it's expected most of the time. This is why companies like Basecamp and Buffer tell employees to disconnect
from the distractions of collaboration for most of their day. No one at these companies, for example, is expected to be immediately available, unless there is an emergency (which
is quite rare). In general, responses are expected at these companies within days, not minutes. By allowing collaboration to grow from face-to-face contact to notifications on all
our digital devices, even the ones we use outside of work (like phones and tablets), we've let it scale beyond what makes for focused and efficient work. Scaled collaboration does
make sense when a project can't be advanced without input from several team members. A perfect example is what is known as a "hackathon" --- a combination of the words "hack"
(exploratory programming, not computer crimes) and "marathon." In a hackathon, several small teams of developers, designers, and project managers are formed, each group
collaborating, with speed and focus, to complete a large project over the course of several hours or a few days. Their work has a specific focus --- for example, coming up with a
new feature for a piece of a software that a company sells, or designing a new website, as the City of New York did, for local government to use in building relationships with the
private sector. At the end of a hackathon, each team presents a series of demonstrations to share its results with the rest of the group. Hugely successful innovations have come
out of hackathons --- for example, Facebook's "Like" button. Hackathons work because they are focused collaboration, not 24/7 "be available at all times" collaboration. They can be
fun, energetic, and highly productive, since everyone is collaborating on a common goal and purpose. And once the hackathon is over, everyone goes back to their regular jobs.
[]{#chapter008.xhtml_pg134 .pagebreak}Elsewhere in this chapter, I advise scaling up certain aspects of your business, but collaboration is the one area where companies of one
should *scale down* --- from an environment of always-on, always-available, slow-drip messaging distractions to a regimen of clearly defined times to work together to accomplish
