functioning at everything from conferences to parties. What I have done is structure my business around what I'm better at --- online teaching and written communication. I've
turned my introversion into a positive tool, instead of an excuse for inaction. I find ways to lead that suit my personality and skill set: I avoid speaking to large groups and
instead lean more on one-to-one communication. My introverted nature is the primary reason I teach online courses instead of doing speaking gigs. Online courses allow me to use a
channel through which I can communicate effectively, and in a way that my audience connects with. Since my practically nonexistent ability to lead could easily be a detriment to my
company of one, I only work with freelancers and contractors who don't require management of any kind. They're A-players who know exactly how to get their work done. I simply need
to provide them with the parameters and let them []{#chapter003.xhtml_pg49 .pagebreak}do their work. I give the people I hire full autonomy to do their jobs so I can do mine, with
no need for meetings, or check-ins, or management. I ask them to let me know if a problem comes up; if I don't hear from them, I assume that their silence means they're
accomplishing their tasks. I let my perceived shortcomings, like being awkward or bad at managing others, work for my business, not against it. My leadership style may require that
I spend more when I hire (A-players come at a premium), but their work is always worth it and nets a positive return for my business. ##### AUTONOMY ISN'T A MAGIC BULLET
{#chapter003.xhtml_com0000100 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} Leading a company of one that allows its workers to have autonomy isn't as simple as removing all rules, processes, and
prescriptions. The result of that would be anarchy, which would be terrible for profitability and sustainability. Today 79 percent of companies in the *Fortune* 1,000 and 81
percent of manufacturing organizations have [empowered, self-directed, or autonomous teams](chapter003_notes.xhtml_ch_en3){#chapter003.xhtml_ch-en3}, all of which are still led or
managed in some way. It might seem odd that self-directed teams require direction, but in reality, they do require a specific type of direction. Henrik Kniberg, a management coach
who's worked with LEGO and Spotify, believes that assuming an organization can have either full autonomy or full alignment (where tasks for employees strictly align to the goals
and directives of their managers) amounts to a false dichotomy. A bit of each is required, both for starting a business and maintaining it. A leader of a company of one has the
role of enabling autonomy while providing alignment-setting processes and making sure there are common goals. Achieving this delicate balance can be challenging. Kyle Murphy, the
vice president of design at Hudl (a sports team software company), has gone from being the company's []{#chapter003.xhtml_pg50 .pagebreak}very first hire to one of 600 employees
over the last nine years. When Hudl started, there was "autonomy overload" --- every team worked on whatever they wanted, sometimes duplicating work and sometimes creating
deliverables that didn't even fit together with other teams. This created chaos. What Kyle quickly identified was a need for global organization systems --- not so much to limit
the creativity and ingenuity of employees as to give them a common framework and playbook to work from. Kyle's design team was struggling to hire enough designers to cover the
amount of design work their company had to do and their current needs. This led Kyle to rethink the way in which Hudl's design team was operating, which was mostly as a flat group.
By establishing rules like a common style guide for visual elements in their software (buttons, colors, fonts, etc.), Hudl needed fewer designers to do more work, because they now
had a common set of building blocks. He also streamlined how feedback and revisions worked, so less time was required for those processes. In effect, hiring more people ended up
not being the solution; instead, introducing more processes and structure helped fewer people accomplish more --- while allowing them the autonomy to solve problems in their own
way, using a common tool set. Autonomy can also be badly abused. The problem is not so much employees taking advantage of perks like flex hours or remote work, but leaders assuming
that they need to give less direction. A leader's job is to provide clear direction and then get out of the way. Even companies of one require direction and set processes --- it's
this common constraint that allows creativity to thrive and goals to be met. This alignment has to be carefully orchestrated, not as binary autonomous/non-autonomous decisions, but
as a balance between guidance and trust. Provide too much guidance and a team will start to rely on it and leadership will become a bottleneck for decision-making. Provide
[]{#chapter003.xhtml_pg51 .pagebreak}too little and things devolve into anarchy. The middle ground is where high-performing teams excel, providing the most benefit to a company and
delivering the most innovative and amazing results. Even a company without employees still requires constraints. In serving clients with very specific deliverable requirements as
well as customers who need your product to perform in a precise way, the more you can lean on processes, systems, and reusable building blocks (from code to marketing language to
visuals) in your leadership, the better and faster you'll be with your work and the less you'll require in terms of hours worked or people hired, even as you gain more in terms of
revenue, finished processes, and paid customers. ##### A VARIED SET OF SKILLS {#chapter003.xhtml_com0000108 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} In school and work, we're often taught that
specialization is better and a key to success. From a young age, we're asked to pick a track that will lead us to a specific profession. In our jobs, we often use only one specific
skill set to accomplish the tasks we're assigned. This is helpful in gaining domain expertise in a subject, but companies of one truly need to be able to know and understand a
multitude of topics and skills in order to be in control of their work. As a good generalist, you'll usually start with a specialization and then add auxiliary and complementary
skills as needed, until you're able to understand all or most aspects of the business as a whole, not just one specific job within it. This is especially true when you work for
yourself: you've got to know the skill you use to get paid or build the products you sell, but you also need to have a thorough understanding of key facets like marketing,
bookkeeping, and sales. In business, conditions are, of course, never perfect. In fact, []{#chapter003.xhtml_pg52 .pagebreak}they're typically less than ideal, with changing
markets, differing trends, and consumer demand often flip-flopping. Specialists in the corporate world can thrive during certain surges. For instance, COBOL programmers were in
demand in 1999 as Y2K approached --- but then that need quickly diminished on January 1, 2000. In contrast, generalist programmers, who can write code in any language, have been in
demand since computers started to become mainstream in the 1980s, and they have continued to see demand for their varied skill set. According to Carter Phipps, author of
*Evolutionaries,* generalists will continue to thrive in business as it becomes increasingly valuable to know ["a little bit about a
lot."](chapter003_notes.xhtml_ch_en4){#chapter003.xhtml_ch-en4} Where you fall on the spectrum of generalist to specialist could therefore be the most important aspect of your
survival as a company of one. Vikram Mansharamani, a lecturer at Yale, said that acknowledging specific expertise is overvalued. There are certainly domains, like hard science,
that require specific knowledge, but for the most part specialist knowledge, if it is blind to everything else, just can't work in the business world today (or in companies of one)
because there is too much uncertainty and ambiguity and metrics are so poorly defined. The time is at hand to embrace generalist thinking and the understanding of many things. A
generalist company of one leader needs to understand quite a few aspects of work to succeed. Not only do such leaders need to be masters at their core skill set, but they also need
to understand how business works in general. There are a few leadership qualities of generalization that the leader of a company of one should either have to begin with or be
willing to cultivate. #### Psychology {#chapter003.xhtml_com0000114 .EB11SmallItalicHead1} Being able to understand how others think is critically important to a company of one.
You need to know how and why people make decisions about your products or services. What leads them to []{#chapter003.xhtml_pg53 .pagebreak}buy what you create? What makes them
hesitate? Where do they place value in their lives? If they do buy from you, what is considered a win for them? Where does churn happen in your business and why? Understanding
these key factors can make you a better leader, a better salesperson, and a better marketer. #### Communication {#chapter003.xhtml_com0000116 .EB11SmallItalicHead1} Even though we
may not think we're communicators or writers, most of us spend a large portion of our days writing. Everything from emails to tweets to talking on the phone is communication. The
more we can learn about how to communicate clearly and effectively, the better we'll be at leading, as our directives will be better understood. #### Resilience
{#chapter003.xhtml_com0000118 .EB11SmallItalicHead1} Miles Kington, a British journalist, reportedly said that "knowledge is knowing that a tomato is a fruit. Wisdom is not putting
it in a fruit salad." We should never assume that having an abundance of knowledge is the same as having an abundance of wisdom. Even if you have access to a plethora of data or
experience, there are still so many factors beyond your control. The truth is, much of business is a guess. That's why it's important to be able to bounce back and reenergize a
team when failure strikes. Because it will. #### Focus {#chapter003.xhtml_com0000120 .EB11SmallItalicHead1} A company-of-one leader has to become an expert at deftly saying no. You
can learn to view saying no as an actual actionable strategy, as opportunities, tasks, distractions, plans, meetings, and so on all come up frequently. By saying no to anything
that won't serve your business or your team, you can open up space to focus on a better opportunity in your business. You need to learn how to evaluate those options quickly and
figure out which ones are good to pursue and which ones to say no to. #### []{#chapter003.xhtml_pg54 .pagebreak}Decisiveness {#chapter003.xhtml_com0000122 .EB11SmallItalicHead1}
Decision-making can be mentally taxing and draining, and when that happens, many people start to make bad decisions because they're tired of deciding. By scaling down large,
stressful decisions into smaller, more digestible decisions, you can choose a direction more quickly, in a smarter way, and with less stress involved. ##### "EVERY DAY I'M HUSTLIN'
" {#chapter003.xhtml_com0000124 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} While working at scaling up resilience, control, speed, and simplicity is important to leading a company of one, if you
fail to approach this work with mindfulness, big problems can ensue. There are more than 500,000 articles listed on Google about "hustling" in entrepreneurship (and none are about
the Rick Ross rap song quoted in the section title). For some reason, working for yourself and pushing yourself to the limits every single day are inextricably linked --- as if
working more is working better. Just as we discussed in [Chapter 2](#chapter002.xhtml), more isn't better --- better is better. There are advantages to putting in the time and
effort to master a skill, but there's also a great need for balance. When hustling turns sleeplessness into a badge of honor and work demands push health, family, and friends to
the back burner, it's definitely time to take a break. On Apple's television show *Planet of the Apps,* one contestant admits, "I rarely get to see my kids. That's a risk you have
to take." Is it really? That kind of hustling, putting work above everything else, is inconsistent with the mind-set of running a company of one --- with working better instead of
working more. A company of one who disagrees with this idea that workaholism is required to succeed in tech and big business alike is David Heinemeier Hansson, a Danish programmer
who created the popular Ruby []{#chapter003.xhtml_pg55 .pagebreak}on Rails web framework and is a partner at the software development firm Basecamp. Hansson despises this paradigm
of working more as the only way to be successful. He believes that the pressure to work more doesn't just get passed down from leadership; rather, it's amplified as it moves
outward through a company. He believes that companies need to [stop hustling](chapter003_notes.xhtml_ch_en5){#chapter003.xhtml_ch-en5} and should encourage their employees to focus
on accepting that there's life outside of work, that there's real usefulness to sleep and recuperation, and that their work habits should be much calmer. Workaholism, a term coined
in 1971 by psychologist Wayne Oates, is the epitome of hustling. The workaholic's need for work becomes so excessive that it creates disturbances in their health and relationships.
Interestingly, Oates found that hustlers don't outperform nonhustlers; the only noticeable impact of their hustling is higher job stress, greater work-life conflict, and
deteriorating health. His research found no relationship between workaholism and greater financial reward or self-efficacy. Crew, a company that connects freelance designers and
developers with companies that need contract work done, doesn't believe in set hours for its employees. The company doesn't expect employees to work eight hours a day, or to work
between 9:00 AM and 5:00 PM. Crew lets its employees schedule work time when they are more energetic and focused --- working as little or as much as they need to finish realistic
tasks. Crew cares more about the work that's accomplished than about the time it takes to do it. Do we really need to push our workers and ourselves to work longer hours to see
better results? Or do we just need to get better at working the same amount or less? The value of leading a company of one is your ability to stay agile and nimble. However, this
advantage requires constant vigilance, because as success happens, opportunities happen --- mostly opportunities to grow and scale up. But to stay a company
[]{#chapter003.xhtml_pg56 .pagebreak}of one and stick to the definition of success you've set for yourself and your leadership, you will have to turn down opportunities that aren't
a good fit. Companies of one need to be relentless in what they say no to, since plans, tasks, distractions, meetings, and emails, though they may all seem productive to a team at
first, can become counterproductive quickly if not well managed. In saying no to anything that doesn't fit, you leave room to say yes to those rare opportunities that do fit ---
opportunities that align with the values and ideas of your business. ##### DEBUGGING THE MYTH OF INDEFATIGABLE LEADERSHIP {#chapter003.xhtml_com0000132 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead}
Historian Henry Adams stated that power is a tumor that ends up killing its victims' sympathies. That assessment may seem quite harsh or excessive, but it's backed by both
psychological and neuroscientific studies. Sukhvinder Obhi, a neuroscientist at McMaster University, coined [the term "power
paradox"](chapter003_notes.xhtml_ch_en6){#chapter003.xhtml_ch-en6} to describe what happens when we gain power through leadership: we subsequently lose some of the capabilities we
needed to gain it in the first place --- such as empathy, self-awareness, transparency, and gratitude. Dacher Keltner, a professor of psychology at Berkeley, had similar results
from his twenty years of researching the behavior of leaders --- the qualities that lead to the leadership roles we achieve are the exact qualities that diminish once leadership
roles are attained. As the leader of a company of any size, you're subject to the myth that you've got to be indefatigable. Entrepreneurialism idolizes workaholism and sacrifice of
anything in service to the work and the company --- and puts the weight and responsibility of the entire business squarely on one person's shoulders. That seems bleak, right? But
Rand Fishkin, the onetime CEO and now "wizard" of MOZ (a company that analyzes SEO and []{#chapter003.xhtml_pg57 .pagebreak}marketing data), is very hopeful. Rand grew MOZ from a
blog to a consultancy to a product business in rapid succession, and revenue grew from \$300,000 in 2006 to over \$48 million in 2014, with 100 percent revenue growth year after
year for several years in a row. By most societal and business measures, Rand seemed to have succeeded as a leader --- but no external definition of success can prevent mental
illness. When Rand became depressed, he had to step down as CEO of MOZ. Through this difficult experience, however, he gained a lot of valuable insight into what it takes to lead a
company, whether large or small. Much of what he learned is backed by scientific research but nevertheless runs counter to traditional business advice and the mythology of
infallible leadership. Let's look at the role of empathy, self-awareness, transparency, and gratitude in growing into and, more important, maintaining a healthy leadership role.
Rand's first insight is that self-awareness is an absolute requirement. By fostering the ability to notice things about yourself --- your own depression, for example --- you can
remove or put into remission the so-called power tumor. The more you get to know yourself, what your triggers are, and what personally drives you outside of external motivation,
the more you can optimize a healthy role for yourself as a leader. By recognizing that we are all human --- and that all humans are imperfect --- we can break down and debug this
idea that leaders have to be infallible. As leaders, our job is to be self-aware and to check in on ourselves regularly. For Rand, that means spending thirty minutes every Friday
with his wife, Geraldine, to talk openly about the worries and stresses of their week. For others, it can mean seeking external or professional help. It's crazy to assume that any
one person can take on all of the stress and demands of a leadership role, and sometimes even the weight of an entire company, without having someone else to talk with and to help
debug problems. This is how resilience, a major factor in []{#chapter003.xhtml_pg58 .pagebreak}building and sustaining a company of one, can be developed --- by sharing the burdens
as needed. Even companies of one should never try to do everything or deal with everything alone. And even working for yourself doesn't have to mean working by yourself. As Rand
says, "If therapy is good enough for Tony Soprano, it's good enough for you." Empathy, which is a large part of Obhi's power paradox (and we'll talk even more about this in
[Chapter 7](#chapter007.xhtml)), is feeling *with* people, according to Dr. Brené Brown. In many quickly growing companies, however, leaders feel that they are required to detach
from human relationships and focus on using people as resources to achieve necessary growth by any means necessary. The problem is that a leader who stops feeling what is either
motivating or demotivating within their team stops being able to lead. Finally, leaders need to practice gratitude. Adam Grant of Wharton found that [when people take the
time](chapter003_notes.xhtml_ch_en7){#chapter003.xhtml_ch-en7} to thank their contractors, employees, and coworkers, they become much more engaged and productive. Even small
expressions of gratitude work --- like thankful emails or public recognition. Kyle at Hudl, for instance, gives out awards to the designers who have the most impact in the
organization. Keltner's research illustrates that even in professional sports, players who show their appreciation through behavior like bear hugs and fist bumps with other players
inspire their teammates to play better and win nearly two more games per season (which is sometimes the difference between making the playoffs or not). So, by remaining self-aware,
being open about our personal successes and failures in equal measure, empathizing with the people we work with, and expressing appreciation for them, we can work toward a cure for
the "power tumors" of leadership. The glorification of indefatigable leaders is exactly the source of most problems, because their failures and flaws are ignored instead of
debugged and learned from. []{#chapter003.xhtml_pg59 .pagebreak}Here is why Rand is hopeful about leadership --- all of these attributes are slowly making their way into corporate
and entrepreneurial culture. Companies like Google, Facebook, General Mills, Ford, and even Goldman Sachs now have training programs that debug and work at helping with the
problems that stem from leadership. There's still a long way to go, but great progress continues to be made toward a revised view of leaders as not so much the mythical heroes of
modern culture as fallible humans who are just like everyone else. ##### BEGIN TO THINK ABOUT: {#chapter003.xhtml_com0000144 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} [■]{.bulletorn} Where you
could strike a balance between autonomy and guidance [■]{.bulletorn} What areas you could learn more about that would benefit your business and make you a more well-rounded
generalist [■]{.bulletorn} Steps you could take to strike a balance between hustlin' and recuperation []{#chapter004.xhtml} ## []{#chapter004.xhtml_pg60 .pagebreak}4
{#chapter004.xhtml_com0000148 .EB04MainHeadClosedNum} ## Growing a Company That Doesn't Grow {#chapter004.xhtml_com0000149 .EB04MainHeadClosedTitle} If excessive and blind growth
are the main causes of business failure, then how do we start and run a business to avoid all of that? Growth can definitely be enticing and exciting. Making more money, increasing
a customer base, garnering national media attention --- none of these accomplishments are inherently wrong or bad. They just need to be balanced with meaningful, long-term
strategies. A lot of "growth-hacking" (a Silicon Valley term for the kind of exponential growth that tech folks salivate over) employs pushy and even sometimes shady tactics to
keep growing in spite of the excessive churn that's produced. For example, by adding a pop-up message offering access to a free report on every page on your website, you might
increase the number of subscribers to your company's mailing list, but you might also end up with a list that has few email opens and more unsubscribes, making your net-net growth
very low or even negative. A company of one would have a mind-set more in line with providing a great newsletter with lots of valuable content of interest to the people it wants to
attract; its overall subscription rate might be lower, but the open-rate and retention would be higher. Kate O'Neill, a consultant to *Fortune* 500 firms and an accomplished
speaker, understands the type of meaningful growth that []{#chapter004.xhtml_pg61 .pagebreak}companies of one need to employ. She shows companies like Netflix and Toshiba how to
use data to make customer experiences better; with this strategy, overall growth is the result of careful planning around user happiness. Kate's superpower is being able to look at
data and then apply it to the human experience. She's noticed a pattern where growth-hacking companies focus on exponential user acquisition. They prioritize attracting customers,
not determining the type of customers they want or the experience they want to give people once they become customers. She has found that growth as a one-dimensional metric for
success is useless in the absence of real reasons for it or ways to support customers once they're acquired. Most companies don't even need that kind of excessive growth to be
profitable. Companies like Airbnb have to start with a huge inventory --- Airbnb needed to amass places to stay before it could make a dent in the market --- but most companies
don't require so large a market share to start. When Kate worked for Magazines.com, her role was to assume the overall strategy for acquiring customers. Previously, the strategy
had been to grow right away to gain more customers, the thinking being that simply adding more customers would lead to more revenue. In looking at the collected data, however, Kate
realized that user growth would cost more than user retention. By decreasing the number of subscription cancellations, Magazines.com would see better profits and gains than it
would by trying to increase the number of subscribers. Since its whole business model was based on renewals, the company had to totally shift its thinking --- from constantly
searching for new customers to making sure existing customers were so pleased with the service that they'd renew for another year. Kate showed the company that the number of
renewing customers was a far more important metric for success (and far cheaper) than the number of new customers acquired. Magazines.com also changed its home-page
[]{#chapter004.xhtml_pg62 .pagebreak}messaging in order to speak to existing customers, added more renewal offers, and improved customer support for paid users. Over and over
again, Kate has seen that sacrificing customer experience for customer acquisition doesn't work long-term and is not a sound strategy with which to start a company. ##### THE FOUR
REASONS GROWTH IS DESIRED FROM THE START {#chapter004.xhtml_com0000157 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} It seems counterintuitive, but starting --- and then staying --- small requires
examining growth from the outset. If a new company of one begins by looking at why most companies grow, it can determine whether those avenues are the correct course for it to
take. Most companies grow for four reasons: inflation, investors, churn, and ego. By examining each, we can be ready for the decisions we'll have to make and better able to prevent
social or business pressure from swaying us into doing something we don't want to do or something that isn't right for our business. Inflation is as close to a constant as you'll
get in business. Everything eventually costs more. The five cents your grandparents paid for a soda is not the same price that you'll pay at a vending machine today. My parents
paid \$50,000 for their three-bedroom house just outside of Toronto in the early 1980s, but there's not even a micro-condo available for that price now. So inflation always
happens, and if a business can't keep up, its profits will shrink. The simple solution is to raise your rates each year to keep up and then invest any extra profit in those places
that pay out higher than inflation (in other words, don't keep the bulk of your business profits in a bank account that earns 0.001 percent interest). Investors, even if they own
the company, are the biggest reason businesses want to grow. If a VC firm puts \$1 million into your company today, it will want to see a return at least three
[]{#chapter004.xhtml_pg63 .pagebreak}times that much (and more if they're early-stage investors) within a few years. To hit those goals, growth has to be excessive. Even if you
invest your own money to start a company, you'll want to see a good payoff for the risk you took. However, if you're able to start small --- with little to no upfront investments
--- you can focus on running your business and making it better for the customers you serve instead of being constantly aware of the need to be "paid back" for what you put in. As
discussed briefly earlier, churn is what happens when existing customers decide they don't want to be customers anymore. So the revenue they generated needs to be replaced with
revenue from new customers. If your churn is higher than your user acquisition rate, then you're in a downward spiral. Most of the time, companies try to fix churn, as we saw with
Kate O'Neill, by focusing on adding more customers to the mix instead of working at reducing the reasons existing customers are leaving. According to the Econsultancy/Responsys
Cross-Channel Marketing Report, adding a new customer costs [five times as much as keeping an existing one](chapter004_notes.xhtml_ch_en1){#chapter004.xhtml_ch-en1}. So while
prioritizing acquisition over retention can aid growth, it's also extremely expensive. The same study found that companies are still much more likely to put their efforts into
finding new customers than keeping existing ones. Ego is the final reason most companies want to grow. It's also the trickiest, because it's harder to overcome. As a society, we
give people more clout and respect if they own a large company, so building one is a desirable goal. Many of us dream of being in charge of a large company but fail to look at the
bigger picture and think about the impact of such growth on our personal lives, or even on the type of work we enjoy doing. Growth adds complexity, often strains relationships, and
ratchets up stress. Not all of us have a father who's got a sticky note on the family computer monitor that says, "OVERHEAD = DEATH." When we start to examine why we want to see
more and more growth, we may conclude []{#chapter004.xhtml_pg64 .pagebreak}that the main reason is wanting to appear more respected than we really are. Ego is usually overcome once
we determine what our reason was for starting our business in the first place. Staying small and not focusing entirely on growth keep your own integrity and personality at the
heart of the business, making it much easier to run your business or team in a way that suits you and helps customers. As Gary Sutton, author of *Corporate Canaries,* says, "[You
can't sell your way](chapter004_notes.xhtml_ch_en2){#chapter004.xhtml_ch-en2} out of an unprofitable business." So starting your own company of one with a focus on profitability
right from the start, when you're at your leanest, is imperative. Your measuring stick for success doesn't have to be growth as a one-dimensional metric; it can be something more
personal and focused on your specific company of one --- like the quality of what you sell, employee happiness, customer happiness and retention, or even some greater purpose.
##### IN THE BEGINNING ... {#chapter004.xhtml_com0000165 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} People sometimes tend to focus on the wrong things when starting a business, like office space,
scaling, websites, business cards, computers. You can add expenses or bigger ideas later, once revenue is coming in. But if your idea requires a lot of money, time, or resources to
start, you're probably thinking too big too soon. Scale it down to what can be done right now, on the cheap and fast, and then iterated upon. The comedian Steve Martin has had
similar thoughts about starting out and immediately focusing on the wrong things. Budding comedians have asked Martin, over and over again, "How do I find an agent?" or, "Where do
I get photo headshots done?" or, "What comedy clubs should I start at?" The only question they should be asking, Martin notes, is: "How do I get really good at comedy?"
[]{#chapter004.xhtml_pg65 .pagebreak}To start a company of one, you should first figure out the smallest version of your idea and then a way to make it happen quickly. Automation
can happen later. Scale, if desired, can happen later. Infrastructure and process can happen later. Focus on where you can test the waters without a massive investment of time or
money, and then pay attention to what happens when casual contacts turn into customers, even if it's only a handful at first. *Why did they buy? What motivated them to do so? How
can I keep them happy?* And most important: *How can I help them succeed?* To emphasize that last point, customers really don't care if you're profitable. But if what you sell them
can help them become profitable, they'll never want to leave your business. They'll stay on as customers and then probably tell others to become your customers too. When you treat
your relationship with your customer base as simply transactional, you'll be preoccupied with how much you can sell them and how often. The more you begin to treat new customers as
real relationships that you can grow and foster, and the more you can figure out how what you do can help them, the more likely they are to want to stay on as customers. Customer
success is the cornerstone of a profitable company of one. Alexandra Franzen is the author of several books and has written for such publications as *Time, Forbes,* and *Newsweek*
for the last ten years. Previously, she had a full-time job in radio broadcasting. A few days after quitting, she didn't start renting office space or buying business cards;
rather, she just began emailing every single person she knew. Her parents, friends, college professors, former coworkers, internet friends ... everyone she could think of. She
wrote each one a personal email stating she had left her radio job, she was now working as a freelance writer, and she was ready for new projects. Alex also mentioned the type of
work she was looking for. By []{#chapter004.xhtml_pg66 .pagebreak}the end of the week, she had emailed sixty people, and almost everyone had written back --- either giving her
ideas about others to contact or asking to hire her. She began with three small projects, and those led to three more as her first clients hired her a second time for a new project
or referred her to someone else who needed writing work done. It all snowballed from there, and now she's booked almost a *year* in advance. She didn't start with a vision for
growth and profit or a vision of what the next several steps would be --- she began with what could immediately result in paying customers. Then and only then, based on profit, did
she increase her expenses (but only a little) and make some business purchases. People often feel like they have to move away from obscurity in their new business as quickly as
possible. While obscurity can equal less exposure to potential customers at the outset, starting out small and without a massive audience is perfect because it enables you to gain
experience and play with your business ideas. Not to mention that there aren't many people watching if you fall flat on your face. Starting out small is the best time to learn what
your business truly is and why it serves who it serves. There's no need to rush to be noticed faster than you can handle. Starting a company of one requires that you embrace
working on what's achievable now, which usually means embracing less than your vision for your ideal future. Remember, at the start you're the smallest and most agile you'll ever
be. You have fewer (or no) customers, less established processes, and less name recognition. Being small and measuring meaningful growth based on profits instead of projections
ensure much more stability. We often think that we need to have everything in place --- all the systems, all the automations, all the processes --- to be ready to launch a digital
product. We want everything all polished and perfect before we hit "publish." But most of the time this doesn't []{#chapter004.xhtml_pg67 .pagebreak}happen. Most of the time, in
fact, waiting until everything is totally perfect can only hurt or delay your launch. You can't start a business with every idea you've got for it listed in the "need to have"
column. You'll never get anywhere. Plus, a lot of your assumptions about what you need might change once people start buying and using what you've made. A true "need to have" is
whatever will make your idea fall apart if you don't have it. For example, if your idea is a health care SEO consultancy, your business first needs to thoroughly understand SEO and
its implications for hospital websites; otherwise, your idea is of no use to hospitals. But does your consultancy need an office when working from home or in a cheaper coworking
space would suffice? Does your company need glossy business cards if most of your connections are made online? Does it even need a printer if contracts and documents are all sent
digitally? These are all examples of "nice to haves" that can come later, after your business is up and running. Crew, a company we discussed in [Chapter 3](#chapter003.xhtml),
started out with a single form, on a one-page website, that manually matched businesses with designers and programmers. Over time, as revenue grew, the company was able to create
software and automations that helped scale the volume of matches. But at first, Crew was able to launch and test the idea of a matching service almost instantly by helping a single
company get matched to the right freelancer. Scaling down an idea that you can start right now puts the focus on helping people immediately with what you have available right now
and are resourceful enough to provide, like a sort of business MacGyver. If your business only has an expertise plus a figurative stick of gum, a paper clip, and a ball of twine,
think: Whom can I help with these things? In short, start small. Start with just the smallest version of your idea and a way to make it happen. Instead of waiting
[]{#chapter004.xhtml_pg68 .pagebreak}(sometimes for years) for bigger wins to happen, you can use small wins to propel you. That's actually a much smarter way to launch. Easing up
on the "growth equals success" mentality opens you up to starting and becoming more profitable much sooner. ##### IF SCALE ISN'T THE GOAL, WHAT IS? {#chapter004.xhtml_com0000178
.EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} We need to reexamine our relationship with thinking big and success. Questioning growth --- or at least, not scaling --- isn't the same as staying static
and unchanging. Even a business that doesn't want to grow much needs to constantly learn, adapt, and refine. The cost of living, labor, equipment, materials, travel --- all
increase year over year. Companies of one aren't anti-scale; rather, they're aware that they need to determine which areas of their business need to scale and when it makes the
most sense to do so. Scale can sometimes create efficiency, and volume can increase profit margins. But without business introspection, scale and volume could be chased as vanity
metrics rather than as accurate measures that determine profit. There's a real difference between growth as a goal and growth as a direct result of profit from sales of a valuable
product. Letting growth as a goal guide your company's decisions can be shortsighted or result in high churn. Whereas if your decisions are guided by growth resulting from profit,
you stay focused on how you can continue to make things better for your customers --- with better products, better experiences, better support, and increased success for them. This
is growth that stems from doing things correctly, not from making growth your top priority and just hoping you do everything right. In public companies on stock exchanges, there's
pressure from stockholders to see stock prices increase constantly so that there's positive return on investment. The same is true for private []{#chapter004.xhtml_pg69
.pagebreak}companies with investors --- they want to make a return to show those investors that investing in the company was a smart idea. The majority of companies, however, don't
