way to infuse money into a company to help it succeed, but it's not a requirement and it definitely comes with certain pitfalls. The Kauffman Foundation study also illustrated that
almost 86 percent of companies that succeeded in the long term did *not* take VC money. Why? Because a company's interests may not always align with the interests of its backers.
Worse, investor interests may not always align with what's best for a business's end customers. Capital infusion can also leave a business with less control, resilience, speed, and
simplicity --- the main traits required for companies of one. Paul Graham, the cofounder of Y Combinator (one of the largest and most notable VC firms for startups) explains that
VCs don't invest millions in companies because that's what those companies might need; rather, they invest the amount that their own VC business requires to see growth in their own
portfolios, coming from the few companies that actually give them a positive return. Graham notes that sudden and large investments tend to turn companies into "armies of employees
who sit around having meetings." Startups, as serial entrepreneur Salim Ismail states, are extremely fragile by nature. They're designed to be temporary organizations that *may*
grow into large companies, under conditions of extreme uncertainty. They expend money and resources in the anticipation that revenue will catch up to spending. Most startups fail
because that doesn't happen often. []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg29 .pagebreak}Although a lot of these examples involve companies that would be considered startups, companies of one
aren't always startups in the traditional sense. Many startups focus on growth, buyouts, employees, lavish offices with foosball tables and open-concept floor plans, and massive
profits at any cost, and they tend to rely on investors for initial cash. Companies of one instead focus on stability, simplicity, independence, and long-term resilience and rely
on starting small and becoming as profitable as possible, without the need for outside investment. Companies of one, with their focus on what can be done in the here and now, not
what can be done with investment, can also be started without an injection of capital. Not all startups can be lumped together --- some are challenging the mantras of blind startup
growth. For instance, Buffer, a social media scheduling tool with more than three million users, has seventy-two employees and isn't looking to grow that number quickly, unless it
absolutely has to. Buffer wasn't always in the mind-set of challenging growth --- a few years ago the company got caught up in a hiring frenzy because it was looking to do a large
round of raising capital. The idea was to be ambitious in hiring in order to do more to capture more of the market share and hit new revenue targets that investors were going to
want to see. But Buffer hired more people than it had revenue to pay. Two shifts then happened: Buffer realized that even after securing funding, it still had to lay off 11 percent
of the team. That employees could be hired and paid based on revenue targets (instead of on actual and current profits) wasn't a reasonable assumption to have made. Second, they
realized that their leadership team was divided about what success meant to their company. The CEO wanted a more profit-driven, holistic, slow-growth plan and believed in hiring
more employees only when the money was there, not in the hopes that it would materialize. Buffer's COO and CTO, by contrast, were more motivated by []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg30
.pagebreak}high stakes and high growth --- in other words, the typical startup game. In the end, they [left the company](chapter002_notes.xhtml_ch_en3){#chapter002.xhtml_ch-en3}
and no other employees left or were let go; those who remained shared their CEO's vision of slower, profit-based growth. When businesses require endless growth to turn a profit, it
can be difficult to keep up with increasingly higher targets. Whereas, if a business turns a good profit at its current size, then growth can be a choice, made when it makes sense
to succeed, and not a requirement for success. For companies of one, the question is always *what can I do to make my business better?,* instead of *what can I do to grow my
business larger?* ##### THE DOWNSIDE OF EXCESSIVE GROWTH AS AN END GOAL {#chapter002.xhtml_com0000027 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} Often, in the pursuit of growth, companies or
founders have to battle what Danielle LaPorte refers to as "the Beast." A company focused on growth often puts into place complicated systems to handle exponential volume and
scale, which require more resources (human and financial) to manage, which then require more complex systems to manage the increased resources, and so on and so on. Danielle's
"Beast" was the system and structure (financial and technological) she created to match her grand vision for her business. She invested in a million-dollar website to take her
business to the next level. The problem was that a million-dollar website requires a team of experts to manage and run it at all times. Updating blog posts or products can incur
tremendous costs. The Beast had an ever-growing appetite and required constant feeding. To keep the Beast satiated, Danielle's focus was pulled away from her center --- that is,
from her purpose in creating and running a business in the first place. As her focus became muddied []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg31 .pagebreak}she found herself busier with feeding the
Beast than in taking care of her core business. When Danielle realized that she didn't want to exponentially grow to continue feeding the Beast, she decided it had to be destroyed.
In "killing her own Kraken," as she put it, she began to radically simplify. Her strategy shifted from "broadcasting light ... to as many people as possible" to "broadcasting light
... to the people with eyes to see it." Not focusing on growth and scale, she believes, was the best way to remove the Beast from her company of one and return her focus to the
people who were already paying attention to her work. She likens her decision to stop trying to reach infinitely more people through paid channels to feeding only those people who
show up for dinner --- the ones who naturally or organically find her work through word of mouth or who are hanging out where her business hangs out. The fact is that she still has
hundreds of thousands of ravenous fans showing up for "dinner." Lusting after the Beast, of course, feels completely understandable and human --- even in business, we all need to
feel loved and wanted, some of us more than others. However, unless we truly question this need and how relevant it is to our business, we can perish because of it. Buddhists call
the Beast the "hungry ghost" --- a pitiable creature with an insatiable appetite. There is never enough for the hungry ghost, so it's always looking for more. In business, the
hungry ghost is the quest for more growth, more profit, more followers, more likes. Even large and established companies aren't immune to the perils of chasing the Beast of high
and infinite growth. Starbucks, Krispy Kreme, and Pets.com all pursued aggressive scaling and have paid a steep price in various ways. Starbucks was opening hundreds of stores
around the world but decided that it could scale faster by adding sandwiches, CDs, and fancier drinks to its offerings. This rapid expansion ended up diluting the Starbucks brand,
and in an equally rapid contraction, []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg32 .pagebreak}the company was forced to close 900 stores. Subsequently, Starbucks returned its focus to doing its one
thing --- coffee --- better. It renewed its efforts to recapture a boutique coffee shop experience by upgrading coffee machinery, retraining staff in the art of making a perfect
espresso shot, and removing a lot of the superfluous products like music and lunch food. Starbucks learned the hard way that better isn't always bigger. Krispy Kreme's freshly
cooked novelty treats were so popular (and delicious) that it seemed like the company couldn't fail. Its freshly baked sign would regularly lead to lines that went on for blocks.
But in focusing on expansion into grocery stores, gas stations, and even multiple locations in small areas, Krispy Kreme diluted the very scarcity it had once capitalized on. As
franchises were pitted against each other, the company found itself chasing diminishing profits: it dropped 18 percent in sales over the two years from 2004 to 2006. Krispy Kreme's
newly massive size also created some accounting and reporting nightmares that forced it into a \$75 million settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Finally,
Pets.com is, by most measures, the epitome of the dot-com boom-and-bust cycle --- an example of prioritizing uncontrolled and overfunded growth while doing things like selling
products far below cost (which obviously isn't sustainable). Pets.com spent more than \$17 million on advertising involving sock puppets in the second quarter of 2000 alone;
meanwhile, their revenue (not profit) at that time was only \$8.8 million. Pets.com was spending based on growth it *hoped* to see, not on where the company was *currently* at, and
it ended up losing an estimated \$300 million in investment capital along the way. Of course, economies of scale can sometimes be required for success in certain markets and for
some products, but often they aren't required and it is ego, not a strong business strategy, that is forcing growth where growth isn't necessary. []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg33
.pagebreak}When you feel like you have to start out competing with the largest player in the market, you end up chasing your competitor's growth instead of bettering your own
offering. Sometimes finding and working with a single customer, then adding another, and then another, is a very useful and solid way to begin. And sometimes that can even be the
end goal --- one where your focus is on the relationship and the paid work at hand. Sometimes the best plan is focused on your current customers' success, not on chasing leads and
growth. Not everything needs to scale to succeed --- as Leah Andrews, founder of Queen of Snow Globes, discovered almost by accident. She runs an extremely unscalable business:
creating intricate and unique snow globes, one at a time, for her customers. From the start, she was inundated with requests for these custom pieces of art, from big names like
Quentin Tarantino and Channing Tatum and even from Netflix's corporate offices. Instead of scaling production, she focused on raising her prices higher and higher until the demand
leveled off to where she could handle orders. She focused on creating an amazing product that was better than the competition --- mass-produced snow globes --- and was able to
charge a huge premium for her work. Because she focused on making the best product, not the most scalable product, she grew her profits quickly without scaling production, which
would have also scaled complexity and expenses. Pat Riley, the Hall of Fame basketball coach who led five teams to the NBA championship, coined the term "the disease of more." He
noticed time and time again that winning players, just like some startups, focused on *more* instead of *better.* Once they won, they'd let their own ego get in the way of all the
tasks that had helped them win in the first place --- like practice and focus --- and instead become lured into more endorsements, more accolades, and more media attention. As a
result, they ultimately lost to internal forces, not to competitors. []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg34 .pagebreak}When you focus on doing business and serving customers in better and
better ways, your company of one can end up profiting more from the same amount of work because you can raise the prices until your demand flattens out to where you can handle it.
I did the same when my business was a client-focused design business: I doubled my rates over and over until the demand only slightly exceeded the time I had available to do the
work. In doing so, I didn't need to hire more people to grow profits; I just needed to focus on doing better and better work --- putting in the same number of hours but vastly
increasing the revenue generated from the work I did. Staying small is still my end goal, because like Sean's and Ricardo's visions for corporate success, I look toward betterment
instead of infinite scalability. There's nothing wrong with finding the right size and then focusing on being better. Small can be a long-term plan, not just a stepping-stone.
##### IS THE TRADITIONAL WAY OF DOING BUSINESS BROKEN? {#chapter002.xhtml_com0000043 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} Traditional ways of working --- in offices with strict rules and
corporate hierarchies --- are giving way to gig-based, remote work with more autonomy. The business world is constantly being disrupted with new automations and technologies, and
this is a good thing. Changes in how we work give us a chance to scale with the bare minimum in investments, people, and time. Traditionally, having a small business was thought of
as a good starting point, or as what happens when a business finds only limited success. But there's a new breed of business that starts small and stays small, and not for lack of
vision or strategy, but because these days one person (or a tiny team) can accomplish a lot. Technology is constantly improving, allowing us to do things like automate sales
funnels, or drop-ship physical products with []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg35 .pagebreak}no need for warehouses and staff, or print-on-demand without investing in machinery and storage.
WordPress, the software that powers 26 percent of all websites on the internet, closed its gorgeous San Francisco office, not because the company was out of money (it's extremely
profitable) but because employees were barely working at the office, opting instead to work at home. The 15,000-square-foot WordPress office was being used by approximately five
people a day; having 3,000 square feet to work in is definitely a bit too much space. Because technology makes it easy to work from anywhere, on any computer, less spending on
overhead (like offices and the things that come with offices) is required. Pieter Levels is a digital nomad and Dutch programmer who is challenging the status quo of business
tradition. Working from any location around the globe with an internet connection (currently in a village in Thailand), he builds software that competes with VC-funded Silicon
Valley companies with teams of twenty or more people. Pieter runs his online service, Nomad List --- a community list of cities around the world ranked by how easy and fun it is to
work from them --- and [earns \$400,000 a year](chapter002_notes.xhtml_ch_en4){#chapter002.xhtml_ch-en4} without employees or even an office. With the *New York Times, Wired,* CNN,
and *Forbes* having all reported on Nomad List, Pieter needs no PR or marketing team, just a focus on a great and always improving service. Because the company is just Pieter and a
handful of contractors he uses as he needs them, he can implement ideas as he has them, test them to see if there's a market fit, and quickly pivot if there's not. He's able to be
top of his industry, above much larger companies, as a team of one --- and he currently doesn't even have a traditional mailing address. By automating what he can with existing
software, he's even able to be offline for weeks at a time and still have steady revenues. Through careful planning and strategically executing personalized
[]{#chapter002.xhtml_pg36 .pagebreak}sales funnels, people like Brennan Dunn, who runs an email automation and training consultancy, are able to launch products without even
lifting a finger. Brennan can leave home, not even bringing a computer, and still have record sales because he's built a system that drives ideal buyers to his website, converts
them into subscribers, sends them personalized emails that change content based on their actions or behavior on the site and list, and finally turns them into buyers. It's a
process that generates revenue whether or not he's present, and it's all done through software (email service providers like MailChimp or Drip) that costs a few hundred dollars a
month to use. Brennan started down the traditional path of hiring employees, having an office, and scaling people, investments, and resources to get his business to succeed. But
now that he's scaled back to having no office and only a handful of remote contractors, he spends less time on work --- and far less on overhead --- and generates more revenue by
using off-the-digital-shelf technology. Tools that used to be expensive enterprise software --- or hadn't even been developed yet --- today are cheap, easy to master, and easy to
use without spending a lot of time on them. For example, I can run a 30,000-person mailing list that generates the bulk of my income by spending approximately an hour a week on it.
I can create a document that's both editable and shareable around the world for free with Google Documents or share any file, of any size, using a service like Dropbox. I can
replace an entire IT department with one on-contract systems administrator in Berlin who works one to two hours a month for me, and I can learn everything I need to know about the
visitors to the websites that run my business with free analytics software. Technology has made it easy to do what used to cost thousands or require a team of people. The new
reality of business makes it easier than ever to be a company of one and not have massive growth as an end goal. #### []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg37 .pagebreak}Working for Yourself: Too
Risky? {#chapter002.xhtml_com0000050 .EB11SmallItalicHead1} Risk isn't just the name of a famous, amazing, and all-consuming board game --- it's what most people think is involved
in working for yourself! And sure, there is definitely risk that can't be mitigated in working for yourself, but we should challenge the idea that being your own company of one is
riskier than working at a traditional company. Just as the traditional way of doing business is changing, the outdated, fear-ridden assumption that entrepreneurialism is a
hazardous venture needs to change as well. In today's world, there is no longer the single track to security of going to school, getting a degree, and finding and keeping a job
until retirement. Jobs and career tracks are no longer as secure as they were decades ago. Quite simply, the days of throwing retirement parties for employees of fifty years and
sending them off with a gold watch and a great pension are long gone. Miranda Hixon, founder and principal of MilkWood Designs, does workspace design for small startups in the Bay
Area. Think of her work as intentional workspace design based on a company's specific internal style and communication style --- basically the physical manifestation of a company's
culture. Her role with clients can include buying or custom-making beautiful furniture pieces, planning the organization of a space, and adjusting a space as a company experiences
growth spurts or downsizing. Growing up in the 1980s, Miranda dreamed of wearing power suits to a corporate job. (Hey, both were the rage back then.) When she was a child, her
father, Steve Hixon, began working for himself after being laid off from a large architecture firm. The job he was forced to leave was supposed to be stable and secure, but when
businesses or economies change, large companies downsize --- something most employees have no control over. Miranda's father ran his new project management business
[]{#chapter002.xhtml_pg38 .pagebreak}from the family garage in the suburbs of San Francisco --- a windowless room the family referred to as "the Box," as in, "Where's Dad? Is he
out in the Box?" In this not-so-luxurious home office was the one and only family computer, and stuck to the monitor was a Post-it that read "OVERHEAD = DEATH," which was his
philosophy for running the business. Far ahead of his time, he kept things small by using a network of freelance architects, engineers, and estimators, and only as he needed them.
Since the company was just him, he was also able to pivot several times when shifts in the market and specific types of work he enjoyed doing led him to niches to focus on. Keeping
his company of one small (just him) enabled him to set his own flexible hours, so he could coach Miranda's swim and basketball teams on some days and then work in the evenings
instead. Miranda made her first foray into a postschool career with startups in Silicon Valley. While she enjoyed the friendships, travel, and community these jobs gave her, she
also found herself hitting a glass ceiling fairly hard. Although the mostly white, wealthy, and male leadership preached total inclusivity and open values to their communities, she
was constantly met with resistance on her own career growth. This led her to venture out on her own, where she could be more autonomous and have more control over the limits to her
career --- or scrap them altogether. Her father's "OVERHEAD = DEATH" mentality seeped into Miranda's subconsciousness, and she runs her business as he ran his. She hires painters,
movers, installation workers, and carpenters only as she needs them, and from a pool of trusted people with whom she's worked in the past or who have been referred to her directly.
She also pays them above-average wages to incentivize them to work on smaller projects or on weekends. Because she pays them what she feels is fair, they do better-than-average
work, for which she can charge her clients a premium. And []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg39 .pagebreak}by keeping her business small, she's able to work in a niche --- smaller startups ---
that interior design firms with lots of employees and overhead have to avoid as they chase higher revenues. Her childhood vision of power suits in corner offices died off, not
because shoulder pads are no longer in vogue, but because she realized that constant growth often brings on stress and anxiety. When you hire employees, you're responsible for
them. You're their source of income that goes toward paying their mortgages, feeding their families, and even sending their children to college. That's a heavy responsibility. But
keeping people on contract as freelancers makes you responsible for them only for a specific project, and you know that what you're getting paid includes what you'll pay them.
Miranda has found a way to have enough responsibility to succeed on her own terms, but not so much responsibility that she becomes stressed and has to spend lots of time managing
others. Able to retreat for long stretches of time to a yurt she built in the Sierra Nevada foothills, she finds that her overall life is less stressed as well. I've worked for
myself for nearly twenty years and have had stable, increasing income every single year. That's in direct contrast to many of my friends who have worked at larger companies or
startups and been laid off or downsized every time the economy changes. In the United States, [the number of non-employee
establishments](chapter002_notes.xhtml_ch_en5){#chapter002.xhtml_ch-en5} (people who work for themselves and have no employees) with an annual revenue of \$1 million grew by nearly
6 percent in 2015, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. It found that 38,029 companies (of one) were bringing in seven-figure revenues, doing everything from the usual high-tech
and scientific work to equipment repair and laundry services. The Census Bureau data shows that each year it becomes easier and less risky to work for yourself and still make a
decent living. []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg40 .pagebreak}You can outsource or hire freelancers to cover tasks that were traditionally done by an employee. And unlike a corporation, you,
as the boss, can't be downsized or hit a gender-based glass ceiling. As long as you're doing great work that's in demand, working for yourself has no limits --- or, as we'll see
next, only smart upper limits that you put in place yourself. ##### UPPER BOUNDS {#chapter002.xhtml_com0000062 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} Most businesses set goals and targets, but
few consider having an upper bound to them. Paying attention instead to the lower bound of a goal, they focus on ever-exceeding increases in areas like profit and reach and set
goals like, "I want to make at least \$1 million this quarter," or, "We need to grow our mailing list by 2,000 people per day." They set the minimum threshold they want to reach,
with the implication that if more happens, that's even better. What if we set upper limits to our goals instead? For instance, "I want to make at least \$1 million this quarter,
but *not more than \$1.4 million,"* or, "We need to grow our list by 2,000 people per day, *but not more than 2,200*"? In most areas of business, there's a magic zone for
sustainability that relates to the concept brought up at the start of this book about having "enough." If growth happens too quickly, problems can arise --- like not being able to
hire fast enough to keep up, or not having enough infrastructure to handle increased volume. The lower limit can be important, for example, if you need to make enough revenue to be
profitable. But more than that? How useful is it to make more than you need to be profitable? How does it benefit you, your business, or your customers if you blow past your
company's goals? James Clear, a successful blogger on the topic of habits and productivity, tells the story of Southwest Airlines being faced with an interesting problem way back
in 1996: the airline had []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg41 .pagebreak}methodically expanded from a tiny regional carrier to having a bit more of a national presence. And at a time when
most other airlines were losing money or going under, over 100 cities were begging Southwest to service their location. However, that's not the interesting part. What's interesting
is that Southwest turned down over 95 percent of those offers and began serving only four new locations. It turned down exponential growth because company leadership had set an
upper limit for growth. Sure, Southwest's executives wanted to grow each year, but they didn't want to grow too much. Unlike Starbucks, Krispy Kreme, and Pets.com, they wanted to
set their own pace, one that could be sustained in the long term. By doing this, they established a safety margin for growth that helped them continue to thrive at a time when the
other airlines were flailing. Southwest is interesting because its leaders did what they could to sustain their business, and not more. From an evolutionary point of view, there's
probably a good reason to want to accumulate more and more. With more food, more water, more protection against predators, and so on, we may be less likely to die (probably by
being eaten by something larger than us). So in the past, not having an upper bound to our goals served us well and kept us fed, protected, and evolving. But now, in modern
society, having goals that grow and grow without limit can often be problematic. Most of us don't have to worry about food or protection, but we're still wired to want to collect
more and more without end. This mind-set carries over to the businesses we create and run as well. Culturally, growth feeds our ego and social standing. The bigger the company you
own, with more profits and more employees than the next person, the better you might feel. James Clear figured that 10,000 subscribers to his new blog's newsletter would be the
magic number that would signify his success. But then he hit 10,000 quickly and nothing in his blogging business changed. []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg42 .pagebreak}He adjusted his goal
to 100,000 subscribers, but still, when he quickly hit that number, nothing changed. As much as we don't want to be, or admit to being, guided by external factors and peer pressure
in setting goals, to some degree we are. It's good to feel accepted and valued by a group. If our goals were completely internalized at all times, we wouldn't chase growth as much
as we do. Even James now focuses on upper and lower bounds for his business and lets his goals be guided partially by the reasons for his work (as well as a little bit by external
and peer factors). ##### ENVY: THE ULCER OF THE SOUL (AND OF BUSINESS GROWTH) {#chapter002.xhtml_com0000070 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} Socrates said that envy is the ulcer of the
soul, meaning that we can easily become negatively affected by the success of others. Who we are and what we actually want become overshadowed when we internally compare ourselves
to others. We idolize people like Steve Jobs, Elon Musk, and Oprah and think that their path to success --- creating massive empires --- is our own key to happiness and career
fulfillment. For some reason, when our business is just us, or when it isn't growing, we feel a societal pressure to keep up with other, larger businesses in order to be seen as
"making it." After a person answers the question "What do you do?" by saying that they work for themselves, the second question is typically "How big is your business?" You may be
slightly embarrassed if you have to answer that the business is just you and that you have no plans to grow. Really, though, running a business of any size is hard work. Having
made it sustainable and profitable, whether it's big or small, should be something to be proud of. External pressure and even some internal wishing for growth mostly comes from
this envy. We see another business and assume that, if it's large, that business has made it. Even very []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg43 .pagebreak}transparent companies typically share
only their gross numbers or MRR (monthly recurring revenue), which is only a small part of the picture and doesn't account for what their actual profit or margins are. A business
that's making \$500,000 a month could be hemorrhaging key staff due to overworking, and its burn rate could be \$550,000 a month --- making it unprofitable and potentially
unsustainable once the VC money runs out. Envy is hard to manage, as it's a socially unacceptable emotion, even though it's something most people feel. Envy also takes the focus
off your work, your business, and your customers. When we give in to envious feelings, the best we can hope for is second best, since we're focused on copying someone else's path
and not forging our own. Envy is also based on a false comparison, like comparing uncooked ingredients to a delicious baked pie. Envying others, we see only the end result or the
final product --- the delicious dessert. But in ourselves, we see all the not-so-tasty starting ingredients and are aware of all the real work required to combine them into a
successful end product. We too often compare our sometimes messy selves to only the best and shiniest part of others and come up short. Remember, every business has not only its
successes but also its failures. But there is one way that envy can be useful: as a tool to recognize in ourselves what we truly value. For example, if I'm envious that you make
more money than I do, then I need to recognize that making more money might be important to me, work toward figuring out if that's truly the case, and then, if it is, determine how
I can best make more of it. Once we learn what triggers our envy, we can focus on how to rethink or move forward. In an ancient language from India called Pali, there's a term,
"mudita," which seems like the opposite of envy, because it means "to delight in the good fortunes or the accomplishments of others." (Interestingly, it has no counterpart in
English.) Outside []{#chapter002.xhtml_pg44 .pagebreak}of altruism, mudita is useful in business: we can be pleased that people like Musk or Oprah exist and thrive, while at the
same time not letting their prolifically growing empires affect what we do or how we see our own businesses. We can be open to the insight that others have their own business
successes but are not the sole factor in steering our own. We don't need an attitude of world domination and crushing it in our work in order to make a great living or even have a
substantial impact. Our work can start and finish small while still being useful --- focused on moving toward better instead of more. ##### BEGIN TO THINK ABOUT:
{#chapter002.xhtml_com0000079 .EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} [■]{.bulletorn} Whether you are paying attention to your existing customers or to just your potential customers
[■]{.bulletorn} Whether you could make your business better (however you define that) instead of just making it bigger [■]{.bulletorn} Whether your business really needs scale to
succeed [■]{.bulletorn} Where the upper bound to that scale might be, the place where profit and enjoyment have diminishing returns [■]{.bulletorn} How you could turn envy of
others into enjoying their successes and learning from them []{#chapter003.xhtml} ## []{#chapter003.xhtml_pg45 .pagebreak}3 {#chapter003.xhtml_com0000085 .EB04MainHeadClosedNum} ##
What's Required to Lead {#chapter003.xhtml_com0000086 .EB04MainHeadClosedTitle} So far, we've touched on what a company of one is and why betterment of your quality of life should
be valued above blind growth. Now we can turn our attention to who should lead a company of one and what specific traits are required --- whether as an entrepreneur going solo,
with no desire to hire others, or as the leader of an agile and autonomous team within a larger company. What's required to lead a company of one may be different from what you
think is called for, and we'll also look at the worrisome burdens of leadership and power --- and how to avoid them. ##### THE NOT-SO-TYPICAL LEADER {#chapter003.xhtml_com0000089
.EB07SmallCapsMediumHead} Business and Hollywood share a prototypical vision of what a leader should be --- a charismatic, dominant, type-A person (in most cases, a male) who
commands attention simply by being the loudest and most vocal person in a room. That kind of leader can sometimes have a place, but it's not the only possible kind of leader
(especially the being-male part). Companies of one can be led and run by quiet, thoughtful, introspective folks, even when there's a team to manage. Companies of one do require
leadership. If you work for yourself, []{#chapter003.xhtml_pg46 .pagebreak}you've got to be a leader to successfully pitch your services or products, as well as maintain
relationships with clients or customers. If you work with a team of contractors or freelancers, then you've got to be able to lead them as well. Within a corporate setting, you
cannot gain the control, resilience, and speed required to be autonomous without demonstrating leadership, even when corporate structure says that leadership is not your role.
Charisma --- the so-called X-factor that leaders are supposed to be born with in order to make compelling pitches, inspire urgency, and encourage cooperation --- isn't an innate
quality that you either have or don't have. In fact, charisma can be taught or brought out when required, even in quiet individuals. [Research from the University of Lausanne
business school](chapter003_notes.xhtml_ch_en1){#chapter003.xhtml_ch-en1} showed that training managers in a specific set of traits improved their charismatic qualities (even if
they had no such inherent qualities) and thus their overall effectiveness as leaders. By using stories and metaphors, high expectations, and even facial expressions, anyone can
employ and gain charisma to inspire others. Another quality that helps is setting extremely high goals --- for yourself and for others. Gandhi, in his famous "Quit India" speech,
inspired an entire nation to liberate themselves from British rule without using violence. Katsuhiko Machida, the former CEO of Sharp, energized his employees in 1999, when their
business faced collapse, by telling them the unthinkable: that all CRT televisions (those massive, clunky, deep boxes that TVs used to be) would have to be replaced by much thinner
LCD models by 2005 to meet consumer demands. But setting these almost outrageous goals and expectations was not enough; they had to be accompanied by the confidence that they could
be achieved. Gandhi did this through countless examples of peaceful protest, and Machida did it by convincing his engineering team that they could achieve this goal and that he
trusted them to do so, and by giving them the resources to realize it. []{#chapter003.xhtml_pg47 .pagebreak}Because Mark Zuckerberg, the CEO of Facebook, is a classic introverted
leader, he enlists the help of COO Sheryl Sandberg, who offers him social and political guidance. Mark leans on smaller, genuine, collaborative connections rather than attempting
to keep a large number of employees or subordinates under his rule. He's also been very competent at persuading other startups and their founders (typically very entrepreneurial in
spirit) to join Facebook, by spending a lot of time with them and listening keenly. A study done by professors at Harvard Business School [found that introverted
leaders](chapter003_notes.xhtml_ch_en2){#chapter003.xhtml_ch-en2}, especially when they are managing skilled and proactive teams, can be highly successful. That's because a
quieter, calmer leader is more likely to listen carefully, stay very focused, and not be afraid to work for long stretches of time without interruption. And they are able to lead a
team of people who can do the same. Just as autonomy can only be of benefit once a skill set is mastered (as we discussed in [Chapter 1](#chapter001.xhtml)), a company of one that
operates as a small team requires real expertise from each member if they are to function both separately and as a whole without very much managing required. This research from
Adam Grant, Francesca Gino, and David Hofmann suggests that introverts can make better bosses --- and that extroverted leaders, who sometimes speak first and think later, can
actually lose the respect of their team, leading to poorer results. However, any leaders who listen carefully and are receptive to smart and useful suggestions from their team,
whether they're introverted or extroverted, can build the trust required to earn cooperation. Introverted leaders do have to overcome the strong cultural presumption that
extroverts are more effective leaders. Although the population splits into almost equal parts between introverts and extroverts, more than 96 percent of managers and executives are
extroverted. In a study done in 2006, 65 percent of senior corporate []{#chapter003.xhtml_pg48 .pagebreak}executives viewed introversion as a barrier to leadership. We must
reexamine this stereotype, however, as it doesn't always hold true. Regent University found that a desire to be of service to others and to empower them to grow is a key factor in
becoming a leader and retaining leadership. So-called servant leadership, dating back to ancient philosophy and the *Tao Te Ching*, adheres to the belief that a company's goals are
best achieved by helping workers or customers achieve their goals. Such leaders do not seek attention but rather want to shine a light on others' wins and achievements. Servant
leadership requires humility, but that humility ultimately pays off. Companies of one recognize that elevating others elevates the entire team or business. Companies of one are
sometimes quiet people who are internally motivated to make a difference in the world without shouting. Many people think they aren't the type of person who could start and run a
business or inspire others to work with them or buy from them. I myself am the first to admit that I'm socially awkward and not well spoken in groups --- I have a hard time
