instruction, a recipe. And there we go. We've just got everything 19:46 back. So what we're able to do is now do forward slash and then linked in post generator. We can do tab to
bring it 19:54 into the conversation. And then we could just go through and say and we'll send it off. Now what is go through and do 20:00 and as we can see it's going to write
that LinkedIn post for us straight away. So as we go through and improve and 20:06 enhance our skill, it can sound more like us. We can use the best hooks, we can generate it on
autopilot and much 20:13 much more, which is the power of skills. We can also share these with other people because if we come to the leftand 20:19 side here and we just drop down
see for example the skill dock, we can now see all of that information. So, we could 20:26 share this with someone else. They can make their own version or if we've got different
team members in a business, we 20:31 can make sure they all use the same one in the future. Now, we're going to run through plugins. These are extra 20:37 abilities that we're able
to give our AI agents, our clawed instance to help 20:43 achieve specific outputs that we want to. So, we've got different ones that you can see here in the official Plugins 20:48
marketplace repository. You can add any of these that you want nice and easily. 20:53 If you do tab, it will take you across to see all of the different ones that you've already
got installed so that you 21:00 can see if any of them need to be updated, you want to deactivate them. We can also see the different marketplaces 21:05 we've got installed and if
there's any errors for the plugins that we've used. So for example here if we wanted to go 21:12 through and improve the claude.md management we would go through for many 21:18 of
you starting off just installed it at the user scope if you're comfortable exactly what you're going to be using it 21:23 for. What I also recommend if you're ever trying to
install external ones that don't come from the official 21:29 marketplace and just come across the tools like Virus Total which in this use case are totally free to get started
21:35 with and it will give you security analysis of is there any potentially malicious elements to that specific file 21:41 you want to use. But if we come back across and say
install for you now it's going to have installed it as we can see 21:48 up the top here. And then we just need to do forward slashreload plugins. And it's going to make sure to
21:54 reload and update all of the ones that we've currently got installed for our project instance or for our global MCP Servers 22:01 plugins. Next up, we've got MCP servers.
Now, Claude will automatically work with 22:06 all of the files on your local machine. But what if we want to access different tools like for example notion, air 22:12 table, slack
or GitHub? What we're able to do is give it the power of model 22:18 context protocol servers which basically enable us to access all of the different 22:23 commands for executing
specific tasks i.e. do this task in your application, 22:30 give me this data back, everything like that that through the MCP server because it knows all of the different possible
22:36 abilities it's able to do. And that's because for your business and many other businesses, you don't just live in one 22:42 system. They all need to be able to talk to each
other. You need to be able to access data from different ones and pull 22:49 it through to complete processes. If we come across to the official documentation for MCP servers with
22:55 clawed code, you'll see here that we've got lots of different popular ones and just the simple command to install them. 23:02 I'll include all of the links down below so you
can find this nice and easily. And if you wanted to install a brand new 23:07 one, for example, Bitly, just come through and copy this command here, open up a new terminal on your
machine, paste 23:14 in there, and now it's going to go through and add that specific MCP ability to our Claude Code instance 23:21 across all of our projects. Now, everything so
far we've been running within one single conversation, but Sub Agents 23:27 there's a feature that's really important to understand called sub agent. What this enables us to do is
in 23:33 our main conversation is going to be our main AI agent. But say we need to 23:38 complete multiple different deliverables, multiple different outputs for one specific
task. Well, then what 23:45 we're able to do is a create our very own agents, which I'll show you in a second, but we can get it to go through 23:51 and complete specific outputs.
So maybe you need one to be a researcher to investigate a specific market awareness 23:58 around a tool. Then maybe we're developing a new app, a new feature, we can go through and
use the tester and 24:04 the developer both for different lenses to see if we're actually getting the best outputs. And then last but not 24:11 least, say we're doing some LinkedIn
copywriting. Again, we could have our very own subwriting agent to complete 24:18 that specific task. Each one is going to run with its own context window. It's 24:23 going to help
get us better outputs and we're able to run them in parallel. So it speeds up that development versus 24:29 having just one conversation running with our main AI agent at any one
time. 24:34 Think of it as having sub agents specialist where we've got our main agent as the coordinator and generalist 24:41 to get your outputs. But Anthropic have also taken
this one step further because we've now got what's called agent teams. 24:48 Now, previously with sub agents, they're not actually able to talk to each other throughout the
process. You send off one 24:56 piece of information and it sends it back once it's done. What we can do with agent teams, which do use a lot more Agent Teams 25:02 tokens as a
result, is they're able to have context around what each other's doing. So, they understand, for example, 25:09 if we're changing the API, how would we then need to test them? but
also they can work with our main agent in a 25:16 coordinated way to say how we need to update any of the tasks we're completing 25:21 adding any relevant of course context to help
get the output and much much more 25:26 but it does come at that token cost which will mean that you run into your limits a lot quicker and I would only 25:32 recommend it for
really complex build or lots of complex changes where they all interconnect with each other if you're 25:38 getting it to go through and just write a newsletter then trying to get
it to write a blog blog, then trying to do 25:44 maybe an image for a post on social media. They can be three different sub aents that don't have to talk to each 25:50 other. To
set up your very own agents, you can do forward slash agent. As you can see here, if we press enter, so we Custom Agents 25:58 could do create a new agent. If we say we're going to
do project, we want to generate it with clause cuz we can 26:04 explain it what we want to do. So now if we send this off, it's going to go through and try and generate a 26:10
description for us for this specific agent. And we can also say if we want to 26:15 have access to any of the tools. So again, you'll be able to go through turn any of this on or
off. We can also come 26:22 down to the advanced options, which as you can see here, there's tons and tons of different ones to choose from. We're 26:28 now going to have our very
own agent start to be created. We also need to make sure that we define the model that 26:35 we want to use because otherwise it's going to go through and by default use the exact
same model as the main 26:42 conversation. So we can come through say we want this one to be sonet. We can 26:47 also say if we want it to have a particular color. So we could do
blue the same color as LinkedIn and press 26:53 enter. We're going to say user scope for this. We're going to do press enter. And now we've got it all ready to go 27:00 straight
away. If we want to use this agent rather than doing forward slash 27:05 for linked in as a skill, what we're able to do is an at symbol, we can then 27:11 do linked in come down
to our content strategist. So now if I press enter on 27:16 that, it's going to start up our agent to go through and get the outputs that we're looking for. And there we go. It's
27:22 now asking us the questions to help get it output ready to go. Of course, if you're ever invoking one of these agents 27:28 and you want to change the model, just make sure
to go through and tell it, hey, I want to use Opus or I want to use 27:34 Sonnet to make sure it doesn't default to whatever your main one is using. Now, what if we've gone through
and tried to Checkpoints 27:39 generate an output with our clawed agent, but it's actually gone down the wrong train of thought. And that's where we're able to use checkpoints,
where 27:46 we're constantly saving different versions in the background. So we can then use for example rewind to then 27:52 restore it to a previous part of the conversation. So
now if I restore conversation here, we can go back to 27:59 that main part that we were talking about beforehand and we wouldn't have the maybe error workflow or error 28:06
process. It was starting to go down. So now we're back at the start and we could actually change that entire conversation 28:12 thread in the future if we weren't happy with how it
was going so far or we made 28:17 a mistake and we needed to come back up to a previous version. So now that we're generating all of these files, where do GitHub 28:23 we actually
store them? Well, that's where we're able to use a platform called GitHub. When you log in, you 28:29 should see something that looks like this. On the left hand side, you'll have
something called repositories. This is 28:34 just think of it as your folder of file structure for where you're storing all the information. So, for example, this 28:40 trade flow
AI that I did for a previous video. As we can see in here, it's now got what's called a readme file. So, all 28:48 of the information about this specific project. And if we come
back up to the top, we can also see that it's got all 28:54 of the files in here. And this is great because it can help us track the different changes or the latest version 29:00
for us to access anywhere in the world. So, in case there's any issues on our local machine, we don't need to worry 29:06 about it getting wiped or any file corruptions. You'll see
that we've got the plugin and the MCP that we're able 29:12 to use. We also need to make sure that we've got it downloaded on our local machine to authenticate us in to be able
29:19 to use it. And to do that, just come across to this site here. We need to make sure that we're installing Git 29:25 locally, which is going to track all of the changes for us
and connect us to our GitHub account. And then you just need 29:32 to come down and run this gh or loging command within your terminal to set 29:37 everything up. Next up, we got
something called work trees. Now imagine you have to go through and ship multiple Worktrees 29:43 different updates for specific features at a time. This is where we can help run
29:49 different tasks in parallel. So for example, in one chat, we could ask it to go through and create an actual new 29:55 dashboard for us. In another one, we could ask it to go
through and actually try and fix any of the bugs that we've 30:02 got with our checkout page at the moment. Or last but not least, we could also test maybe updating that landing
30:08 page for a client at the same time in parallel. For these to work though, make sure that you've got your project on 30:14 GitHub. And work trees aren't just for developers.
Think of them as productivity multipliers. you're able to 30:20 have three different agents completing maybe three different tasks at the same time to help speed up your workflow
and 30:27 get the output. Next up, we've got hooks. Now, what these are are specific tools that have been developed by Claude Hooks 30:34 Code. They run automatically in the
background. Don't use any of your tokens, but what they enable us to do is 30:41 every time Claude saves a file, it will format it automatically. Every time Claude maybe runs a
command, it would 30:47 log it for you so you can see it in the future. Or every time you end a specific session, it's able to go through and 30:54 back up everything. As you can
see here, we can notice all of the different ones they've got set up. So you can go 31:00 through and change these to exactly what you want. So as you can see here, lots and lots
of different ones for us to be 31:05 able to use, change and adjust. If you want to edit any of these, it's nice and easily. We can chat to our Claude agent 31:11 or we can go
through and edit the settings.json. JSON in our files so that we can actually tell you what it can do, 31:18 can't do, and the hooks we need to run our project. And there you have
it. That's the top key claude code concepts 31:23 that you need to be aware of whether you are starting off with your projects or you want to be running it overnight. 31:29 Don't
worry, you don't have to memorize all of these. Just make sure to bookmark and save the video so you can come back 31:34 as you need it. And if you want to learn the latest and
greatest about Claude Code, make sure to check out the channel 31:39 for the latest updates because we're constantly showing what you're able to do with it as well as many other
31:45 platforms as well. And as always, stay tuned for more around AI automation and have a great day. All From the seriesClaude Code shipped everything 0:00 Claude Code just
shipped more features in one month than most tools do in an entire year. We're talking voice 0:05 control, computer use, texting, AI from your very own phone number, how you can
have it self-improving for its skills 0:12 and abilities, brand new permissions so it can run on autopilot, and much much 0:17 more. I've been using every single one of these on my
operating systems to help run my business dayto-day. And I'm going 0:23 to show you exactly how each one of them works and which ones I recommend. Some of them are brand new, some
of them have 0:29 been out for a couple of months, but I'm going to show you the latest and greatest you need to use. Now, if you're serious about AI, come join us in the AI
Hands-free coding (auto mode + voice) 0:36 edge on school. It's completely free to get started. Hundreds of members all over the world, business owners, 0:41 freelancers,
consultants, all using AI and automation to get real results. There's a full masterclass section, 0:47 templates you can grab and use straight away, and live weekly calls where you
can ask me anything. No fluff, no 0:54 algorithms, no ads. link and QR code are on screen now or just simply check the description and you'll see it there. 1:00 First, we're going
to run through how we can actually use Claude code. Now, previously when you wanted to start it 1:06 up in your terminal, you just used clawed on the terminal version. As you can
see here, it would then start up 1:12 your very own instance. Then if we come through and down to the bottom, we then got access to claw dangerously skip 1:19 permissions to help
speed up that development life cycle so that it would basically run in the background and 1:24 instead of asking for our approval, just execute any of the commands it thought it
needed to to help get the outputs. 1:31 Now we've got a brand new updates which I think is the best one we got so far. And if we come down the bottom, we can 1:37 do clouds- enable
auto and then mode. And this is going to be the best of 1:43 having the normal version and dangerously skip permissions. The reason for this is because when we use auto 1:49 mode,
it's going to ask us specific questions if it thinks that action is going to be risky, whereas it's going to 1:56 automatically run the command that it knows that it's safe. So,
this is going to help speed up that safe development 2:02 and still ask for your input where you need to. So, now that we've got this automatic permissions in the background, 2:08
how can we also speed up development even further? Well, we're going to close these two down, come up to our enabled 2:15 auto mode, and then we're able to do forward slash and
then voice. Now, we can toggle the voice mode on and off to 2:22 help actually speak to the machine and get the outputs. So, as you can see, there is now disabled and we're just
2:28 going to turn it back on. Now, all we need to do to chat to it is hold down the space bar. Hey there, please can you 2:34 go through and find the skills that I've got
available within my system that we've developed together to know the 2:40 outputs that we're able to achieve. And then as you can see there, we've got the input ready to go
straight away. And I 2:46 have found that the quality is getting better and better over time for the outputs we're looking for. Of course, 2:51 there's still many other market
tools like Whisper Flow or other speechtoext platforms we're able to use to get the 2:56 outputs. But the reason this is so important is because many of us are able to speak
significantly faster than of 3:03 course we're able to type. So now all we need to do is hold our space bar. It's going to turn it into the speech for us 3:09 and it will enable us
to code incredibly quickly. We've got to 20 languages that are currently supported. It's the real 3:15 time transcription and we can rebind it from that space bar if we want to to
get the outputs. And there we go. We've now 3:21 got the 65 skills back plus the 35 forward/kills as you can see here. All 3:27 in the background for us to use. So no longer we
have to type commands. We can talk to it natively in here and not even 3:33 pay for another platform. Next up, we're going to come across to claude code work and on the desktop app
to have computer 3:40 use. We need to come down to our settings on our account because it's currently a beta feature we need to 3:45 enable. We're going to come across to general.
We need to scroll down, make sure that we've got, of course, browser 3:51 actions turned on and allow computer use. We're going to make sure that we've got both of these turned on.
Sometimes 3:58 you'll need to restart the app just to make sure it's ready to go. We're going to come back up to new task and then 4:04 we're going to simply come through and give
it the new command using computer use. So, we're telling it exactly that. 4:10 Open Google Chrome on my Mac and go to my LinkedIn profile, scroll through my recent posts, and tell
me the last three 4:16 things, what they were about. So, we're going to allow it for this session to access the actual machine. It should go 4:23 through and control everything for
us. As we can see there, it's now minimized it to the top right hand corner on the 4:29 left hand side. We're now going to go through and open up, of course, a Chrome browser to
actually execute the request. 4:36 If we scroll down in here, we should be able to see exactly what it's doing in the background, reading the request. So, 4:43 as we can see here,
it's going through. It looks like it's opened up another page. And there we go. It's successfully 4:49 bought back my three latest posts that I had on LinkedIn. And if we come
across to my post exactly as we saw, AI 4:55 strategy, then we had around actually solving the right problems and of course the build by your partner element as Computer use &
multitasking 5:02 well. So that's how we're now able to give Claude specific tasks and you can actually use your machine to complete 5:07 specific processes and that's fantastic
for example with platforms like LinkedIn which are a lot more restrictive around 5:14 API and actual AI usage on it or for example other platforms that maybe just 5:19 don't have
an API ready to go. We can use it this way instead. The only thing to note is of course when we give Claude 5:25 our computer it literally has our computer. So you won't be able to
do anything else in the background. It's 5:30 going to be running through and doing everything as it needs to. Now, computer use is a fantastic capability, but it's 5:36 not set to
default for how Claude behaves automatically. It's going to try and go through and use the connectors 5:42 that it's got first. Then it will try and use the browser extension that
it's 5:48 got, and then if it absolutely has to, it will come through and use that screen control at the end. So that's why when 5:55 you give it a command, you may not see it come
straight down to this screen control element. It's more likely to 6:01 start with those official direct connectors that are provided to help get your output. It's also much faster
than 6:08 literally giving it over to your machine and it having to type it out exactly like you would. So now we're going to 6:13 come across to a new terminal. We're going to
paste a prompt in there which is going to ask it to go off and write a 6:18 professional project for an AI and automation engagement based on a recruitment agency with 15 staff 4
hours 6:25 a day on manual screening. Now, whilst this is running away in the background, what if we want to ask another quick 6:30 question of course back to the agent? Well, we
can come through do/btw 6:36 for by the way. We can do tab and then paste our question in there again using the voice mode. Hey, what is the average 6:43 salary for a recruitment
person within the UK? So that we can understand this in the calculations and then we can send 6:50 that off. And now what this is going to be able to do is whilst it's working away
in the background on our main task, 6:56 imagine we had a really long one that was going through or we wanted to ask a specific question. Now we're able to run 7:02 this in
parallel and it's going to go through and answer this specific question for us even if the main code is 7:08 taken up completing a different request. And there you go. As we can
see, we got some data back for 2025 2026 recruitment 7:16 salaries. And what this means is whilst the main task is still running through, we're able to get that secondary 7:22
response or tertiary response as it's going through and completing that main process. So it doesn't interrupt the 7:28 flow like we would have by queuing messages if we just typed
it straight into the chat. Next up, we have the 7:34 updated version of skills. Now, skills enable our clawed agents, our clawed instance to basically execute specific 7:42
processes, specific tasks, or get a specific output for us in a certain way. 7:47 We've got a much more in-depth video on this on the channel, so make sure to click the link in the
description to go 7:52 through and find it. I'll make sure it's linked down there. What essentially we're now able to do with version two is Skills 2.0, agents & self-improvement
7:58 we'll be able to give it a request that we want to have a specific output. For example, this is going to create the 8:05 skill for us. It's going to write down everything that
we need to actually generate our skill. And that means it's 8:11 going to include the name, the description, and of course the instructions to get the output. The 8:18 reason that
this is really important for version two is because the enhanced description that is going to keep 8:23 writing in the evaluation loop, which I'll touch on in a second, will get
better and better and better to make 8:29 sure the right tool is being used at the right time because we're also assessing the outputs that we're now able to get 8:35 with the
skills. We can also see if those instructions are actually correct and of course if we've got any extra 8:42 resources that need to be improved. So for example, that can be extra
scripts. 8:48 That could be a Python script to do some calculations. Maybe we can have any other reference documents. Maybe you've 8:54 got a branding guideline for your specific
organization that needs to be invoked as part of the skill. And then 9:00 last but not least, of course, maybe if you got a particular logo or asset that you want to be included,
then it's able 9:07 to use that as well to make sure we get the best outputs. So now you understand how that skill is created and all the 9:12 different elements. The new and
improved version has this continuous improvement loop that we're able to access. As you 9:19 saw a second ago, it's now going to go through and evaluate the actual instructions.
Does it need to improve 9:25 them? Do we need any extra resources to go with it? Any extra scripts, any extra images, anything like this that of 9:33 course we then need to improve
to get the better outputs. We're then able to keep looping through over and over 9:39 again, rewriting it, updating, and enhancing it so that we can actually improve the way that
we use it. If I 9:45 come across to my business OS system, what we able to see up the top here is cla. If we then come down to skills, 9:52 we'll be able to see all of the
different ones in here that we're able to access. So, for example, if we want 9:58 really good UI design for our applications and websites, we've got one here, for example, called
UI UX Pro Max. 10:05 and they're just markdown documents. So, as you can see here, we've got that name up the top. We've got the description 10:13 here, and that's really important
because the better the description, the more accurately Claude's going to use it 10:19 in the correct use cases. We've then got all of the details in here for what it should use,
at what stage, how it should 10:26 use it, and of course, the different steps and reference documents that we need to get the outputs. And this is 10:32 just what's called a
markdown document. Think of it as like a word doc or a Google doc. It's just a nice simple text 10:39 document explaining everything that it needs to do. It needs to check as part
of the output for claude to be able to 10:45 invoke and use this as and when it needs it in a particular process. So for example, they're great for marketing 10:52 because you're
able to get your consistent tone of voice for anything to do in that space. If you're using, for 10:58 example, proposals and writing them for your sales team, it will make sure
that you get consistent formatting, any 11:04 reference images, color schemes, particular use cases you want to showcase, and much, much more when you 11:10 need it. We've also got
another super in-depth video all around the brand new auto research opensource repository from 11:19 Andre Kapati, the guy that literally built self-driving at Tesla. The reason
this was important is because it takes 11:25 our skills to the next level. Again, when we couple it with clawed code, what it's able to do is actually set up a 11:32 massive test
to go through and say, how is that skill performing? Is it giving us good outputs, bad outputs, and 11:39 anything like that. I really recommend checking out the other video. We go
into much more depth of how it works, why 11:45 it's important, but essentially it's a datadriven investigation. I.e., We're 11:50 seeing if our click rate for emails opening goes
up or goes down for our 11:55 Shopify store. Do we make more sales or less sales with particular images or copy? Do we actually close more deals if 12:02 we use a specific use case
versus another? So, anything that we're able to track than metrics going up or down? 12:09 That's where actually using auto research is fantastic. Now, tied to scales, we also have
our very own agents 12:16 that we're able to set up and run. What we're able to do within Clawude Code is we're able to basically delegate 12:22 specific tasks off to our AI agents
or AI workers that are specialized to 12:28 complete specific goals. That can be anything from exploring, planning, general tasks or custom ones that we 12:35 actually want to
create ourselves for a specific goal that we wanted to achieve. We're able also to have persistent 12:41 memory with them and it can have work tree isolation i.e. work different
terminals to complete that specific 12:47 task. The difference between having skills and agents is they actually work together versus against each other. 12:53 Think of it as
skills are the instructions of what you want Claude to actually do. Whereas the agents are the 13:00 ones actually going to go through as a worker and execute a specific skill. So
13:05 think of it as skills are telling Claude how to do something. Agents are actually going through and completing that 13:12 specific task. That's why there are these
independent workers that can go through and get an output versus just 13:18 having more of an instruction file that you can refine and improve. As we can see on the left hand side
here and if we 13:24 come across to cursor then nice and easy to set up. We just do forward slash agents. We're now going to be able to 13:30 see all the different agents that I've
got for example set up within this claude code instance and account. Let's 13:36 say that we wanted to go through and analyze maybe this blog writer that we've got. All we would
need to do is 13:42 press enter. We can then see the view agent, edit agent, delete or back. If we 13:47 want to do view agent, we'll now be able to come through and as you can see
here, analyze all of the different 13:54 information, the instruction, the description, the tools, how it's going to go through and complete that specific 14:00 task. What we're
also able to do as well is if we escape out of there, we can also edit all of that task as well. So 14:07 any of the tools that it uses, the model, we could change from sonnet to
opus depending on the performance that 14:13 you're finding from it. Or if we come back in, we can also go through edit the color all of these different paths to 14:20 make sure
that it's nice and unique for our specific use case or just delete it entirely if we don't want it anymore. 14:26 You can also just if we come back up to the top here, you're also
able to go through and create your very own agent. 14:33 You'll just determine if you want it to be project or personal. So, we're going to say we want it to be personal. 14:39
Generate with Claude is the best way to do it because it will help you get that output. You explain what you want it to 14:45 do. For example, be a marketing agent that will go
through, scrape the news, generate a new maybe lead magnet that 14:51 you'll be able to put out to the market. Any of the usage of skills to actually help achieve that goal. All
you need to 14:58 do is put in there, enter the command, and it will go off and complete everything for you. They're incredibly 15:03 useful. I really recommend checking out
agents. They're not a brand new feature. They've been around for quite a while, but they're really something that should 15:09 be core to your workflow just as much as skills are.
Next up, we're now able to use Google Workspace with our Claude Google Workspace integration 15:15 Code instance natively on our machine. Now, this is developed by the official
Google Workspace team. It's just not 15:22 officially supported at the moment because it's still in beta and the testing they're doing. So, this yes, is 15:29 developed by the
proper team from Google. It's just, as you can see, they're not officially supported as a 15:34 product from Google at the moment, but this will change over time as they make it
better and better and better for us 15:40 to use day-to-day. Now, one thing that's mentioned before we go through and set this up is I recommend only doing this 15:46 for maybe a
specific agent account like agent at your company domain because you 15:52 don't want to give it access to your personal account. Again, whilst this is just beta testing, going
through, getting refined, and it's not that 15:58 official connection just yet, we want to make sure that we're controlling it, what it has access to, what it can do, 16:04 and
we'll show you how to control, of course, the APIs it can use, sending emails, creating docs, and much much 16:10 more later on in this part. To get it set up, all we need to do is
copy this command here. Come back across to our 16:16 terminals with claw code. We just need to say, "Hey there, please can you go through and make sure that we've got our 16:22
Google Workspace CLI set up. Here is the initial command that I got from their 16:27 GitHub repo." Then we're going to paste the command at the end there and send it off. Now, what
it's going to go through 16:32 and do is make sure that we've got everything set up for us. We'll need to make a few quick changes and login with 16:38 our account authenticated.
So, I'll show you how to do that nice and quick. Whilst that's setting up, we need to 16:43 come across to Google Console. Again, all of the links will be in the description. You
need to make sure that you come through and create a new 16:50 project for us to be able to use. We then want to come down to APIs and services. We then need to come down to 16:57
where we've got the oorthth consent screen and get started. What we're going to do in here is call it, for example, 17:03 Atlas OS, which is what I've called my system. We need to
add our email in there for us to be able to access it. 17:09 The audience, we're going to keep it internal. Contact information, I'm just going to add my email in there. We're
17:15 then going to go through, finish that up, and create everything. Now, what we're going to need to do is once this 17:21 is set up for our authentication screen, we need to
come down to where we've got our audience, uh, sorry, clients. We're 17:28 going to come through, create a new client. We're going to call it a desktop app. We just call it Atlas
OS, then 17:35 demo. For this, I'm going to press create. So, we're up and running. Now, what we can see here in the background 17:41 is the secret, which we actually need to
access our account. You'll see you have a client ID and a client secret. What 17:48 you need to do is make sure to download this JSON. You can always change it and update it in the
future. Make sure to 17:55 call it client secret and thenjson at the end. And then save it to your 18:02 downloads for now. We're going to press okay to cancel out of him. And then
we just need to move that credential 18:08 somewhere else. Now you need to come across to your config file which you can do using this command here. You then 18:13 just need to
come through, create a new folder. We're going to call it GWS. 18:19 And then you just need to make sure that you pull your client secret into this folder. And there you go. By the
end, you should have something that looks 18:25 like this. Again, just reiterating what we mentioned at the start. Only give this access to the accounts that you 18:30 really want
to. I recommend having a separate account for basically your AI agent versus your main account so that 18:36 we can actually control what it has access to dayto-day. And then last
but not least, we just need to come back up 18:42 to the platform and we're going to activate all of the different API services that we want it to have access 18:47 to. So we'll
come down to APIs and services. We just need to enable the API. So in this use case, I'm just going 18:53 to enable Google Docs as we can see here. Come through and just enable. So
18:59 now we'll be able to create and access any of our Google Docs on our Google Drive that we need to use. And then last 19:04 but not least, we just need to run this command
here. So again, we'll just open up another terminal for us to use. We're 19:10 going to run that command in there. It should ask us which platforms we want, of course, to have
access to. Again, be 19:16 very specific on what you want it to access. You just need to be spacebar to remove any of the access. So, for 19:23 example, here for our demo, we're
just going to be doing Google Drive and of 19:28 course, Google Docs. So, we're going to press enter to confirm that. We just need to open up this link here where 19:36 we'll sign
in with our account. And there we go. We've now got the confirmation back saying that we're all logged in. So, if we come back across to 19:42 our AI agent that we had from earlier
on and we can ask it the different skills. We can say again with the voice mode, 19:49 hey, please can you go through and create a quick Google doc so that we're able to see all of
the skills available, 19:55 what they are, how they work, and which ones you recommend for people starting off with claw code. And we'll send that 20:02 off. And there we go. We've
just got it back after 4 minutes. If I just open it up in here, one of the fantastic things 20:08 about using it this way is that, as we can see here, it's also done the formatting
for us automatically, which 20:14 is incredibly important because when we used to use API calls like we would with the NA10, it wouldn't be able to go 20:21 through and sort out
the formatting. So now we're able to actually create the documents, send emails, update our 20:27 calendar, whatever it may be for all of those accounts that we access through our
Google Workspace CLI. And that's 20:33 where our next command comes into play. Imagine we've given it access to our actual Google, maybe Gmail or calendar 20:39 account. We'd be
able to come through, do forward slash, and then loop. What this is going to do is run a prompt Automated scheduling (/loop + /schedule) 20:45 every single maybe five minutes, 10
minutes, every day, whatever we need it to be to actually give us a specific 20:52 output. Again, we got another video on the channel for more depth. But what we want to specify
first is the interval. 20:58 So if I do 5 m, that would be every 5 minutes, it's going to execute this 21:04 specific prompt. So we could say, I need you to go through and actually
identify any additional skills that we're 21:10 missing, any gaps so that we can go through and actually enhance the development and actual outputs that 21:15 we're getting from
our AI agents. And another one that we can set up as well would be getting the latest AI news, but 21:22 we'll do that every 10 minutes instead. Then we'll be able to send this
off. And as you can see here, it's identified 21:28 that we've now got two separate reoccurring tasks that we're going to get set up. And now we've got it back. 21:34 So we can see
actually we're going to have the job completed for the skills 21:39 gap analysis every 5 minutes and we've got the AI news briefing every 10 minutes. It's going to go through and
21:46 actually enhance the skill description so we know exactly what it's doing when it's executing those commands. And 21:52 that's why for example say that you've got a website
you could do forward slash SEO to see how you can improve it and 21:58 have that running every 5 minutes. Perhaps you're developing a brand new product update so that you're going
to 22:05 be shipping it to customers. You want to test if it fails, if it works, if there's any bugs, any issues. That's 22:11 what we're able to use the loop command for. At the
moment, it's got a limit of, of course, 3 days, but this will improve 22:18 over time, I'm sure, with Anthropic. And the other part of this as well is we need to keep the terminal
open for it to 22:24 go through and know to execute that specific request. If our terminal was already busy with another request, it 22:30 won't execute it straight away, it will
wait for that entire process to finish and then run the loop command at the 22:37 first available moment to get the output that you're looking for. And there we go. It also ran
