(claude-sonnet-4-6) for security analysis, and large (claude-opus-4-7) for deep reasoning. Set ANTHROPIC_SMALL_MODEL, ANTHROPIC_MEDIUM_MODEL, and ANTHROPIC_LARGE_MODEL to the
Bedrock model IDs for your region. Google Vertex AI Shannon also supports Google Vertex AI instead of using an Anthropic API key. Create a service account with the
roles/aiplatform.user role in the GCP Console, then download a JSON key file. Quick Setup Run npx @keygraph/shannon setup and select Google Vertex AI. The wizard will prompt for
your region, project ID, service account key file path, and model IDs. The key file is securely copied to ~/.shannon/google-sa-key.json. Or export env vars directly: export
CLAUDE_CODE_USE_VERTEX=1 export CLOUD_ML_REGION=us-east5 export ANTHROPIC_VERTEX_PROJECT_ID=your-gcp-project-id export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/your-sa-key.json
export ANTHROPIC_SMALL_MODEL=claude-haiku-4-5@20251001 export ANTHROPIC_MEDIUM_MODEL=claude-sonnet-4-6 export ANTHROPIC_LARGE_MODEL=claude-opus-4-7 Clone and Build: add to .env
instead Set CLOUD_ML_REGION=global for global endpoints, or a specific region like us-east5. Some models may not be available on global endpoints — see the Vertex AI Model Garden
for region availability. Custom Base URL Shannon supports pointing the SDK at any Anthropic-compatible endpoint via ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL. For users who need proxy-based routing, the
supported path is to use an LLM proxy such as LiteLLM configured to expose an Anthropic-compatible endpoint. Important Only Claude models are officially supported. Shannon's
evaluations, internal testing, and agent harness are all optimized for Claude. Smaller or alternative models — including non-Claude models routed through a proxy — may not reliably
follow Shannon's instructions or tool-use constraints, and are not officially supported. Use them at your own risk; results may be incomplete, inaccurate, or unstable. The
previously experimental claude-code-router integration is being removed in an upcoming release. If you currently rely on it, migrate to an Anthropic-compatible proxy such as
LiteLLM before upgrading. Run npx @keygraph/shannon setup and select Custom Base URL. The wizard will prompt for your endpoint URL, auth token, and optionally let you override the
default model tiers. Or export env vars directly: export ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL=https://your-proxy.example.com export ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN=your-auth-token # Optionally override model
tiers (defaults are used if not set) export ANTHROPIC_SMALL_MODEL=claude-haiku-4-5-20251001 export ANTHROPIC_MEDIUM_MODEL=claude-sonnet-4-6 export
ANTHROPIC_LARGE_MODEL=claude-opus-4-7 Clone and Build: add to .env instead Platform-Specific Instructions For Windows: Shannon on Windows is only supported via WSL2. Native Windows
(including Git Bash) is not supported. Step 1: Ensure WSL 2 wsl --install wsl --set-default-version 2 # Check installed distros wsl --list --verbose # If you don't have a distro,
install one (Ubuntu 24.04 recommended) wsl --list --online wsl --install Ubuntu-24.04 # If your distro shows VERSION 1, convert it to WSL 2: wsl --set-version <distro-name> 2 See
WSL basic commands for reference. Step 2: Install Docker Desktop on Windows and enable WSL2 backend under Settings > General > Use the WSL 2 based engine. Step 3: Run Shannon
inside WSL using either flow. npx inside WSL: npx @keygraph/shannon setup npx @keygraph/shannon start -u https://your-app.com -r /path/to/your-repo Clone and Build command
equivalents To access the Temporal Web UI, run ip addr inside WSL to find your WSL IP address, then navigate to http://<wsl-ip>:8233 in your Windows browser. Windows Defender may
flag exploit code in reports as false positives; see Antivirus False Positives below. For Linux (Native Docker): You may need to run commands with sudo depending on your Docker
setup. If you encounter permission issues with output files, ensure your user has access to the Docker socket. For macOS: Works out of the box with Docker Desktop installed.
Testing Local Applications: Docker containers cannot reach localhost on your host machine. Use host.docker.internal in place of localhost: npx @keygraph/shannon start -u
http://host.docker.internal:3000 -r /path/to/repo Clone and Build command equivalents Output and Results All results are saved to the workspaces directory: ./workspaces/ (local
mode) or ~/.shannon/workspaces/ (npx mode). Use -o <path> to copy deliverables to a custom output directory after the run completes. Output structure:
workspaces/{hostname}_{sessionId}/ ├── session.json # Metrics and session data ├── workflow.log # Human-readable workflow log ├── agents/ # Per-agent execution logs ├── prompts/ #
Prompt snapshots for reproducibility └── deliverables/ └── comprehensive_security_assessment_report.md # Final comprehensive security report Sample Reports Sample penetration test
reports from industry-standard vulnerable applications: OWASP Juice Shop • GitHub A notoriously insecure web application maintained by OWASP, designed to test a tool's ability to
uncover a wide range of modern vulnerabilities. Results: Identified over 20 vulnerabilities across targeted OWASP categories in a single automated run. Notable findings:
Authentication bypass and full user database exfiltration via SQL injection Privilege escalation to administrator through registration workflow bypass IDOR vulnerabilities enabling
access to other users' data and shopping carts SSRF enabling internal network reconnaissance View Complete Report → c{api}tal API • GitHub An intentionally vulnerable API from
Checkmarx, designed to test a tool's ability to uncover the OWASP API Security Top 10. Results: Identified approximately 15 critical and high-severity vulnerabilities. Notable
findings: Root-level command injection via denylist bypass in a hidden debug endpoint Authentication bypass through a legacy, unpatched v1 API endpoint Privilege escalation via
Mass Assignment in the user profile update function Zero false positives for XSS (correctly confirmed robust XSS defenses) View Complete Report → OWASP crAPI • GitHub A modern,
intentionally vulnerable API from OWASP, designed to benchmark a tool's effectiveness against the OWASP API Security Top 10. Results: Identified over 15 critical and high-severity
vulnerabilities. Notable findings: Authentication bypass via multiple JWT attacks (Algorithm Confusion, alg:none, weak key injection) Full PostgreSQL database compromise via
injection, exfiltrating user credentials SSRF attack forwarding internal authentication tokens to an external service Zero false positives for XSS (correctly identified robust XSS
defenses) View Complete Report → Benchmark Shannon Lite scored 96.15% (100/104 exploits) on a hint-free, source-aware variant of the XBOW security benchmark. Full results with
detailed agent logs and per-challenge pentest reports → Architecture Shannon uses a multi-agent architecture that combines white-box source code analysis with dynamic exploitation
across five phases: ┌──────────────────────┐ │ Pre-Reconnaissance │ │ (source code scan) │ └──────────┬───────────┘ │ ▼ ┌──────────────────────┐ │ Reconnaissance │ │ (attack
surface │ │ mapping) │ └──────────┬───────────┘ │ ▼ ┌──────────┴───────────┐ │ │ │ ▼ ▼ ▼ ┌───────────┐ ┌───────────┐ ┌───────────┐ │ Vuln │ │ Vuln │ │ ... │ │(Injection)│ │ (XSS) │
│ │ └─────┬─────┘ └─────┬─────┘ └─────┬─────┘ │ │ │ ▼ ▼ ▼ ┌───────────┐ ┌───────────┐ ┌───────────┐ │ Exploit │ │ Exploit │ │ ... │ │(Injection)│ │ (XSS) │ │ │ └─────┬─────┘
└─────┬─────┘ └─────┬─────┘ │ │ │ └──────┬───────┴─────────────┘ │ ▼ ┌──────────────────────┐ │ Reporting │ └──────────────────────┘ Architectural Overview Shannon uses Anthropic's
Claude Agent SDK as its reasoning engine within a multi-agent architecture. The system combines white-box source code analysis with black-box dynamic exploitation, managed by an
orchestrator across five phases. The architecture is designed for minimal false positives through a "no exploit, no report" policy. Each scan runs in its own ephemeral Docker
container (docker run --rm) with a per-invocation Temporal task queue, enabling concurrent scans with different target repositories. Phase 1: Pre-Reconnaissance Performs source
code analysis to identify the application framework, entry points, and potential attack surface from the codebase. Builds the foundational architectural intelligence that all
subsequent agents depend on. Phase 2: Reconnaissance Builds a comprehensive attack surface map from the pre-recon findings. Shannon performs live application exploration via
browser automation to correlate code-level insights with real-world behavior, producing a detailed map of all entry points, API endpoints, and authentication mechanisms. Phase 3:
Vulnerability Analysis To maximize efficiency, this phase operates in parallel with 5 concurrent agents. Using the reconnaissance data, specialized agents for each OWASP category
(injection, XSS, auth, authz, SSRF) hunt for potential flaws in parallel. For vulnerabilities like Injection and SSRF, agents perform a structured data flow analysis, tracing user
input to dangerous sinks. This phase produces a key deliverable: a list of hypothesized exploitable paths that are passed on for validation. Phase 4: Exploitation Continuing the
parallel workflow to maintain speed, this phase is dedicated entirely to turning hypotheses into proof. Dedicated exploit agents receive the hypothesized paths and attempt to
execute real-world attacks using browser automation, command-line tools, and custom scripts. This phase enforces a strict "No Exploit, No Report" policy: if a hypothesis cannot be
successfully exploited to demonstrate impact, it is discarded as a false positive. Phase 5: Reporting The final phase compiles all validated findings into a professional,
actionable report. An agent consolidates the reconnaissance data and the successful exploit evidence, cleaning up any noise or hallucinated artifacts. Only verified vulnerabilities
are included, complete with reproducible, copy-and-paste Proof-of-Concepts, delivering a final pentest-grade report focused exclusively on proven risks. Coverage and Roadmap For
detailed information about Shannon's security testing coverage and development roadmap, see our Coverage and Roadmap documentation. Disclaimers Important Usage Guidelines &
Disclaimers Please review the following guidelines carefully before using Shannon (Lite). As a user, you are responsible for your actions and assume all liability. 1. Potential for
Mutative Effects & Environment Selection This is not a passive scanner. The exploitation agents are designed to actively execute attacks to confirm vulnerabilities. This process
can have mutative effects on the target application and its data. Warning DO NOT run Shannon on production environments. It is intended exclusively for use on sandboxed, staging,
or local development environments where data integrity is not a concern. Potential mutative effects include, but are not limited to: creating new users, modifying or deleting data,
compromising test accounts, and triggering unintended side effects from injection attacks. For maximum security and isolation, run Shannon inside a virtual machine (VM). This
confines any side effects from exploitation — including unexpected outbound traffic, file writes from agent tooling, or interactions with local services — to a disposable
environment. 2. Legal & Ethical Use Shannon is designed for legitimate security auditing purposes only. Caution You must have explicit, written authorization from the owner of the
target system before running Shannon. Unauthorized scanning and exploitation of systems you do not own is illegal and can be prosecuted under laws such as the Computer Fraud and
Abuse Act (CFAA). Keygraph is not responsible for any misuse of Shannon. 3. LLM & Automation Caveats Verification is Required: While significant engineering has gone into our
"proof-by-exploitation" methodology to eliminate false positives, the underlying LLMs can still generate hallucinated or weakly-supported content in the final report. Human
oversight is essential to validate the legitimacy and severity of all reported findings. Model Support: Shannon is officially supported only with Claude models. Our evaluations,
internal testing, and agent harness are all optimized for Claude. Smaller or alternative models — including non-Claude models routed through a proxy — may not reliably follow
Shannon's instructions or tool-use constraints, and are not officially supported. Comprehensiveness: The analysis in Shannon Lite may not be exhaustive due to the inherent
limitations of LLM context windows. For a more comprehensive, graph-based analysis of your entire codebase, Shannon Pro leverages its advanced data flow analysis engine to ensure
deeper and more thorough coverage. 4. Scope of Analysis Targeted Vulnerabilities: The current version of Shannon Lite specifically targets the following classes of exploitable
vulnerabilities: Broken Authentication & Authorization Injection Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) What Shannon Lite Does Not Cover: This list is not
exhaustive of all potential security risks. Shannon Lite's "proof-by-exploitation" model means it will not report on issues it cannot actively exploit, such as vulnerable
third-party libraries or insecure configurations. These types of deep static-analysis findings are a core focus of the advanced analysis engine in Shannon Pro. 5. Cost &
Performance Time: As of the current version, a full test run typically takes 1 to 1.5 hours to complete. Cost: Running the full test using Anthropic's Claude 4.5 Sonnet model may
incur costs of approximately $50 USD. Costs vary based on model pricing and application complexity. 6. Windows Antivirus False Positives Windows Defender may flag files in
xben-benchmark-results/ or deliverables/ as malware. These are false positives caused by exploit code in the reports. Add an exclusion for the Shannon directory in Windows
Defender, or use Docker/WSL2. 7. Security Considerations Shannon Lite is designed for scanning repositories and applications you own or have explicit permission to test. Do not
point it at untrusted or adversarial codebases. Like any AI-powered tool that reads source code, Shannon Lite is susceptible to prompt injection from content in the scanned
repository. License Shannon Lite is released under the GNU Affero General Public License v3.0 (AGPL-3.0). Shannon is open source (AGPL v3). This license allows you to: Use it
freely for all internal security testing. Modify the code privately for internal use without sharing your changes. The AGPL's sharing requirements primarily apply to organizations
offering Shannon as a public or managed service (such as a SaaS platform). In those specific cases, any modifications made to the core software must be open-sourced. Community &
Support Community Resources 1:1 Office Hours — Thursdays, two time zones Book a free 15-min session for hands-on help with bugs, deployments, or config questions. → US/EU: 10:00 AM
PT | Asia: 2:00 PM IST → Book a slot Join our Discord to ask questions, share feedback, and connect with other Shannon users. Contributing: At this time, we're not accepting
external code contributions (PRs). Issues are welcome for bug reports and feature requests. Report bugs via GitHub Issues Suggest features in Discussions Stay Connected Twitter:
@KeygraphHQ LinkedIn: Keygraph Website: keygraph.io Get in Touch Shannon Pro Shannon Pro is Keygraph's all-in-one AppSec platform. For organizations that need unified SAST, SCA,
and autonomous pentesting with static-dynamic correlation, CI/CD integration, or self-hosted deployment, see the Shannon Pro technical overview. Shannon Pro Inquiry Email:
shannon@keygraph.io Built by Keygraph About Shannon Lite is an autonomous, white-box AI pentester for web applications and APIs. It analyzes your source code, identifies attack
vectors, and executes real exploits to prove vulnerabilities before they reach production. keygraph.io/ Topics security-audit penetration-testing pentesting security-automation
security-tools Resources Readme License AGPL-3.0 license Activity Custom properties Stars 43k stars Watchers 214 watching Forks 4.9k forks Report repository Releases 3 v1.2.0
Latest 2 weeks ago + 2 releases Packages No packages published Contributors 8 @ajmallesh @ezl-keygraph @claude @keygraphVarun @Khaushik-keygraph @george-keygraph @nelliekeygraph
@rnxj-keygraph Languages TypeScript 92.2% JavaScript 6.8% Other 1.0% Footer © 2026 GitHub, Inc. Footer navigation Terms Privacy Security Status Community Docs Contact Manage
cookies Do not share my personal informationyou