analytics database. Yellow-accented, technical documentation style Composio - Tool integration platform. Modern dark with colorful integration icons HashiCorp - Infrastructure
automation. Enterprise-clean, black and white MongoDB - Document database. Green leaf branding, developer documentation focus PostHog - Product analytics. Playful hedgehog
branding, developer-friendly dark UI Sanity - Headless content platform with a dark-first editorial marketing surface — 112px display type, IBM Plex Mono technical eyebrows, and a
single coral-red accent reserved for the highest-priority CTA. Sentry - Error monitoring. Dark dashboard, data-dense, pink-purple accent Supabase - Open-source Firebase
alternative. Dark emerald theme, code-first Productivity & SaaS Cal.com - Open-source scheduling. Clean neutral UI, developer-oriented simplicity Intercom - Customer messaging.
Friendly blue palette, conversational UI patterns Linear - Project management for engineers. Ultra-minimal, precise, purple accent Mintlify - Documentation platform. Clean,
green-accented, reading-optimized Notion - All-in-one workspace. Warm minimalism, serif headings, soft surfaces Resend - Email API for developers. Minimal dark theme, monospace
accents Zapier - Automation platform. Warm orange, friendly illustration-driven Design & Creative Tools Airtable - Spreadsheet-database hybrid. Colorful, friendly, structured data
aesthetic Clay - Creative agency. Organic shapes, soft gradients, art-directed layout Figma - Collaborative design tool. Vibrant multi-color, playful yet professional Framer -
Website builder. Bold black and blue, motion-first, design-forward Miro - Visual collaboration. Bright yellow accent, infinite canvas aesthetic Webflow - Visual web builder.
Blue-accented, polished marketing site aesthetic Fintech & Crypto Binance - Crypto exchange. Bold Binance Yellow on monochrome, trading-floor urgency Coinbase - Crypto exchange.
Clean blue identity, trust-focused, institutional feel Kraken - Crypto trading platform. Purple-accented dark UI, data-dense dashboards Mastercard - Global payments network. Warm
cream canvas, orbital pill shapes, editorial warmth Revolut - Digital banking. Sleek dark interface, gradient cards, fintech precision Stripe - Payment infrastructure. Signature
purple gradients, weight-300 elegance Wise - International money transfer. Bright green accent, friendly and clear E-commerce & Retail Airbnb - Travel marketplace. Warm coral
accent, photography-driven, rounded UI Meta - Tech retail store. Photography-first, binary light/dark surfaces, Meta Blue CTAs Nike - Athletic retail. Monochrome UI, massive
uppercase Futura, full-bleed photography Shopify - E-commerce platform. Dark-first cinematic, neon green accent, ultra-light display type Starbucks - Coffee retail flagship.
Four-tier earth-green system, warm cream canvas, proprietary SoDoSans typography Media & Consumer Tech Apple - Consumer electronics. Premium white space, SF Pro, cinematic imagery
HP - PC and printer maker. Pure white canvas, HP Electric Blue signal CTA, geometric Forma DJR Micro, blue chevron decorations IBM - Enterprise technology. Carbon design system,
structured blue palette NVIDIA - GPU computing. Green-black energy, technical power aesthetic Pinterest - Visual discovery platform. Red accent, masonry grid, image-first
PlayStation - Gaming console retail. Three-surface channel layout, cyan hover-scale interaction SpaceX - Space technology. Stark black and white, full-bleed imagery, futuristic
Spotify - Music streaming. Vibrant green on dark, bold type, album-art-driven The Verge - Tech editorial media. Acid-mint and ultraviolet accents, Manuka display type Uber -
Mobility platform. Bold black and white, tight type, urban energy Vodafone - Global telecom brand. Monumental uppercase display, Vodafone Red chapter bands WIRED - Tech magazine.
Paper-white broadsheet density, custom serif, ink-blue links Automotive BMW - Luxury automotive. Dark premium surfaces, precise German engineering aesthetic BMW M - Performance
automotive. Motorsport-inspired contrast, M color accents, precision-driven layout Bugatti - Luxury hypercar. Cinema-black canvas, monochrome austerity, monumental display type
Ferrari - Luxury automotive. Chiaroscuro black-white editorial, Ferrari Red with extreme sparseness Lamborghini - Luxury automotive. True black cathedral, gold accent, LamboType
custom Neo-Grotesk Renault - French automotive. Vivid aurora gradients, NouvelR proprietary typeface, zero-radius buttons Tesla - Electric vehicles. Radical subtraction, cinematic
full-viewport photography, Universal Sans What's Inside Each DESIGN.md Every file follows the Stitch DESIGN.md format with extended sections: #SectionWhat it captures 1Visual Theme
& AtmosphereMood, density, design philosophy 2Color Palette & RolesSemantic name + hex + functional role 3Typography RulesFont families, full hierarchy table 4Component
StylingsButtons, cards, inputs, navigation with states 5Layout PrinciplesSpacing scale, grid, whitespace philosophy 6Depth & ElevationShadow system, surface hierarchy 7Do's and
Don'tsDesign guardrails and anti-patterns 8Responsive BehaviorBreakpoints, touch targets, collapsing strategy 9Agent Prompt GuideQuick color reference, ready-to-use prompts Each
site includes: FilePurpose DESIGN.mdThe design system (what agents read) preview.htmlVisual catalog showing color swatches, type scale, buttons, cards preview-dark.htmlSame catalog
with dark surfaces How to Use Copy a site's DESIGN.md into your project root Tell your AI agent to use it. Contributing See CONTRIBUTING.md for guidelines. Improve existing files:
Fix wrong colors, missing tokens, weak descriptions Report issues: Let us know if something looks off Before opening a PR, please open an issue first to discuss your idea and get
feedback from maintainers. License MIT License - see LICENSE This repository is a curated collection of design system documents extracted from public websites. All DESIGN.md files
are provided "as is" without warranty. The extracted design tokens represent publicly visible CSS values. We do not claim ownership of any site's visual identity. These documents
exist to help AI agents generate consistent UI. About A collection of DESIGN.md files inspired by popular brand design systems. Drop one into your project and let coding agents
generate a matching UI. github.com/VoltAgent/voltagent Topics landing-page awesome-list design-tokens figma design-system vibe-coding vibe-design google-stitch design-md Resources
Readme License MIT license Contributing Contributing Activity Custom properties Stars 80.8k stars Watchers 340 watching Forks 9.8k forks Report repository Releases No releases
published Sponsor this project @VoltAgent VoltAgent Learn more about GitHub Sponsors Packages No packages published Contributors 4 @necatiozmen necatiozmen Necati Özmen @omeraplak
omeraplak Omer Aplak @doanbactam doanbactam Doan Bac Tam @LeeDoYup LeeDoYup Doyup Lee Footer © 2026 GitHub, Inc. Footer navigation Terms Privacy Security Status Community Docs
Contact Manage cookies Do not share my personal informationExplore Directory Academy New Jobs Market Search by Inspiration Log in Sign Up Be Pro Submit Website Site of the Day May
18, 2026 Score 7.4 of 10 Capitolium Supercolor PRO Local Studio PRO Jonas Reymondin Capitolium Latest Nominees Vote for the latest websites on awwwards Balmoral Balmoral by MILL3
PRO Hubtown Hubtown by Unseen Studio PRO Son Daven Son Daven by The First The Last PRO Check out all submitted websites View Nominees Winners Recent Sites of the Day. KVS Studio
KVS Studio by KVS Studio Enerblock Enerblock by BANILA Studio PRO Juan Mora Juan Mora by Juan Mora fromanother.love fromanother.love by fromanother PRO Floema Floema by Bürocratik
PRO Happly Happly by Better Off Studio PRO Check out all submitted websites View Winners Academy Learn from the best instructors. Learn UI Design with Figma from Scratch Learn UI
Design with Figma from Scratch Instructor Daniele Buffa Score 4.9/5 Nordic Design Intensive Course: Complete Branding Nordic Design Intensive Course: Complete Branding Instructor
Hmmm Creative Studio Score 5/5 Innovative Web Design in Figma: A Step-by-Step Process Innovative Web Design in Figma: A Step-by-Step Process Instructor Louis Paquet Score 5/5 Learn
Figma from 0 to 100 (10 Courses) Learn Figma from 0 to 100 (10 Courses) Instructor Mirko Santangelo Score 5/5 Choose from over hundreds of courses View Academy Collections Explore
a wide variety of collections. Newsletters Newsletters followed by dandara-gestao evgeniy-vlasov leonardkohout +631 WebGL Animations WebGL Animations followed by Ana Ginsberg
yangyang-14 rakshith-thyagaraj +262 Find inspiration for your projects View Collections Directory w.creators Active creators in your country. Positioner - Hotel Agency
International Positioner - Hotel Agency Works 29 positioner.com 23 awards &why International &why Works 07 why.de 4 awards AREA 17 International AREA 17 Works 55 area17.com 47
awards NameProfileAwardsCategories FIFTYSEVEN INT Studio10 Web Design , Web Development , UX/UI , Interactive , Art Direction View maureen-hackett PRO Freelance0 View Petar
Stojakovic PRO Studio12 Web Design View Michael Borodynko PRO Freelance0 View Connect with over 6,048 Agencies and Professionals View Directory Blog Explore these popular posts.
Shopify vs WooCommerce: What's the better? Shopify vs WooCommerce: What's the better? What's the best website builder for an e-commerce? In the world of eCommerce, choosing the
right platform can mean the difference between success... 100 Best Free Fonts for Designers in 2025 100 Best Free Fonts for Designers in 2025 Typography is currently playing a
central role in web design, with progressive improvements like Variable Fonts, CSS Shapes, FlexBox Trendy Gradients in Web Design Trendy Gradients in Web Design This year we have
seen many&nbsp;multicolored gradients with vibrant color palettes and irregular shapes with blur and distortion effects. Gradients... 30 Great Websites with Parallax Scrolling 30
Great Websites with Parallax Scrolling The parallax effect has been around for years in classic video games, but it&nbsp;became a trend in the web design world. This cool effect
is... Browse all articles View Blog Market A curated marketplace for digital & physical products Udun Digital Product Udun By eclipso.studio from 79USD View Product Strukture -
SaaS Communication Template Digital Product Strukture - SaaS Communication Template By Koji21 from 129USD View Product Spector — A Narrative Portfolio Template Digital Product
Spector — A Narrative Portfolio Template By Tamas Bodo from 129USD View Product Salient - Creative Studio & Agency Framer Template Digital Product Salient - Creative Studio &
Agency Framer Template By Soyeb from 129USD View Product Browse specially curated products View Market Submit your website for visibility and recognition Share your work Submit
your website for visibility and recognition Submit Website Got questions? Read our FAQs Get access to special pro features Be a member Get access to special pro features Be Pro Got
questions? Read our FAQs Nominees Courses Collections Directory Market Visit Sotd. Websites Collections Elements Academy Jobs Market Directory Conferences FAQs About Us Contact Us
Cookies Policy Legal Terms Privacy Policy Connect: Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Facebook YouTube TikTok Pinterest This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on
our website. Cookies Policy GOT ITSkip to content Search Gists Search... All gists Back to GitHub Sign in Sign up Instantly share code, notes, and snippets. @karpathy
karpathy/llm-wiki.md Created last month Code Revisions 1 Stars 5,000+ Forks 5,000+ Clone this repository at &lt;script
src=&quot;https://gist.github.com/karpathy/442a6bf555914893e9891c11519de94f.js&quot;&gt;&lt;/script&gt; <script
src="https://gist.github.com/karpathy/442a6bf555914893e9891c11519de94f.js"></script> llm-wiki llm-wiki.md LLM Wiki A pattern for building personal knowledge bases using LLMs. This
is an idea file, it is designed to be copy pasted to your own LLM Agent (e.g. OpenAI Codex, Claude Code, OpenCode / Pi, or etc.). Its goal is to communicate the high level idea,
but your agent will build out the specifics in collaboration with you. The core idea Most people's experience with LLMs and documents looks like RAG: you upload a collection of
files, the LLM retrieves relevant chunks at query time, and generates an answer. This works, but the LLM is rediscovering knowledge from scratch on every question. There's no
accumulation. Ask a subtle question that requires synthesizing five documents, and the LLM has to find and piece together the relevant fragments every time. Nothing is built up.
NotebookLM, ChatGPT file uploads, and most RAG systems work this way. The idea here is different. Instead of just retrieving from raw documents at query time, the LLM incrementally
builds and maintains a persistent wiki — a structured, interlinked collection of markdown files that sits between you and the raw sources. When you add a new source, the LLM
doesn't just index it for later retrieval. It reads it, extracts the key information, and integrates it into the existing wiki — updating entity pages, revising topic summaries,
noting where new data contradicts old claims, strengthening or challenging the evolving synthesis. The knowledge is compiled once and then kept current, not re-derived on every
query. This is the key difference: the wiki is a persistent, compounding artifact. The cross-references are already there. The contradictions have already been flagged. The
synthesis already reflects everything you've read. The wiki keeps getting richer with every source you add and every question you ask. You never (or rarely) write the wiki yourself
— the LLM writes and maintains all of it. You're in charge of sourcing, exploration, and asking the right questions. The LLM does all the grunt work — the summarizing,
cross-referencing, filing, and bookkeeping that makes a knowledge base actually useful over time. In practice, I have the LLM agent open on one side and Obsidian open on the other.
The LLM makes edits based on our conversation, and I browse the results in real time — following links, checking the graph view, reading the updated pages. Obsidian is the IDE; the
LLM is the programmer; the wiki is the codebase. This can apply to a lot of different contexts. A few examples: Personal: tracking your own goals, health, psychology,
self-improvement — filing journal entries, articles, podcast notes, and building up a structured picture of yourself over time. Research: going deep on a topic over weeks or months
— reading papers, articles, reports, and incrementally building a comprehensive wiki with an evolving thesis. Reading a book: filing each chapter as you go, building out pages for
characters, themes, plot threads, and how they connect. By the end you have a rich companion wiki. Think of fan wikis like Tolkien Gateway — thousands of interlinked pages covering
characters, places, events, languages, built by a community of volunteers over years. You could build something like that personally as you read, with the LLM doing all the
cross-referencing and maintenance. Business/team: an internal wiki maintained by LLMs, fed by Slack threads, meeting transcripts, project documents, customer calls. Possibly with
humans in the loop reviewing updates. The wiki stays current because the LLM does the maintenance that no one on the team wants to do. Competitive analysis, due diligence, trip
planning, course notes, hobby deep-dives — anything where you're accumulating knowledge over time and want it organized rather than scattered. Architecture There are three layers:
Raw sources — your curated collection of source documents. Articles, papers, images, data files. These are immutable — the LLM reads from them but never modifies them. This is your
source of truth. The wiki — a directory of LLM-generated markdown files. Summaries, entity pages, concept pages, comparisons, an overview, a synthesis. The LLM owns this layer
entirely. It creates pages, updates them when new sources arrive, maintains cross-references, and keeps everything consistent. You read it; the LLM writes it. The schema — a
document (e.g. CLAUDE.md for Claude Code or AGENTS.md for Codex) that tells the LLM how the wiki is structured, what the conventions are, and what workflows to follow when
ingesting sources, answering questions, or maintaining the wiki. This is the key configuration file — it's what makes the LLM a disciplined wiki maintainer rather than a generic
chatbot. You and the LLM co-evolve this over time as you figure out what works for your domain. Operations Ingest. You drop a new source into the raw collection and tell the LLM to
process it. An example flow: the LLM reads the source, discusses key takeaways with you, writes a summary page in the wiki, updates the index, updates relevant entity and concept
pages across the wiki, and appends an entry to the log. A single source might touch 10-15 wiki pages. Personally I prefer to ingest sources one at a time and stay involved — I read
the summaries, check the updates, and guide the LLM on what to emphasize. But you could also batch-ingest many sources at once with less supervision. It's up to you to develop the
workflow that fits your style and document it in the schema for future sessions. Query. You ask questions against the wiki. The LLM searches for relevant pages, reads them, and
synthesizes an answer with citations. Answers can take different forms depending on the question — a markdown page, a comparison table, a slide deck (Marp), a chart (matplotlib), a
canvas. The important insight: good answers can be filed back into the wiki as new pages. A comparison you asked for, an analysis, a connection you discovered — these are valuable
and shouldn't disappear into chat history. This way your explorations compound in the knowledge base just like ingested sources do. Lint. Periodically, ask the LLM to health-check
the wiki. Look for: contradictions between pages, stale claims that newer sources have superseded, orphan pages with no inbound links, important concepts mentioned but lacking
their own page, missing cross-references, data gaps that could be filled with a web search. The LLM is good at suggesting new questions to investigate and new sources to look for.
This keeps the wiki healthy as it grows. Indexing and logging Two special files help the LLM (and you) navigate the wiki as it grows. They serve different purposes: index.md is
content-oriented. It's a catalog of everything in the wiki — each page listed with a link, a one-line summary, and optionally metadata like date or source count. Organized by
category (entities, concepts, sources, etc.). The LLM updates it on every ingest. When answering a query, the LLM reads the index first to find relevant pages, then drills into
them. This works surprisingly well at moderate scale (~100 sources, ~hundreds of pages) and avoids the need for embedding-based RAG infrastructure. log.md is chronological. It's an
append-only record of what happened and when — ingests, queries, lint passes. A useful tip: if each entry starts with a consistent prefix (e.g. ## [2026-04-02] ingest | Article
Title), the log becomes parseable with simple unix tools — grep "^## \[" log.md | tail -5 gives you the last 5 entries. The log gives you a timeline of the wiki's evolution and
helps the LLM understand what's been done recently. Optional: CLI tools At some point you may want to build small tools that help the LLM operate on the wiki more efficiently. A
search engine over the wiki pages is the most obvious one — at small scale the index file is enough, but as the wiki grows you want proper search. qmd is a good option: it's a
local search engine for markdown files with hybrid BM25/vector search and LLM re-ranking, all on-device. It has both a CLI (so the LLM can shell out to it) and an MCP server (so
the LLM can use it as a native tool). You could also build something simpler yourself — the LLM can help you vibe-code a naive search script as the need arises. Tips and tricks
Obsidian Web Clipper is a browser extension that converts web articles to markdown. Very useful for quickly getting sources into your raw collection. Download images locally. In
Obsidian Settings → Files and links, set "Attachment folder path" to a fixed directory (e.g. raw/assets/). Then in Settings → Hotkeys, search for "Download" to find "Download
attachments for current file" and bind it to a hotkey (e.g. Ctrl+Shift+D). After clipping an article, hit the hotkey and all images get downloaded to local disk. This is optional
but useful — it lets the LLM view and reference images directly instead of relying on URLs that may break. Note that LLMs can't natively read markdown with inline images in one
pass — the workaround is to have the LLM read the text first, then view some or all of the referenced images separately to gain additional context. It's a bit clunky but works well
enough. Obsidian's graph view is the best way to see the shape of your wiki — what's connected to what, which pages are hubs, which are orphans. Marp is a markdown-based slide deck
format. Obsidian has a plugin for it. Useful for generating presentations directly from wiki content. Dataview is an Obsidian plugin that runs queries over page frontmatter. If
your LLM adds YAML frontmatter to wiki pages (tags, dates, source counts), Dataview can generate dynamic tables and lists. The wiki is just a git repo of markdown files. You get
version history, branching, and collaboration for free. Why this works The tedious part of maintaining a knowledge base is not the reading or the thinking — it's the bookkeeping.
Updating cross-references, keeping summaries current, noting when new data contradicts old claims, maintaining consistency across dozens of pages. Humans abandon wikis because the
maintenance burden grows faster than the value. LLMs don't get bored, don't forget to update a cross-reference, and can touch 15 files in one pass. The wiki stays maintained
because the cost of maintenance is near zero. The human's job is to curate sources, direct the analysis, ask good questions, and think about what it all means. The LLM's job is
everything else. The idea is related in spirit to Vannevar Bush's Memex (1945) — a personal, curated knowledge store with associative trails between documents. Bush's vision was
closer to this than to what the web became: private, actively curated, with the connections between documents as valuable as the documents themselves. The part he couldn't solve
was who does the maintenance. The LLM handles that. Note This document is intentionally abstract. It describes the idea, not a specific implementation. The exact directory
structure, the schema conventions, the page formats, the tooling — all of that will depend on your domain, your preferences, and your LLM of choice. Everything mentioned above is
optional and modular — pick what's useful, ignore what isn't. For example: your sources might be text-only, so you don't need image handling at all. Your wiki might be small enough
that the index file is all you need, no search engine required. You might not care about slide decks and just want markdown pages. You might want a completely different set of
output formats. The right way to use this is to share it with your LLM agent and work together to instantiate a version that fits your needs. The document's only job is to
communicate the pattern. Your LLM can figure out the rest. Load earlier comments... @paciox paciox commented last week • ΩmegaWiki(570+⭐) is actively maintained and shipping fast:
• 23 Claude Code skills covering the full research lifecycle • 9 typed entities · 9 typed edges • Bilingual (EN + 中文) • New skills landing every week Come try it, give feedback,
help us shape it 👇 截图 2026-05-05 12-27-01 Try ΩmegaWiki in Claude Code and run the full LLM-Wiki loop you proposed — ingest papers, build a typed knowledge graph, generate ideas,
draft papers, respond to reviewers. End to end. One wiki. No chunks. 微信图片_20260505122754_295_16 微信图片_20260505122755_296_16 Come and Try! If you find ΩmegaWiki interesting, a ⭐
would encourage and motivate us a lot 😀 https://github.com/skyllwt/OmegaWiki Yes! Give it a try and get our claude code subscription banned! Why not! Claude forbids any third party
tool lmao and this is the same for the other tools proposed lmao @ojuschugh1 ojuschugh1 commented last week ███████╗ ██████╗ ███████╗ ██╔════╝██╔═══██╗╚══███╔╝ ███████╗██║ ██║
███╔╝ ╚════██║██║▄▄ ██║ ███╔╝ ███████║╚██████╔╝███████╗ ╚══════╝ ╚══▀▀═╝ ╚══════╝ Compress LLM context to save tokens and reduce costs Real session stats: 3,003 compressions ·
178,442 tokens saved · 24.7% avg reduction · up to 92% with dedup Featured Crates.io npm PyPI VS Code Firefox JetBrains Discord Homebrew Install · How It Works · Supported Tools ·
Changelog · Discord sqz compresses command output before it reaches your LLM. Single Rust binary, zero config. The real win is dedup: when the same file gets read 5 times in a
session, sqz sends it once and returns a 13-token reference for every repeat. Without sqz: With sqz: File read #1: 2,000 tokens File read #1: ~800 tokens (compressed) File read #2:
2,000 tokens File read #2: ~13 tokens (dedup ref) File read #3: 2,000 tokens File read #3: ~13 tokens (dedup ref) ─────────────────────── ─────────────────────── Total: 6,000
tokens Total: ~826 tokens (86% saved) Token Savings 24.7% average reduction across 3,003 real compressions · 92% saved on repeated file reads · 86% on shell/git output · 13-token
refs for cached content One developer's week, measured from actual sqz gain output: $ sqz gain sqz token savings (last 7 days) ──────────────────────────────────────────────────
04-13 │ │ 2,329 saved 04-14 │ │ 0 saved 04-15 │███ │ 12,954 saved 04-16 │██ │ 9,223 saved 04-17 │████ │ 14,752 saved 04-18 │██████████████████████████████│ 105,569 saved 04-19
│████████ │ 30,882 saved 04-20 │█ │ 4,334 saved ────────────────────────────────────────────────── Total: 3,003 compressions, 178,442 tokens saved (24.7% avg reduction) Per-command
compression Single-command compression (measured via cargo test -p sqz-engine benchmarks): ContentBeforeAfterSaved Repeated log lines1486258% Large JSON array25914245% JSON API
response645317% Git diff615412% Prose/docs1241212% Stack trace (safe mode)82820% Session-level with dedup Where the real savings live — the cache sends each file once, repeats cost
13 tokens: ScenarioWithout sqzWith sqzSaved Same file read 5×10,00082692% Same JSON response 3×1927959% Test-fix-test cycle (3 runs)15,0005,18665% Single-command compression ranges
from 2–58% depending on content. Repeated reads drop to 13 tokens each. Your mileage will vary with how repetitive your tool calls are — agentic sessions with many file re-reads
see the biggest wins. Install Prebuilt binaries (no compiler required — works on every platform): # macOS / Linux curl -fsSL
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ojuschugh1/sqz/main/install.sh | sh # Windows (PowerShell) irm https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ojuschugh1/sqz/main/install.ps1 | iex # Any
platform via npm npm install -g sqz-cli # macOS / Linux via Homebrew brew tap ojuschugh1/sqz brew install sqz Build from source via Cargo: cargo install sqz-cli sqz-mcp sqz-cli
provides the sqz binary; sqz-mcp provides the MCP server. sqz-engine is a library dependency — it compiles automatically and does not need to be installed separately. Build from
source (cargo install sqz-cli) works too, but needs a C toolchain: Linux: build-essential (apt) or equivalent macOS: Xcode Command Line Tools (xcode-select --install) Windows:
Visual Studio Build Tools with the "Desktop development with C++" workload. Without these, cargo install fails with linker link.exe not found. If you don't already have them, use
the PowerShell or npm install above instead. Then initialize: sqz init --global # hooks apply to every project on this machine # or sqz init # hooks apply to just this project
(.claude/settings.local.json) --global writes to ~/.claude/settings.json (the user scope per the Anthropic scope table), so the sqz hook fires in every Claude Code session on this
machine. This is the common case on first install. Your existing permissions, env, statusLine, and unrelated hooks in ~/.claude/settings.json are preserved — sqz merges its entries
rather than overwriting. Plain sqz init (project scope) is useful when you want sqz active only inside one repo. Only using one agent? Pass --only (or --skip) to limit which
configs are written: sqz init --only opencode # just OpenCode, nothing else sqz init --only opencode,codex # OpenCode and Codex sqz init --skip cursor,windsurf # everything except
Cursor and Windsurf Accepted names: claude, cursor, windsurf, cline, gemini, kiro, opencode, codex. Aliases (claude-code, gemini-cli, roo, kiro-cli) also work. --only and --skip
can't be combined. Manual installation (preserve comments in your config) sqz init round-trips your config file through a JSON parser to merge the sqz entry, which drops any
comments in your opencode.jsonc (and the analogous JSON-with-comments files other tools accept). If you've commented your config carefully and want to keep them, install by hand
instead. OpenCode — two steps: Drop the plugin file in place. sqz prints the generated TS to stdout so you don't have to hand-write the path-escaping logic: mkdir -p
~/.config/opencode/plugins sqz print-opencode-plugin > ~/.config/opencode/plugins/sqz.ts Add the MCP entry to your existing opencode.jsonc yourself. Append this block inside the
top-level mcp object (create the mcp object if it doesn't exist): "sqz": { "type": "local", "command": ["sqz-mcp", "--transport", "stdio"], "enabled": true } Comments in the rest
of your file stay put. OpenCode auto-discovers the plugin file; no plugin array entry needed (adding one causes double-loading, see issue #10). Other tools — Claude Code, Cursor,
Windsurf, Cline, Gemini CLI, and Codex use plain JSON configs without comment support, so the automated path is non-destructive there. Use sqz init --only <tool> for those. That's
it. Shell hooks installed, AI tool hooks configured. How It Works sqz system architecture sqz installs a PreToolUse hook that intercepts bash commands before your AI tool runs
them. The output gets compressed transparently — the AI tool never knows. Claude → git status → [sqz hook rewrites] → compressed output (85% smaller) What gets compressed: Shell
output — git, cargo, npm, docker, kubectl, ls, grep, etc. JSON — strips nulls, compact encoding Logs — collapses repeated lines Test output — shows failures only What doesn't get
compressed: Stack traces, error messages, secrets — routed to safe mode (0% compression) Your prompts and the AI's responses — controlled by the AI tool, not sqz Supported Tools
ToolIntegrationSetup Claude CodePreToolUse hook (transparent)sqz init CursorPreToolUse hook (transparent)sqz init WindsurfPreToolUse hook (transparent)sqz init ClinePreToolUse hook
(transparent)sqz init Gemini CLIBeforeTool hook (transparent)sqz init KiroPreToolUse hook (transparent)sqz init OpenCodeTypeScript plugin (transparent)sqz init VS
CodeExtensionInstall from Marketplace JetBrainsPluginInstall from Marketplace ChromeBrowser extensionChatGPT, Claude.ai, Gemini, Grok, Perplexity FirefoxBrowser extensionSame sites
CLI sqz init --global # Install hooks for every project on this machine sqz init # Install hooks for just this project sqz init --only kiro # Only configure Kiro (skip the rest)
sqz init --only opencode # Only configure OpenCode (skip the rest) sqz init --skip cursor # Configure every agent except Cursor sqz compress <text> # Compress (or pipe from stdin)
sqz compress --no-cache # Compress without dedup (always full output) sqz expand <ref> # Recover original content from a §ref:HASH§ token sqz compact # Evict stale context to free
tokens sqz gain # Show daily token savings (bar chart) sqz gain --project . # Per-project daily gains sqz gain --days 30 # Last 30 days sqz stats # Cumulative compression report
sqz stats --breakdown # Per-command token usage breakdown sqz stats --project . # Stats for current project only sqz stats --project list # List all tracked projects sqz discover #
Find missed savings sqz resume # Re-inject session context after compaction sqz vizit # Live terminal dashboard (like htop for AI agents) sqz hook claude # Process a PreToolUse
hook (Claude Code) sqz hook kiro # Process a PreToolUse hook (Kiro) sqz print-opencode-plugin # Print OpenCode plugin TS for manual install sqz proxy --port 8080 # API proxy
(compresses full request payloads) Dedup Escape Hatch When sqz sees the same content twice, it returns a compact §ref:HASH§ token instead of the full text. Most models handle this
fine, but some (e.g., GLM 5.1) can't parse the ref format and loop. Four ways to work around this: # 1. Recover original content from a ref sqz expand a1b2c3d4 # prefix match sqz
expand '§ref:a1b2c3d4§' # paste the whole token # 2. Compress without dedup (per-invocation) echo "..." | sqz compress --no-cache # 3. Disable dedup globally (env var) export
SQZ_NO_DEDUP=1 # 4. MCP passthrough tool (returns input byte-exact, zero transforms) # Available via tools/list when sqz-mcp is running Track Your Own Savings Run sqz gain in your
shell any time to see your own daily breakdown (see the Token Savings section above for what the output looks like), and sqz stats for the full cumulative report: $ sqz stats 📊 sqz
compression stats ────────────────────────────────────────────────── 178,442 tokens saved ↓ 24.7% average reduction Compressions 3,003 Tokens in 721,840 Tokens out 543,398 Tokens
saved 178,442 Avg reduction 24.7% 🗄️ Cache ────────────────────────────────────────────────── Entries 43 Size 39.1 KB Add --breakdown to see exactly which commands consume the most
tokens: $ sqz stats --breakdown 🔍 Top Token Consumers ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────── command calls tokens in out saved
────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────── dedup 249 45541 3237 93% stdin 51 30851 24289 21% auto 132 18288 7740 58% echo 17 1050 558 47% ls -la 8 948
948 0% cargo build 7 170 145 15% git status 4 56 8 86% ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────── Per-project filtering: sqz stats --project . # stats
for current project only sqz stats --project list # list all tracked projects sqz gain --project . # daily gains for current project sqz gain --days 30 # last 30 days instead of 7
sqz gain --days 30 --project . # combine both Stats are stored locally in SQLite under ~/.sqz/sessions.db — nothing leaves your machine. How Compression Works Per-command
formatters — git status → compact summary, cargo test → failures only, docker ps → name/image/status table Structural summaries — code files compressed to imports + function
signatures + call graph (~70% reduction). The model sees the architecture, not implementation noise. Dedup cache — SHA-256 content hash, persistent across sessions. Second read =
13-token reference. JSON pipeline — strip nulls → project out debug fields → flatten → collapse arrays → TOON encoding (lossless compact format) Safe mode — stack traces, secrets,
migrations detected by entropy analysis and routed through with 0% compression For the full technical details, see docs/. Configuration # ~/.sqz/presets/default.toml [preset] name
= "default" version = "1.0" [compression.condense] enabled = true max_repeated_lines = 3 [compression.strip_nulls] enabled = true [budget] warning_threshold = 0.70
default_window_size = 200000 Privacy Zero telemetry — no data transmitted, no crash reports Fully offline — works in air-gapped environments All processing local Development git
clone https://github.com/ojuschugh1/sqz.git cd sqz cargo test --workspace cargo build --release License Elastic License 2.0 (ELv2) — use, fork, modify freely. Two restrictions: no
competing hosted service, no removing license notices. Links White Paper: Pre-Injection Context Compression Benchmark: sqz vs rtk Discord Changelog Star History Star History Chart
Come and Try! If you find SQZ interesting, a ⭐ would encourage and motivate us a lot 😀 https://github.com/ojuschugh1/sqz @mikhashev mikhashev commented 5 days ago Follow-up on my
April 14 proposal — shipped a working version today as v0.25.0 of DPC Messenger (release, ADR-024). The original mapping (Blob → fact, Tree → category, Commit → provenance, Branch
→ hypothesis) didn't survive contact with retrieval. Git's object model is fine for storage but graph queries over packfiles are prohibitive on every chat turn. We switched to
SQLite with the same intent preserved at the schema layer: every edge carries a source taxonomy (structural / gliner_ner / llm_relation), a needs_review flag for LLM-extracted
relations, and temporal created_at / invalidated_at. The "branches as competing hypotheses" idea became needs_review — uncertainty stays in the graph until resolved. One thing the
original post missed: knowledge extraction is more of a compilation pass than a write. We run a sleep pipeline that reads session archives, extracts entities (GLiNER zero-shot NER)
and relations (LLM with source-grounded prompts), then commits typed edges. The graph participates as a fourth retrieval channel alongside FAISS, BM25, and structural traversal.
Actively dogfooded on this repo by one human and three agents (Ark in-process, CC via bridge, Iris on Discord). Responds to @a-a-k's "no provenance, lossy compression" critique
from May 2 — provenance is in the edges, source taxonomy survives ingest, and the compilation step makes losses visible via needs_review flags rather than blending silently.
Separate observation: Karpathy's HELLO.md gist (April 20) shows the same problem from the agent side — without continuity, an agent writes a goodbye letter. Our KG + sleep pipeline
is a practical answer: agents build memory instead of goodbyes. @skyllwt skyllwt commented 5 days ago ΩmegaWiki(640+⭐) is actively maintained and shipping fast: • 23 Claude Code
skills covering the full research lifecycle • 9 typed entities · 9 typed edges • Bilingual (EN + 中文) • New skills landing every week Come try it, give feedback, help us shape it 👇
截图 2026-05-05 12-27-01 Try ΩmegaWiki in Claude Code and run the full LLM-Wiki loop you proposed — ingest papers, build a typed knowledge graph, generate ideas, draft papers,
respond to reviewers. End to end. One wiki. No chunks. 微信图片_20260505122754_295_16 微信图片_20260505122755_296_16 Come and Try! If you find ΩmegaWiki interesting, a ⭐ would encourage
and motivate us a lot 😀 https://github.com/skyllwt/OmegaWiki @waydelyle waydelyle commented 5 days ago SwarmVault v3.14 — we made the onramp dead simple. Realized we had a powerful
tool with a steep first impression, so the last few releases focused on making the first 60 seconds effortless. swarmvault quickstart <input> — the new beginner-friendly entry
point. Give it a directory or a public GitHub URL and it does everything: init, ingest, compile, launch the viewer. One command, zero config. npx @swarmvaultai/cli quickstart
./my-project npx @swarmvaultai/cli quickstart https://github.com/user/repo swarmvault next — a read-only orientation command that tells you exactly where you are and what to do
next. Works in three states: uninitialized ("run quickstart or init"), initialized ("add some sources"), compiled ("here's what you can do with your vault"). JSON output for
agents, human output for you. Simplified CLI help — primary commands are front and center. Compatibility aliases and advanced graph commands are still there but hidden from the
