marketplace, more competitors enter offering “a little more for a little less,” until eventually no one can provide any more for any less. At this point, a market reaches perfect
efficiency, and the business owners participating make just enough at the end of the month to keep going. The bottom 10-20 percent of operators get washed out or lose the will to
fight. Then fresh business owners enter with no idea and repeat the process of their forefathers. And around and around they go. In plain words, pricing this way means you are
providing a service at just above what it costs for you to stay above water. We are not trying to stay barely above water. We are trying to make egregious amounts of money that
will have your relatives asking if what you are doing is legal. Again, we are not trying to get the most customers. We are trying to make the most money . That being said, since
there is no strategic benefit to being the second-lowest priced player in your marketplace. Allow me to give you a brief overview of why I see premium pricing as not only a very
smart business decision, but a moral one. Furthermore, it’s the only choice that will allow you to truly provide the most value, a unique and strong position in the marketplace.
Let me introduce you to the virtuous cycle of price. Virtuous Cycle of Price I have used this framework in most of the materials I release because it needs to be consistently
reinforced. The forces of the marketplace will grate on your belief system. You must stay strong and ignore them! Here’s the basic premise of why you need to charge a premium if
you want to best serve your customers. When you decrease your price, you . . . . . . Decrease your clients’ emotional investment since it didn’t cost them much . . . Decrease your
clients’ perceived value of your service since it can’t be that good if it’s so cheap, or priced the same as everyone else . . . Decrease your clients results because they do not
value your service and are not invested . . . Attract the worst clients who are never satisfied until your service is free . . . Destroy any margin you have left to be able to
actually provide an exceptional experience, hire the best people, invest in your people, pamper your clients, invest in growth, invest in more locations or more scale, and
everything else that you had hoped in the goal of helping more people solve whatever problem it is that you solve. In essence, your world sucks. And to make matters worse, your
service probably sucks because you are squeezing blood from the proverbial stone. There’s just not enough money left over to make something exceptional. As a result, you fall in
line with the armies of average businesses that race to the bottom. I’ve lived that life. It’s terrible. If you love your customers and your employees, please stop short-changing
them when there is a better way. Here’s the reverse. This is what happens when you raise your prices. When you raise your prices, you . . . . . . Increase your clients’ emotional
investment . . . Increase your clients’ perceived value of your service . . . Increase your clients’ results because they value your service and are invested . . . Attract the best
clients who are the easiest to satisfy and actually cost less to fulfill, and who are the most likely to actually receive and perceive the most relative value . . . Multiply your
margin because you have money to invest in systems to create efficiency; smart people; improved customer experience; scale your business; and, most importantly of all, to keep
watching the number in your personal bank account go up, month after month, even with reinvesting in your business. This allows you to ultimately enjoy the process for the long
haul and help more people as you grow, rather than burning out and shriveling into obscurity. To swing the argument even further in favor of higher prices, here are a few
interesting concepts. When you raise your price, you increase the value the consumer receives without changing anything else about your product. Wait, what? Yes. Higher Price Means
Higher Value (Literally) In a blind taste test, researchers asked consumers to rate three wines: a low-priced wine, a medium-priced wine and an expensive wine. Throughout the
study, the participants rated the wines with the prices visible. They rated them, unsurprisingly, in order of their price, with the most expensive being the “best,” the second most
expensive being “second best,” and the third, cheapest option, being rated as “cheap wine.” What the tasters didn’t know is that the researchers gave them the exact same wine all
three times. Yet, the tasters reported a wide discrepancy between the “high priced” wine and the “cheap” wine. This has deep implications for the direct relationship between value
and price. In essence, raising your prices can directly enhance the value you provide. What’s more, the higher the price, the more allure your product or service has. People want
to buy expensive things. They just need a reason. And the goal isn’t just to be slightly above the market price — the goal is to be so much higher that a consumer thinks to
themselves, “This is so much more expensive, there must be something entirely different going on here.” That is how you create a category of one. In this new perceived marketplace,
you are a monopoly and can make monopoly profits. That is the point. One final point I want to drive home: if you offer a service where a customer must do something in order to
achieve the result, or solve the problem you say you solve, they must be invested. The more invested they are, the more likely they are to achieve the positive result. Therefore,
it follows that if you care about your customers, you should get them as invested as humanly possible. Ideally, this means pricing your services or product in such a way that it
stings a little when they buy. That sting will force and focus their attention and their investment in your product or service. Those who pay the most, pay the most attention. And
if your customers are more adherent and follow through, and if they achieve better results with your service than your competition, then you are in a very real way providing more
value than anyone else. This is how you win. But I know this isn’t easy, and it shouldn’t be. Your product must deliver . So many wish to shortcut the real work. Do that and you
will fail. In the real world, to have the “gonads” to charge big ticket prices, you must outwork your self doubt . You must be so confident in your delivery, because you have done
it so many times, that you know that this person will succeed. Experience is what gives you the conviction to ask for someone’s entire year’s salary as payment. You must believe so
deeply in your solution that when you look at yourself in the mirror at night, alone, your conviction remains unshakable. So let me bring this section home with my personal
experience. My Premium Price Experience In my first niche consulting business — Gym Launch — I teach gym owners a better business model. Before productizing my consulting services,
I flew out to 33 gyms in 18 months to do full turnarounds. We would fly out, fix everything in the gym, and relaunch it in 21 days. We would average an increase in $42,000 in
additional sales in 21 days. It was wild. My fee was the 100% of the revenue I would bring in. At our peak, we were turning around eight gyms a month. This quickly became a
logistical nightmare. After the wear and tear of living in motels month after month after month, I thought to myself there has to be a better way to do this. One month, there was a
gym we were scheduled to go fly out to. But, I simply didn’t want to do it. So I told them we were going to cancel the engagement. The gym owner practically threatened me to help
him. So I said I would help him, but he would have to do all the work, but I would show him how. Within thirty days, this gym had made almost $44,000 in new up front cash collected
sales (4x their previous month). As soon as I saw that my process could be duplicated from afar, without me having to fly people in. . .our business exploded. I had found the
missing link because my travel schedule was no longer a constraint. We went on to sell 4000+ more gyms over the next few years (and counting) using a done-with-you rather than a
done-for-you model. But. . .back to premium pricing. When I entered the space, low-price competitors offered full-service marketing for $500 per month, with a single high-price
competitor charging $5,000 for his product. I wanted to be the premium price leader. I wanted to be so expensive that it created allure around what we were doing. So, we came in at
three-times the highest-priced player and 32 times more than the lower-priced players. A price of $16,000 for a 16-week, done-with-you intensive. Then we upsold 35 percent of those
people into a three-year, $42,000/year agreement for us to help them grow their gyms. For context: The average gym owner makes $35,280/year in take-home profits. If that’s the
average, it means half make even less than that. So for many of them, they were committing to half of their yearly pay or more to buy our program. And I was selling this to grown
men as a kid in his twenties, telling them I was going to help them make more money. This was possible because my conviction was stronger than their skepticism. How? Based a
voluntary survey taken at our last full company event, with 158 gyms responding, we found that a Gym Launch gym who has been in our program for 11 months will experience the
following average improvements: Top Line Revenue Growth: +$19,932/mo (+$239,000/yr) Recurring Revenue Growth: +$13,339/mo (+$160,068/yr) Bottom Line Growth (Profit): From $2,943/mo
to $8,940/mo (3.1x!) Client Growth: +67 Churn (% of clients who leave each month): From 10.7 percent to 6.8 percent Retail Sales: +$4,400/mo in retail product sales revenue Prices:
From $129/mo to $167/mo The survey just proved what I already knew. I had complete conviction in our product. I knew it worked. I had outworked my self-doubt. Summary Points What
should you take from this? First and foremost, charge a premium. It will allow you to do things no one else can to make your clients successful. We were able to charge a premium
because we provided more value than anyone else in the industry. In a real way, we were charging on a fraction of what our clients made using our system. This is important. Our
clients still got a deal . The gap between what they paid (price) and what they got (value) was massive. As a result, the virtuous cycle continued to spin. We charged the most
money. We provided the most value. Our gyms remained the most competitive, made the most money, always had the latest and best acquisition systems, and had the support to implement
them at lightning speed. We made many mistakes along the way, but our pricing model was not one of them. It allowed me the room to make big bets without losing the farm. The truth
is that 99 percent of businesses need to raise their prices to grow, not lower them. Profit is oxygen. It fuels the fire of growth. You need it if you want to reach more people and
make a bigger impact. In order to charge so much, though, you must learn to create tremendous value. Let’s head there next. Section III: Value - Create Your Offer How To Make
Offers So Good People Feel Stupid Saying No 6 Value Offer: The Value Equation “We question all of our beliefs, except for the ones we really believe in, and those we never think to
question.” Orson Scott Card I want to be abundantly clear: the goal should be to charge as much money for your products or services as humanly possible. I'm talking heinous amounts
of money. That being said, anyone can raise their prices, but only a select few can charge these rates and get people to say yes . From this point forward, you must abandon any
notion you have about “what's fair.” Every enormous company in the world charges you money for things that cost them nothing. It costs pennies for the phone company to add an
additional user, except they don’t mind charging you hundreds per month for access. It costs pennies to manufacture pharmaceutical drugs, but they don’t mind charging hundreds of
dollars a month for it. Media companies charge advertisers a king’s ransom for your eyeballs, and it costs them next to nothing to get you to like kitten photos on social media.
You need to have a big discrepancy between what something costs you and what you charge for it. It is the only way to be unreasonably successful. Many entrepreneurs believe that
charging “too much” is bad. The reality is that, yes, you should never charge more than your product is worth . But you should charge far more for your product and services than it
costs to fulfill it. Think up to a hundred times more, not just two or three times more. And if you provide enough value , it should still always be a steal for the prospect. That
is the power of value. It unleashes unlimited pricing and profit power to scale your company. For example, one of my private clients (whose company I have equity in) is in the
photography space. Over two years, implementing the tactics outlined in this book, the owner was able to increase the average ticket from $300 to $1,500. That’s a 5x increase
(gasp). Even cooler, they now spend less time per customer, and have higher customer satisfaction. The 5x increase in average ticket, 38x’d the profit of the business. It went from
making $1,000/wk in profit to $38,000/wk in profit, and continues to grow. As a result, the company was finally able to continue to scale to multiple locations and provide
meaningful work to great employees. And a fun benefit, we were able to donate even more money to children’s charities which is something the owner and I have in common (almost
$500,000 at the time of this writing). But none of that would have been possible without figuring out what people valued most, tripling down on it, and ruthlessly eliminating
everything else. A 5x price increase may seem crazy to you, but clients voted with their dollars that what the company provides now is far better than what it did before. Cracking
value opens up the world of unlimited profit, impact and possibilities. Those who understand value are the ones who will be able to charge the most money for their services. The
good news is that there is a repeatable formula that I have created (I’ve never seen it displayed elsewhere) to help quantify the variables that create value for any offer. I call
it The Value Equation . Once you see it, you can never unsee it. It will operate in your subconscious, running in the background, calling out to you. It’s a new lens through which
to see the world. The Value Equation FREE GIFT #4: Value Equation Bonus Tutorial & Free Download(s): If you want to know how I break down a businesses core offering into something
more valuable go to acquisition.com/offers and select the “Value Equation” video to watch a short tutorial. I also included a downloadable checklist. My goal is to gain your trust
and deliver value in advance. As such, it’s absolutely free. Enjoy. As you can see from the picture, there are four primary drivers of value. Two of the drivers (on top), you will
seek to increase. The other two (on the bottom), you will seek to decrease. (Yay) The Dream Outcome (Goal: Increase) (Yay) Perceived Likelihood of Achievement (Goal: Increase)
(Boo) Perceived Time Delay Between Start and Achievement (Goal: Decrease) (Boo) Perceived Effort & Sacrifice (Goal: Decrease) If you noticed the questions in the last section that
my father asked me, you’ll see they corresponded with these pillars: What will I make? (Dream Outcome) How will I know it's going to happen? (Perceived Likelihood of Achievement)
How long will it take? (Time Delay) What is expected of me? (Effort & Sacrifice) Get The Bottom To Zero In the beginning of my career, I focused all my attention on dream outcomes
and the perception of achievement (social proof, third-party edification, etc). In other words, the top side of the equation. That’s where beginner marketers make bigger and bigger
claims. It’s easy, and it’s lazy. But as time has gone on, I have realized that these larger-than-life claims are the easiest to establish (and therefore less unique). After all,
anyone can make a promise. The harder, and more competitive, are the Time Delay and Effort & Sacrifice. The best companies in the world focus all their attention on the bottom side
of the equation. Making things immediate, seamless, and effortless. Apple made the iPhone effortless compared to other phones at the time. Amazon made purchasing a single click of
a button and made purchases arrive almost immediately (maybe by the time you read this, they’ll be sending drones to our doors within 60 minutes). Netflix made consuming television
immediate and effortless. So, the older I get, the more I have shifted my focus to “the hard stuff” — decreasing the bottom side of the equation. And I believe the better you do
this, the more you will be rewarded by the marketplace. Final note: The reason this is a division equation and not an addition (“+”) is that I wanted to convey one key point. If
you can make the bottom part of the equation equal to zero, you’re golden. No matter how small the top side is, anything divided by zero equals infinity (which is technically
undefined for the math nerds). In other words, if you can reduce your prospects' true time delay to receiving value to zero (aka you realize your immediate dream outcome), and your
effort and sacrifice is zero, you have an infinitely valuable product. If you accomplish this, you win the game. Given this postulate, a prospect would (in theory) purchase
something from you, and the moment their credit card was run, it would immediately become their reality. That is infinite value. Imagine clicking the purchase button on a weight
loss product and instantly seeing your stomach turn into a six-pack. Or imagine hiring a marketing firm, and as soon as you sign your document, your phone begins ringing with new
highly qualified prospects. How valuable would these products/services be? Infinitely valuable. And that’s the point. I don't know if we entrepreneurs will ever get there, but that
is the hypothetical limit we all should strive towards, and why I structured the equation this way. Perception is Reality Perception is reality. It’s not about how much you
increase your prospect’s likelihood of success, or decrease the time delay to achievement, or decrease their effort and sacrifice. That in itself is not valuable. Many times, they
will have no idea. The Grand Slam Offer only becomes valuable once the prospect perceives the increase in likelihood of achievement, perceives the decrease in time delay, and
perceives the decrease in effort and sacrifice. A prime example of this happened in the London tunnel system. The biggest increase in rider satisfaction ( aka value ) was never
from faster trains to decrease wait times. Instead, it was from a simple dotted map that showed them when the next train was coming and how long they had to wait. The dotted map,
which only cost a few million dollars, decreased the riders’ perception of time delay and sacrifice (being bored waiting) more than actually making the trains faster (which costs
billions of dollars to do). Isn’t that cool? This is how we need to think about our products. Pro Tip: Logical vs Psychological Solutions Most people naturally try and solve
problems using logical solutions. But the logical solutions have usually been tried...because they’re logical (it’s what everyone would try and do). As a business owners and
entrepreneurs I increasingly approach problems to find psychological solutions, rather than logical ones. Because if there were a logical solution, it probably would have already
been solved, thereby eliminating the problem. All that’s left are the psychological problems. Examples inspired by Rory Sutherland, CMO of Ogilvy Advertising: “Any fool can sell a
product by offering it for a discount, it takes great marketing to sell the same product for a premium” Logical solution: make trains faster to increase satisfaction Psychological
solution: decrease the pain of waiting by adding a dotted map Psychological solution: pay models to be the hostesses on the trip (people would wish it took longer to get to their
destination!) Logical solution: make elevator faster Psychological solution: add floor to ceiling mirrors so people are distracted staring at themselves and forget how long they
were on the elevator Logical solution: make it cheaper Psychological solution: make fewer of them and raise the price which causes people to want it more. Often, most logical
solutions have been tried and failed. At this point in history, we must give the psychological solutions a shot to solve problems. As such, as business owners, it is up to us to
communicate these value drivers with clarity to increase the prospect’s perception of these realities. The extent to which you answer these questions in the mind of your prospect
will determine the value you are creating. Only then, will we truly be able to realize the actual value of our product to the marketplace, and by extension, the egregious prices we
want to charge. It’s difficult to separate the four value drivers from another, as most vehicles combine many of these elements together, but I will do my best to isolate and
clearly explain each below. #1 Dream Outcome (Goal = Increase) People have deep, unchanging desires. This is what marriages are lost over, wars are fought over, and people will
willingly die for. Our goal is not to create desire. It’s simply to channel that desire through our offer and monetization vehicle. The dream outcome is the expression of the
feelings and experiences the prospect has envisioned in their mind. It’s the gap between their current reality and their dreams. Our goal is to accurately depict that dream back to
them, so they feel understood, and explain how our vehicle will get them there. The dream outcome is simple; it’s the “getting there” where the value gets enhanced or detracted.
People generally, and our clients specifically, want: . . . To be perceived as beautiful . . . To be respected . . . To be perceived as powerful . . . To be loved . . . To increase
their status These are all powerful drivers. But multiple vehicles may accomplish the same thing. Take the desire “to be perceived as beautiful” for example, here are a lot of
things that touch on this desire: Make Up Anti-aging creams/serums Supplements Shapewear Plastic Surgery Fitness → All these vehicles channel the desire to be perceived as
beautiful. And if we further unpack the idea of a desire to be beautiful, we see that it may be a surface-level declaration of a deeper desire to achieve higher status in one’s
social group. The dream outcome value driver is most prominently used when comparing the relative value between two different desires being satisfied . In general, the dream
outcome that most directly increases a prospect’s status will be the one they value most. As such, a prospect may value that entire category of vehicles that satisfy one desire
more than another category that satisfies a different desire. For many men, making money is more important than being handsome. Why? Because money drives status for men more than
being handsome does. So, in general, they will value all offers that make them money more than offers that help them look good. I once heard Russell Brunson tell a story about this
concept. He explained how his wife, Collette, at first hearing about this status concept, rejected it. She claimed she wasn’t driven by status and would never want to drive a
Lamborghini. Instead, she favored her minivan. But, after talking further, she revealed it was because driving a Lamborghini would decrease her status amongst her mom friends,
while driving a minivan would show she was a good mother (increase in status). So it’s not about the money, it's about the status (the perceived increase or decrease in relative
standing when compared to others socially or professionally) . Talk in terms of things your prospect believes will increase their status, and you will have your prospects drooling.
Pro Tip: Frame benefits in terms of status gained from the viewpoint of others When writing copy, you can make it that much more powerful by talking about how other people will
perceive the prospect’s achievement. Connect the dots for them. Example: If you buy this golf club, your drive will increase by 40 yards . Your golf buddies' jaws will drop when
they see your ball soar 40 yards past theirs . . . they’ll ask you what’s changed . . . only you will know. That being said, when comparing two products or services that satisfy
the same desire, the value from the dream outcomes will cancel out (since they are the same). It will be the other three variables that drive the difference in perceived value, and
ultimately price. For example, if we have two products or services that both help make someone beautiful, it will be the likelihood of achievement, time delay, and effort required
that will differentiate the perceived value of each offer. Simply put: if two things make someone beautiful, what makes one worth $50,000 and another $5? Answer: The extent of the
other three value variables. #2 Perceived Likelihood of Achievement (Goal = Increase) This was the last of the variables I added when trying to think through this framework a few
years ago. I just felt like something was missing with only the other three. Then I realized people pay for certainty. They value certainty. I call this “the perceived likelihood
of achievement.” In other words, “How likely do I believe it is that I will achieve the result I am looking for if I make this purchase?” For example, how much would you pay to be
a plastic surgeon’s 10,000th patient versus their first? If you're a normal, sane person, a lot more. I mean heck, you might even ask them to pay you if you are their first patient
ever. So you can see even from this simple example that while the service you are receiving is technically the same, the only thing that changes is your perceived likelihood of
getting what you want. Both surgeons take the same amount of time to do the surgery (if anything, the guy who has done it 10,000 times would likely get it done faster and still
charge more ). The more-experienced surgeon has a track record of achieving a result, which incentivizes their desirability. People value this perceived likelihood of achievement.
Increasing a prospect’s conviction that your offer will “actually” work for them, will make your offer that much more valuable even though the work remains the same on your end. So
to increase value with all offers, we must communicate perceived likelihood of achievement through our messaging, proof, what we choose to include or exclude in our offer, and our
guarantees (more on these later). #3 Time Delay (Goal = Decrease) Time delay is the time between a client buying and receiving the promised benefit. The shorter the distance
between when they purchase and they receive value/the outcome, the more valuable your services or product is. There are two elements to this driver of value: Long-term outcome and
short-term experience. Many times, there are short-term experiences that occur while en route to the long-term outcomes. They happen “along the way” and provide value. It’s good to
understand both. The thing people buy is the long-term value, aka their “dream outcome.” But the thing that makes them stay long enough to get it is the short-term experience.
These are little milestones a prospect sees along the way that shows them they are on the right path. We try and tie as many of these as possible into any service we offer. We want
clients to have a big emotional win early (as close as possible to their purchase). This gives them the emotional buy in and the momentum to “see it through” to their ultimate
goal. For example, it takes a while to add an extra $239,000 per year to a gym. But that’s what they’re buying. So, once they have purchased, we need to create emotional wins fast.
One way we do this is to get their ads live and get them to close their first $2,000 sale within their first seven days. By doing this, their decision to work with us is
reinforced, and they immediately trust us more. This makes them more likely to follow the rest of our systems and get to their ultimate destination. Pro Tip: Fast Wins Always try
and incorporate short-term, immediate wins for a client. Be creative. They just need to know they are on the right path and that they made the right decision trusting you and your
business. Let me give you another example. If I sell someone a bikini body, their time delay to realize that outcome may be 12 months or even longer. Along the way, though, as they
change their bodies, they may experience higher sex drive, more energy, and an increased community of friends. They aren’t initially buying those things, but those things may
become short-term benefits that keep them in the game long enough to achieve their ultimate outcome. They buy the dream, but they stay for the benefits they discover along the way.
The faster and more clearly you can demonstrate those benefits, the more valuable your service will be. For a weight loss customer, we would get them to meet someone else so they
immediately had some social benefits from the program, and we usually gave them a more aggressive diet in the beginning. Why? Because we wanted them to have a big, fast emotional
win, so we could get them to commit to the long term. This is also backed by science. People who experience a victory early on are more likely to continue with something than those
who do not. That being said, having to wait 12 to 24 months to get what you want is a long time when you can do liposuction and be done in an afternoon. This shows just one of the
reasons people pay $25,000 for liposuction with a tummy tuck, while people will barely pay $100/mo to join a bootcamp. But that’s not the only reason, is it? That leads me to the
last driver of value - effort and sacrifice. Pro Tip: Fast Beats Free The only thing that beats “free” is “fast.” People will pay for speed. Many companies have entered free spaces
and done exceedingly well with a “speed first” strategy. A few notable examples: The MVD vs DMV wait in line forever or pay $50 you can skip the line and get your license renewed
privately. Fedex vs USPS (when it absolutely positively has to be there overnight). Spotify vs Slow Free Music. Uber vs Walking. Fast beats free. Many will always be willing to pay
(price) for the (value) of speed. So if you find yourself in a market competing against free, double down on speed. #4 Effort & Sacrifice (Goal = Decrease) This is what it “costs”
people in ancillary costs, aka “other costs accrued along the way.” These can be both tangible and intangible. Using the fitness versus liposuction example, let’s look at the
difference in effort and sacrifice: Massive difference, right? In fact, in looking at the marketing of plastic surgeons, these are the exact pain points they hit on when they say
things like: “Tired of wasting countless hours in the gym. . . . tired of trying diets that just don't work?” This is why when you sell fitness, you have to spend an hour
arm-wrestling a client to give over 1/10th to 1/100th of the amount of money they pay for surgery. There's just not a lot of perceived value because the perceived likelihood of
achievement, the time delay to achievement, and the effort and sacrifice are so high. So even though the outcome is the same, the value of the vehicles are dramatically different,
hence the difference in price. Decreasing the effort and sacrifice, or at least the perceived effort and sacrifice, can massively boost the appeal of your offer. In an ideal world,
a prospect would want to simply “say yes” and have their dream outcome happen with no more effort on their behalf. This is why “done for you services” are almost always more
expensive than “do-it-yourself” because the person doesn't have all the effort and sacrifice. There is also a component of “perceived likelihood of achievement” difference as well.
People believe that if an expert does it, then they will be more likely to achieve the outcome than if they try on their own. My hope is that you now have a foundational
understanding of the components of value and how the interplay between each of the components creates or detracts from the value someone might be willing to pay. Putting It All
Together As I said earlier, these elements of value don’t happen in a vacuum. They happen together, in combination. So let’s look at a few examples that utilize all four components
of value at once. In an effort to quantify the value, I’ll rate them on a binary scale of 0 or 1. 1 being value achieved. 0 being missing. Then I will add all four together to give
you a relative value rating of a type of service. Our goal as marketers and business owners is to increase the value of the dream outcome and its perceived likelihood of
achievement, while decreasing the time delay of achievement and the effort and sacrifice one has to put in to get there. To start I will do a side by side comparison of two
“vehicles” with identical Dream outcomes: Meditation and Xanax. Both offer the buyer relaxation, decreased anxiety, and feelings of well-being. I will demonstrate how the other
three variables dramatically shift the value of delivering that dream outcome and ultimately, the price. Example: Dream Outcome: “Relaxation,” “Decreased Anxiety,” “Feelings of
well-being” Meditation vs Xanax And that is why Xanax is a multi-billion dollar product while I know of almost no multi-billion dollar meditation businesses . . . value. I'm not
here to argue about whether meditation is better than Xanax (obviously it is) but that doesn't mean it’s perceived as more valuable. This is also the reason that the supplement
industry ($123B, Grandview Research ) is twice the size of the health club industry ($62B, IHRSA ). They both accomplish the same perceived objectives — “being healthy,” “losing
weight,” “looking good,” “increased energy,” etc. — but one is perceived as more valuable because it has lower “costs.” People are more willing to pay $200 for supplements than
they are a $29/mo membership. Taking a pill, or drinking a shake, is so much faster and easier than going to the gym everyday. Hence . . . valued. Crazy world we live in. And you
can either sit there and make “complain” posts about how people “ought” to be a certain way. Or you can take advantage of the way people are and capitalize . This book is for those
people who want to be victors, not victims of circumstances. You can either be right or you can be rich. This book is for getting rich. If that bothers you, just put this down and
go back to arguing against human nature. Hint: You’re not gonna change it. Now, that being said, knowing what people value versus what is good for them is key. It means you can
find ways to monetize the things that people value in order to give them what they really need. Win-win. You can make your dent in the universe while making a profit. 7 Free
Goodwill “He who said money can’t buy happiness, hasn’t given enough away.” Unknown P eople who help others (with zero expectation) experience higher levels of fulfillment, live
longer, and make more money. I’d like to create the opportunity to deliver this value to you during your reading or listening experience. In order to do so, I have a simple
question for you... Would you help someone you’ve never met, if it didn’t cost you money, but you never got credit for it? If so, I have an ‘ask’ to make on behalf of someone you
do not know. And likely, never will. They are just like you, or like you were a few years ago: less experienced, full of desire to help the world, seeking information but unsure
where to look….this is where you come in. The only way for us at acquisition.com to accomplish our mission of helping entrepreneurs is, first, by reaching them. And most people do,
in fact, judge a book by its cover (and it’s reviews). If you have found this book valuable thus far, would you please take a brief moment right now and leave an honest review of
the book and its contents? It will cost you zero dollars and less than 60 seconds. Your review will help…. ….one more entrepreneur support his or her family. ….one more employee
find work they find meaningful. ….one more client experience a transformation they otherwise would never have encountered. ….one more life change for the better. To make that
happen...all you have to do is….and this takes less than 60 seconds….leave a review. If you are on audible - hit the three dots in the top right of your device, click rate &
review, then leave a few sentences about the book with a star rating. If you are reading on kindle or an e-reader - you can scroll to the bottom of the book, then swipe up and it
will automatically prompt a review. If for some reason they have changed either functionality - you can go to the book page on amazon (or wherever you purchased this) and leave a
review right on the page. PS - If you feel good about helping a faceless entrepreneur, you are my kind of people. I’m that much more excited to help you crush it in the coming
chapters (you’ll love the tactics I’m about to go over). PPS - Life hack: if you introduce something valuable to someone, they associate that value with you. If you’d like goodwill
directly from another entrepreneur - send this book their way. Thank you from the bottom of my heart. Now back to our regularly scheduled programming. - Your biggest fan, Alex 8
Value Offer: The Thought Process “If at first you don't succeed, try, try, try again.” Thomas H. Palmer, Teacher’s Manual I want to do an exercise with you right now. I want to
show you the difference between convergent and divergent problem solving. Why? So that you can actually create the Grand Slam Offer that will become the cornerstones of your
business. Convergent & Divergent Thinking In simple terms, convergent problem solving is where you take lots of variables, all known, with unchanging conditions and converge on a
singular answer. Think math. Example: You have 3 salespeople who can each take 100 calls per month each. It takes 4 calls to create one sale (including no shows). You need to get
to 110 sales . . . How many sales people must you hire? Deduced Information: 1 salesperson = 100 calls 4 calls = 1 close 100 calls/4 calls per close = 25 Closes Per 100 Calls 25
closes per rep Goal: 110 sales total / 25 sales per rep = 4.4 Since you can't hire 4.4 reps, you decide you must have five . ANSWER: And since you have 3, you hire two more. Math
problems are convergent. There are lots of variables and a single answer. We are taught all our lives in school to think this way. That is because it’s easy to grade. But life will
pay you for your ability to solve using a divergent thought process. In other words, think of many solutions to a single problem. Not only that, convergent answers are binary. They
are either right or they are wrong. With divergent thinking, you can have multiple right answers, and one answer that is way more right than the others. Cool right? Here’s what
life presents us for divergent thinking: Multiple Variables, Known & Unknown, Dynamic Conditions, Multiple Answers. As such, I want to do an exercise with you that will engage the
part of your brain that you will need to use in order to make something magical. I call it the “brick” exercise. Don’t worry, it’ll only take 120 seconds. The Brick Exercise Right
