Delicate Dance of Desire Fundamentally, all marketing exists to influence the supply and demand curve. We artificially increase the demand for our products and services through
some sort of persuasive communication. When we increase the demand, we can sell more units. When we decrease supply, we can sell those units for more money. The “perfect profit
combination” is lots of demand, and very little supply, or perceived supply. The process of enhancing your core offer is designed to do both of these things: increase demand and
decrease perceived supply so that you can sell the same products for more money than you otherwise could, and in higher volumes than you otherwise would (over a longer time
horizon). Author Note: This assumes a regular business who is not trying to gain mass market penetration for some other strategic advantage. Desire comes from not getting what you
want. In fact, I heard this quote that I love from Naval Ravikant: “Desire is a contract you make with yourself to be unhappy until you get what you want.” It follows, therefore,
that we only want things we do not have. As soon as we have them, our desire for them disappears. Therefore, if we seek to increase the demand (or desire), we must decrease or
delay satisfying the desires of our prospects. We must sell fewer units than we otherwise can . Let that sit with you for a second. Consider this example. We promote some two-day
workshop that is upcoming. First we whisper that it’s coming. Then we tease it with some of the benefits. Then we shout that it is launching in a week. Then, when we launch this
amazing workshop. We have two supply-demand scenarios: Scenario one: We sell 10 units at $500 each (sell entire pyramid at price all say yes) Scenario two: We sell two one-day
workshops 1-on-1 for $5000 each. (skim top of pyramid, with 80 percent not purchasing) It’s worth noting that each of these prospects have a different buying threshold. In my
experience, demand for services is non-linear. Instead, I’ve found demand to be fractal (80/20). In other words, one fifth of the prospects are willing to pay five times the price
(or more). In the example, I might have ten people willing to pay $500, but two of them willing to pay $5000. So, I would make more, have lower costs (more profits), provide more
value, and increase the demand in the remaining prospect base by selling fewer units. Think about how exclusive scenario one vs scenario two would feel . Think about all the people
who would want to purchase, but would not be able to. Would this increase or decrease their desire? It would increase it, of course. On top of that, if people see that others who
‘were able to get in’ are loving it, it would further increase their desire. And the next time, they would act with more urgency, and be willing to pay more for the same thing than
they originally did. So now, in the aftermath of our second scenario, we still have eight people who have unsatisfied desire. This increases their desire further. And to boot, we
now have new prospects who weren't in the original pool who now want what we have. The next time we promote scenario two, we then open three spots at the same price and sell them
all (still leaving some prospects with pent up demand!). This is a continuous theme. Conversely, if we were to promote scenario one again (the $500 price point), we would probably
sell fewer slots the second time around. Why? We have no pent up demand. All desire has been satisfied. When you “pull the trigger too early,” each successive instance we promote,
we sell even fewer. Eventually, we run out of sufficient demand to make even a single sale. This is the sad state many businesses find themselves in always trying to generate more
demand to make another quick sale. Hormozi Law : The longer you delay the ask, the bigger the ask you can make. “The longer the runway, the bigger the plane that can take off.” We
must endeavor to keep our supply (and satisfaction of desire) under the demand that we are able to generate. This maximizes profits and keeps desire ravenous in our customer base.
This is the real key to never going hungry. Summary Points The reason I titled this sub-section “Delicate Dance of Desire” is that supply and demand are inversely correlated (in
theory). If you satisfy zero desire (provide zero supply), you will not make money, and eventually leave people feeling rejected (Note: it takes much longer than you think).
Conversely, if you satisfy all the demand, you will kill your golden goose, and not know where your next meal will come from. Mastering supply and demand comes from the elegant
dance between the two. If you sleep with your significant other everyday they have less desire than if you haven’t slept with them for a week. We want the ravenous prospect, not
merely the aroused. Therefore, understanding the interplay between these variables is key to enhancing your offer and the amount of profits you will make over time . Up to this
point, we have covered all the things inside of your offer that can make it immune to price comparison and transform regular services and products into things that people will find
a way to pay for . It would follow that the next variable that can make your offer more desirable is how it is presented. In other words, the outside variables that position the
product in your prospect’s mind. These forces are often more powerful than your core offer. In this next section Enhancing Your Offer, I will show you how I: Use scarcity to
decrease supply to raise prices (and indirectly increase demand through perceived exclusiveness) Use urgency to increase demand by decreasing the action threshold of a prospect.
Use bonuses to increase demand (and increase perceived exclusivity ). Use guarantees to increase demand by reversing risk. Use names to re-stimulate demand and expand awareness of
my offer to my target audience. I will define each, then give you examples of how to use them. We will use all these variables to enhance our offer and shift the demand curve in
our favor, leaving our customers always wanting for more. We will start by tactically stimulating “fear of missing out” aka FOMO through scarcity . 12 Enhancing The Offer: Scarcity
“Sold out.” S carcity is one of the most powerful and least understood forces to unlock unlimited pricing power. If you want to learn how to sell air for millions of dollars, then
pay attention. The reason an authority (like a doctor), a celebrity (like Oprah), or a celebrity authority (like Dr.Oz or Dr.Phil) can charge egregious rates is because of implied
demand. People assume that there is a lot of demand for their time, and, therefore, not a big supply of it. As a result, it must be expensive. That being said, it’s hard for most
businesses to understand what it’s really like to have an uneven supply-demand curve until you’ve experienced it. I’m going to try and walk you through what it felt like for me the
first time I experienced it in order to give you a taste of the power. When I got into this world of acquisition, I saw mentors of mine selling days of time for $50,000+. My mind
was blown for two reasons. First, because I didn’t understand how they could make so much money for a single day. Second, because I didn’t understand who in their right mind was
buying it. Over time, I learned. I’ll start with the buyer . If I have a rare problem, and I must solve this problem for my own pursuit of happiness, it will consume all of my
attention. By the nature of my problem being specialized, there will be very few people who can solve it. This means there is not a large supply of solvers. In many cases, I will
perceive only one possible “solver” (Supply = 1). Real Life Value Case Study There are many people who can solve the problem: how do I make $10,000 per month? But far fewer who can
solve: How can I add $5M in profit without adding any extra product lines to my business? (This was a real project that took me 60min and resulted in exactly $5M in bottom line
profit by slightly altering the pricing model of the business). You could say the business owner was… “very happy” with the result of the engagement. Beyond that, if solving this
problem speeds up my achievement of a goal by a year or two, or immediately results in me making hundreds of thousands of dollars, or millions of dollars, that solution becomes far
more valuable, does it not? Of course it does. And so, it would follow, if I can pay someone $50,000 for a day of their time, and see an increase of $500,000 per month in revenue
within three months because of the insights and strategies revealed, that would be a helluva return on investment, right? So there are two components to the value: first, how rare
the sources are; second, the actual value being provided. The value and rarity compound to create some truly breathtaking profits. Specialized consultants are paid millions of
dollars to solve problems worth tens of millions to clients. The client pays for all the experience and expertise the expert has and avoids the cost of errors (time and money). In
short, they skip the bad stuff and go straight to the good stuff more quickly and for less money than it would cost to figure it out on their own . . . a beautiful economic
exchange. I personally experienced this for the first time when I had two different people offer me $50,000 for a day of my time after speaking at an event. They were scaling an
education business in a niche (not too dissimilar from my own) and could not get past the $1M per month mark. As someone who was doing $1M per week in the same business type (at
the time), I was a very specific type of person with the keys to their problem. So what happened, you ask? Drum roll . . . I didn’t accept their offers. Why? Because I was making
more than $50,000 per day in profit from my business and didn’t want the distraction. Author Note: It was years later that I started Acquisition.com to help these very people. But
instead of charging a day rate, I simply become an equity holder in the company to completely align interests for short and long term (and so I can see the implementations
through). And as my time is limited by the laws of physics, for everyone else below that $3M-$10M per year mark, I make all these materials for free :) After the event concluded
and I was speaking with Leila, I realized how I had somehow become ‘one of those people I had always wondered about’. It was a very surreal experience for me. I finally understood
how premium prices were truly made . . . simple supply and demand. There is little that substitutes for incredible demand. You can try and fake it, but there is a special type of
“0 fucks given” vibe that’s hard to replicate when you truly do not need a person’s money (or even want it). That’s how these guys can charge so much . . . because they don’t need
it. The person who needs the exchange less always has the upper hand. I always try to remember that. It’s one of the negotiating and pricing principles that has best served me in
my life. “But Alex, how are you going to show me how to use scarcity to increase the amount of people who want my offer when currently no one does?” Great question. Let’s attack
some real-world, in-the-trenches strategies to reliably create scarcity . Creating Scarcity When there’s a fixed supply or quantity of products or services that are available for
purchase it creates “scarcity” or a “fear of missing out.” It increases the need to take action, and by extension, purchase your offer. This is where you publicly share that you
are only giving away X amount of products or can only handle Y new clients. For example, if a musician drops a limited edition hoodie and says he only made 100 and they will never
be made again, are you more or less likely to buy it than one that is always available? More likely, naturally. The idea that you can never get it again makes it more desirable.
This is an example of scarcity. It is the fear of missing out on something. It pulls on our psychological fear of loss to get us to take action. Humans are far more motivated to
take action to hoard a scarce resource than they are to act on something that could help them. Fear of loss is stronger than desire for gain . We will wield this psychological
lever to get your clients to buy in a frenzy, all at once, until you are sold out . Three Types of Scarcity Limited Supply of Seats/Slots: in general or over X period of time.
Limited Supply of Bonuses Never available again. But how do you use this properly without being phony? I’ll try and give you some real world examples Physical Products Having
limited releases is a tried and true method of using this psychological bias to your advantage. You can have limited releases for flavors, colors, designs, sizes, etc. “This month,
we are releasing 100 boxes of mint chocolate cookie flavored protein bars.” Important point: to properly utilize this method you should always sell out. Here’s why: it’s better to
sell out consistently than over order and fail at creating that scarcity. This method stacks in effectiveness if it is done repeatedly over time (just not too often). Once a month
seems to be the sweet spot for most of the companies that I know who do this with regularity. Second Important Note: When using this tactic, you must also let everyone know that
you sold out. That is part of what makes it work so well. This way, even people who were on the fence, when they see that it was sold out, it gives social proof that other people
thought it was worth it. And now that the choice has been made for them, they desire it more because there is no way they can get it. So the next time you make the offer they will
be far more likely to take you up on it. Fun fact: Chanel, a brand that has maintained insane margins and pricing for over a century, is a master of scarcity. They send only 1-2 of
each piece to each store so every store has a different selection and every item is the last or second to last item in stock. This allows them to price far above market and turn
buying impulses into purchases. Services With services, especially if you want to consistently get customers, it can be a little trickier to use scarcity. But I will show you a few
simple ways to employ scarcity ethically to increase your take rates on offers. These all have similar elements with very slight tweaks. I'm enumerating these because one of these
might mentally fit your business model more than others. 1. Total Business Cap - Only accepting….X Clients. Only accepting X clients at this level of service (on-going). This puts
a cap on how many clients you service but also keeps them in it. You create a waiting list for new prospects. The moment the door opens, they jump right in and price resistance
disappears. Periodically, you can increase capacity by 10-20% then cap it again. This works well for your highest tiers or service levels. a) This is like saying “My agency only
will service twenty-five customers total. Period.” Over time you can increase your prices and squeeze the lower performing accounts out and bring in new more profitable accounts,
or, you can periodically ‘open slots’ as your capacity allows (always leaving some demand unmet). 2. Growth Rate Cap - Only accepting X clients per week (on-going) “We only accept
5 new clients per week and we already have the first 3 spots taken. I have 6 more calls this week, so you can take the spot or one of my next calls and you can wait until we
reopen.” I have used this method since the beginning of my business. I always knew what my capacity was per week, and simply chose to let our prospects know how many openings we
had left. This banks on the fact that you can only handle a certain amount of new clients anyways, on a regular basis, so you might as well let them know it. 3. Cohort Cap - Only
accepting….X clients per class or cohort . Similar to the above, except done on whatever cadence you desire. Only accepting X amount per class or cohort over a given period is
another way of thinking about it. Imagine you only start clients monthly or quarterly. This helps you get some cadences in place in your business operationally while also allowing
your sales team some legitimate scarcity. Example: “We take on 100 clients 4 times a year. We open the doors then close them.” Etc. Pro Tip - Provide Limited Access For Higher
Ticket Services These scarcity tactics work especially well for higher ticket upsells. If you want to create one off workshops, trainings, events, seminars, consulting, etc. These
are things that by their nature take time and provide more access. Paring them with clear scarcity or fixed amounts, seats, or spots will rapidly drive up the demand. But always
remember have less spots available than you think you can sell . . . so that when you want to do it again in the future, everyone will remember you sold out . . . fast. This is a
compounding strategy that increases in effectiveness over time. One of the few in the marketing arsenal. Let me give you a real example of scarcity to enhance the value of a free
lead magnet. If I were to tell you right now that I have a checklist that you can download for free that has all these materials for you in this book in bulleted format, you might
be inclined to put this book down and go there to download it now. But , if I told you I have it set so that every week the page only allows twenty new people to download it, you’d
be far more likely to go see if you can grab it. And even more so if when you try it, you see that it has already run out for the week. Result? You join a list that notifies you
the next time twenty more checklists become available for download. What happens next? When you get that notification, you’ll hit the link on your phone and go to the page because
you don’t want to miss out again. By employing scarcity, we make what would otherwise be a “neat free download” into a desirable thing not everyone has access to. You also, by
extension, would be far more likely to consume it when you do get your hands on it . . . all because of how we controlled supply. Cool, right? Honest Scarcity (The Most Ethical
Scarcity) The easiest scarcity strategy is honesty . Wait, what? Let me explain. I'm sure right now, you probably couldn't handle 1,000 clients tomorrow right? But how many could
you handle? 5? 10? 25? Well, you might as well define a number that you are willing to take on in a given time period, then advertise that. Simply letting people know that you are
three-fourths of the way to capacity this week will move people over the edge to buying from you. Or letting people know that you are 81% to capacity in your total business, will
make people more likely to sign up with you “before they lose the chance.” Scarcity also implies within it, social proof. If you are 81% to capacity then a decent amount of people
made the decision to work with you, and the closer you get to your arbitrary fullness, the faster the spots will disappear. But only you get to draw where that line is “full.” Neat
right? Summary Points Employ one or multiple methods of scarcity in your business. You will drive a faster purchasing decision from your prospects, and at higher prices. Just let
them know your limits and let psychology do the rest. Now that we’ve covered some of my favorite scarcity tactics that you can use year round, what else could you do to increase
demand without changing anything about your offer? Increase urgency. We will cover that next. Pro Tip - Extreme Scarcity If you don’t hate money, sell a very limited supply of
1-on-1 access. You can do that via any of the mediums described in “Delivery Cube.” Direct message access. Email Access. Phone access. Voice memo access. Zoom access. Etc. There
are lots of ways you can do this. But I promise you this - if you want to immediately make a lot of money, create a very exclusive service level based on access to you (yes,
unscalable), that you cap at a tiny number. Price it very high. Then, tell people. You will make more money than you thought possible. These also tend to be some of the best
clients. And limit your delivery to something that you don’t hate. For me, I hate emails and messages but dont mind zoom calls. Make it work for your working style. The cream of
the crop (the 1% of 1% will adjust and take action). Pro Tip - Once You’re Out, You Can Never Come Back You can create scarcity by also capping your service level and saying that
if they leave than can never return. This type of scarcity makes people think extra hard about leaving. I started doing this with my gyms early on. Then I was in a mastermind that
employed this. Then I started using it in my higher level of Gym Lords. This works best with small groups (like the above example). As groups become much bigger, the tactic loses
some teeth (speaking from experience). 13 Enhancing The Offer: Urgency “Deadlines. Drive. Decisions.” Me S carcity is a function of quantity . Urgency is a function of time . This
is where you only limit when people can sign up, rather than how many . Having a defined deadline or cut off for a purchase or action to occur creates urgency. Frequently, scarcity
and urgency are used together, but I will separate them out for you to illustrate the concepts. I’m going to show you my four favorite ways of using urgency on a consistent basis,
ethically: 1) Rolling Cohorts, 2) Rolling Seasonal Urgency, and 3) Promotional or Pricing Urgency 4) Exploding Opportunity. They will employ urgency in your business without being
phony. My favorite way of doing this is having cohorts of clients start on a regular cadence. This has the added operational benefit of helping you create a choreographed
onboarding experience for new clients. As you scale, this will become increasingly important. 1) Cohort-Based Rolling Urgency For example, if you start clients every week (even in
unlimited amounts), you can say: “If you sign up today, I can get you in with our next group that kicks off on Monday, otherwise you’ll have to wait until our next kickoff date.”
If you wanted to juice it up a little bit, you could say: “I actually had a client who signed up a few weeks ago drop out, so I have an opening for our next cohort that kicks off
on Monday. If you are pretty sure you’re gonna do this sooner or later, might as well get in on it now so you can start reaping the rewards sooner rather than paying the same and
waiting.” Those two tweaks above have pushed so many sales over the edge by just reminding a potential customer that if they sign up, they will be starting on Monday, and if they
do not, they will have to wait a week. It’s small things like this that nudge people to take the action they know they should take anyways. Obviously the less frequently you kick
off new customers, the more powerful this is. For example, if you only start clients two times a year, people will be very inclined to sign up, especially as the date approaches.
Even starting new clients every other week can confer this urgency nudge. What if I lose sales by turning business away? Just like guarantees, there is always a fear that you will
make less money by employing this strategy. We are afraid that we will lose sales we would have otherwise made. Every experienced marketer on the planet will tell you - it is a
fear, and it is unfounded. The biggest sales on a week long campaign or launch happen in the last 4 hours of the last day (up to 50-60%). That means that the last 3% of the time
allotted creates 50-60% of the sales...that’s completely illogical, but also unmistakably human . So, just like a guarantee, you will make more money from the many people who
decided to take action than people who actually missed out because in reality, those people were never going to buy (heck, they didn't even buy when they had their fee to the fire,
so why would they without?) Good to remember. What to do if you just started a cohort and someone wants to buy…. You have two options: 1) you can offer them a speedy personalized
onboarding to get them up to speed as a “bonus” for signing up today and still get them in. Or, my preference, 2) You can explain to them that since the next group starts in a
little, they will have the advantage of having more time to review the materials, talk to their employees (for b2b products) or family members ( for b2c products). On top of that,
they can have a more extended payment plan that you can only make available to them since the start date is so far out . . . an advantage that most clients do not get. In the end,
remember, you always have the advantage because you are the one who calls the shots. 2) Rolling Seasonal Urgency In a digital setting, having actual sign up date countdowns is very
useful. But make sure they are real. If they aren’t, you’ll lose credibility and just look like every other wannabe marketer . This is very common with internet businesses that use
“launch” models. I personally love having the dates that I am running a promotion through on my landing pages and in my copy. I want it to be visible everywhere. The nice thing is
that you can always fire up another ad campaign and a new landing page with new dates and be right as rain. You will see your conversions go through the roof, and it takes maybe
five minutes of editing — well worth the time investment. Example: Our New Year Promotion ends Jan 30! Next Month: Our Valentines Lovers Promo Ends Feb 30! Next Month: Our Sexy By
Spring Special Ends March 31! Next Month: Our Fools in Love April Promo Ends April 30! The actual promotion may be the same, but naming it something different “by season” gives you
a “real” differentiator that gives you a start and a finish. Deadlines drive decisions. By simply having these, you can point to them and let human beings push themselves over the
edge so as not to miss out. Pro Tip - Local Businesses: This is my number one strategy for local businesses. They must vary their marketing more frequently than national
advertisers. Putting a new wrapper with a date on the same core service gives you urgency and novelty that will consistently outperform the “same old” campaigns. 3) Pricing or
Bonus-Based Urgency This is another way of creating urgency using your actual offer or promotion/pricing structure as the thing they could miss out on (kind of brilliant!). It
allows businesses that sell clients year round to still use urgency. For example, “Yes, let’s get you started today so you can take advantage of the discount you came in for. I’m
not sure how long we will be running it as we change them every 4 weeks or so, and this is one of the better ones we have run in a while.” This creates some fear of missing out on
the promotion (or discount or bonuses), rather than your actual service. It would be a lie to say that if you own a roofing business you won’t service them if they buy after the
date. But, if you talk specifically about the promotion you can often elicit the same urgency on buying in the prospect while maintaining your integrity — win-win. You can
interchange a pricing promotion, discount, or added bonuses like free install or free onboarding or an extra workshop (valued at $1,000) if they buy now. These are all things you
can swap around your core offer to create urgency. Pro Tip - Clean Your Pipeline With Every Price Change : If you ever really are planning on raising your prices (hopefully soon if
you are reading this book!) then you can always clean out your pipeline by letting people know “The price is going up! So get in now!” Never raise your prices without letting
people know. It shows a position of strength and will give you a nice little influx of cash from the people in the pipeline who were on the fence. 4) Exploding Opportunity On
occasion you will be exposing the prospect to an arbitrage opportunity. The opportunity itself has a ticking time clock, as all great opportunities do. Every second someone delays,
they miss out on disproportionate gains. Example: If I was explaining an arbitrage opportunity between buying products on ebay and selling them on amazon, this market inefficiency
would over time correct itself. The sooner someone acts the better it will be for them. This could be true for selling someone on the opportunity of trading crypto currencies,
buying a stock, getting into a new platform to advertise before competitors jump on the bandwagon. Highly competitive job environments often get job offers that are “exploding
offers” everyday they wait to take the job, their pay or bonuses decrease. This forces prospects to make fast decisions rather than try and “wait it out” to see if they get a
better offer. All of these examples show opportunities that decay with time, so if you find yourself in front of an opportunity like this, make sure to emphasize it! Summary Points
Adding a deadline and incorporating one or multiple forms of urgency will get more people to take action than would otherwise. I have employed all four of these methods with great
effectiveness. I suggest you do the same. Next up….Bonuses! Free Gift #7: Bonus Tutorial: How to Ethically Use Scarcity & Urgency If you want to walk through some live (ethical)
examples of scarcity & urgency with me, go to Acquisition.com/training/offers and select “Scarcity & Urgency” to watch a short video tutorial. You’ll also be able to grab my
Scarcity Urgency Checklist I use when creating offers. As always, it’s absolutely free. Enjoy. 14 Enhancing The Offer: Bonuses “It’s all gravy baby” Play on an old English saying.
I have to give special thanks to Jason Fladlien for my renewed appreciation for bonuses. They are so powerful that they earned an entire chapter. In this chapter, I’m going to
cover: what to offer, how to pick them, how to value them, how to present them, how to price them. The main point I want you to take away from this is that a single offer is less
valuable than the same offer broken into its component parts and stacked as bonuses (see image) . The entirety of our offer we came up with at the end of the last section. This
section is about how to present those pieces in what order. For example, I may in fact do lots of things in my service, but until I enumerate them, they are unknown. This is why
every infomercial of all time continues on with “but wait….there’s more!” They would not use these techniques unless they were effective, as every second of air time costs money
and must be justified with ROI. You’ll also notice that if you watch those old infomercials, they would sell one knife for $38.95 then include 37 other knives, sharpeners, pans,
and guarantees to beat the prospect into submission. They establish the price, then they expand upon it until you feel it’s such a good deal it would be stupid to pass it up . The
reason this works is we are increasing the prospect’s price-to-value discrepancy by increasing the value delivered instead of cutting the price. We anchor the price we tell them to
the core offer. Then with each increasingly valuable bonus, that discrepancy grows wider and wider until it's too big to bear and we snap the rubber band in their mind that is
holding their wallet in their pocket. We are now going to present that “stack” of deliverables that we assembled earlier in a way that makes them irresistible. Pro Tip: Add Bonuses
Instead of Discounting Whenever Possible on Core Offers Whenever trying to close a deal, never discount the main offer. It teaches your customers that your prices are negotiable
(which is terrible). Adding bonuses to increase value to close the deal is far superior to cutting prices. It puts you in a position of strength and goodwill rather than weakness.
Presenting Bonuses 1-on-1 vs Group Selling There are key differences between pitching to a group versus a single person. Group selling is beyond the scope of this book. But I want
to at least address when a bonus would be brought up in a 1-1 selling scenario. When selling one on one, you ask for the sale first, before offering the bonuses. If they say yes,
then after they have signed up, you let them know the additional bonuses they're going to get. This creates a wow experience and reinforces their decision to buy. On the other
hand, if the person does not buy after the first ask, then you present a bonus that matches their perceived obstacle, then ask again. Don’t feel weird about asking again. You
simply agree with the prospect, add the bonus, and ask if this consolation was “Fair enough.” People have a hard time rejecting reciprocity, so adding a bonus to accommodate, then
another, then another, and people will feel almost obligated to buy from you. If you recall from our “Trim and Stack” chapter, each of those deliverables is now being weaponized
and presented at the perfect time. We’re going to provide all these bonuses to them anyways, but it increases the perception of our offer’s value by layering these bonuses one at a
time. Bonus Bullets That being said, there are a few key things to remember when offering bonuses: 1. Always offer them (you can use the bulleted bundle we came up with at the end
of Section III) 2. Give them a special name that has a benefit in the title 3. Tell them: a) How it relates to their issue b) What it is c) How you discovered it, or what you had
to do to create it d) How it will specifically improve their lives or make their experience i) Faster, easier or less effort/sacrifice (value equation) 4. Provide some proof (this
can be a stat, a past client, or personal experience) to prove that this thing is valuable 5. Paint a vivid mental image of what their life will be like assuming they have already
used it and are experiencing the benefits 6. Always ascribe a price tag to them and justify it 7. Tools & checklists are better than additional trainings (as the effort & time are
lower with the former, so the value is higher. The value equation still reigns supreme). 8. They should each address a specific concern/obstacle in the prospects mind about why
they can’t or won’t be successful (bonus should prove their belief incorrect) 9. This can also be what they would logically realize they will need next. You want to solve their
next problem before they even encounter it. 10. The value of the bonuses should eclipse the value of the core offer. Psychologically as you continue to add offers, it continues to
expand the price to value discrepancy. It also, subconsciously communicates that the core offer must be valuable because if these are the bonuses, the main thing has to be more
valuable than the bonuses right? (No, but you can use this psychological bias to make your offer seem wildly compelling). 11. You can further enhance the value of your bonuses by
adding scarcity and urgency to the bonus themselves (which takes this technique and puts it on steroids). a) Bonuses With Scarcity Version 1: Only people who sign up for XZY
program will have access to my Bonus #1, 2, 3 that are never for sale or available anywhere else other than through this program. Version 2: I have 3 tickets left to my $5,000
virtual event, if you buy this program you can get one of the last 3 tickets as a bonus. b) Bonuses With Urgency Version 1 : If you buy today, I will add in XYZ bonus that normally
costs $1,000, for free. And I’ll do that because I want to reward action takers. c) With hope, you can see the subtle differences. The first two examples aren’t constrained by
time. They state that if you buy the program you will get things you normally would not be able to. The bonus with urgency is about them buying today , and if they do not buy
today, they lose those bonuses. Minor difference, but worth noting. Advanced Level Bonuses - Other People’s Products and Services You can get other businesses to give you their
services and products as a part of your bonuses in exchange for exposure to your clients for free. This is free marketing for them, and high value products for you at no cost.
Businesses will do this because you are going to give their business exposure for free to the highest quality prospects, your customers. As long as they are not direct competitors,
you can get some brownie points, secure some future referral IOUs, and make your offer more valuable at the same time. If you secure enough of these relationships, you can
literally justify your entire price in the savings and additional true-to-price bonuses. For example - if I owned a pain clinic, I might get a massage therapist to give me 1-2 free
massages to incorporate into my offer. On top of that, I might get: ...a chiropractor to give me two free adjustments. (Value: $100) ...a low inflammation food company to give me
discounts for their products ($50 savings) ...discounts for braces and orthotics ($150 savings) ...a local health club down the street to give me a personal training session for
free and a free month of membership to their pool ($100 Value) ...discounts on pharmaceutical drugs from the local pharmacist ($100/mo in savings) ...repeat the above for multiple
service providers (so perhaps I get ten chiropractors to all give me a free adjustment, now I have ten free adjustments in my bundle. ...Etc Now if my offer was $400, then the
value of these free bonuses ALONE is worth more than the $400. As if that weren’t already awesome enough, if you really want to be a jedi, negotiate a group discount and a
commission to yourself. This is exactly what we did with our supplement company. Our gym owner clients who use our sister supplement company Prestige Labs sponsored athletes get a
30% discount on our products, on top of that, the sponsored athlete gets paid 40% of all sales netted after the applied discount. So it’s a win-win for everyone. Their clients get
it for 30% less than our main site. They get paid for giving away exclusive discounts. And we get customers in exchange for the commission paid. Everyone wins. If you are following
along, each of these bonuses can become revenue streams for you indirectly by getting clients to say YES more easily, and directly because you can negotiate that each of these
businesses can pay you for the people you send their way. So let’s also say we negotiated the following “affiliate commissions” for making the introduction to these businesses.
...the chiro gives you $100 per person who comes into their office ...the food company gives you free food (yum!) ...orthotics company gives you $100 per person referred ...health
club gives you a free membership OR $50 per person who signs up ...pharmacy gives you $100 per person Now let’s look at how much money we made...our $400 offer now has the
possibility of making us an extra $350... pure profit ! That’s the beauty of these relationships. The other businesses will pay you and you don't have to do anything but refer
customers to them that you have already spent the money to acquire. And if you really want to get crazy, come up with a grand slam offer with these partner businesses by using the
same concepts in the book so that each of the bonuses themselves becomes even more valuable than a simple commoditized service. Free Gift #8: BONUS...on...BONUSES There are a
million and one ways to use bonuses in your offers. You can get people to act faster. You can price anchor and product anchor (little known). You can get more people to say yes
than you otherwise would. If you want to a live deep dive with me on this, go to Acquisition.com/training/offers and select “Bonus Creation” to watch a short video tutorial. I also
have a Free Bonus Checklist I use when creating offers. Swipe it for your own business on the house! Summary We want to employ bonuses because they expand the price to value
discrepancy and get people to purchase who otherwise wouldn’t. They massively increase the prospects' perception of the value of our offer. So here’s what to do: Create checklists,
